THE ATLANTIC MONTHLY.

A MAGAZINE OF

Literature, Science, Art, and Politics.

VOLUME XX.

BOSTON: TICKNOR AND FIELDS, 124 TREMONT STREET.

1867.

       *       *       *       *       *

CONTENTS.

                                                        Page

Artist's Dream, An  T. W. Higginson               100

Autobiography of a Quack, The. I., II.              466, 586

Bornoo, A Native of                                 485

Bowery at Night, The  Charles Dawson Shanly       602

By-Ways of Europe. From Perpignan to Montserrat.
  Bayard Taylor                                   495

    "        "     A Visit to the Balearic Islands. I.
  Bayard Taylor                                   680

Busy Brains  Austin Abbott                        570

Canadian Woods and Waters  Charles Dawson Shanly  311

Cincinnati  James Parton                          229

Conspiracy at Washington, The                       633

Cretan Days  Wm. J. Stillman                      533

Dinner Speaking  Edward Everett Hale              507

Doctor Molke  Dr. I. I. Hayes                      43

Edisto, Up the  T. W. Higginson                   157

Foster, Stephen C., and Negro Minstrelsy
  Robert P. Nevin                                 608

Fugitives from Labor  F. Sheldon                  370

Grandmother's Story: The Great Snow                 716

Gray Goth, In the  Miss E. Stuart Phelps          559

Great Public Character, A  James Russell Lowell   618

Growth, Limitations, and Toleration of Shakespeare's Genius
  E. P. Whipple                                   178

Guardian Angel, The. VII., VIII., IX., X., XI., XII.
  Oliver Wendell Holmes    1, 129, 257, 385, 513, 641

Hospital Memories. I., II.
  Miss Eudora Clark                          144, 324

International Copyright  James Parton             430

Jesuits in North America, The  George E. Ellis    362

Jonson, Ben  E. P. Whipple                        403

Longfellow's Translation of Dante's Divina Commedia 188

Liliput Province, A  W. Winwood Reade             247

Literature as an Art  T. W. Higginson             745

Little Land of Appenzell, The  Bayard Taylor      213

Minor Elizabethan Dramatists  E. P. Whipple       692

Minor Italian Travels  W. D. Howells              337

Mysterious Personage, A  John Neal                658

Opinions of the late Dr. Nott, respecting Books, Studies and Orators
  E. D. Sanborn                                   527

Pacific Railroads, Our  J. K. Medbery             704

Padua, At  W. D. Howells                           25

Passage from Hawthorne's English Note-Books, A       15

Piano in the United States, The  James Parton      82

Poor Richard. II., III.  Henry James, Jr.     32, 166

Prophetic Voices about America. A Monograph
  Charles Sumner                                  275

Religious Side of the Italian Question, The
  Joseph Mazzini                                  108

Rose Rollins, The. I., II.  Alice Cary       420, 545

Sunshine and Petrarch  T. W. Higginson            307

Struggle for Life, A  T. B. Aldrich                56

"The Lie"  C. J. Sprague                          598

Throne of the Golden Foot, The  J. W. Palmer      453

T. Adolphus Trollope, Writings of
  H. T. Tuckerman                                 476

Tour in the Dark, A                                 670

Uncharitableness                                    415

Visit to Sybaris, My  Edward Everett Hale          63

Week's Riding, A                                    200

What we Feel  C. J. Sprague                       740

Wife by Wager, A   E. H. House                    350

Workers in Silver, Among the  James Parton        729

Young Desperado, A  T. B. Aldrich                 755

POETRY.

Are the Children at Home?  Mrs. M. E. M. Sangster 557

Autumn Song, An  Edgar Fawcett                    679

Blue and the Gray, The  F. M. Finch               369

Chanson without Music  Oliver Wendell Holmes      543

Dirge for a Sailor  George H. Boker               157

Ember-Picture, An  James Russell Lowell            99

Feast of Harvest, The  E. C. Stedman              616

Flight of the Goddess, The  T. B. Aldrich         452

Freedom in Brazil  John G. Whittier                62

Lost Genius, The  J. J. Piatt                     228

Mona's Mother  Alice Cary                          22

Mystery of Nature, The  Theodore Tilton           349

Nightingale in the Study, The
  James Russell Lowell                            323

Sonnet  George H. Boker                           744

Themistocles  William Everett                     398

The Old Story  Alice Cary                         199

Toujours Amour  E. C. Stedman                     728

REVIEWS AND LITERARY NOTICES.

Browne's Land of Thor                                    256

Charlevoix's History of New France                       125

Codman's Ten Months in Brazil                            383

Cozzens's Sayings of Doctor Bushwhacker
  and other Learned Men                                  512

Critical and Social Essays, from the New York "Nation"   384

Dall's (Mrs.) The College, the Market, and the Court     255

Du Chaillu's Journey to Ashango-Land                     122

Emerson's May-Day and Other Pieces                       376

Half-Tints                                               256

Holland's Kathrina                                       762

Hoppin's Old England                                     127

Hymns by Harriet McEwen Kimball                          128

Jean Ingelow's Story of Doom, and other Poems            383

Lea's Historical Sketch of Sacerdotal Celibacy
  in the Christian Church                                378

Literary Life of James K. Paulding, The                  124

Memoirs and Correspondence of Madame Récamier            127

Miss Ravenel's Conversion from Secession to Loyalty      120

Morris's Life and Death of Jason                         640

Morse on the Poem "Rock me to Sleep, Mother"             252

Norton's Translation of The New Life of Dante            638

Parsons's Deus Homo                                      512

Parsons's Translation of the Inferno                     759

Paulding's The Bulls and the Jonathans                   639

Purnell's Literature and its Professors                  254

Richmond during the War                                  762

Ritter's Comparative Geography of Palestine              125

Samuels's Ornithology and Oölogy of New England          761

Thackeray's Early and Late Papers                        252

Tomes's Champagne Country                                511

Webb's Liffith Lank, or Lunacy, and St. Twel'mo          123

THE

ATLANTIC MONTHLY.

A Magazine of Literature, Science, Art, and Politics.

VOL. XX.--JULY, 1867.--NO. CXVII.

THE GUARDIAN ANGEL.

"Yes, I got a note this morning. Tell me, Mr. Bradshaw, who is there that I shall meet this
evening if I go?

A PASSAGE FROM HAWTHORNE'S ENGLISH NOTEBOOKS.

MONA'S MOTHER.

    In the porch that brier-vines smother,
    At her wheel, sits Mona's mother.
      O, the day is dying bright!
    Roseate shadows, silver dimming,
    Ruby lights through amber swimming,
      Bring the still and starry night.

    Sudden she is 'ware of shadows
    Going out across the meadows
      From the slowly sinking sun,--
    Going through the misty spaces
    That the rippling ruby laces,
    Shadows, like the violets tangled,
    Like the soft light, softly mingled,
      Till the two seem just as one!

    Every tell-tale wind doth waft her
    Little breaths of maiden laughter.
      O, divinely dies the day!
    And the swallow, on the rafter,
      In her nest of sticks and clay,--
    On the rafter, up above her,
    With her patience doth reprove her,
      Twittering soft the time away;
    Never stopping, never stopping,
    With her wings so warmly dropping
      Round her nest of sticks and clay.

    "Take, my bird, O take some other
      Eve than this to twitter gay!"
    Sayeth, prayeth Mona's mother,
    To the slender-throated swallow
      On her nest of sticks and clay;
    For her sad eyes needs must follow
    Down the misty, mint-sweet hollow,
      Where the ruby colors play
      With the gold, and with the gray.
    "Yet, my little Lady-feather,
      You do well to sit and sing,"
    Crieth, sigheth Mona's mother.
    "If you would, you could no other.
      Can the leaf fail with the spring?
    Can the tendril stay from twining
      When the sap begins to run?
    Or the dew-drop keep from shining
      With her body full o' the sun?
    Nor can you, from gladness, either;
      Therefore, you do well to sing.
    Up and o'er the downy lining
      Of your bird-bed I can see
    Two round little heads together,
    Pushed out softly through your wing.
      But alas! my bird, for me!"

    In the porch with roses burning
      All across, she sitteth lonely.
      O, her soul is dark with dread!
    Round and round her slow wheel turning,
    Lady brow down-dropped serenely,
    Lady hand uplifted queenly,
    Pausing in the spinning only
      To rejoin the broken thread,--
    Pausing only for the winding,
    With the carded silken binding
      Of the flax, the distaff-head.

    All along the branches creeping,
    To their leafy beds of sleeping
      Go the blue-birds and the brown;
    Blackbird stoppeth now his clamor,
    And the little yellowhammer
      Droppeth head in winglet down.
    Now the rocks rise bleak and barren
      Through the twilight, gray and still;
    In the marsh-land now the heron
      Clappeth close his horny bill.
    Death-watch now begins his drumming
    And the fire-fly, going, coming,
      Weaveth zigzag lines of light,--
    Lines of zigzag, golden-threaded,
    Up the marshy valley, shaded
      O'er and o'er with vapors white.
    Now the lily, open-hearted,
    Of her dragon-fly deserted,
      Swinging on the wind so low,
    Gives herself, with trust audacious,
    To the wild warm wave that washes
      Through her fingers, soft and slow.

    O the eyes of Mona's mother!
      Dim they grow with tears unshed;
    For no longer may they follow
    Down the misty mint-sweet hollow,
    Down along the yellow mosses
    That the brook with silver crosses.
      Ah! the day is dead, is dead;
    And the cold and curdling shadows,
    Stretching from the long, low meadows,
    Darker, deeper, nearer spread,
    Till she cannot see the twining
    Of the briers, nor see the lining
    Round the porch of roses red,--
    Till she cannot see the hollow,
    Nor the little steel-winged swallow,
      On her clay-built nest o'erhead.

    Mona's mother falleth mourning:
      O, 't is hard, so hard, to see
    Prattling child to woman turning,
      As to grander company!
    Little heart she lulled with hushes
    Beating, burning up with blushes,
    All with meditative dreaming
    On the dear delicious gleaming
    Of the bridal veil and ring;
    Finding in the sweet ovations
    Of its new, untried relations
      Better joys than she can bring.

    In her hand her wheel she keepeth,
    And her heart within her leapeth,
    With a burdened, bashful yearning,
      For the babe's weight on her knee,
      For the loving lisp of glee,
    Sweet as larks' throats in the morning,
      Sweet as hum of honey-bee.

    "O my child!" cries Mona's mother,
    "Will you, can you take another
      Name ere mine upon your lips?
    Can you, only for the asking,
    Give to other hands the clasping
      Of your rosy finger-tips?"

    Fear on fear her sad soul borrows,--
      O the dews are falling fair!
    But no fair thing now can move her;
    Vainly walks the moon above her,
    Turning out her golden furrows
      On the cloudy fields of air.

    Sudden she is 'ware of shadows,
    Coming in across the meadows,
      And of murmurs, low as love,--
    Murmurs mingled like the meeting
    Of the winds, or like the beating
      Of the wings of dove with dove.

    In her hand the slow wheel stoppeth,
    Silken flax from distaff droppeth,
    And a cruel, killing pain
    Striketh up from heart to brain;
    And she knoweth by that token
      That the spinning all is vain,
    That the troth-plight has been spoken,
    And the thread of life thus broken
      Never can be joined again.

How mistaken was Ponce de Leon, to seek the fountain of youth in the New World! It is there,--in
the Old World,--far back in the past. We are all old men and decrepit together in the present;
the future is full of death; in the past we are light and glad as boys turned barefoot in the
spring. The work of the heroes is play to us; the pang of the martyr is a thrill of rapture;
the exile's longing is a strain of plaintive music touching and delighting us. We are not only
young again, we are immortal. It is this divine sense of superiority to fate which is the supreme
good won from travel in historic lands, and from the presence of memorable things, and which
no sublimity of natural aspects can bestow. It is this which forms the wide difference between
Europe and America,--a gulf that it will take a thousand years to bridge.

A STORY IN THREE PARTS.

PART II.

Richard got through the following week he hardly knew how. He found occupation, to a much greater
extent than he was actually aware of, in a sordid and yet heroic struggle with himself. For
several months now, he had been leading, under Gertrude's inspiration, a strictly decent and
sober life. So long as he was at comparative peace with Gertrude and with himself, such a life
was more than easy; it was delightful. It produced a moral buoyancy infinitely more delicate
and more constant than the gross exhilaration of his old habits. There was a kind of fascination
in adding hour to hour, and day to day, in this record of his new-born austerity. Having abjured
excesses, he practised temperance after the fashion of a novice: he raised it (or reduced it)
to abstinence. He was like an unclean man who, having washed himself clean, remains in the
water for the love of it. He wished to be religiously, superstitiously pure. This was easy,
as we have said, so long as his goddess smiled, even though it were as a goddess indeed,--as
a creature unattainable. But when she frowned, and the heavens grew dark, Richard's sole dependence
was in his own will,--as flimsy a trust for an upward scramble, one would have premised, as
a tuft of grass on the face of a perpendicular cliff. Flimsy as it looked, however, it served
him. It started and crumbled, but it held, if only by a single fibre. When Richard had cantered
fifty yards away from Gertrude's gate in a fit of stupid rage, he suddenly pulled up his horse
and gulped down his passion, and swore an oath, that, suffer what torments of feeling he might,
he would not at least break the continuity of his gross physical soberness. It was enough to
be drunk in mind; he would not be drunk in body. A singular, almost ridiculous feeling of antagonism
to Gertrude lent force to this resolution. "No, madam," he cried within himself, "I shall not
fall back. Do your best! I shall keep straight." We often outweather great offences and afflictions
through a certain healthy instinct of egotism. Richard went to bed that night as grim and sober
as a Trappist monk; and his foremost impulse the next day was to plunge headlong into some
physical labor which should not allow him a moment's interval of idleness. He found no labor
to his taste; but he spent the day so actively, in the mechanical annihilation of the successive
hours, that Gertrude's image found no chance squarely to face him. He was engaged in the work
of self-preservation,--the most serious and absorbing work possible to man. Compared to the
results here at stake, his passion for Gertrude seemed but a fiction. It is perhaps difficult
to give a more lively impression of the vigor of this passion, of its maturity and its strength,
than by simply stating that it discreetly held itself in abeyance until Richard had set at
rest his doubts of that which lies nearer than all else to the heart of man,--his doubts of
the strength of his will. He answered these doubts by subjecting his resolution to a course
of such cruel temptations as were likely either to shiver it to a myriad of pieces, or to season
it perfectly to all the possible requirements of life. He took long rides over the country,
passing within a stone's throw of as many of the scattered wayside taverns as could be combined
in a single circuit. As he drew near them he sometimes slackened his pace, as if he were about
to dismount, pulled up his horse, gazed a moment, then, thrusting in his spurs, galloped away
again like one pursued. At other times; in the late evening, when the window-panes were aglow
with the ruddy light within, he would walk slowly by, looking at the stars, and, after maintaining
this stoical pace for a couple of miles, would hurry home to his own lonely and black-windowed
dwelling. Having successfully performed this feat a certain number of times, he found his love
coming back to him, bereft in the interval of its attendant jealousy. In obedience to it, he
one morning leaped upon his horse and repaired to Gertrude's abode, with no definite notion
of the terms in which he should introduce himself.

He had made himself comparatively sure of his will; but he was yet to acquire the mastery of
his impulses. As he gave up his horse, according to his wont, to one of the men at the stable,
he saw another steed stalled there which he recognized as Captain Severn's. "Steady, my boy,"
he murmured to himself, as he would have done to a frightened horse. On his way across the
broad court-yard toward the house, he encountered the Captain, who had just taken his leave.
Richard gave him a generous salute (he could not trust himself to more), and Severn answered
with what was at least a strictly just one. Richard observed, however, that he was very pale,
and that he was pulling a rosebud to pieces as he walked; whereupon our young man quickened
his step. Finding the parlor empty, he instinctively crossed over to a small room adjoining
it, which Gertrude had converted into a modest conservatory; and as he did so, hardly knowing
it, he lightened his heavy-shod tread. The glass door was open and Richard looked in. There
stood Gertrude with her back to him, bending apart with her hands a couple of tall flowering
plants, and looking through the glazed partition behind them. Advancing a step, and glancing
over the young girl's shoulder, Richard had just time to see Severn mounting his horse at the
stable door, before Gertrude, startled by his approach, turned hastily round. Her face was
flushed hot, and her eyes brimming with tears.

"You!" she exclaimed, sharply.

Richard's head swam. That single word was so charged with cordial impatience that it seemed
the death-knell of his hope. He stepped inside the room and closed the door, keeping his hand
on the knob.

"Gertrude," he said, "you love that man!"

"Well, sir?"

"Do you confess it?" cried Richard.

"Confess it? Richard Clare, how dare you use such language? I'm in no humor for a scene. Let
me pass."

Gertrude was angry; but as for Richard, it may almost be said that he was mad. "One scene a
day is enough, I suppose," he cried. "What are these tears about? Wouldn't he have you? Did
he refuse you, as you refused me? Poor Gertrude!"

Gertrude looked at him a moment with concentrated scorn. "You fool!" she said, for all answer.
She pushed his hand from the latch, flung open the door, and moved rapidly away.

Left alone, Richard sank down on a sofa and covered his face with his hands. It burned them,
but he sat motionless, repeating to himself, mechanically, as if to avert thought, "You fool!
you fool!" At last he got up and made his way out.

It seemed to Gertrude, for several hours after this scene, that she had at this juncture a
strong case against Fortune. It is not our purpose to repeat the words which she had exchanged
with Captain Severn. They had come within a single step of an éclaircissement, and when but
another movement would have flooded their souls with light, some malignant influence had seized
them by the throats. Had they too much pride?--too little imagination? We must content ourselves
with this hypothesis. Severn, then, had walked mechanically across the yard, saying to himself,
"She belongs to another"; and adding, as he saw Richard, "and such another!" Gertrude had stood
at her window, repeating, under her breath, "He belongs to himself, himself alone." And as
if this was not enough, when misconceived, slighted, wounded, she had faced about to her old,
passionless, dutiful past, there on the path of retreat to this asylum Richard Clare had arisen
to forewarn her that she should find no peace even at home. There was something in the violent
impertinence of his appearance at this moment which gave her a dreadful feeling that fate was
against her. More than this. There entered into her emotions a certain minute particle of awe
of the man whose passion was so uncompromising. She felt that it was out of place any longer
to pity him. He was the slave of his passion; but his passion was strong. In her reaction against
the splendid civility of Severn's silence, (the real antithesis of which would have been simply
the perfect courtesy of explicit devotion,) she found herself touching with pleasure on the
fact of Richard's brutality. He at least had ventured to insult her. He had loved her enough
to forget himself. He had dared to make himself odious in her eyes, because he had cast away
his sanity. What cared he for the impression he made? He cared only for the impression he received.
The violence of this reaction, however, was the measure of its duration. It was impossible
that she should walk backward so fast without stumbling. Brought to her senses by this accident,
she became aware that her judgment was missing. She smiled to herself as she reflected that
it had been taking holiday for a whole afternoon. "Richard was right," she said to herself.
"I am no fool. I can't be a fool if I try. I'm too thoroughly my father's daughter for that.
I love that man, but I love myself better. Of course, then, I don't deserve to have him. If
I loved him in a way to merit his love, I would sit down this moment and write him a note telling
him that if he does not come back to me, I shall die. But I shall neither write the note nor
die. I shall live and grow stout, and look after my chickens and my flowers and my colts, and
thank the Lord in my old age that I have never done anything unwomanly. Well! I'm as He made
me. Whether I can deceive others, I know not; but I certainly can't deceive myself. I'm quite
as sharp as Gertrude Whittaker; and this it is that has kept me from making a fool of myself
and writing to poor Richard the note that I wouldn't write to Captain Severn. I needed to fancy
myself wronged. I suffer so little! I needed a sensation! So, shrewd Yankee that I am, I thought
I would get one cheaply by taking up that unhappy boy! Heaven preserve me from the heroics,
especially the economical heroics! The one heroic course possible, I decline. What, then, have
I to complain of? Must I tear my hair because a man of taste has resisted my unspeakable charms?
To be charming, you must be charmed yourself, or at least you must be able to be charmed; and
that apparently I'm not. I didn't love him, or he would have known it. Love gets love, and
no-love gets none."

But at this point of her meditations Gertrude almost broke down. She felt that she was assigning
herself but a dreary future. Never to be loved but by such a one as Richard Clare was a cheerless
prospect; for it was identical with an eternal spinsterhood. "Am I, then," she exclaimed, quite
as passionately as a woman need do,--"am I, then, cut off from a woman's dearest joys? What
blasphemous nonsense! One thing is plain: I am made to be a mother; the wife may take care
of herself. I am made to be a wife; the mistress may take care of herself. I am in the Lord's
hands," added the poor girl, who, whether or no she could forget herself in an earthly love,
had at all events this mark of a spontaneous nature, that she could forget herself in a heavenly
one. But in the midst of her pious emotion, she was unable to subdue her conscience. It smote
her heavily for her meditated falsity to Richard, for her miserable readiness to succumb to
the strong temptation to seek a momentary resting-place in his gaping heart. She recoiled from
this thought as from an act cruel and immoral. Was Richard's heart the place for her now, any
more than it had been a month before? Was she to apply for comfort where she would not apply
for counsel? Was she to drown her decent sorrows and regrets in a base, a dishonest, an extemporized
passion? Having done the young man so bitter a wrong in intention, nothing would appease her
magnanimous remorse (as time went on) but to repair it in fact. She went so far as keenly to
regret the harsh words she had cast upon him in the conservatory. He had been insolent and
unmannerly; but he had an excuse. Much should be forgiven him, for he loved much. Even now
that Gertrude had imposed upon her feelings a sterner regimen than ever, she could not defend
herself from a sweet and sentimental thrill--a thrill in which, as we have intimated, there
was something of a tremor--at the recollection of his strident accents and his angry eyes.
It was yet far from her heart to desire a renewal, however brief, of this exhibition. She wished
simply to efface from the young man's morbid soul the impression of a real contempt; for she
knew--or she thought that she knew--that against such an impression he was capable of taking
the most fatal and inconsiderate comfort.

Before many mornings had passed, accordingly, she had a horse saddled, and, dispensing with
attendance, she rode rapidly over to his farm. The house door and half the windows stood open;
but no answer came to her repeated summons. She made her way to the rear of the house, to the
barn-yard, thinly tenanted by a few common fowl, and across the yard to a road which skirted
its lower extremity and was accessible by an open gate. No human figure was in sight; nothing
was visible in the hot stillness but the scattered and ripening crops, over which, in spite
of her nervous solicitude, Miss Whittaker cast the glance of a connoisseur. A great uneasiness
filled her mind as she measured the rich domain apparently deserted of its young master, and
reflected that she perhaps was the cause of its abandonment. Ah, where was Richard? As she
looked and listened in vain, her heart rose to her throat, and she felt herself on the point
of calling all too wistfully upon his name. But her voice was stayed by the sound of a heavy
rumble, as of cart-wheels, beyond a turn in the road. She touched up her horse and cantered
along until she reached the turn. A great four-wheeled cart, laden with masses of newly broken
stone, and drawn by four oxen, was slowly advancing towards her. Beside it, patiently cracking
his whip and shouting monotonously, walked a young man in a slouched hat and a red shirt, with
his trousers thrust into his dusty boots. It was Richard. As he saw Gertrude, he halted a moment,
amazed, and then advanced, flicking the air with his whip. Gertrude's heart went out towards
him in a silent Thank God! Her next reflection was that he had never looked so well. The truth
is, that, in this rough adjustment, the native barbarian was duly represented. His face and
neck were browned by a week in the fields, his eye was clear, his step seemed to have learned
a certain manly dignity from its attendance on the heavy bestial tramp. Gertrude, as he reached
her side, pulled up her horse and held out her gloved fingers to his brown dusty hand. He took
them, looked for a moment into her face, and for the second time raised them to his lips.

"Excuse my glove," she said, with a little smile.

"Excuse mine," he answered, exhibiting his sunburnt, work-stained hand.

"Richard," said Gertrude, "you never had less need of excuse in your life. You never looked
half so well."

He fixed his eyes upon her a moment. "Why, you have forgiven me!" he exclaimed.

"Yes," said Gertrude, "I have forgiven you,--both you and myself. We both of us behaved very
absurdly, but we both of us had reason. I wish you had come back."

Richard looked about him, apparently at loss for a rejoinder. "I have been very busy," he said,
at last, with a simplicity of tone slightly studied. An odd sense of dramatic effect prompted
him to say neither more nor less.

An equally delicate instinct forbade Gertrude to express all the joy which this assurance gave
her. Excessive joy would have implied undue surprise; and it was a part of her plan frankly
to expect the best things of her companion. "If you have been busy," she said, "I congratulate
you. What have you been doing?"

"O, a hundred things. I have been quarrying, and draining, and clearing, and I don't know what
all. I thought the best thing was just to put my own hands to it. I am going to make a stone
fence along the great lot on the hill there. Wallace is forever grumbling about his boundaries.
I'll fix them once for all. What are you laughing at?"

"I am laughing at certain foolish apprehensions that I have been indulging for a week past.
You're wiser than I, Richard. I have no imagination."

"Do you mean that I have? I haven't enough to guess what you do mean."

"Why, do you suppose, have I come over this morning?"

"Because you thought I was sulking on account of your having called me a fool."

"Sulking, or worse. What do I deserve for the wrong I have done you?"

"You have done me no wrong. You reasoned fairly enough. You are not obliged to know me better
than I know myself. It's just like you to be ready to take back that bad word, and try to make
yourself believe that it was unjust. But it was perfectly just, and therefore I have managed
to bear it. I was a fool at that moment,--a stupid, impudent fool. I don't know whether that
man had been making love to you or not. But you had, I think, been feeling love for him,--you
looked it; I should have been less than a man, I should be unworthy of your--your affection,
if I had failed to see it. I did see it,--I saw it as clearly as I see those oxen now; and
yet I bounced in with my own ill-timed claims. To do so was to be a fool. To have been other
than a fool would have been to have waited, to have backed out, to have bitten my tongue off
before I spoke, to have done anything but what I did. I have no right to claim you, Gertrude,
until I can woo you better than that. It was the most fortunate thing in the world that you
spoke as you did: it was even kind. It saved me all the misery of groping about for a starting-point.
Not to have spoken as you did would have been to fail of justice; and then, probably, I should
have sulked, or, as you very considerately say, done worse. I had made a false move in the
game, and the only thing to do was to repair it. But you were not obliged to know that I would
so readily admit my move to have been false. Whenever I have made a fool of myself before,
I have been for sticking it out, and trying to turn all mankind--that is, you--into a a fool
too, so that I shouldn't be an exception. But this time, I think, I had a kind of inspiration.
I felt that my case was desperate. I felt that if I adopted my folly now I adopted it forever.
The other day I met a man who had just come home from Europe, and who spent last summer in
Switzerland. He was telling me about the mountain-climbing over there,--how they get over the
glaciers, and all that. He said that you sometimes came upon great slippery, steep, snow-covered
slopes that end short off in a precipice, and that if you stumble or lose your footing as you
cross them horizontally, why you go shooting down, and you're gone; that is, but for one little
dodge. You have a long walking-pole with a sharp end, you know, and as you feel yourself sliding,--it's
as likely as not to be in a sitting posture,--you just take this and ram it into the snow before
you, and there you are, stopped. The thing is, of course, to drive it in far enough, so that
it won't yield or break; and in any case it hurts infernally to come whizzing down upon this
upright pole. But the interruption gives you time to pick yourself up. Well, so it was with
me the other day. I stumbled and fell; I slipped, and was whizzing downward; but I just drove
in my pole and pulled up short. It nearly tore me in two; but it saved my life." Richard made
this speech with one hand leaning on the neck of Gertrude's horse, and the other on his own
side, and with his head slightly thrown back and his eyes on hers. She had sat quietly in her
saddle, returning his gaze. He had spoken slowly and deliberately; but without hesitation and
without heat. "This is not romance," thought Gertrude, "it's reality." And this feeling it
was that dictated her reply, divesting it of romance so effectually as almost to make it sound
trivial.

"It was fortunate you had a walking-pole," she said.

"I shall never travel without one again."

"Never, at least," smiled Gertrude, "with a companion who has the bad habit of pushing you
off the path."

"O, you may push all you like," said Richard. "I give you leave. But isn't this enough about
myself?"

"That's as you think."

"Well, it's all I have to say for the present, except that I am prodigiously glad to see you,
and that of course you will stay awhile."

"But you have your work to do."

"Dear me, never you mind my work. I've earned my dinner this morning, if you have no objection;
and I propose to share it with you. So we will go back to the house." He turned her horse's
head about, started up his oxen with his voice, and walked along beside her on the grassy roadside,
with one hand in the horse's mane, and the other swinging his whip.

Before they reached the yard-gate, Gertrude had revolved his speech. "Enough about himself,"
she said, silently echoing his words. "Yes, Heaven be praised, it is about himself. I am but
a means in this matter,--he himself, his own character, his own happiness, is the end." Under
this conviction it seemed to her that her part was appreciably simplified. Richard was learning
wisdom and self-control, and to exercise his reason. Such was the suit that he was destined
to gain. Her duty was as far as possible to remain passive, and not to interfere with the working
of the gods who had selected her as the instrument of their prodigy. As they reached the gate,
Richard made a trumpet of his hands, and sent a ringing summons into the fields; whereupon
a farm-boy approached, and, with an undisguised stare of amazement at Gertrude, took charge
of his master's team. Gertrude rode up to the door-step, where her host assisted her to dismount,
and bade her go in and make herself at home, while he busied himself with the bestowal of her
horse. She found that, in her absence, the old woman who administered her friend's household
had reappeared, and had laid out the preparations for his mid-day meal. By the time he returned,
with his face and head shining from a fresh ablution, and his shirt-sleeves decently concealed
by a coat, Gertrude had apparently won the complete confidence of the good wife.

Gertrude doffed her hat, and tucked up her riding-skirt, and sat down to a tête-à-tête over
Richard's crumpled table-cloth. The young man played the host very soberly and naturally; and
Gertrude hardly knew whether to augur from his perfect self-possession that her star was already
on the wane, or that it had waxed into a steadfast and eternal sun. The solution of her doubts
was not far to seek; Richard was absolutely at his ease in her presence. He had told her indeed
that she intoxicated him; and truly, in those moments when she was compelled to oppose her
dewy eloquence to his fervid importunities, her whole presence seemed to him to exhale a singularly
potent sweetness. He had told her that she was an enchantress, and this assertion, too, had
its measure of truth. But her spell was a steady one; it sprang not from her beauty, her wit,
her figure,--it sprang from her character. When she found herself aroused to appeal or to resistance,
Richard's pulses were quickened to what he had called intoxication, not by her smiles, her
gestures, her glances, or any accession of that material beauty which she did not possess,
but by a generous sense of her virtues in action. In other words, Gertrude exercised the magnificent
power of making her lover forget her face. Agreeably to this fact, his habitual feeling in
her presence was one of deep repose,--a sensation not unlike that which in the early afternoon,
as he lounged in his orchard with a pipe, he derived from the sight of the hot and vaporous
hills. He was innocent, then, of that delicious trouble which Gertrude's thoughts had touched
upon as a not unnatural result of her visit, and which another woman's fancy would perhaps
have dwelt upon as an indispensable proof of its success. "Porphyro grew faint," the poet assures
us, as he stood in Madeline's chamber on Saint Agnes' eve. But Richard did not in the least
grow faint now that his mistress was actually filling his musty old room with her voice, her
touch, her looks; that she was sitting in his unfrequented chairs, trailing her skirt over
his faded carpet, casting her perverted image upon his mirror, and breaking his daily bread.
He was not fluttered when he sat at her well-served table, and trod her muffled floors. Why,
then, should he be fluttered now? Gertrude was herself in all places, and (once granted that
she was at peace) to be at her side was to drink peace as fully in one place as in another.

Richard accordingly ate a great working-day dinner in Gertrude's despite, and she ate a small
one for his sake. She asked questions moreover, and offered counsel with most sisterly freedom.
She deplored the rents in his table-cloth, and the dismemberments of his furniture; and although
by no means absurdly fastidious in the matter of household elegance, she could not but think
that Richard would be a happier and a better man if he were a little more comfortable. She
forbore, however, to criticise the poverty of his entourage, for she felt that the obvious
answer was, that such a state of things was the penalty of his living alone; and it was desirable,
under the circumstances, that this idea should remain implied.

When at last Gertrude began to bethink herself of going, Richard broke a long silence by the
following question: "Gertrude, do you love that man?"

"Richard," she answered, "I refused to tell you before, because you asked the question as a
right. Of course you do so no longer. No. I do not love him. I have been near it,--but I have
missed it. And now good by."

For a week after her visit, Richard worked as bravely and steadily as he had done before it.
But one morning he woke up lifeless, morally speaking. His strength had suddenly left him.
He had been straining his faith in himself to a prodigious tension, and the chord had suddenly
snapped. In the hope that Gertrude's tender fingers might repair it, he rode over to her towards
evening. On his way through the village, he found people gathered in knots, reading fresh copies
of the Boston newspapers over each other's shoulders, and learned that tidings had just come
of a great battle in Virginia, which was also a great defeat. He procured a copy of the paper
from a man who had read it out, and made haste to Gertrude's dwelling.

Gertrude received his story with those passionate imprecations and regrets which were then
in fashion. Before long, Major Luttrel presented himself, and for half an hour there was no
talk but about the battle. The talk, however, was chiefly between Gertrude and the Major, who
found considerable ground for difference, she being a great radical and he a decided conservative.
Richard sat by, listening apparently, but with the appearance of one to whom the matter of
the discourse was of much less interest than the manner of those engaged in it. At last, when
tea was announced, Gertrude told her friends, very frankly, that she would not invite them
to remain,--that her heart was too heavy with her country's woes, and with the thought of so
great a butchery, to allow her to play the hostess,--and that, in short, she was in the humor
to be alone. Of course there was nothing for the gentlemen but to obey; but Richard went out
cursing the law, under which, in the hour of his mistress's sorrow, his company was a burden
and not a relief. He watched in vain, as he bade her farewell, for some little sign that she
would fain have him stay, but that as she wished to get rid of his companion civility demanded
that she should dismiss them both. No such sign was forthcoming, for the simple reason that
Gertrude was sensible of no conflict between her desires. The men mounted their horses in silence,
and rode slowly along the lane which led from Miss Whittaker's stables to the high-road. As
they approached the top of the lane, they perceived in the twilight a mounted figure coming
towards them. Richard's heart began to beat with an angry foreboding, which was confirmed as
the rider drew near and disclosed Captain Severn's features. Major Luttrel and he, being bound
in courtesy to a brief greeting, pulled up their horses; and as an attempt to pass them in
narrow quarters would have been a greater incivility than even Richard was prepared to commit,
he likewise halted.

"This is ugly news, isn't it?" said Severn. "It has determined me to go back to-morrow."

"Go back where?" asked Richard.

"To my regiment."

"Are you well enough?" asked Major Luttrel. "How is that wound?"

"It's so much better that I believe it can finish getting well down there as easily as here.
Good by, Major. I hope we shall meet again." And he shook hands with Major Luttrel. "Good by,
Mr. Clare." And, somewhat to Richard's surprise, he stretched over and held out his hand to him.

Richard felt that it was tremulous, and, looking hard into his face, he thought it wore a certain
unwonted look of excitement. And then his fancy coursed back to Gertrude, sitting where he
had left her, in the sentimental twilight, alone with her heavy heart. With a word, he reflected,
a single little word, a look, a motion, this happy man whose hand I hold can heal her sorrows.
"Oh!" cried Richard, "that by this hand I might hold him fast forever!"

It seemed to the Captain that Richard's grasp was needlessly protracted and severe. "What a
grip the poor fellow has!" he thought. "Good by," he repeated aloud, disengaging himself.

"Good by," said Richard. And then he added, he hardly knew why, "Are you going to bid good
by to Miss Whittaker?"

"Yes. Isn't she at home?"

Whether Richard really paused or not before he answered, he never knew. There suddenly arose
such a tumult in his bosom that it seemed to him several moments before he became conscious
of his reply. But it is probable that to Severn it came only too soon.

"No," said Richard; "she's not at home. We have just been calling." As he spoke, he shot a
glance at his companion, armed with defiance of his impending denial. But the Major just met
his glance and then dropped his eyes. This slight motion was a horrible revelation. He had
served the Major too.

"Ah? I'm sorry," said Severn, slacking his rein,--"I'm sorry." And from his saddle he looked
down toward the house more longingly and regretfully than he knew.

Richard felt himself turning from pale to consuming crimson. There was a simple sincerity in
Severn's words which was almost irresistible. For a moment he felt like shouting out a loud
denial of his falsehood: "She is there! she's alone and in tears, awaiting you. Go to her--and
be damned!" But before he could gather his words into his throat, they were arrested by Major
Luttrel's cool, clear voice, which in its calmness seemed to cast scorn upon his weakness.

"Captain," said the Major, "I shall be very happy to take charge of your farewell."

"Thank you, Major. Pray do. Say how extremely sorry I was. Good by again." And Captain Severn
hastily turned his horse about, gave him his spurs, and galloped away, leaving his friends
standing alone in the middle of the road. As the sound of his retreat expired, Richard, in
spite of himself, drew a long breath. He sat motionless in the saddle, hanging his head.

"Mr. Clare," said the Major, at last, "that was very cleverly done."

Richard looked up. "I never told a lie before," said he.

"Upon my soul, then, you did it uncommonly well. You did it so well I almost believed you.
No wonder that Severn did."

Richard was silent. Then suddenly he broke out, "In God's name, sir, why don't you call me
a blackguard? I've done a beastly act!"

"O, come," said the Major, "you needn't mind that, with me. We'll consider that said. I feel
bound to let you know that I'm very, very much obliged to you. If you hadn't spoken, how do
you know but that I might?"

"If you had, I would have given you the lie, square in your teeth."

"Would you, indeed? It's very fortunate, then, I held my tongue. If you will have it so, I
won't deny that your little improvisation sounded very ugly. I'm devilish glad I didn't make
it, if you come to that."

Richard felt his wit sharpened by a most unholy scorn,--a scorn far greater for his companion
than for himself. "I am glad to hear that it did sound ugly," he said. "To me, it seemed beautiful,
holy, and just. For the space of a moment, it seemed absolutely right that I should say what
I did. But you saw the lie in its horrid nakedness, and yet you let it pass. You have no excuse."

"I beg your pardon. You are immensely ingenious, but you are immensely wrong. Are you going
to make out that I am the guilty party? Upon my word, you're a cool hand. I have an excuse.
I have the excuse of being interested in Miss Whittaker's remaining unengaged."

"So I suppose. But you don't love her. Otherwise--"

Major Luttrel laid his hand on Richard's bridle. "Mr. Clare," said he, "I have no wish to talk
metaphysics over this matter. You had better say no more. I know that your feelings are not
of an enviable kind, and I am therefore prepared to be good-natured with you. But you must
be civil yourself. You have done a shabby deed; you are ashamed of it, and you wish to shift
the responsibility upon me, which is more shabby still. My advice is, that you behave like
a man of spirit, and swallow your apprehensions. I trust that you are not going to make a fool
of yourself by any apology or retraction in any quarter. As for its having seemed holy and
just to do what you did, that is mere bosh. A lie is a lie, and as such is often excusable.
As anything else,--as a thing beautiful, holy, or just,--it's quite inexcusable. Yours was
a lie to you, and a lie to me. It serves me, and I accept it. I suppose you understand me.
I adopt it. You don't suppose it was because I was frightened by those big black eyes of yours
that I held my tongue. As for my loving or not loving Miss Whittaker, I have no report to make
to you about it. I will simply say that I intend, if possible, to marry her."

"She'll not have you. She'll never marry a cold-blooded rascal."

"I think she'll prefer him to a hot-blooded one. Do you want to pick a quarrel with me? Do
you want to make me lose my temper? I shall refuse you that satisfaction. You have been a coward,
and you want to frighten some one before you go to bed to make up for it. Strike me, and I'll
strike you in self-defence, but I'm not going to mind your talk. Have you anything to say?
No? Well, then, good evening." And Major Luttrel started away.

It was with rage that Richard was dumb. Had he been but a cat's-paw after all? Heaven forbid!
He sat irresolute for an instant, and then turned suddenly and cantered back to Gertrude's
gate. Here he stopped again; but after a short pause he went in over the gravel with a fast-beating
heart. O, if Luttrel were but there to see him! For a moment he fancied he heard the sound
of the Major's returning steps. If he would only come and find him at confession! It would
be so easy to confess before him! He went along beside the house to the front, and stopped
beneath the open drawing-room window.

"Gertrude!" he cried softly, from his saddle.

Gertrude immediately appeared. "You, Richard!" she exclaimed.

Her voice was neither harsh nor sweet; but her words and her intonation recalled vividly to
Richard's mind the scene in the conservatory. He fancied them keenly expressive of disappointment.
He was invaded by a mischievous conviction that she had been expecting Captain Severn, or that
at the least she had mistaken his voice for the Captain's. The truth is that she had half fancied
it might be,--Richard's call having been little more than a loud whisper. The young man sat
looking up at her, silent.

"What do you want?" she asked. "Can I do anything for you?"

Richard was not destined to do his duty that evening. A certain infinitesimal dryness of tone
on Gertrude's part was the inevitable result of her finding that that whispered summons came
only from Richard. She was preoccupied. Captain Severn had told her a fortnight before, that,
in case of news of a defeat, he should not await the expiration of his leave of absence to
return. Such news had now come, and her inference was that her friend would immediately take
his departure. She could not but suppose that he would come and bid her farewell, and what
might not be the incidents, the results, of such a visit? To tell the whole truth, it was under
the pressure of these reflections that, twenty minutes before, Gertrude had dismissed our two
gentlemen. That this long story should be told in the dozen words with which she greeted Richard,
will seem unnatural to the disinterested reader. But in those words, poor Richard, with a lover's
clairvoyance, read it at a single glance. The same resentful impulse, the same sickening of
the heart, that he had felt in the conservatory, took possession of him once more. To be witness
of Severn's passion for Gertrude,--that he could endure. To be witness of Gertrude's passion
for Severn,--against that obligation his reason rebelled.

"What is it you wish, Richard?" Gertrude repeated. "Have you forgotten anything?"

"Nothing! nothing!" cried the young man. "It's no matter!"

He gave a great pull at his bridle, and almost brought his horse back on his haunches, and
then, wheeling him about on himself, he thrust in his spurs and galloped out of the gate.

On the highway he came upon Major Luttrel, who stood looking down the lane.

"I'm going to the Devil, sir!" cried Richard. "Give me your hand on it."

Luttrel held out his hand. "My poor young man," said he, "you're out of your head. I'm sorry
for you. You haven't been making a fool of yourself?"

"Yes, a damnable fool of myself!"

Luttrel breathed freely. "You'd better go home and go to bed," he said. "You'll make yourself
ill by going on at this rate."

"I--I'm afraid to go home," said Richard, in a broken voice. "For God's sake, come with me!"--and
the wretched fellow burst into tears. "I'm too bad for any company but yours," he cried, in
his sobs.

The Major winced, but he took pity. "Come, come," said he, "we'll pull through. I'll go home
with you."

They rode off together. That night Richard went to bed miserably drunk; although Major Luttrel
had left him at ten o'clock, adjuring him to drink no more. He awoke the next morning in a
violent fever; and before evening the doctor, whom one of his hired men had brought to his
bedside, had come and looked grave and pronounced him very ill.

DOCTOR MOLKE.

A SKETCH FROM LIFE.

As my own fancy led me into the Greenland seas, so chance sent me into a Greenland port. It
was a choice little harbor, a good way north of the Arctic Circle,--fairly within the realm
of hyperborean barrenness,--very near the northernmost border of civilized settlement. But
civilization was exhibited there by unmistakable evidences;--a very dilute civilization, it
is true, yet, such as it was, outwardly recognizable; for Christian habitations and Christian
beings were in sight from the vessel's deck,--at least some of the human beings who appeared
upon the beach were dressed like Christians, and veritable smoke curled gracefully upward into
the bright air above the roofs of houses from veritable chimneys.

We had been fighting the Arctic ice and the Arctic storms for so long a time, that it was truly
refreshing to get into this good harbor. The little craft which had borne us thither seemed
positively to enjoy her repose, as she lay quietly to her anchors on the still waters, in the
calm air and the blazing sunshine of the Arctic noonday. As for myself, I was simply wondering
what I should find ashore. A slender fringe of European custom bordering native barbarism and
dirt was what I anticipated; for, as I looked upon the naked rocks,--which there, as in other
Greenland ports, afforded room for a few straggling huts of native fishermen and hunters, with
only now and then a more pretentious white man's lodge,--I could hardly imagine that much would
be found seductive to the fancy or inviting to the eye. A country where there is no soil to
yield any part of man's subsistence seemed to offer such a slender chance for man in the battle
of life, that I could well imagine it to be repulsive rather than attractive; yet I was eager
to see how poor men might be, and live.

While thus looking forward to a novel experience, I was unconsciously preparing myself for
a great surprise. Whatever there might be of poverty in the condition of the few dozens of
human beings who there forced a scanty subsistence from the sea, I was to discover one person
in the place who did in no way share it,--who, born as it might seem to different destinies,
yet, voluntarily choosing wild Nature for companionship, and rising superior to the forbidding
climate and the general desolation, rejoiced here in his own strong manhood, and lived seemingly
contented as well with himself as with the great world of which he heard from afar but the
faint murmurs.

The anchors had been down about an hour, and the bustle and confusion necessarily attending
an entrance into port had subsided. The sails were stowed, the decks were cleared up, and the
ropes were coiled. A port watch was set. The crew had received their "liberty," and there was
much wondering among them whether Esquimau eyes could speak a tender welcome. Nor had the Danish
flag been forgotten. That swallow-tailed emblem of a gallant nationality--which, according
to song and tradition, has the enviable distinction of having

    "Come from heaven down, my boys,
    Ay, come from heaven down"--

was fluttering from a white flag-staff at the front of the government-house, and we had answered
its display by running up our own Danish colors at the fore, and saluting them with our signal-gun
in all due form and courtesy.

Soon after reaching the anchorage I had despatched an officer to look up the chief ruler of
the place, and to assure him of the great pleasure I should have in calling upon him, if he
would name an hour convenient to himself; and I was awaiting my messenger's return with some
impatience, when suddenly I heard the thump of his heavy sea boots on the deck above. In a
few moments he entered the cabin, and reported that the governor was absent, but that his office
was temporarily filled by a gentleman who had been good enough to accompany him on board,--the
surgeon of the settlement, Doctor Molke; and then stepping aside, Doctor Molke passed through
the narrow doorway and stood before me, bowing. I bowed in return, and bade him welcome, saying,
I suppose, just what any other person would have said under like circumstances, (not, however,
supposing for a moment that I was understood,) and then, turning to the officer, I signified
my wish that he should act as interpreter. But that was needless. My Greenland visitor answered
me, in pure, unbroken English, with as little hesitation as if he had spoken no other language
all his life; and in conclusion he said: "I come to invite you to my poor house, and to offer
you my service. I can give you but a feeble welcome in this outlandish place, but such as I
have is yours; and if you will accompany me ashore, I shall be much delighted."

The delight was mutual; and it was not many minutes before, seated in the stern sheets of a
whale-boat, we were pulling towards the land.

My new-found friend interested me at once. The surprise at finding myself addressed in English
was increased when I discovered that this Greenland official bore every mark of refinement,
culture, and high breeding. His manner was wholly free from restraint; and it struck me as
something odd that all the self-possession and ease of a thorough man of the world should be
exhibited in this desert place. He did not seem to be at all aware that there was anything
incongruous in either his dress or manner and his present situation; yet this man, who sat
with me in the stern sheets of a battered whale-boat, pulling across a Greenland harbor to
a Greenland settlement, might, with the simple addition of a pair of suitable gloves, have
stepped as he was into a ball-room without giving rise to any other remark than would be excited
by his bearing.

His graceful figure was well set off by a neatly fitting and closely buttoned blue frock-coat,
ornamented with gilt buttons, and embroidered cuffs, and heavily braided shoulder-knots. A
decoration on his breast told that he was a favorite with his king. His finely shaped head
was covered by a blue cloth cap, having a gilt band and the royal emblems. Over his shoulders
was thrown a cloak of mottled seal-skins, lined with the warm and beautiful fur of the Arctic
fox. His cleanly shaven face was finely formed and full of force, while a soft blue eye spoke
of gentleness and good-nature, and with fair hair completed the evidences of Scandinavian birth.

My curiosity became much excited. "How," thought I, "in the name of everything mysterious,
has it happened that such a man should have turned up in such a place?" From curiosity I passed
to amazement, as his mind unfolded itself, and his tastes were manifested. I was prepared to
be received by a fur-clad hunter, a coppery-faced Esquimau, or a meek and pious missionary,
upon whose face privation and penance had set their seal; but for this high-spirited, high-bred,
graceful, and evidently accomplished gentleman, I was not prepared.

I could not refrain from one leading observation. "I suppose, Doctor Molke," said I, "that
you have not been here long enough to have yet wholly exhausted the novelty of these noble hills!"

"Eleven years, one would think," replied he, "ought to pretty well exhaust anything; and yet
I cannot say that these hills, upon which my eyes rest continually, have grown to be wearisome
companions, even if they may appear something forbidding."

Eleven years among these barren hills! Eleven years in Greenland!! Surely, thought I, this
is something "passing strange."

The scene around us as we crossed the bay was indeed imposing, and, though desolate enough,
was certainly not without its bright and cheerful side. Behind us rose a majestic line of cliffs,
climbing up into the clouds in giant steps, picturesque yet solid,--a great massive pedestal,
as it were, supporting mountain piled on mountain, with caps of snow whitening their summits,
and great glaciers hanging on their sides. Before us lay the town,--built upon a gnarled spur
of primitive rock, which seemed to have crept from underneath the lofty cliffs, as a serpent
from its hiding-place, and, after wriggling through the sea, to have stopped at length, when
it had almost completely enclosed a beautiful sheet of water about a mile long by half a mile
broad, leaving but one narrow, winding entrance to it. Through this entrance the swell of the
sea could never come to disturb the silent bay, which lay there, nestling among the dark rocks
beneath the mountain shadows, as calmly as a Swiss lake in an Alpine valley.

But the rocky spur which supported on its rough back what there was of the town wore a most
woe-begone and distressed aspect. A few little patches of grass and moss were visible, but
generally there was nothing to be seen but the cold gray-red naked rocks, broken and twisted
into knots and knobs, and cut across with deep and ugly cracks. I could but wonder that on
such a dreary spot man should ever think of seeking a dwelling-place; and my companion must
have interpreted my thoughts, for he pointed to the shore, and said playfully, "Ah! it is true,
you behold at last the fruits of wisdom and instruction,--a city founded on a rock." And then,
after a moment's pause, he added: "Let me point out to you the great features of this new wonder.
First, to the right there, underneath that little, low, black, peaked roof, dwells the royal
cook,--a Dane who came out here a long time ago, married a native of the country, and rejoices
in a brood of half-breeds, among whom are four girls, rather dusky, but not ill-favored. Next
in order is the government-house,--that pitch-coated structure near the flag-staff. This is
the only building, you observe, that can boast of a double tier of windows. Next, a little
higher up, you see, is my own lodge, bedaubed with pitch, like the other, to protect it against
the assaults of the weather, and to stop the little cracks. Down by the beach, a little farther
on, that largest building of all is the store-house, &c., where the Governor keeps all sorts
of traps for trade with the natives, and where the shops are in which the cooper fixes up the
oil-barrels, and where other like industrial pursuits are carried on. A little farther on you
observe a low structure where the oil is stored. On the ledge above the shop you see another
pitchy building. This furnishes quarters for the half-dozen Danish employees,--fellows who,
not having married native wives, hunt and fish for the glory of Denmark. Near the den of these
worthies you observe another,--a duplicate of that in which lives the cook. There lives the
royal cooper; and not far from it are two others, not quite so pretentious, where dwell the
carpenter and blacksmith,--all of whom have followed the worthy example of the cook, and have
dusky sons and daughters to console their declining years. You may perhaps be able to distinguish
a few moss-covered hovels dotted about here and there,--perhaps there may be twenty of them
in all, though there are but few of them in sight. These are the huts of native hunters. At
present they are not occupied, for, being without roofs that will turn water, the people are
compelled to abandon them when the snow begins to melt in the spring, and betake themselves
to seal-skin tents, some of which you observe scattered here and there among the rocks. And
now I've shown you everything,--just in time, too, for here we are at the landing."

We had drawn in close to the end of a narrow pier, run out into the water on slender piles,
and, quickly ascending some steps, the Doctor led the way up to his house. The whole settlement
had turned out to meet us, men, women, children, and dogs,--which latter, about two hundred
in number, "little dogs and all," set up an ear-splitting cry, wild and strangely in keeping
with every other part of the scene, and like nothing so much as the dismal evening concert
of a pack of wolves. The children, on the other hand, kept quiet, and clung to their mothers,
as all children do in exciting times; the mothers grinned and laughed and chattered, "as becomes
the gentler sex" in the savage state; while the men, all smoking short clay pipes, (one of
their customs borrowed from civilization,) looked on with that air of stolid indifference peculiar
to the male barbarian. They were mostly dressed in suits of seal-skins, but some of them wore
greasy Guernsey frocks and other European clothing. Many of the women carried cunning-looking
babies strapped upon their backs in seal-skin pouches. The heads of men and women alike were
for the most part capless; but every one of the dark, beardless faces was surmounted by a heavy
mass of straight, uncombed, and tangled jet-black hair. There were some half-breed girls standing
in little groups upon the rocks, who, adding something of taste to the simple need of an artificial
covering for the body, were attired in dresses, which, although of the Esquimau fashion, were
quite neatly ornamented. While passing through this curious crowd, the eye could not but find
pleasure in the novel scene, the more especially as the delight of these half-barbarous people
was excited to the highest pitch by the strange being who had come among them.

But if what the eye drank in gave delight, less fortunate the nose; for from about the store-house
and the native huts, and, indeed, from almost everywhere, welled up that horrid odor of decomposing
oil and fish and flesh peculiar to a fishing-town. On this account, if on no other, I was not
sorry when we reached our destination.

"You like not this Greenland odor?" said my conductor. "Luckily it does not reach me here,
or I should seek a still higher perch to roost on";--saying which, he opened the door and led
the way inside, first through a little vestibule into a square hall, where we deposited our
fur coats, and then to the right, into a small room furnished with a table, an old pine bench,
a single chair, a case with glass doors containing white jars and glass bottles having Latin
labels, and smelling dreadfully of doctor's stuffs.

"I always come through here," said my host, "after passing the town. It gives the olfactories
a new sensation. This, you observe, is the place where I physic the people."

"Have you many patients, Doctor?" I inquired.

"Not very many; but, considering that I go sometimes a hundred miles or so to see the suffering
sinners, I have quite enough to satisfy me. Not much competition, you know. But come, we have
some lunch waiting for us in the next room, and Sophy will be growing impatient."

A lady, eh?

The room into which the Doctor ushered me was neatly furnished. On the walls were hung some
prints and paintings of fruits and animals and flowers, and in the centre stood a small round
table covered with dishes carefully placed on a snowy cloth.

All very nice, but who's Sophy?

The Doctor tinkled a little bell, the tones of which told that it was silver; and then, all
radiant with smiles and beaming with good-nature, Sophy entered. A strange apparition.

"This is my housekeeper," said the Doctor, in explanation; "speak to the American, Sophy."

And, without embarrassment or pausing for an instant, she advanced and bade me welcome, addressing
me in fair English, and extending at the same time a delicate little hand, which peeped out
from cuffs of eider-down. "I am glad," said she, "to see the American. I have been looking
through the window at him ever since he left the ship."

"Now, Sophy," said the Doctor, "let us see what you have got us for lunch."

"O, I haven't anything at all, Doctor Molke," answered Sophy; "but I hope the American will
excuse me until dinner, when I have some nice trout and venison."

"'Pot-luck,' as I told you," exclaimed my host. "But never mind, Sophy, let's have it, be it
what it may." And Sophy tripped lightly out of the room to do her master's bidding.

"A right good girl that," said the Doctor, when the door was closed. "Takes capital care of me."

Strange Sophy! A pretty face of dusky hue, and a fine figure attired in native costume, neatly
ornamented and arranged with cultivated taste. Pantaloons of mottled seal-skin, and of silvery
lustre, tapered down into long white boots, which enclosed the neatest of ankles and the daintiest
of feet. A little jacket of Scotch plaid, with a collar and border of fur, covered the body
to the waist, while from beneath the collar peeped up a pure white cambric handkerchief, covering
the throat; and heavy masses of glossy black hair were intertwined with ribbons of gay red.
Marvellous Sophy! Dusky daughter of a Danish father and a native mother. From her mother she
had her rich brunette complexion and raven hair; from her father, Saxon features, and light
blue Saxon eyes.

If the housekeeper attracted my attention, so did the dishes which she set before me. Smoked
salmon of exquisite delicacy, reindeer sausages, reindeer tongues nicely dried and thinly sliced,
and fine fresh Danish bread, made up a style of "pot-luck" calculated to cause a hungry man
from the high seas and sailors' "prog" to wish for the same style of luck for the remainder
of his days. But when all this came to be washed down with the contents of sundry bottles with
which Sophy dotted the clean white cloth, the "luck" was perfect, and there was nothing further
to desire.

"Ah! here we are," said my entertainer. "Sophy wishes to make amends for the dryness of her
fare. This is a choice Margaux, and I can recommend it. But, Sophy, here, you haven't warmed
this quite enough. Ah! my dear sir, you experience the trouble of a Greenland life. One can
never get his wines properly tempered."

One cannot get his wines properly tempered!--and this is the trouble of a Greenland life!!
"Surely," thought I, "one might find something worse than this."

"Here," picking up the next bottle, "we have some Johannisberg, very fine as I can assure you;
but I have little fancy even for the best of these Rhenish wines. Too much like a pretty woman
without soul. They never warm the imagination. There's something better to build upon there
close beside your elbow. Since the claret's forbidden us for the present, I'll drink you welcome
in that rich Madeira. Why, do you know, sir," rattled on the Doctor, as I passed the bottle,
seemingly rejoiced in his very heart at having some one to talk to,--"do you know, sir, that
I have kept that by me here these ten years past? My good old father sent it to me as a mark
of special favor. Why, sir, it has a pedigree as long as one of Locksley's cloth-yard shafts.
But the pedigree will keep: let's prove it,"--and he filled up two dainty French straw-stem
glasses, and pledged me in the good old Danish style. Then, when the claret came back, this
time all rightly tempered, the Doctor filled the glasses, and hoped that, when I "left this
place, the girls would pull lustily on the tow-ropes."

Hunger and thirst were soon appeased. "And now," said the Doctor, when this was done, "I know
you are dying for the want of something fresh and green. You have probably tasted nothing that
grew out of dear old Mother Earth since leaving home";--and he tinkled his silver bell again,
and Sophy of the silver seal-skin pantaloons and dainty boots tripped softly through the door.

"Sophy, haven't you a surprise for the American?"

Sophy smiled knowingly, and said, "Yes," as she retreated. In a moment she came back, carrying
a little silver dish, with a little green pyramid upon it. Out from the green peeped little
round red globes,--radishes, as I lived!--round red radishes!--ten round red radishes!

"What! radishes in Greenland!" I exclaimed involuntarily.

"Yes, and raised on my own farm, too; you shall see it by and by." The Doctor was enjoying
my surprise, and Sophy looked on with undisguised satisfaction. Meanwhile I lost no time in
tumbling the pyramid to pieces, and crunching the delicious bulbs. They disappeared in a twinkling.
Their rich and luscious juices seemed to pour at once into the very blood, and to tingle at
the very finger-tips. I never knew before the full enjoyment of the fresh growth of the soil.
After so long a deprivation it was indeed a strange, as it will remain a lasting sensation.
Never to my dying day shall I forget the ten radishes of Greenland.

"You see that I was right," exclaimed my host, after the vigorous assault was ended. "And now,"
continued he, addressing Sophy, "bring the other things."

The "other things" proved to be a plate of fine lettuce, a bit of Stilton cheese, and coffee
in transparent little china cups, and sugar in a silver bowl, and then cigars,--everything
of the best and purest; and as we passed from one thing to another, I became at length persuaded
that the Arctic Circle was a myth, that my cruise among the icebergs was a dream, and that
Greenland was set down wrongly on the maps. Long before this I had been convinced that Doctor
Molke was a most mysterious character, and wholly unaccountable.

After we had finished this sumptuous lunch and chatted for a while, the Doctor surprised me
again by asking if I would like a game of billiards. (Billiards in Greenland, as well as radishes!)
"But first," said he, "let us try this sunny Burgundy. Ah! these red wines are the only truly
generous wines. They monopolize all the sensuous glories and associations of the fruit. With
these red wines one drinks in the very soul and sentiment of the lands which grow the grapes
that breed them."

"Even if drank in Greenland?"

"Yes, or at the very Pole. Geographical lines may confine our bodies; but nature is an untamed
wild, where the spirit roams at will. If I am here hemmed in by barren hills, and live in a
desert waste, yet, as one of your sweetest poets has put it, my

            'Fancy, like the finger of a clock,
    Runs the great circuit and is still at home';

and truly, I believe that I have in this retreat about as much enjoyment of life as they who
taste of it more freely; for while I can here feel all the world's warm pulsations, I am freed
from its annoyances: if the sweet is less sweet, the bitter is less bitter. But--Well, let's
have the billiards."

My host now led the way into the billiard-room, which was tastefully ornamented with everything
needful to harmonize with a handsome table standing in its centre, upon which we were soon
knocking the balls about in an ill-matched game, for he beat me sadly. I was much surprised
at the skilfulness of his play, and remarked that I thought it something singular that he "should
there find any one to keep him so well in hand."

"Ah! my dear sir," said he, "you have yet much to learn. This country is not so bad as you
think for. Sophy--native-born Sophy--is my antagonist, and she beats me three times out of
five." Wonderful Sophy!

The game finished, my host next led the way into his study. A charming retreat as ever human
wit and ingenuity devised. It was indeed rather a parlor than a study. The room was quite large,
and was literally filled with odd bits of furniture, elegant and well kept. Heavy crimson curtains
were draped about the windows, a rich crimson carpet covered the floor, and there were lounges
and chairs of various patterns, adapted for every temper of mind or mood of body,--all of the
same pleasing color. Odd étagères, hanging and standing, and a large solid walnut case, were
all well filled with books, and other books were carefully arranged on a table in the centre
of the room. Among them my eye quickly detected the works of various English authors, conspicuous
among which were Shakespeare, Byron, Scott, Dickens, Cooper, and Washington Irving. Sam Slick
had a place there, and close beside him was the renowned Lemuel Gulliver; and in science there
were, beside many others, Brewster, Murchison, and Lyell. The books all showed that they were
well used, and they embraced the principal classical stores of the French and German tongues,
beside the English and his own native Danish. In short, the collection was precisely such as
one would expect to find in any civilized place, where means were not wanting, the disposition
to read a habit and a pleasure, and the books themselves boon companions.

A charming feature of the room was the air of refreshing négligé with which sundry robes of
bear and fox skins were tossed about upon the chairs and lounges and floor; while the blank
spaces of the walls were broken by numerous pictures, some of them apparently family relics,
and on little brackets were various souvenirs of art and travel.

"I call this my study," said the Doctor; "but in truth there is the real shop";--and he led
me into a little room adjoining, in which there was but one window, one table, one chair, no
shelves, a great number of books, lying about in every direction, and great quantities of paper.
On the wall hung about two dozen pipes of various shapes and sizes, and a fine assortment of
guns and rifles and all the paraphernalia of a practised sportsman. It was easy to see that
there was one place where the native-born Sophy did not come.

The chamber of this singular Greenland recluse was in keeping with his study. The walls were
painted light blue, a blue carpet adorned the floor, blue curtains softened the light which
stole through the windows, and blue hangings cast a pleasant hue over a snowy pillow. Although
small, there was indeed nothing wanting, not even a well-arranged bath-room,--nothing that
the most fastidious taste could covet or desire.

"And now," said my entertainer, when we had got seated in the study, "does this present attractions
sufficient to tempt you from your narrow bunk on shipboard? You are most heartily welcome to
that blue den which you admire so much, and which I am heartily sick of, while I can make for
myself a capital 'shake-down' here, or vice versa. If neither of these will suit you, then
cast your eyes out of the window, and you will observe snow enough to build a more truly Arctic
lodging."

I stepped to the window, and there, sure enough, piled up beneath it and against the house,
was a great bank of snow, which the summer's sun had not yet dissolved; and as I saw this,
and then looked beyond it over the wretched little village, and the desolate waste of rocks
on which it stood, and then on up the craggy steeps to the great white-topped mountains, I
could but wonder what strange occurrence had sent this luxury-loving man, with books only for
companions, into such a howling wilderness. Was it his own fancy? or was it some cruel necessity?
In truth, the surprise was so great that I found myself suddenly turning from the scene outside
to that within, not indeed without an impulse that the whole thing might have vanished in the
interval, as the palace of Aladdin in the Arabian tale.

My host was watching me attentively, no doubt reading my thoughts, for as I turned round he
asked if I "liked the contrast." To be quite candid, I was forced to own myself greatly wondering
"that a den so well fitted for the latitude of Paris should be stumbled upon away up here so
near the Pole."

"Hardly in keeping with 'the eternal fitness of things,' eh?"

"Precisely so."

"You think, then, because a fellow chooses to live in barbarous Greenland, he must needs turn
barbarian?"

"Not exactly that, but we are in the habit of associating the appreciation of comfort and luxury
with the desire for social intercourse,--certainly not with banishment like this."

"Then you would be inclined to think there is something unnatural, in short, mysterious, in
my being here,--tastes, fancies, inclinations, and all?"

"I confess it would so strike me, if I took the liberty to speculate upon it."

"Very far from the truth, I do assure you. I am not obliged to be here any more than you are.
I came from pure choice, and am at liberty to return when I please. In truth, I do go home
with the ship to Copenhagen, once in three or four years, and spend a winter there, living
the while in a den much like what you here see; but I am always glad enough to get back again.
The salary which I receive from the government does not support me as I live, so you see that
is not a motive. But I am perfectly independent, have capital health, lots of adventure, hardship
enough (for you must know that, if I do sleep under a sky-blue canopy, I am esteemed one of
the most hardy men in all Greenland) to satisfy the most insatiate appetite and perverse disposition."

"Sufficient reason, I should say, for a year or so, but hardly one would think, for a lifetime."

"Why not?"

"Because the novelty of adventure wears off in a little time. Good health never gives us satisfaction,
for we do not give it thought until we lose it, so that can never be an impelling motive; and
as for independence, what is that, when one can never be freed from himself? In short, I should
say one so circumstanced as you are would die of ennui; that his mind, constantly thrown back
upon itself, must, sooner or later, result in a weariness even worse than death itself. However,
I am only curious, not critical."

"But you forget these shelves. Those books are my friends; of them I never grow weary, they
never grow weary of me; we understand each other perfectly,--they talk to me when I would listen,
they sing to me when I would be charmed, they play for me when I would be amused. Ah! my dear
sir, this country is great as all countries are great, each in its way; and this is a great
country to read books in. Upon my word, I wonder everybody don't fill ships with books and
come up here, burn the ships, as did the great Spaniard, and each spend the remainder of his
days in devouring his ship-load of books."

"A pretty picture of the country, truly; but let me ask how often do books reach you?"

"Once a year,--when the Danish ship comes out to bring us bread, sugar, coffee, coal, and such-like
things, and to take home the few little trifles, such as furs, oil, and fish, which the natives
have picked up in the interval."

"Books to the contrary, I should say the ship would not return more than once without me, were
I in your situation."

"So you would think me a sensible fellow, no doubt, if I would pick up this box and carry it
off to Paris, or may be to New York?"

"That's exactly what I was thinking; or rather it would certainly have appeared to me more
reasonable if you had built it there in the first instance."

"Quite the contrary, I do assure you,--quite the contrary. Indeed, I can prove to your entire
satisfaction that I am a very sensible man; but wait until I have shown you all my possessions.
Will you look at my farm?"

Farm!--well, this was, after all, exhibiting some claims of the country to the consideration
of a civilized man. A farm in Greenland was something I was hardly prepared for.

The Doctor now rose and led the way to the rear of the house, into a yard about eighty feet
square, enclosed by a high board fence.

"This is my farm," said the Doctor.

"Where?"

"Here, look. It isn't a large one." And he pointed to a patch of earth about thirty feet long
by four wide, enclosed with boards and covered over with glass. Under the glass were growing
lettuce, radishes, and pepper-grass, all looking as bright and fresh and green and well contented
as if they, like the man for whose benefit they grew, cared little where they sprouted, so
only they grew. The ten round red radishes of the recent luncheon were accounted for.

"So you see," exclaimed the Doctor, "something besides a lover of books can take root in this
country. Are you not growing reconciled to it? To be sure they are fed on pap from home; but
so does the farmer who cultivates them get his books from the same quarter."

"How is that? Do you mean to say you bring the earth they grow in from home?"

"Even so. This is good rich Jutland earth, brought in barrels by ship from Copenhagen."

An imported farm! One more novelty.

"Now you shall see my barn";--and we passed over to a little tightly made building in the opposite
corner, where the first thing that greeted my ears was the bleating of goats and the grunting
of pigs; and as the door was opened, I heard the cackling and flutter of chickens. Twenty chickens,
two pigs, and three goats!

"All brought from Copenhagen with the farm";--and the Doctor began to talk to them in a very
familiar manner in the Danish tongue. They all recognized the kindly voice of their master,
and flocked round him to be fed; and while this was being done I observed that he had provided
for the safety of his brood by securing in the centre of their house a large stove, which was
now cold, but which in the winter must give them abundant heat. And so the Doctor, besides
his round red radishes and his nice fresh butter, had pork and milk and eggs of native growth.

The next object of interest to attract attention was the Doctor's "smoke-house," then in full
operation. This was simply a large hogshead, with one head pierced with holes and the other
head knocked out. The end without a head was set upon a circle of stones, which supported it
about a foot above the ground, and inside of this circle a great volume of smoke was being
generated, and which came puffing out through the holes in the head above. Inside of this simple
contrivance were suspended a number of fine salmon, the delicate flesh of which was being dried
by the heat, and penetrated by the sweet aroma of the smoke, which came puffing through the
holes. The smoke arose from a smouldering fire of the leaves and branches of the Andromeda
(Andromeda tetrigona), the heather of Greenland,--a trailing plant with a pretty purple blossom,
which grows in sheltered places in great abundance. Besides moss, this is the only vegetable
production of North Greenland that will burn, and it is sometimes used by the natives for fuel,
after it is dried by the sun, for which purpose it is torn up and spread over the rocks. The
perfume of the smoke is truly delicious, which accounts for the excellent flavor of the salmon
which the Doctor had given me for lunch. Nothing, indeed, could exceed the delicacy of the
fish thus prepared.

The inspection of the Doctor's garden, or "farm," as he facetiously called it, occupied us
during the remainder of the afternoon; and so novel was everything to me, from the Doctor down
to his vegetables and perfumed fish, that the time passed away unnoticed, and I was quite astonished
when Sophy came to announce "dinner."

We were soon seated at the table where we had been before, and Sophy served the dinner. Her
soup was excellent, the trout were of fine quality and well cooked, the haunch was done to
a turn, the wines were this time rightly tempered, the champagne needed not to be iced, more
of the round red radishes appeared in season, and then followed lettuce and cheese and coffee,
and then we found ourselves at another game of billiards, and at length were settled for the
evening in the Doctor's study, one on either side of a table, on which stood all the ingredients
for an arrack punch, and a bundle of cigars.

Our conversation naturally enough ran upon the affairs of the big world on the other side of
the Arctic Circle,--upon its politics and literature and science and art, passing lightly from
one to the other, lingering now and then over some book which we had mutually fancied. I found
my companion perfectly posted up to within a year, and inquired how he managed so well. "Ah!
you must know," answered he, "that is a clever little illusion of mine. I'm always precisely
one year behind the rest of the world. The Danish ship brings me a file of papers for the past
twelve months, the principal reviews and periodicals, the latest maps, such books as I have
sent for the year previous, and, beside this, the bookseller and my other home friends make
me up an assortment of what they think will please me. Now, you see, in devouring this, I pursue
an absolute method. The books, of course, I take up as the fancy pleases me; but the reviews,
periodicals, and newspapers I turn over to Sophy, and the faithful creature places on my breakfast-table
every morning exactly what was published that day one year before. Clever, isn't it? You see
I get every day the news, and go through the drama of the year with perhaps quite as much satisfaction
as they who live the passing days in the midst of the occurring events. Each day's paper opens
a new act in the play, and what matters it that the 'news' is one year old? It is none the
less news to me; and, besides, are not Gibbon, Shakespeare, and Mother Goose still more ancient?"

I could but smile at this ingenious device; and the Doctor, seeing plainly that I was deeply
interested in his novel mode of life, loosened a tongue which, in truth, needed little encouragement,
and rattled away over the rough and smooth of his Greenland experiences, with an enjoyment
on his part perhaps scarcely less than mine; for it was easy to see that his love of wild adventure
kept pace with his love of comfort, and that he heartily enjoyed the exposures of his career
and the reputation which his hardihood had acquired for him. I perceived, too, that he possessed
a warm and vivid imagination, and that, clothing everything he saw and everything he did with
a fitting sentiment of strength or beauty, he had blended wild nature and his own strange life
into a romantic scheme which completely filled his fancy,--apparently, at least, leaving nothing
unsupplied,--and this he enjoyed to the very bottom of his soul.

The hours glided swiftly away as we sat sipping our punch and smoking our cigars in that quaint
study of the Doctor's, chatting of this and of that; and a novel feature of the evening was,
that, as we talked on and on, the light grew not dim with the passing hours; for when the hand
of a Danish clock which ticked above the mantel told nine, and ten, and eleven o'clock, it
was still broad day; and then in the full blaze of sunshine the clock rang out the "witching
hour" of midnight. The sun, low down upon the northern horizon, poured his bright rays over
the hills and sea, throwing the dark shadow of the mountains over the town, but illuminating
everything to right and left with that soft and pleasant light which we so often see at home
in the early morning of the spring.

After the clock had struck twelve, we threw our fur cloaks over our shoulders, and strolled
out into this strange midnight. Passing through the town, I remarked the quiet which everywhere
prevailed, and how all nature seemed to have caught the inspiration of the hour. Not a soul
was stirring abroad; the dogs, crouching in clusters, were all asleep; and it seemed as if
my little vessel lay under the shadows of the cliffs with a consciousness that midnight is
a solemn thing even in sunshine; and never did the sun shine more brightly, or a more brilliantly
illuminated landscape give stronger evidence of day. But wearied nature had sought repose,
even though no "sable cloud with silver lining" turned upon the world its darkening shadow,--for
the hour of rest was come. Walking on over the rough rocks, we came at length upon the sea,
and I noticed that the very birds which were wont to paddle about in great flocks upon the
waters, or fly gayly through the air, had crawled upon the shore, and, tucking their heads
beneath their wings, had gone to sleep. Even the little flowers and blades of grass seemed
to droop, as if wearied with the long hours of the day, and, defying the restless sun to rob
them of their natural repose, had fallen to sleep with the beasts and birds. The very sea itself
seemed to have caught the infection of the hour, dissolving in its blue depths the golden clouds
of day.

The night was far from cold, and, selecting the most tempting and sunny spot, we sat down upon
a rock close beside the sea, watching the gentle wavelets playing on the sand, and the changing
light as the sun rolled on, glistening upon the hills and upon the icebergs, which, in countless
numbers, lay upon the watery plain before us, like great monoliths of Parian marble, waiting
but for the sculptor's chisel to stand forth in fluted pillar and solid architrave,--floating
Parthenons and Pantheons and Temples of the Sun.

The scene was favorable to the conversation which had been broken off when we left the study,
and the Doctor came back to it of his own accord. I was much absorbed with the grandeur of
this midnight scene, and had remained for some time quiet. My companion, breaking in abruptly,
said: "I think I promised to prove to you that I am the most sensible fellow alive. Now let
me tell you, to begin with, that I would not exchange this view for any other I have ever seen.
It is one of which I am very fond; for at this hour the repose which you here see is frequently
repeated; and, to compare big things with little, it might be likened to some huge lion sleeping
over his prey, which he is not yet prepared to eat, quick to catch the first sound of movement.
There is something truly terrible in this untamed nature. Man's struggle here gives him something
to rejoice in; and I would not barter it for the effeminate life to which I should be destined
at home, on any account whatever. Perhaps, if I should there be compelled absolutely to earn
my daily bread, the case might be different, for enforced occupation is quite too sober an
affair to give time for much reflection; but I should most likely lead an idle sort of life
there, and should simply live without--so far as I can see--a motive. I should encounter few
perils, have few sorrows, fewer disappointments, and want for nothing,--nothing, indeed, but
temptation to exert myself, or prove my own manhood in its strength, or enjoy the luxury of
risking the precious breath of life, which is so little worth, and which is so easily knocked
away. You have seen one side of me,--how I live. Well, I enjoy life and make the most of it,
after my own fashion, as everybody should do. If it is a luxurious fashion, as you are pleased
to say, it but gives me a keener relish for the opposite; and that it does not unfit me for
encountering the hardships of the field is proved by the reputation for endurance which I have
among the natives. If I sleep between well-aired sheets one night, I can coil myself up among
my dogs on the ice-fields the next, and sleep there as well,--I care not if it's as cold as
the frigid circle of Lucifer. If I have a penchant for Burgundy, and like to drink it out of
French glass, I can drink train-oil out of a tin cup when I am cold and hungry, and never murmur.
I like well-fitting clothes, but rough furs suit me just as well in season. Why, it would make
you laugh fit to kill yourself to see these Danish workingmen,--the laborers, you know, with
whom I sometimes travel,--fellows that can't read nor write, poor mechanics, rough sailors,
'hewers of wood and drawers of water' generally for this poor settlement,--who never tasted
Burgundy in all their lives, and would rather have one keg of corn brandy than a tun of it,
and who never took their frugal fare off anything more tempting than tin. Do you think that
these people can, under any circumstances, be induced to strengthen their limbs with eating
blubber or drinking train-oil? Not a bit of it. Do you think they can be induced to sleep outside
of their own not overly elegant lodgings, without groaning, and everlastingly desiring to get
back again? Not they."

I could not help asking the Doctor what impelled him to exposure, of which he had grown so fond.

"The motives are various. I have done a good deal of exploring, have reached many of the glaciers,
have dabbled in natural history, meteorology, magnetism, &c., &c., besides making many photographs
and geographical surveys, and have sent home to various societies and museums many curiosities
and much information. My name, as you know, stands well enough among the dons of science. But
apart from this, my duties require me to travel about at all times and all seasons. You must
know that everybody in this country lives upon the shore, and therefore the settlements are
reached only by the sea. In the winter I travel over the ice with my dog sledge, and in the
summer, when the ice has broken up, I go from place to place in that little five-ton yacht
which you saw lying in the harbor. Sometimes I go from choice, stopping at the villages, and
exhibiting my professional abilities upon Dane or native, as the case may be. Often I am sent
for. The Greenlanders don't like to die any better than other people, and they all have an
impression that, if Dr. Molke only looks upon them, they are safe. So if an old woman but gets
the belly-ache, away goes her son or husband for the Doctor. Perhaps it is in summer, and the
distance may be a hundred miles or more. No matter, he gets into his kayak and paddles through
all sorts of weather, and, at the rate of seven knots an hour, comes for me. Glad of the excuse
for a change, to say nothing (and the less perhaps any of us say on that score the better)
of the claims of humanity, I send Sophy after Adam (a converted native), and directly along
comes Adam with his son Carl; and my medicine and instrument cases, my gun and rifle, and a
plentiful supply of ammunition, a tent, and some fur bedding, a lamp, and other camp fixtures,
and a little simple food, are put into the boat, and off we go. Perhaps a gale springs up,
and we are forced to make a harbor in some little island; or perhaps it falls calm, and we
crawl into one, under oars. It is sure to be alive with ducks and geese and snipe. The shooting
is superb. Happen what may, come storm or calm or fine weather, though often wet and cold,
and frequently in danger, yet I have a grand time of it. I may be back in a day, two days,
a week, or I may be gone a month. Then the winter comes back, and I have again to answer another
summons. The same traps are put on the sledge, to which are harnessed the twelve finest dogs
in the town,--my own team,--and, at the wildest pace with which this wolfish herd can rush
along, Adam guides me to my destination. Perhaps it may be early in the winter, and the ice
is in places thin. We very likely break through, and get wet, and are in danger of freezing.
Perhaps we reach a crack which we cannot pass, and have to hold on, possibly in a hut of snow,
waiting for the frost to build a bridge for us to pass. This is the wildest and most dangerous
of my experiences,--this dog-sledging it from place to place in the early or late winter,--and
I have had many wild adventures. In the middle of the winter, when it is dark pretty much all
the time, and the snow is hard and crisp, and the clear, cold bracing air makes the blood run
freely through the veins, is the best time for travelling; for then we may start a bear, and
be pretty sure of catching him before he gets on rotten ice or across a crack defying us in
the pursuit."

By this time the sun had begun to climb above the hills, and the shadow of the cliffs had passed
over the town, so we stole back again to the Doctor's house. The Doctor insisted that I should
not sleep on board, so we returned to the study, where I was soon wrapt in a sound sleep on
the Doctor's "shake-down," from which I never once awoke until there came a loud tapping on
the door.

"Who's there?"

"Sophy."

"What's Sophy want?"

"Breakfast."

Breakfast indeed! It was hard to believe that I was to come back to the experiences of life
under such a summons, for I had dreamed that I was on a visit to the Man in the Moon, and was
enjoying a genuine surprise at finding him happy and well contented, seated in the centre of
an extinct volcano, with all the riches of the great satellite gathered round him, hanging
in tempting clusters on its horns.

But my eyes at length were opened wide enough to see, near by, the very terrestrial ruins of
our evening's pastime; and if these had left any doubts upon my mind as to the reality of my
present situation, those doubts would certainly have been removed by the cheerful voice of
the Doctor; for a loud "Good morning!" came from out the painted chamber, and from beneath
the sky-blue canopy a graceful query of the night. "What of the night, sleeper?--what of the
night?" Then I was quickly out upon the floor, and dressed, and in the cosey little room where
the fruits and flowers were hanging on the wall, and where the bright face of Sophy, and aromatic
coffee, and a charming little breakfast, were awaiting us with a kindly welcome.

Breakfast over, I left the Doctor to expend his skill and knowledge on a patient who had sent
to claim his services, and strolled out over the rocks behind the town,--wondering all the
while at the strangeness of the human fancy and its power on the will; and I reflected, too,
and remembered that, in the explanation of the satisfying character of the life which my new-found
friend was leading, there had been no clew given to the first great motive which had destined
such a finely organized and altogether splendid man to such a career. Was he exempt from the
lot of other mortals, or must he too own, like all the rest of us, when we own the truth, that
every firm step we ever made in those days of our early lives when steps were critical, was
made to please a woman, to win her slightest praise, to heal a wound or drown a sorrow of her
making? I would have given much to have the question answered, for then a thing now mysterious
would have become as plain as day; but there was no one there to heed the question, or to give
the answer, and I could only wander on over the rough rocks, wondering more and more.

A STRUGGLE FOR LIFE.

"You know him then?" The door opened as Philip's foot touched the first step. Ah! this wine
of air which one drinks at twenty, and seldom after! Mademoiselle Dorine was sitting in an
arm-chair, apparently asleep. The first missed him on the road, the second he had neglected
to open. The band plays a dead march going to the grave, but Fra Diavolo coming from it.

It is not with the retreating carriages that our interest lies. Nor yet wholly with the dead
in her mysterious dream; but with Philip Wentworth. Of course he would be missed. His disappearance
under the circumstances would surely alarm his friends; they would instigate a search for him;
but who would think of searching for a live man in the cemetery of Montmartre?

After this it was but natural I should regard Mr. Wentworth with deepened interest. One May
morning we met at the intersection of two paths.

"Not Jo Jones," he returned coldly, "Frederick."

Mr. Jones, or whatever his name is, will never know, unless he reads these pages, why a man
accosted him one morning as "Mr. Wentworth," and then abruptly rushed down the nearest path,
and disappeared in the crowd.

The fact is, I had been duped by Mr. H----. Mr. H---- occasionally contributes a story to the
magazines. He had actually tried the effect of one of his romances on me!

My hero, as I subsequently learned, is no hero at all, but a commonplace young man who has
some connection with the building of that pretty granite bridge which will shortly span the
crooked little lake in the Public Garden.

When I think of the cool ingenuity and readiness with which Mr. H----built up his airy fabric
on my credulity, I am half inclined to laugh; though I feel not slightly irritated at having
been the unresisting victim of his Black Art.

MY VISIT TO SYBARIS.

It is a great while since I first took an interest in Sybaris. Sybarites have a bad name. But
before I had heard of them anywhere else, I had painfully looked out the words in the three
or four precious anecdotes about Sybaris in the old Greek Reader; and I had made up my boy's
mind about the Sybarites. When I came to know the name they had got elsewhere, I could not
but say that the world had been very unjust to them!

O dear! I can see it now,--the old Latin school-room, where we used to sit, and hammer over
that Greek, after the small boys had gone. They went at eleven; we--because we were twelve
years old--stayed till twelve. From eleven to twelve we sat, with only those small boys who
had been "kept" for their sins, and Mr. Dillaway. The room was long and narrow; how long and
how narrow, you may see, if you will go and examine M. Duchesne's model of "Boston as it was,"
and pay twenty-five cents to the Richmond schools. For all this is of the past; and in the
same spot in space where once a month the Examiner Club now meets at Parker's, and discusses
the difference between religion and superstition, the folly of copyright, and the origin of
things, the boys who did not then belong to the Examiner Club, say Fox and Clarke and Furness
and Waldo Emerson, thumbed their Greek Readers in "Boston as it was," and learned the truth
about Sybaris! A long, narrow room, I say, whose walls, when I knew them first, were of that
tawny orange wash which is appropriated to kitchens. But by a master stroke of Mr. Dillaway's
these walls were made lilac or purple one summer vacation. We sat, to recite, on long settees,
pea-green in color, which would teeter slightly on the well-worn floor. There, for an hour
daily, while brighter boys than I recited, I sat an hour musing, looking at the immense Jacobs's
Greek Reader, and waiting my turn to come. If you did not look off your book much, no harm
came to you. So, in the hour, you got fifty-three minutes and a few odd seconds of day-dream,
for six minutes and two thirds of reciting, unless, which was unusual, some fellow above you
broke down, and a question passed along of a sudden recalled you to modern life. I have been
sitting on that old green settee, and at the same time riding on horseback in Virginia, through
an open wooded country, with one of Lord Fairfax's grandsons and two pretty cousins of his,
and a fallow deer has just appeared in the distance, when, by the failure of Hutchinson or
Wheeler, just above me, poor Mr. Dillaway has had to ask me, "Ingham, what verbs omit the reduplication?"
Talk of war! Where is versatility, otherwise called presence of mind, so needed as in recitation
at a public school?

Well, there, I say, I made acquaintance with Sybaris. Nay, strictly speaking, my first visits
to Sybaris were made there and then. What the Greek Reader tells of Sybaris is in three or
four anecdotes, woven into that strange, incoherent patchwork of "Geography." In that place
are patched together a statement of Strabo and one of Athenæus about two things in Sybaris
which may have belonged some eight hundred years apart. But what of that to a school-boy! Will
your descendants, dear reader, in the year 3579 A. D., be much troubled, if, in the English
Reader of their day, Queen Victoria shall be made to drink Spartan black broth with William
the Conqueror out of a conch-shell in New Zealand?

With regard to Sybaris, then, the old Jacobs's Greek Reader tells the following stories: "The
Sybarites were distinguished for luxury. They did not permit the trades which made a loud noise,
such as those of brass-workers, carpenters, and the like, to be carried on in the heart of
the city, so that their sleep might be wholly undisturbed by noise.... And a Sybarite who had
gone to Lacedæmon, and had been invited to the public meal, after he had sat on their wooden
benches and partaken of their fare, said that he had been astonished at the fearlessness of
the Lacedæmonians when he knew it only by report; but now that he had seen them, he thought
that they did not excel other men, for he thought that any brave man had much rather die than
be obliged to live such a life as they did." Then there is another story, among the "miscellaneous
anecdotes," of a Sybarite who was asked if he had slept well. He said, No, that he believed
he had a crumpled rose-leaf under him in the night. And there is yet another, of one of them
who said that it made his back ache to see another man digging.

I have asked Polly, as I write, to look in Mark Lemon's Jest-Book for these stories. They are
not in the index there. But I dare say they are in Cotton Mather and Jeremy Taylor. Any way,
they are bits of very cheap Greek. Now it is on these stories that the reputation of the Sybarites
in modern times appears to depend.

Now look at them. This Sybarite at Sparta said, that in war death was often easier than the
hardships of life. Well, is not that true? Have not thousands of brave men said it? When the
English and French got themselves established on the wrong side of Sebastopol, what did that
engineer officer of the French say to somebody who came to inspect his works? He was talking
of St. Arnaud, their first commander. "Cunning dog," said he, "he went and died." Death was
easier than life. But nobody ever said he was a coward or effeminate because he said this.
Why, if Mr. Fields would permit an excursus in twelve numbers here, on this theme, we would
defer Sybaris to the 1st of April, 1868, while we illustrated the Sybarite's manly epigram,
which these stupid Spartans could only gape at, but could not understand.

Then take the rose-leaf story. Suppose by good luck you were breakfasting with General Grant,
or Pelissier, or the Duke of Wellington. Suppose you said, "I hope you slept well," and the
great soldier said, "No, I did not; I think a rose-leaf must have stood up edgewise under me."
Would you go off and say in your book of travels that the Americans, or the French, or the
English are all effeminate pleasure-seekers, because one of them made this nice little joke?
Would you like to have the name "American" go down to all time, defined as Webster[B] defines
Sybarite?

     A-M[)E]R'I-CAN, n. [Fr. Américain, Lat. Americanus, from
     Lat. America, a continent noted for the effeminacy and
     voluptuousness of its inhabitants.] A person devoted to luxury
     and pleasure.

Should you think that was quite fair for your great-grandson's grandson's descendant in the
twenty-seventh remove to read, who is going to be instructed about Queen Victoria and William
the Conqueror?

Worst of all, and most frequently quoted, is the story of the coppersmiths. The Sybarites,
it is said, ordered that the coppersmiths and brass-founders should all reside in one part
of the city, and bang their respective metals where the neighbors had voluntarily chosen to
listen to banging. What if they did? Does not every manufacturing city practically do the same
thing? What did Nicholas Tillinghast use to say to the boys and girls at Bridgewater? "The
tendency of cities is to resolve themselves into order."

Is not Wall Street at this hour a street of bankers? Is not the Boston Pearl Street a street
of leather men? Is not the bridge at Florence given over to jewellers? Was not my valise, there,
bought in Rome at the street of trunk-makers? Do not all booksellers like to huddle together
as long as they can? And when Ticknor and Fields move a few inches from Washington Street to
Tremont Street, do not Russell and Bates, and Childs and Jenks, and De Vries and Ibarra, follow
them as soon as the shops can be got ready?

"But it is the motive," pipes up the old gray ghost of propriety, who started this abuse of
the Sybarites in some stupid Spartan black-broth shop (English that for café), two thousand
two hundred and twenty-two years ago,--which ghost I am now belaboring,--"it is the motive.
The Sybarites moved the brass-founders, because they wanted to sleep after the brass-founders
got up in the morning." What if they did, you old rat in the arras? Is there any law, human
or divine, which says that at one and the same hour all men shall rise from bed in this world?
My excellent milkman, Mr. Whit, rises from bed daily at two o'clock. If he does not, my family,
including Matthew, Mark, Luke, John, and Acts, will not have their fresh milk at 7.37, at which
time we breakfast or pretend to. But because he rises at two, must we all rise at two, and
sit wretchedly whining on our respective camp-stools, waiting for Mr. Whit to arrive with the
grateful beverage? Many is the time, when I have been watching with a sick child at five in
a summer morning, when the little fellow had just dropped into a grateful morning doze, that
I have listened and waited, dreading the arrival of the Providence morning express. Because
I knew that, a mile and a half out of Boston, the engine would begin to blow its shrill whistle,
for the purpose, I believe, of calling the Boston station-men to their duty. Three or four
minutes of that skre-e-e-e must there be, as that train swept by our end of the town. And hoping
and wishing never did any good; the train would come, and the child would wake. Is not that
a magnificent power for one engine-man to have over the morning rest of thirty thousand sleeping
people, because you, old Spartan croaker, who can't sleep easy underground it seems, want to
have everybody waked up at the same hour in the morning. When I hear that whistle, and the
fifty other whistles of the factories that have since followed its wayward and unlicensed example,
I have wished more than once that we had in Boston a little more of the firm government of Sybaris.

For if, as it would appear from these instances, Sybaris were a city which grew to wealth and
strength by the recognition of the personal rights of each individual in the state,--if Sybaris
were a republic, where the individual was respected, had his rights, and was not left to the
average chances of the majority of men,--then Sybaris had found out something which no modern
city has found out, and which it is a pity we have all forgotten.

I do not say that I went through all this speculation at the Latin school. I got no further
there than to see that the Sybarites had got a very bad name, and that the causes did not appear
in the Greek Reader. I supposed there were causes somewhere, which it was not proper to put
into the Greek Reader. Perhaps there were. But if there were, I have never found them,--not
being indeed very well acquainted with the lines of reading in which those who wanted to find
them should look for them.

       *       *       *       *       *

What I did find of Sybaris, when I could read Greek rather more easily, and could get access
to some decent atlases, was briefly this.

Well forward in the hollow of the arched foot of the boot of Italy, two little rivers run into
the Gulf of Tarentum. One was named Crathis, one was named Sybaris. Here stood the ancient
city of Sybaris, founded, about the time of Romulus or Numa Pompilius, by a colony from Greece.
For two hundred years and more,--almost as long, dear Atlantic, as your beloved Boston has
subsisted,--Sybaris flourished, and was the Rome of that region, ruling it from sea to sea.

It was the capital of four states,--a sort of New England, if you will observe,--and could
send three hundred thousand armed men into the field. The walls of the city were six miles
in circumference, while the suburbs covered the banks of the Crathis for a space of seven miles.
At last the neighboring state of Crotona, under the lead of Milon the Athlete (he of the calf
and ox and split log), the Heenan or John Morrissey of his day, vanquished the more refined
Sybarites, turned the waters of the Crathis upon their prosperous city, and destroyed it. But
the Sybarites had had that thing happen too often to be discouraged. Five times, say the historians,
had Sybaris been destroyed, and five times they built it up again. This time the Athenians
sent ten vessels, with men to help them, under Lampon and Xenocritus. And they, with those
who stood by the wreck, gave their new city the name of Thurii. Among the new colonists were
Herodotus, and Lysias the orator, who was then a boy. The spirit that had given Sybaris its
comfort and its immense population appeared in the legislation of the new state. It received
its laws from CHARONDAS, one of the noblest legislators of the world. Study these laws and
you will see that in the young Sybaris the individual had his rights, which the public preserved
for him, though he were wholly in a minority. There is an evident determination that a man
shall live while he lives, and that, too, in no sensual interpretation of the words.

Of the laws made by Charondas for the new Sybaris a few are preserved.

1. A calumniator was marched round the city in disgrace, crowned with tamarisk. "In consequence,"
says the Scholiast, "they all left the city." O for such a result, from whatever legislation,
in our modern Pedlingtons, great or little!

2. All persons were forbidden to associate with the bad.

3. "He made another law, better than these, and neglected by the older legislators. For he
enacted that all the sons of the citizens should be instructed in letters, the city paying
the salaries of the teachers. For he held that the poor, not being able to pay their teachers
from their own property, would be deprived of the most valuable discipline." There is FREE
EDUCATION for you, two thousand and seventy-six years before the date of your first Massachusetts
free school; and the theory of free education completely stated.

4. Deserters or cowards in battle had to sit in women's dresses in the Forum three days.

5. With regard to the amendment of laws, any man or woman who moved one did it with a noose
round his neck, and was hanged if the people refused it. Only three laws were ever amended,
therefore, all which are recorded in the history. Observe that the women might move amendments,--and
think of the simplicity of legislation!

6. The law provided for cash payments, and the government gave no protection for those who
sold on credit.

7. Their communication with other nations was perfectly free.

I might give more instances. I should like to tell some of the curious stories which illustrate
this simple legislation. Poor Charondas himself fell a victim to it. One of the laws provided
that no man should wear a sword into the public assembly. No Cromwells there! Unfortunately,
by accident, Charondas wore his own there one day. Brave fellow! when the fault was pointed
out, he killed himself with it.

Now do you wonder that a city where there were no calumniators, no long credit, no bills at
the grocers, no fighting at town meetings, no amendments to the laws, no intentional and open
association with profligates, and where everybody was educated by the state to letters, proved
a comfortable place to live in? It is of the old Sybaris that the coppersmith and the rose-leaf
stories are told; and it was the new Sybaris that made the laws. But do you not see that there
is one spirit in the whole? Here was a nation which believed that the highest work of a nation
was to train its people. It did not believe in fight, like Milon or Heenan or the old Spartans;
it did not believe in legislation, like Massachusetts and New York; it did not believe in commerce,
like Carthage and England. It believed in men and women. It respected men and women. It educated
men and women. It gave their rights to men and women. And so the Spartans called them effeminate.
And the Greek Reader made fun of them. But perhaps the people who lived there were indifferent
to the opinions of the Spartans and of the Greek Reader. Herodotus lived there till he died;
wrote his history there, among other things. Lysias, the orator, took part in the administration.
It is not from them, you may be sure, that you get the anecdotes which ridicule the old city
of Sybaris!

You and I would probably be satisfied with such company as that of Herodotus and Charondas
and Lysias. So we hunt the history down to see if there may be lodgings to let there this summer,
but only to find that it all pales out in the ignorance of our modern days. The name gets changed
into Lupiæ; but there it turns out that Pausanias made "a strange mistake," and should have
written Copia,--which was perhaps Cossa, or sometimes Cosa. Pyrrhus appears, and Hadrian rebuilds
something, and the "Oltramontani," whoever they may have been, ravage it, and finally the Saracens
fire and sack it; and so, in the latest Italian itinerary you can find, there is no post-road
goes near it, only a strada rotabile (wheel-track) upon the hills; and, alas! even the rotabile
gives way at last, and all the map will own to is a strada pedonale, or foot-path. But the
map is of the less consequence, when you find that the man who edited it had no later dates
than the beginning of the last century, when the family of Serra had transferred the title
to Sybaris to a Genoese family without a name, who received from it forty thousand ducats yearly,
and would have received more, if their agents had been more faithful. There the place fades
out of history, and you find in your Swinburne, "that the locality has never been thoroughly
examined"; in your Smith's Dictionary, that "the whole subject is very obscure, and a careful
examination still much needed"; in the Cyclopædia, that the site of Sybaris is lost. Craven
saw the rivers Crathis and Sybaris. He seems not to have seen the wall of Sybaris, which he
supposed to be under water. He does say of Cassano, the nearest town he came to, that "no other
spot can boast of such advantages." In short, no man living who has written any book about
it dares say that anybody has looked upon the certain site of Sybaris for more than a hundred
years.[C] If a man wanted to write a mythical story, where could he find a better scene?

Now is not this a very remarkable thing? Here was a city, which, under its two names of Sybaris
or of Thurium, was for centuries the regnant city of all that part of the world. It could call
into the field three hundred thousand men,--an army enough larger than Athens ever furnished,
or Sparta. It was a far more populous and powerful state than ever Athens was, or Sparta, or
the whole of Hellas. It invented and carried into effect free popular education,--a gift to
the administration of free government larger than ever Rome rendered. It received and honored
Charondas, the great practical legislator, from whose laws no man shall say how much has trickled
down into the Code Napoleon or the Revised Statutes of New York, through the humble studies
of the Roman jurists. It maintained in peace, prosperity, happiness, and, as its maligners
say, in comfort, an immense population. If they had not been as comfortable as they were,--if
a tenth part of them had received alms every year, and a tenth part were flogged in the public
schools every year,--if one in forty had been sent to prison every year, as in the happy city
which publishes the "Atlantic Monthly,"--then Sybaris, perhaps, would never have got its bad
name for luxury. Such a city lived, flourished, ruled, for hundreds of years. Of such a city
all that you know now with certainty is, that its coin is "the most beautifully finished in
the cabinets of ancient coinage"; and that no traveller even pretends to be sure that he has
been to the site of it for more than a hundred years. That speaks well for your nineteenth century.

Now the reader who has come thus far will understand that I, having come thus far, in twenty-odd
years since those days of teetering on the pea-green settee, had always kept Sybaris in the
background of my head, as a problem to be solved, and an inquiry to be followed to its completion.
There could hardly have been a man in the world better satisfied than I to be the hero of the
adventure which I am now about to describe.

       *       *       *       *       *

If the reader remembers anything about Garibaldi's triumphal entry into Porto Cavallo in Sicily
in the spring of 1859, he will remember that, between the months of March and April in that
year, the great chieftain made, in that wretched little fishing haven, a long pause, which
was not at the time understood by the journals or by their military critics, and which, indeed,
to this hour has never been publicly explained. I suppose I know as much about it as any man
now living. But I am not writing Garibaldi's memoirs, nor, indeed, my own, excepting so far
as they relate to Sybaris; and it is strictly nobody's business to inquire as to that detention,
unless it interest the ex-king of Naples, who may write to me, if he chooses, addressing Frederic
Ingham, Esq., Waterville, N. H. Nor is it anybody's business how long I had then been on Garibaldi's
staff. From the number of his staff-officers who have since visited me in America, very much
in want of a pair of pantaloons, or a ticket to New York, or something with which they might
buy a glass of whiskey, I should think that his staff alone must have made up a much more considerable
army than Naples, or even Sybaris, ever brought into the field. But where these men were when
I was with him, I do not know. I only know that there was but a handful of us then, hard-worked
fellows, good-natured, and not above our work. Of its military details we knew wretchedly little.
But as we had no artillery, ignorance was less dangerous in the chief of artillery; as we had
no maps to draw, poor draughtsmanship did not much embarrass the engineer in chief. For me,
I was nothing but an aid, and I was glad to do anything that fell to me as well as I knew how.
And, as usual in human life, I found that a cool head, a steady resolve, a concentrated purpose,
and an unselfish readiness to obey, carried me a great way. I listened instead of talking,
and thus got a reputation for knowing a great deal. When the time to act came, I acted without
waiting for the wave to recede; and thus I sprang into many a boat dry-shod, while people who
believed in what is popularly called prudence missed their chance, and either lost the boat
or fell into the water.

This is by the way. It was under these circumstances that I received my orders, wholly secret
and unexpected, to take a boat at once, pass the straits, and cross the Bay of Tarentum, to
communicate at Gallipoli with--no matter whom. Perhaps I was going to the "Castle of Otranto."
A hundred years hence anybody who chooses will know. Meanwhile, if there should be a reaction
in Otranto, I do not choose to shorten anybody's neck for him.

Well, it was five in the afternoon,--near sundown at that season. I went to dear old Frank
Chaney,--the jolliest of jolly Englishmen, who was acting quartermaster-general,--and told
him I must have transportation. I can see him and hear him now,--as he sat on his barrel head,
smoked his vile Tunisian tobacco in his beloved short meerschaum, which was left to him ever
since he was at Bonn, as he pretended, a student with Prince Albert. He did not swear,--I don't
think he ever did. But he looked perplexed enough to swear. And very droll was the twinkle
of his eye. The truth was, that every sort of a thing that would sail, and every wretch of
a fisherman that could sail her, had been, as he knew, and as I knew, sent off that very morning
to rendezvous at Carrara, for the contingent which we were hoping had slipped through Cavour's
pretended neutrality. And here was an order for him to furnish me "transportation" in exactly
the opposite direction.

"Do you know of anything, yourself, Fred?" said he.

"Not a coffin," said I.

"Did the chief suggest anything?"

"Not a nutshell," said I.

"Could not you go by telegraph?" said Frank, pointing up to the dumb old semaphore in whose
tower he had established himself. "Or has not the chief got a wishing carpet? Or can't you
ride to Gallipoli? Here are some excellent white-tailed mules, good enough for Pindar, whom
Colvocoressis has just brought in from the monastery. 'Transportation for one!' Is there anything
to be brought back? Nitre, powder, lead, junk, hard-tack, mules, horses, pigs, polenta, or
olla podrida, or other of the stores of war?"

No; there was nothing to bring back except myself. Lucky enough if I came back to tell my own
story. And so we walked up on the tower deck to take a look.

Blessed St. Lazarus, chief of Naples and of beggars! a little felucca was just rounding the
Horse Head and coming into the bay, wing-wing. The fishermen in her had no thought that they
were ever going to get into the Atlantic. May be they had never heard of the Ocean or of the
Monthly. Can that be possible? Frank nodded, and I. He filled up with more Tunisian, beckoned
to an orderly, and we walked down to the landing-jetty to meet them.

"Viva Italia!" shouted Frank, as they drew near enough to hear.

"Viva Garibaldi!" cried the skipper, as he let his sheet fly and rounded to the well-worn stones.
A good voyage had they made of it, he and his two brown, ragged boys. Large fish and small,
pink fish, blue, yellow, orange, striped fish and mottled, wriggled together, and flapped their
tails in the well of the little boat. There were even too many to lie there and wriggle. The
bottom of the boat was well covered with them, and, if she had not shipped waves enough to
keep them cool, the boy Battista had bailed a plenty on them. Father and son hurried on shore,
and Battista on board began to fling the scaly fellows out to them.

A very small craft it was to double all those capes in, run the straits, and stretch across
the bay. If it had been mine "to make reply," I should undoubtedly have made this, that I would
see the quartermaster hanged, and his superiors, before I risked myself in any such rattletrap.
But as, unfortunately, it was mine to go where I was sent, I merely set the orderly to throwing
out fish with the boys, and began to talk with the father.

Queer enough, just at that moment, there came over me the feeling that, as a graduate of the
University, it was my duty to put up those red, white, and blue scaly fellows, who were flopping
about there so briskly, and send them in alcohol to Agassiz. But there are so many duties of
that kind which one neglects in a hard-worked world! As a graduate, it is my duty to send annually
to the College Librarian a list of all the graduates who have died in the town I live in, with
their fathers' and mothers' names, and the motives that led them to College, with anecdotes
of their career, and the date of their death. There are two thousand three hundred and forty-five
of them I believe, and I have never sent one half-anecdote about one! Such failure in duty
made me grimly smile as I omitted to stop and put up these fish in alcohol, and as I plied
the unconscious skipper with inquiries about his boat. "Had she ever been outside?" "O signor,
she had been outside this very day. You cannot catch tonno till you have passed both capes,--least
of all such fine fish as that is,"--and he kicked the poor wretch. Can it be true, as C----
says, that those dying flaps of theirs, are exquisite luxury to them, because for the first
time they have their fill of oxygen? "Had he ever been beyond Peloro?" "O yes, signor; my wife,
Caterina, was herself from Messina,"--and on great saints' days they had gone there often.
Poor fellow, his great saint's day sealed his fate. I nodded to Frank,--Frank nodded to me,--and
Frank blandly informed him that, by order of General Garibaldi, he would take the gentleman
at once on board, pass the strait with him, "and then go where he tells you."

The Southern Italian has the reputation, derived from Tom Moore, of being a coward. When I
used to speak at school,

    "Ay, down to the dust with them,--slaves as they are!"--

stamping my foot at "dust," I certainly thought they were a very mean crew. But I dare say
that Neapolitan school-boys have some similar school piece about the risings of Tom Moore's
countrymen, which certainly have not been much more successful than the poor little Neapolitan
revolution which he was pleased to satirize. Somehow or other, Victor Emanuel is, at this hour,
king of Naples. Coward or not, this fine fellow of a fisherman did not flinch. It is my private
opinion that he was not nearly as much afraid of the enterprise as I was. I made this observation
at the moment with some satisfaction, sent Frank's man up to my lodgings with a note ordering
my own traps sent down, and in an hour we were stretching out, under the twilight, across the
little bay.

No! I spare you the voyage. Sybaris is what we are after, all this time, if we can only get
there. Very easy it would be for me to give you cheap scholarship from the Æneid, about Palinurus
and Scylla and Charybdis. Neither Scylla nor Charybdis bothered me,--as we passed wing-wing
between them before a smart north wind. I had a little Hunter's Virgil with me, and read the
whole voyage,--and confused Battista utterly by trying to make him remember something about
Palinuro, of whom he had never heard. It was much as I afterwards asked my negro waiter at
Fort Monroe about General Washington at Yorktown. "Never heard of him, sir,--was he in the
Regular army?" So Battista thought Palinuro must have fished in the Italian fleet, with which
the Sicilian boatmen were not well acquainted. Messina made no objections to us. Perhaps, if
the sloop of war which lay there had known who was lying in the boat under her guns, I might
not be writing these words to-day. Battista went ashore, got lemons, macaroni, hard bread,
polenta, for themselves, the Giornale di Messina for me, and more Tunisian; and, not to lose
that splendid breeze, we cracked on all day, passed Reggio, hugged the shore bravely, though
it was rough, ran close under those cliffs which are the very end of the Apennines,--will it
shock the modest reader if I say the very toe-nails of the Italian foot?--hauled more and more
eastward, made Spartivento blue in the distance, made it purple, made it brown, made it green,
still running admirably,--ten knots an hour we must have got between four and five that afternoon,--and
by the time the lighthouse at Spartivento was well ablaze we were abreast of it, and might
begin to haul more northward, so that, though we had a long course before us, we should at
last be sailing almost directly towards our voyage's end, Gallipoli.

At that moment--as in any sea often happens, if you come out from the more land-locked channel
into the larger body of water--the wind appeared to change. Really, I suppose, we came into
the steady southwest wind which had probably been drawing all day up toward the Adriatic. In
two hours more we made the lighthouse of Stilo, and I was then tired enough to crawl down into
the fearfully smelling little cuddy, and, wrapping Battista's heavy storm-jacket round my feet,
I caught some sort of sleep.

But not for very long. I struck my watch at three in the morning. And the air was so unworthy
of that name,--it was such a thick paste, seeming to me more like a mixture of tar and oil
and fresh fish and decayed fish and bilge-water than air itself,--that I voted three morning,
and crawled up into the clear starlight,--how wonderful it was, and the fresh wet breeze that
washed my face so cheerily!--and I bade Battista take his turn below, while I would lie there
and mind the helm. If--if he had done what I proposed, I suppose I should not be writing these
lines; but his father, good fellow, said: "No, signor, not yet. We leave the shore now for
the broad bay, you see; and if the wind haul southward, we may need to go on the other tack.
We will all stay here, till we see what the deep-sea wind may be." So we lay there, humming,
singing, and telling stories, still this rampant southwest wind behind, as if all the powers
of the Mediterranean meant to favor my mission to Gallipoli. The boat was now running straight
before it. We stretched out bravely into the gulf; but, before the wind, it was astonishing
how easily the lugger ran. He said to me at last, however, that on that course we were running
to leeward of our object; but that it was the best point for his boat, and if the wind held,
he would keep on so an hour longer, and trust to the land breeze in the morning to run down
the opposite shore of the bay.

"If" again. The wind did not keep on. Either the pole-star, and the dipper, and all the rest
of them, had rebelled and were drifting westward,--and so it seemed; or this steady southwest
gale was giving out; or, as I said before, we had come into the sweep of a current even stronger,
pouring from the Levantine shores of the Mediterranean full up the Gulf of Tarentum. Not ten
minutes after the skipper spoke, it was clear enough to both of us that the boat must go about,
whether we wanted to or not, and we waked the other boy, to send him forward, before we accepted
the necessity. Half asleep, he got up, courteously declined my effort to help him by me as
he crossed the boat, stepped round on the gunwale behind me as I sat, and then, either in a
lurch or in some misstep, caught his foot in the tiller as his father held it firm, and pitched
down directly behind Battista himself, and, as I thought, into the sea. I sprang to leeward
to throw something after him, and found him in the sea indeed, but hanging by both hands to
the gunwale, safe enough, and in a minute, with Battista's help and mine, on board again. I
remember how pleased I was that his father did not swear at him, but only laughed prettily,
and bade him be quick, and step forward; and then, turning to the helm, which he had left free
for the moment, he did not swear indeed, but he did cry "Santa Madre!" when he found there
was no tiller there. The boy's foot had fairly wrenched it, not only from his father's hand,
but from the rudder-head,--and it was gone!

We held the old fellow firmly by his feet and legs, as he lay over the stern of the boat, head
down, examining the condition of the rudder-head. The report was not favorable. I renewed the
investigation myself in the same uncomfortable attitude. The phosphorescence of the sea was
but an unsteady light, but light enough there was to reveal what daylight made hardly more
certain,--that the wrench which had been given to the rotten old fixtures, shaky enough at
best, had split the head of the rudder, so that the pintle hung but loosely in its bed, and
that there was nothing available for us to rig a jury-tiller on. This discovery, as it became
more and more clear to each of us four in succession, abated successively the volleys of advice
which we were offering, and sent us back to our more quiet "Santa Madres" or to meditations
on "what was next to best."

Meanwhile the boat was flying, under the sail she had before, straight before the wind, up
the Gulf of Tarentum.

If you cannot have what you like, it is best, in a finite world, to like what you have. And
while the old man brought up from the cuddy his wretched and worthless stock of staves, rope-ends,
and bits of iron, and contemplated them ruefully, as if asking them which would like to assume
the shape of a rudder-head and tiller, if his fairy godmother would appear on the top of the
mast for a moment, I was plying the boys with questions,--what would happen to us if we held
on at this tearing rate, and rushed up the bay to the head thereof. The boys knew no more than
they knew of Palinuro. Far enough, indeed, were we from their parish. The old man at last laid
down the bit of brass which he had saved from some old waif, and listened to me as I pointed
out to them on my map the course we were making, and, without answering me a word, fell on
his knees and broke into most voluble prayer,--only interrupted by sobs of undisguised agony.
The boys were almost as much surprised as I was. And as he prayed and sobbed, the boat rushed on!

Santa Madre, San Giovanni, and Sant' Antonio,--we needed all their help, if it were only to
keep him quiet; and when at last he rose from his knees, and came to himself enough to tend
the sheets a little, I asked, as modestly as I could, what put this keen edge on his grief
or his devotions. Then came such stories of hobgoblins, witches, devils, giants, elves, and
fairies, at this head of the bay!--no man ever returned who landed there; his father and his
father's father had charged him, and his brothers and his cousins, never to be lured to make
a voyage there, and never to run for those coves, though schools of golden fish should lead
the way. It was not till this moment, that, trying to make him look upon the map, I read myself
there the words, at the mouth of the Crathis River, "Sybaris Ruine."

Surely enough, this howling Euroclydon--for Euroclydon it now was--was bearing me and mine
directly to Sybaris!

And here was this devout old fisherman confirming the words of Smith's Dictionary, when it
said that nobody had been there and returned, for generation upon generation.

At a dozen knots an hour, as things were, I was going to Sybaris! Nor was I many hours from
it. For at that moment we cannot have been more than five-and-thirty miles from the beach,
where, in less than four hours, Euroclydon flung us on shore.

The memory of the old green settees, and of Hutchinson and Wheeler and the other Latin-school
boys, sustained me beneath the calamity which impended. Nor do I think at heart the boys felt
so bad as their father about the djins and the devils, the powers of the earth and the powers
of the air. Is there, perhaps, in the youthful mind, rather a passion for "seeing the folly"
of life a little in that direction? None the less did we join him in rigging out the longest
sweep we had aft, lashing it tight under the little rail which we had been leaning on, and
trying gentle experiments, how far this extemporized rudder might bring the boat round to the
wind. Nonsense the whole. By that time Euroclydon was on us, so that I would never have tried
to put her about if we had had the best gear I ever handled, and our experiments only succeeded
far enough to show that we were as utterly powerless as men could be. Meanwhile day was just
beginning to break. I soothed the old man with such devout expressions as heretic might venture.
I tried to turn him from the coming evil to the present necessity. I counselled with him whether
it might not be safer to take in sail and drift along. But from this he dissented. Time enough
to take in sail when we knew what shore we were coming to. He had no kedge or grapple or cord,
indeed, that would pretend to hold this boat against this gale. We would beach her, if it pleased
the Virgin; and if we could not,--shaking his head,--why, that would please the Virgin, too.

And so Euroclydon hurried us on to Sybaris.

The sun rose, O how magnificently! Is there anywhere to see sunrise like the Mediterranean?
And if one may not be on the top of Katahdin, is there any place for sunrise like the very
level of the sea? Already the Calabrian mountains of our western horizon were gray against
the sky. One or another of us was forward all the time, trying to make out by what slopes the
hills descended to the sea. Was it cliff of basalt, or was it reedy swamp, that was to receive
us. I insisted at last on his reducing sail. For I felt sure that he was driving on under a
sort of fatality which made him dare the worst. I was wholly right, for the boat now rose easier
on the water, and was much more dry.

Perhaps the wind flagged a little as the sun rose. At all events, he took courage, which I
had never lost. I made his boy find us some oranges. I made them laugh by eating their cold
polenta with them. I even made him confess, when I called him aft and sent Battista forward,
that the shore we were nearing looked low. For we were near enough now to see stone pines and
chestnut-trees. Did anybody see the towers of Sybaris?

Not a tower! But, on the other hand, not a gnome, witch, Norna's Head, or other intimation
of the underworld. The shore looked like many other Italian shores. It looked not very unlike
what we Yankees call salt-marsh. At all events, we should not break our heads against a wall!
Nor will I draw out the story of our anxieties, varying as the waves did on which we rose and
fell so easily. As she forged on, it was clear at last that to some wanderers, at least, Sybaris
had some hospitality. A long, low spit made out into the sea, with never a house on it, but
brown with storm-worn shrubs, above the line of which were the stone-pines and chestnuts which
had first given character to the shore. Hard for us, if we had been flung on the outside of
this spit. But we were not. Else I had not been writing here to-day. We passed it by fifty
fathom clear. Of course under its lee was our harbor. Battista let go the halyards in a moment,
and the wet sails came rattling down. The old man, the boy, Battista, and I seized the best
sweeps he had left. Two of us at each, working on the same side, we brought her head round
as fast as she would bear it in that fearful sea. Inch by inch we wrought along to the smoother
water, and breathed free at last, as we came under the partial protection of the friendly shore.

Battista and his brother then hauled up the sail enough to give such headway to the boat as
we thought our sweeps would control. And we crept along the shore for an hour, seeing nothing
but reeds, and now and then a distant buffalo, when at last a very hard knock on a rock the
boy ahead had not seen under water started the planks so that we knew that was dangerous play;
and, without more solicitation, the old man beached the boat in a little cove where the reeds
gave place for a trickling stream. I told them they might land or not, as they pleased. I would
go ashore and get assistance or information. The old man clearly thought I was going to ask
my assistance from the father of lies himself. But he was resigned to my will,--said he would
wait for my return. I stripped, and waded ashore with my clothes upon my head, dressed as quickly
as I could, and pushed up from the beach to the low upland.

Clearly enough I was in a civilized country. Not that there was a gallows, as the old joke
says; but there were tracks in the shingle of the beach showing where wheels had been, and
these led me to a cart-track between high growths of that Mediterranean reed which grows all
along in those low flats. There is one of the reeds on the hooks above my gun in the hall as
you came in. I followed up the track, but without seeing barn, house, horse, or man, for a
quarter of a mile, perhaps, when behold,--

Not the footprint of a man! as to Robinson Crusoe;--

Not a gallows and man hanging! as in the sailor story above named;--

But a railroad track! Evidently a horse-railroad.

"A horse-railroad in Italy!" said I, aloud. "A horse-railroad in Sybaris! It must have changed
since the days of the coppersmiths!" And I flung myself on a heap of reeds which lay there,
and waited.

In two minutes I heard the fast step of horses, as I supposed; in a minute more four mules
rounded the corner, and a "horse-car" came dashing along the road. I stepped forward and waved
my hand, but the driver bowed respectfully, pointed back, and then to a board on top of his
car, and I read, as he dashed by me, the word

[Greek: Plêron],

displayed full above him; as one may read Complet on a Paris omnibus.

Now [Greek: Plêron] is the Greek for full. "In Sybaris they do not let the horse-railroads
grind the faces of the passengers," said I. "Not so wholly changed since the coppersmiths."
And, within the minute, more quadrupedantal noises, more mules, and another car, which stopped
at my signal. I entered, and found a dozen or more passengers, sitting back to back on a seat
which ran up the middle of the car, as you might ride in an Irish jaunting-car. In this way
it was impossible for the conductor to smuggle in a standing passenger, impossible for a passenger
to catch cold from a cracked window, and possible for a passenger to see the scenery from the
window. "Can it be possible," said I, "that the traditions of Sybaris really linger here?"

I sat quite in the front of the car, so that I could see the fate of my first friend [Greek:
Plêron],--the full car. In a very few minutes it switched off from our track, leaving us still
to pick up our complement, and then I saw that it dropped its mules, and was attached, on a
side track, to an endless chain, which took it along at a much greater rapidity, so that it
was soon out of sight. I addressed my next neighbor on the subject, in Greek which would have
made my fortune in those old days of the pea-green settees. But he did not seem to make much
of that, but in sufficiently good Italian told me, that, as soon as we were full, we should
be attached in the same way to the chain, which was driven by stationary engines five or six
stadia apart, and so indeed it proved. We picked up one or two market-women, a young artist
or two, and a little boy. When the child got in, there was a nod and smile on people's faces;
my next neighbor said to me, [Greek: Plêron], as if with an air of relief; and sure enough,
in a minute more, we were flying along at a 2.20 pace, with neither mule nor engine in sight,
stopping about once a mile to drop passengers, if there was need, and evidently approaching
Sybaris.

All along now were houses, each with its pretty garden of perhaps an acre, no fences, because
no cattle at large. I wonder if the Vineland people know they caught that idea from Sybaris!
All the houses were of one story,--stretching out as you remember Pliny's villa did, if Ware
and Van Brunt ever showed you the plans,--or as Erastus Bigelow builds factories at Clinton.
I learned afterwards that stair-builders and slaveholders are forbidden to live in Sybaris
by the same article in the fundamental law. This accounts, with other things, for the vigorous
health of their women. I supposed that this was a mere suburban habit, and, though the houses
came nearer and nearer, yet, as no two houses touched in a block, I did not know we had come
into the city till all the passengers left the car, and the conductor courteously told me we
were at our journey's end.

When this happens to you in Boston, and you leave your car, you find yourself huddled on a
steep sloping sidewalk, under the rain or snow, with a hundred or more other passengers, all
eager, all wondering, all unprovided for. But I found in Sybaris a large glass-roofed station,
from which the other lines of neighborhood cars radiated, in which women and even little children
were passing from route to to route, under the guidance of civil and intelligent persons, who,
strange enough, made it their business to conduct these people to and fro, and did not consider
it their duty to insult the traveller. For a moment my mind reverted to the contrast at home;
but not long. As I stood admiring and amused at once, a bright, brisk little fellow stepped
up to me, and asked what my purpose was, and which way I would go. He spoke in Greek first,
but, seeing I did not catch his meaning, relapsed into very passable Italian, quite as good
as mine.

I told him that I was shipwrecked, and had come into town for assistance. He expressed sympathy,
but wasted not a moment, led me to his chief at an office on one side, who gave me a card with
the address of an officer whose duty it was to see to strangers, and said that he would in
turn introduce me to the chief of the boat-builders; and then said, as if in apology for his
promptness,

    "[Greek: Chrê xeiuon pareonta philein, ethelonta de pempein.]"
    "Welcome the coming, speed the parting guest."

He called to me a conductor of the red line, said [Greek: Xenos], which we translate guest,
but which I found in this case means "dead-head," or "free," bowed, and I saw him no more.

"Strange country have I come to, indeed," said I, as I thought of the passports of Civita Vecchia,
of the indifference of Scollay's Buildings, and of the surliness of Springfield. "And this
is Sybaris!"

       *       *       *       *       *

We sent down a tug to the cove which I indicated on their topographical map, and to the terror
of the old fisherman and his sons, to whom I had sent a note, which they could not read, our
boat was towed up to the city quay, and was put under repairs. That last thump on the hidden
rock was her worst injury, and it was a week before I could get away. It was in this time that
I got the information I am now to give, partly from my own observations, partly from what George
the Proxenus or his brother Philip told me,--more from what I got from a very pleasing person,
the wife of another brother, at whose house I used to visit freely, and whose boys, fine fellows,
were very fond of talking about America with me. They spoke English very funnily, and like
little school-books. The ship-carpenter, a man named Alexander, was a very intelligent person;
and, indeed, the whole social arrangement of the place was so simple, that it seemed to me
that I got on very fast, and knew a great deal of them in a very short time.

I told George one day, that I was surprised that he had so much time to give to me. He laughed,
and said he could well believe that, as I had said that I was brought up in Boston. "When I
was there," said he, "I could see that your people were all hospitable enough, but that the
people who were good for anything were made to do all the work of the vauriens, and really
had no time for friendship or hospitality. I remember an historian of yours, who crossed with
me, said that there should be a motto stretched across Boston Bay, from one fort to another,
with the words, 'No admittance, except on business.'"

I did not more than half like this chaffing of Boston, and asked how they managed things in
Sybaris.

"Why, you see," said he, "we hold pretty stiffly to the old Charondian laws, of which perhaps
you know something; here's a copy of the code, if you would like to look over it," and he took
one out of his pocket. "We are still very chary about amendments to statutes, so that very
little time is spent in legislation; we have no bills at shops, and but little debt, and that
is all on honor, so that there is not much account-keeping or litigation; you know what happens
to gossips,--gossip takes a good deal of time elsewhere,--and somehow everybody does his share
of work, so that all of us do have a good deal of what you call 'leisure.' Whether," he added
pensively, "in a world God put us into that we might love each other, and learn to love,--whether
the time we spend in society, or the time we spend caged behind our office desks, is the time
which should be called devoted to the 'business of life,' that remains to be seen."

"How came you to Boston," said I, "and when?"

"O, we all have to travel," said George, "if we mean to go into the administration. And I liked
administration. I observe that you appoint a foreign ambassador because he can make a good
stump speech in Kentucky. But since Charondas's time, training has been at the bottom of our
system. And no man could offer himself here to serve on the school committee, unless he knew
how other nations managed their schools."

"Not if he had himself made school-books?" said I.

"No!" laughed George, "for he might introduce them. With us no professor may teach from a text-book
he has made himself, unless the highest council of education order it; and on the same principle
we should never choose a bookseller on the school committee. And so, to go back," he said,
"when my father found that administration was my passion, he sent me the grand tour. I learned
a great deal in America, and am very fond of the Americans. But I never saw one here before."

I did not ask what he learned in America, for I was more anxious to learn myself how they administered
government in Sybaris.

       *       *       *       *       *

The inns at Sybaris are not very large, not extending much beyond the compass of a large private
house. Mine was kept by a woman. As we sat there, smoking on the piazza, the first evening
I was there, I asked George about this horse-railroad management, and the methods they took
to secure such personal comfort.

He said that my question cut pretty low down, for that the answer really involved the study
of their whole system. "I have thought of it a good deal," said he, "when I have been in St.
Petersburg, and in England and America; and as far as I can find out, our peculiarity in everything
is, that we respect--I have sometimes thought we almost worshipped--the rights, even the notions
or whims, of the individual citizen. With us the first object of the state, as an organization,
is to care for the individual citizen, be he man, woman, or child. We consider the state to
be made for the better and higher training of men, much as your divines say that the Church
is. Instead of our lumping our citizens, therefore, and treating Jenny Lind and Tom Heenan
to the same dose of public schooling,--instead of saying that what is sauce for the goose is
sauce for the gander,--we try to see that each individual is protected in the enjoyment, not
of what the majority likes, but of what he chooses, so long as his choice injures no other man."

I thought, in one whiff, of Stuart Mill, and of the coppersmiths.

"Our horse-railroad system grew out of this theory," continued he. "As long ago as Herodotus,
people lived here in houses one story high, with these gardens between. But some generations
ago, a young fellow named Apollidorus, who had been to Edinburgh, pulled down his father's
house and built a block of what you call houses on the site of it. They were five stories high,
had basements, and so on, with windows fore and aft, and, of course, none on the sides. The
old fogies looked aghast. But he found plenty of fools to hire them. But the tenants had not
been in a week, when the Kategoros, district attorney, had him up 'for taking away from a citizen
what he could not restore.' This, you must know, is one of the severest charges in our criminal
code.

"Of course, it was easy enough to show that the tenants went willingly; he showed dumb-waiters,
and I know not what infernal contrivances of convenience within. But he could not show that
the tenants had north windows and south windows, because they did not. The government, on their
side, showed that men were made to breathe fresh air, and that he could not ventilate his houses
as if they were open on all sides; they showed that women were not made to climb up and down
ladders, and to live on stages at the tops of them; and he tried in vain to persuade the jury
that this climbing was good for little children. He had lured these citizens into places dangerous
for health, growth, strength, and comfort. And so he was compelled to erect a statue typical
of strength, and a small hospital for infants, as his penalty. That spirited Hercules, which
stands in front of the market, was a part of his fine.

"Of course, after a decision like this, concentration of inhabitants was out of the question.
Every pulpit in Sybaris blazed with sermons on the text, 'Every man shall sit under his vine
and under his fig-tree.' Everybody saw that a house without its own garden was an abomination,
and easy communication with the suburbs was a necessity.

"It was, indeed, easy enough to show, as the city engineer did, that the power wasted in lifting
people up, and, for that matter, down stairs, in a five-story house, in one day, would carry
all those people I do not know how many miles on a level railroad track in less time. What
you call horse-railroads, therefore, became a necessity."

I said they made a great row with us.

"Yes," said he, "I saw they did. With us the government owns and repairs the track, as you
do the track of any common road. We never have any difficulty.

"You see," he added after a pause, "with us, if a conductor sprains the ankle of a citizen,
it is a matter the state looks after. With you, the citizen must himself be the prosecutor,
and virtually never is. Did you notice a pretty winged Mercury outside the station-house you
came to?"

I had noticed it.

"That was put up, I don't know how long ago, in the infancy of these things. They took a car
off one night, without public notice beforehand. One old man was coming in on it, to his daughter's
wedding. He missed his connection out at Little Krastis, and lost half an hour. Down came the
Kategoros. The company had taken from a citizen what they could not restore, namely, half an hour."

George lighted another cigar, and laughed very heartily. "That's a great case in our reports,"
he said. "The company ventured to go to trial on it. They hoped they might overturn the old
decisions, which were so old that nobody knows when they were made,--as old as the dancing
horses," said he, laughing. "They said time was not a thing,--it was a relation of ideas; that
it did not exist in heaven; that they could not be made to suffer because they did not deliver
back what no man ever saw, or touched, or tasted. What was half an hour? But the jury was pitiless.
A lot of business men, you know,--they knew the value of time. What did they care for the metaphysics?
And the company was bidden to put up an appropriate statue worth ten talents in front of their
station-house, as a reminder to all their people that a citizen's time was worth something."

This was George's first visit to me; and it was the first time, therefore, that I observed
a queer thing. Just at this point he rose rather suddenly and bade me good evening. I begged
him to stay, but had to repeat my invitation twice. His hand was on the handle of the door
before he turned back. Then he sat down, and we went on talking; but before long he did the
same thing again, and then again.

At last I was provoked, and said: "What is the custom of your country? Do you have to take
a walk every eleven minutes and a quarter?"

George laughed again, and indeed blushed. "Do you know what a bore is?" said he.

"Alas! I do," said I.

"Well," said he, "the universal custom here is, that an uninvited guest, who calls on another
man on his own business, rises at the end of eleven minutes, and offers to go. And the courts
have ruled, very firmly, that there must be a bona fide effort. We get into such a habit of
it, that, with you, I really did it unawares. The custom is as old as Cleisthenes and his wedding.
But some of the decisions are not more than two or three centuries old, and they are very funny.

"On the whole," he added, "I think it works well. Of course, between friends, it is absurd,
but it is a great protection against a class of people who think their own concerns are the
only things of value. You see you have only to say, when a man comes in, that you thank him
for coming, that you wish he would stay, or to take his hat or his stick,--you have only to
make him an invited guest,--and then the rule does not hold."

"Ah!" said I; "then I invite you to spend every evening with me while I am here."

"Take care," said he; "the Government Almanac is printed and distributed gratuitously from
the fines on bores. Their funds are getting very low up at the department, and they will be
very sharp on your friends. So you need not be profuse in your invitations."

       *       *       *       *       *

This conversation was a clew to a good many things which I saw while I was in the city. I never
was in a place where there were so many tasteful, pretty little conveniences for everybody.
At the quadrants, where the streets cross, there was always a pretty little sheltered seat
for four or five people,--shaded, stuffed, dry, and always the morning and evening papers,
and an advertisement of the times of boats and trains, for any one who might be waiting for
a car or for a friend. Sometimes these were votive offerings, where public spirit had spoken
in gratitude. More often they had been ordered at the cost of some one who had taken from a
citizen what he could not repay. The private citizen might often hesitate about prosecuting
a bore, or a nuisance, or a conceited company officer. But the Kategoroi made no bones about
it. They called the citizen as a witness, and gave the criminal a reminder which posterity
held in awe. Their point, as they always explained it to me, is, that the citizen's health
and strength are essential to the state. The state cannot afford to have him maimed, any more
than it can afford to have him drunk or ignorant. The individual, of course, cannot be following
up his separate grievances with people who abridge his rights. But the public accuser can and does.

With us, public servants, who know they are public servants, are always obliging and civil.
I would not ask better treatment in my own home than I am sure of in Capitol, State-house,
or city hall. It is only when you get to some miserable sub-bureau, where the servant of the
servant of a creature of the state can bully you, that you come to grief. For instance the
State of Massachusetts just now forbids corporations to work children more than ten hours a
day. The corporations obey. But the overseers in the rooms, whom the corporations employ, work
children eleven hours, or as many as they choose. They would not stand that in Sybaris.

       *       *       *       *       *

I was walking one day with one of the bright boys of whom I spoke, and I asked him, as I had
his father, if I was not keeping him away from his regular occupation. Ought he not be at school?

"No," said he; "this is my off-term."

"Pray, what is that?"

"Don't you know? We only go to school three months in winter and three in summer. I thought
you did so in America. I know Mr. Webster did. I read it in his Life."

I was on the point of saying that we knew now how to train more powerful men than Mr. Webster,
but the words stuck in my throat, and the boy rattled on.

"The teachers have to be there all the time, except when they go in retreat. They take turns
about retreat. But we are in two choroi; I am choros-boy now, James is anti-choros. Choros
have school in January, February, March, July, August, September. Next year I shall be anti-choros."

"Which do you like best,--off-term or school?" said I.

"O, both is as good as one. When either begins, we like it. We get rather sick of either before
the three months are over."

"What do you do in your off-terms?" said I,--"go fishing?"

"No, of course not," said he, "except Strep, and Hipp, and Chal, and those boys, because their
fathers are fishermen. No, we have to be in our fathers' offices, we big boys; the little fellows,
they let them stay at home. If I was here without you now, that truant-officer we passed just
now would have had me at home before this time. Well, you see they think we learn about business,
and I guess we do. I know I do," said he, "and sometimes I think I should like to be a Proxenus
when I am grown up, but I do not know."

I asked George about this, the same evening. He said the boy was pretty nearly right about
it. They had come round to the determination that the employment of children, merely because
their wages were lower than men's, was very dangerous economy. The chances were that the children
were over-worked, and that their constitution was fatally impaired. "We do not want any Manchester-trained
children here." Then they had found that steady brain-work on girls, at the growing age, was
pretty nearly slow murder in the long run. They did not let girls go to school with any persistency
after they were twelve or fourteen. After they were twenty, they might study what they chose.

"But the main difference between our schools and yours," said he, "is that your teacher is
only expected to hear the lesson recited. Our teacher is expected to teach it also. You have
in America, therefore, sixty scholars to one teacher. We do not pretend to have more than twenty
to one teacher. We do this the easier because we let no child go to school more than half the
time; nor, even with the strongest, more than four hours a day.

"Why," said he, "I was at a college in America once, where, with splendid mathematicians, they
had had but one man teach any mathematics for thirty years. And he was travelling in Europe
when I was there. The others only heard recitations of those who could learn without being taught."

"I was once there," said I.

       *       *       *       *       *

The boat's repairs still lingered, and on Sunday little Phil. came round with a note from his
mother, to ask if I would go to church with them. If I had rather go to the cathedral or elsewhere,
Phil. would show me the way. I preferred to go with him and her together. It was a pretty little
church,--quite open and airy it would seem to us,--excellent chance to see dancing vines, or
flying birds, or falling rains, or other "meteors outside," if the preacher proved dull or
the hymns undevout. But I found my attention was well held within. Not that the preaching was
anything to be repeated. The sermon was short, unpretending, but alive and devout. It was a
sonnet, all on one theme; that theme pressed, and pressed, and pressed again, and, of a sudden,
the preacher was done. "You say you know God loves you," he said. "I hope you do, but I am
going to tell you once more that he loves you, and once more and once more." What pleased me
in it all was a certain unity of service, from the beginning to the end. The congregation's
singing seemed to suggest the prayer; the prayer seemed to continue in the symphony of the
organ; and, while I was in revery, the organ ceased; but as it was ordered, the sermon took
up the theme of my revery, and so that one theme ran through the whole. The service was not
ten things, like the ten parts of a concert, it was one act of communion or worship. Part of
this was due, I guess, to this, that we were in a small church, sitting or kneeling near each
other, close enough to get the feeling of communion,--not parted, indeed, in any way. We had
been talking together, as we stood in the churchyard before the service began, and when we
assembled in the church the sense of sympathy continued. I told Kleone that I liked the home
feeling of the church, and she was pleased. She said she was afraid I should have preferred
the cathedral. There were four large cathedrals, open, as the churches were, to all the town;
and all the clergy, of whatever order, took turns in conducting the service in them. There
were seven successive services in each of them that Sunday. But each clergyman had his own
special charge beside,--I should think of not more than a hundred families. And these families,
generally neighbors in the town, indeed, seemed, naturally enough, to grow into very familiar
personal relations with each other.

       *       *       *       *       *

I asked Philip one day how long his brother George would hold his office of host, or Proxenus.
Philip turned a little sharply on me, and asked if I had any complaints to make, being, in
fact, rather a quick-tempered person. I soothed him by explaining that all that I asked about
was the tenure of office in their system, and he apologized.

"He will be in as long as he chooses, probably. In theory, he remains in until a majority of
the voters, which is to say the adult men and women, join in a petition for his removal. Then
he will be removed at once. The government will appoint a temporary substitute, and order an
election of his successor."

"Do you mean there is no fixed election-day?"

"None at all," said Philip. "We are always voting. When we stopped just now I went in to vote
for an alderman of our ward, in place of a man who has resigned. I wish I had taken you in
with me, though there was nothing to see. Only three or four great books, each headed with
the name of a candidate. I wrote my name in Andrew Second's book. He is, on the whole, the
best man. The books will be open three months. No one, of course, can vote more than once,
and at the end of that time there will be a count, and a proclamation will be made. Then about
removal; any one who is dissatisfied with a public officer puts his name up at the head of
a book in the election office. Of course there are dozens of books all the time. But unless
there is real incapacity, nobody cares. Sometimes, when one man wants another's place, he gets
up a great breeze, the newspapers get hold of it, and everybody is canvassed who can be got
to the spot. But it is very hard to turn out a competent officer. If in three months, however,
at all the registries, a majority of the voters express a wish for a man's removal, he has
to go out. Practically, I look in once a week at that office to see what is going on. It is
something as you vote at your clubs."

"Did you say women as well as men?" said I.

"O, yes," said Philip, "unless a woman or a man has formally withdrawn from the roll. You see,
the roll is the list, not only of voters, but of soldiers. For a man to withdraw, is to say
he is a coward and dares not take his chance in war. Sometimes a woman does not like military
service, and if she takes her name off I do not think the public feeling about it is quite
the same as with a man. She may have things to do at home."

"But do you mean that most of the women serve in the army?" said I.

"Of course they do," said he. "They wanted to vote, so we put them on the roll. You do not
see them much. Most of the women's regiments are heavy artillery, in the forts, which can be
worked just as well by persons of less as of more muscle if you have enough of them. Each regiment
in our service is on duty a month, and in reserve six. You know we have no distant posts."

"We have a great many near-sighted men in America," said I, "who cannot serve in the army."

"We make our near-sighted men work heavy guns, serve in light artillery, or, in very bad cases,
we detail them to the police work of the camps," said he. "The deaf and dumb men we detail
to serve the military telegraphs. They keep secrets well. The blind men serve in the bands.
And the men without legs ride in barouches in state processions. Everybody serves somewhere."

"That is the reason," said I, with a sigh, "why everybody has so much time in Sybaris!"

       *       *       *       *       *

But the reader has more than enough of this. Else I would print my journal of "A Week in Sybaris."
By Thursday the boat was mended. I hunted up the old fisherman and his boys. He was willing
to go where my Excellency bade, but he said his boys wanted to stay. They would like to live here.

"Among the devils?" said I.

The old man confessed that the place for poor men was the best place he ever saw; the markets
were cheap, the work was light, the inns were neat, the people were civil, the music was good,
the churches were free, and the priests did not lie. He believed the reason that nobody ever
came back from Sybaris was, that nobody wanted to.

The Proxenus nodded, well pleased.

"So Battista and his brother would like to stay a few months; and he found he might bring Caterina
too, when my Excellency had returned from Gallipoli; or did my Excellency think that, when
Garibaldi had driven out the Bourbons, all the world would be like Sybaris?"

My Excellency hoped so; but did not dare promise.

       *       *       *       *       *

"You see now," said George, "why you hear so little of Sybaris. Enough people come to us. But
you are the only man I ever saw leave Sybaris who did not mean to return."

"And I," said I,--"do you think I am never coming here again?"

"You found it a hard harbor to make," said the Proxenus. "We have published no sailing directions
since St. Paul touched here, and those which he wrote--he sent them to the Corinthians yonder--neither
they nor any one else have seemed to understand."

"Good by."

"God bless you! Good by." And I sailed for Gallipoli.

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote B: I am writing in Westerly's snuggery, and in Providence they believe in Webster.
I dare say it is worse in Worcester. A good many things are.]

[Footnote C: The reader who cares to follow the detail is referred to Diodorus Siculus, XII.;
Strabo, VI.; Ælian, V. H. 9, c. 24; Athenæus, XII. 518; Plutarch in Pelopidas; Herodotus, V.
and VI. Compare Laurent's Geographical Notes, and Wheeler and Gaisford; Pliny, III. 15, VII.
22, XVI. 33, VIII. 64, XXXI. 9; Aristotle, Polit. IV. 12, V. 3; Heyne's Opuscula, II. 74; Bentley's
Phalaris, 367; Solinus, 2, § 10, "luxuries grossly exaggerated"; Scymnus, 337-360; Aristophanes,
Vesp. 1427, 1436; Lycophron, Alex. 1079; Polybius, Gen. Hist. II. 3, on the confederation of
Sybaris, Krotan, and Kaulonia,--"a perplexing statement," says Grote, "showing that he must
have conceived the history of Sybaris in a very different form from that in which it is commonly
represented"; third volume of De Non, who disagrees with Magnan as to the site of Sybaris,
and says the sea-shore is uninhabitable! Tuccagni Orlandini, Vol. XI., Supplement, p. 294;
besides the dictionaries and books of travels, including Murray. I have availed myself, without
other reference, of most of these authorities.]

THE PIANO IN THE UNITED STATES.

Twenty-five thousand pianos were made in the United States last year!

This is the estimate of the persons who know most of this branch of manufacture, but it is
only an approximation to the truth; for, besides the sixty makers in New York, the thirty in
Boston, the twenty in Philadelphia, the fifteen in Baltimore, the ten in Albany, and the less
number in Cincinnati, Buffalo, Chicago, St. Louis, and San Francisco, there are small makers
in many country towns, and even in villages, who buy the parts of a piano in the nearest city,
put them together, and sell the instrument in the neighborhood. The returns of the houses which
supply the ivory keys of the piano to all the makers in the country are confirmatory of this
estimate; which, we may add, is that of Messrs. Steinway of New York, who have made it a point
to collect both the literature and the statistics of the instrument, of which they are among
the largest manufacturers in the world.

The makers' prices of pianos now range from two hundred and ninety dollars to one thousand;
and the prices to the public, from four hundred and fifty dollars to fifteen hundred. We may
conclude, therefore, that the people of the United States during the year 1866 expended fifteen
millions of dollars in the purchase of new pianos. It is not true that we export many pianos
to foreign countries, as the public are led to suppose from the advertisements of imaginative
manufacturers. American citizens--all but the few consummately able kings of business--allow
a free play to their imagination in advertising the products of their skill. Canada buys a
small number of our pianos; Cuba, a few; Mexico, a few; South America, a few; and now and then
one is sent to Europe, or taken thither by a Thalberg or a Gottschalk; but an inflated currency
and a war tariff make it impossible for Americans to compete with European makers in anything
but excellence. In price, they cannot compete. Every disinterested and competent judge with
whom we have conversed on this subject gives it as his deliberate opinion that the best American
piano is the best of all pianos, and the one longest capable of resisting the effects of a
trying climate; yet we cannot sell them, at present, in any considerable numbers, in any market
but our own. Protectionists are requested to note this fact, which is not an isolated fact.
America possesses such an astonishing genius for inventing and combining labor-saving machinery,
that we could now supply the world with many of its choicest products, in the teeth of native
competition, but for the tariff, the taxes, and the inflation, which double the cost of producing.
The time may come, however, when we shall sell pianos at Paris, and watches in London, as we
already do sewing-machines everywhere.

Twenty-five thousand pianos a year, at a cost of fifteen millions of dollars! Presented in
this manner, the figures produce an effect upon the mind, and we wonder that an imperfectly
reconstructed country could absorb in a single year, and that year an unprosperous one, so
large a number of costly musical instruments. But, upon performing a sum in long division,
we discover that these startling figures merely mean, that every working-day in this country
one hundred and twelve persons buy a new piano. When we consider, that every hotel, steamboat,
and public school above a certain very moderate grade, must have from one to four pianos, and
that young ladies' seminaries jingle with them from basement to garret, (one school in New
York has thirty Chickerings,) and that almost every couple that sets up housekeeping on a respectable
scale considers a piano only less indispensable than a kitchen range, we are rather inclined
to wonder at the smallness than at the largeness of the number.

The trade in new pianos, however, is nothing to the countless transactions in old. Here figures
are impossible; but probably ten second-hand pianos are sold to one new one. The business of
letting pianos is also one of great extent. It is computed by the well-informed, that the number
of these instruments now "out," in the city of New York, is three thousand. There is one firm
in Boston that usually has a thousand let. As the rent of a piano ranges from six dollars to
twelve dollars a month,--cartage both ways paid by the hirer,--it may be inferred that this
business, when conducted on a large scale, and with the requisite vigilance, is not unprofitable.
In fact, the income of a piano-letting business has approached eighty thousand dollars per
annum, of which one third was profit. It has, however, its risks and drawbacks. From June to
September, the owner of the instruments must find storage for the greater part of his stock,
and must do without most of his monthly returns. Many of those who hire pianos, too, are persons
"hanging on the verge" of society, who have little respect for the property of others, and
vanish to parts unknown, leaving a damaged piano behind them.

England alone surpasses the United States in the number of pianos annually manufactured. In
1852, the one hundred and eighty English makers produced twenty-three thousand pianos,--fifteen
hundred grands, fifteen hundred squares, and twenty thousand uprights. As England has enjoyed
fifteen years of prosperity since, it is probable that the annual number now exceeds that of
the United States. The English people, however, pay much less money for the thirty thousand
pianos which they probably buy every year, than we do for our twenty-five thousand. In London,
the retail price of the best Broadwood grand, in plain mahogany case, is one hundred and thirty-five
guineas; which is a little more than half the price of the corresponding American instrument.
The best London square piano, in plain case, is sixty guineas,--almost exactly half the American
price. Two thirds of all the pianos made in England are low-priced uprights,--averaging thirty-five
guineas,--which would not stand in our climate for a year. England, therefore, supplies herself
and the British empire with pianos at an annual expenditure of about eight millions of our
present dollars. American makers, we may add, have recently taken a hint from their English
brethren with regard to the upright instrument. Space is getting to be the dearest of all luxuries
in our cities, and it has become highly desirable to have pianos that occupy less of it than
the square instrument which we usually see. Successful attempts have been recently made to
apply the new methods of construction to the upright piano, with a view to make it as durable
as those of the usual forms. Such a brisk demand has sprung up for the improved uprights, that
the leading makers are producing them in considerable numbers, and the Messrs. Steinway are
erecting a new building for the sole purpose of manufacturing them. The American uprights,
however, cannot be cheap. Such is the nature of the American climate, that a piano, to be tolerable,
must be excellent; and while parts of the upright cost more than the corresponding parts of
the square, no part of it costs less. Six hundred dollars is the price of the upright in plain
rosewood case,--fifty dollars more than a plain rosewood square.

Paris pianos are renowned, the world over, and consequently three tenths of all the pianos
made in Paris are exported to foreign countries. France, too, owing to the cheapness of labor,
can make a better cheap piano than any other country. In 1852, there were ten thousand pianos
made in Paris, at an average cost of one thousand francs each; and, we are informed, a very
good new upright piano can now be bought in France for one hundred dollars. But in France the
average wages of piano-makers are five francs per day; in London, ten shillings; in New York,
four dollars and thirty-three cents. The cream of the business, in Paris, is divided among
three makers,--Erard, Hertz, and Pleyel,--each of whom has a concert-hall of his own, to give
éclat to his establishment. We presume Messrs. Steinway added "Steinway Hall" to the attractions
of New York from the example of their Paris friends, and soon the metropolis will boast a "Chickering
Hall" as well. This is an exceedingly expensive form of advertisement. Steinway Hall cost two
hundred thousand dollars, and has not yet paid the cost of warming, cleaning, and lighting
it. This, however, is partly owing to the good-nature of the proprietors, who find it hard
to exact the rent from a poor artist after a losing concert, and who have a constitutional
difficulty about saying No, when the use of the hall is asked for a charitable object.

In Germany there are no manufactories of pianos on the scale of England, France, and the United
States. A business of five pianos a week excites astonishment in a German state, and it is
not uncommon there for one man to construct every part of a piano,--a work of three or four
months. Mr. Steinway the elder has frequently done this in his native place, and could now
do it. A great number of excellent instruments are made in Germany in the slow, patient, thorough
manner of the Germans; but in the fashionable houses of Berlin and Vienna no German name is
so much valued as those of the celebrated makers of Paris. In the London exhibition of 1851,
Russian pianos competed for the medals, some of which attracted much attention from the excellence
of their construction. Messrs. Chickering assert, that the Russians were the first to employ
successfully the device of "overstringing," as it is called, by which the bass strings are
stretched over the others.

The piano, then, one hundred and fifty-seven years after its invention, in spite of its great
cost, has become the leading musical instrument of Christendom. England produces thirty thousand
every year; the United States, twenty-five thousand; France, fifteen thousand; Germany, perhaps
ten thousand; and all other countries, ten thousand; making a total of ninety thousand, or
four hundred and twenty-two for every working-day. It is computed, that an average piano is
the result of one hundred and twenty days' work; and, consequently, there must be at least
fifty thousand men employed in the business. And it is only within a few years that the making
of these noble instruments has been done on anything like the present scale. Messrs. Broadwood,
of London, who have made in all one hundred and twenty-nine thousand pianos, only begin to
count at the year 1780; and in the United States there were scarcely fifty pianos a year made
fifty years ago.

We need scarcely say that the production of music for the piano has kept pace with the advance
of the instrument. Dr. Burney mentions, in his History of Music (Vol. IV. p. 664), that when
he came to London in 1744, "Handel's Harpsichord Lessons and Organ Concertos, and the two First
Books of Scarletti's Lessons, were all the good music for keyed instruments at that time in
the nation." We have at this moment before us the catalogue of music sold by one house in Boston,
Oliver Ditson & Co. It is a closely printed volume of three hundred and sixty pages, and contains
the titles of about thirty-three thousand pieces of music, designed to be performed, wholly
or partly, on the piano. By far the greater number are piano music pure and simple. It is not
a very rare occurrence for a new piece to have a sale of one hundred thousand copies in the
United States. A composer who can produce the kind of music that pleases the greatest number,
may derive a revenue from his art ten times greater than Mozart or Beethoven enjoyed in their
most prosperous time. There are trifling waltzes and songs upon the list of Messrs. Ditson,
which have yielded more profit than Mozart received for "Don Giovanni" and "The Magic Flute"
together. We learn from the catalogue just mentioned, that the composers of music have an advantage
over the authors of books, in being always able to secure a publisher for their productions.
Messrs. Ditson announce that they are ready and willing to publish any piece of music by any
composer on the following easy conditions: "Three dollars per page for engraving; two dollars
and a half per hundred sheets of paper; and one dollar and a quarter per hundred pages for
printing." At the same time they frankly notify ambitious teachers, that "not one piece in
ten pays the cost of getting up, and not one in fifty proves a success."

The piano, though its recent development has been so rapid, is the growth of ages, and we can,
for three thousand years or more, dimly and imperfectly trace its growth. The instrument, indeed,
has found an historian,--Dr. Rimbault of London,--who has gathered the scattered notices of
its progress into a handsome quarto, now accessible in some of our public libraries. It is
far from our desire to make a display of cheap erudition; yet perhaps ladies who love their
piano may care to spend a minute or two in learning how it came to be the splendid triumph
of human ingenuity, the precious addition to the happiness of existence, which they now find
it to be. "I have had my share of trouble," we heard a lady say the other day, "but my piano
has kept me happy." All ladies who have had the virtue to subdue this noble instrument to their
will, can say something similar of the solace and joy they daily derive from it. The Greek
legend that the twang of Diana's bow suggested to Apollo the invention of the lyre, was not
a mere fancy; for the first stringed instrument of which we have any trace in ancient sculpture
differed from an ordinary bow only in having more than one string. A two-stringed bow was,
perhaps, the first step towards the grand piano of to-day. Additional strings involved the
strengthening of the bow that held them; and, accordingly, we find the Egyptian harps, discovered
in the catacombs by Wilkinson, very thick and massive in the lower part of the frame, which
terminated sometimes in a large and solid female head. From the two-stringed bow to these huge
twelve-stringed Egyptian harps, six feet high and beautifully finished with veneer, inlaid
with ivory and mother-of-pearl, no one can say how many centuries elapsed. The catgut strings
of the harps of three thousand years ago are still capable of giving a musical sound. The best
workmen of the present time, we are assured, could not finish a harp more exquisitely than
these are finished; yet they have no mechanism for tightening or loosening the strings, and
no strings except such as were furnished by the harmless, necessary cat. The Egyptian harp,
with all its splendor of decoration, was a rude and barbaric instrument.

It has not been shown that Greece or Rome added one essential improvement to the stringed instruments
which they derived from older nations. The Chickerings, Steinways, Erards, and Broadwoods of
our day cannot lay a finger upon any part of a piano, and say that they owe it to the Greeks
or to the Romans.

The Cithara of the Middle Ages was a poor thing enough, in the form of a large P, with ten
strings in the oval part; but it had movable pegs, and could be easily tuned. It was, therefore,
a step toward the piano of the French Exposition of 1867.

But the Psaltery was a great stride forward. This instrument was an arrangement of strings
on a box. Here we have the principle of the sounding-board,--a thing of vital moment to the
piano, and one upon which the utmost care is bestowed by all the great makers. Whoever first
thought of stretching strings on a box may also be said to have half invented the guitar and
the violin. No single subsequent thought has been so fruitful of consequences as this in the
improvement of stringed instruments. The reader, of course, will not confound the psaltery
of the Middle Ages with the psaltery of the Hebrews, respecting which nothing is known. The
translators of the Old Testament assigned the names with which they were familiar to the musical
instruments of the Jews.

About the year 1200 we arrive at the Dulcimer, which was an immense psaltery, with improvements.
Upon a harp-shaped box, eighteen to thirty-six feet long, fifty strings were stretched, which
the player struck with a stick or a long-handled hammer. This instrument was a signal advance
toward the grand piano. It was a piano, without its machinery.

The next thing, obviously, must have been to contrive a method of striking the strings with
certainty and evenness; and, accordingly, we find indications of a keyed instrument after the
year 1300, called the Clavicytherium, or keyed cithara. The invention of keys permitted the
strings to be covered over, and therefore the strings of the clavicytherium were enclosed in
a box, instead of being stretched on a box. The first keys were merely long levers with a nub
at the end of them, mounted on a pivot, which the player canted up at the strings on the see-saw
principle. It has required four hundred years to bring the mechanism of the piano key to its
present admirable perfection. The clavicytherium was usually a very small instrument,--an oblong
box, three or four feet in length, that could be lifted by a girl of fourteen. The clavichord
and manichord, which we read of in Mozart's letters, were only improved and better-made clavicytheria.
How affecting the thought, that the divine Mozart had nothing better on which to try the ravishing
airs of "The Magic Flute" than a wretched box of brass wires, twanged with pieces of quill!
So it is always, and in all branches of art. Shakespeare's plays, Titian's pictures, the great
cathedrals, Newton's discoveries, Mozart's and Handel's music, were executed while the implements
of art and science were still very rude.

Queen Elizabeth's instrument, the Virginals, was a box of strings, with improved keys, and
mounted on four legs. In other words, it was a small and very bad piano. Why "a pair"? For
the same reason that induces many persons to say "a pair of stairs," and "a pair of compasses,"
that is, no reason at all.

It is plain that the virginals, or virgin's clavichord, was very far from holding the rank
among musical instruments which the piano now possesses. If any of our readers should ever
come upon a thin folio entitled "Musick's Monument," (London, 1676,) we advise him to clutch
it, retire from the haunts of men, and abandon himself to the delight of reading the Izaak
Walton of music. It is a most quaint and curious treatise upon "the Noble Lute, the best of
instruments," with a chapter upon "the generous Viol," by Thomas Mace, "one of the clerks of
Trinity College in the University of Cambridge." Master Mace deigns not to mention keyed instruments,
probably regarding keys as old sailors regard the lubber's hole,--fit only for greenhorns.
The "Noble Lute," of which Thomas Mace discourses, was a large, heavy, pot-bellied guitar with
many strings. We learn from this enthusiastic author, that the noble lute had been calumniated
by some ignorant persons; and it is in refuting their calumnious imputations that he pours
out a torrent of knowledge upon his beloved instrument, and upon the state of music in England
in 1675. In reply to the charge, that the noble lute was a very hard instrument to play upon,
he gives posterity a piece of history. That the lute was hard once, he confesses, but asserts
that "it is now easie, and very familiar."

"The First and Chief Reason that it was Hard in former Times, was, Because they had to their
Lutes but Few Strings; viz. to some 10, some 12, and some 14 Strings, which in the beginning
of my Time were almost altogether in use; (and is this present Year 1675. Fifty four years
since I first began to undertake That Instrument). But soon after, they began to adde more
Strings unto Their Lutes, so that we had Lutes of 16, 18, and 20 Strings; which they finding
to be so Great a Convenience, stayed not long till they added more, to the Number of 24, where
we now rest satisfied; only upon my Theorboes I put 26 Strings, for some Good Reasons I shall
be able to give in due Time and Place."

Another aspersion upon the noble lute was, that it was "a Woman's Instrument." Master Mace
gallantly observes, that if this were true, he cannot understand why it should suffer any disparagement
on that account, "but rather that it should have the more Reputation and Honour."

There are passages in this ancient book which take us back so agreeably to the concert-rooms
and parlors of two hundred years ago, and give us such an insight into the musical resources
of our forefathers, that we shall venture to copy two or three of them. The following brief
discourse upon Pegs is very amusing:--

"And you must know, that from the Badness of the Pegs, arise several Inconveniences; The first
I have named, viz. the Loss of Labour. The 2d. is, the Loss of Time; for I have known some
so extreme long in Tuning their Lutes and Viols, by reason only of Bad Pegs, that They have
wearied out their Auditors before they began to Play. A 3d. Inconvenience is, that oftentimes,
if a High-stretch'd small String happen to slip down, 'tis in great danger to break at the
next winding up, especially in wet moist weather, and that It have been long slack. The 4th.
is, that when a String hath been slipt back, it will not stand in Tune, under many Amendments;
for it is continually in stretching itself, till it come to Its highest stretch. A 5th. is,
that in the midst of a Consort, All the Company must leave off, because of some Eminent String
slipping. A 6th. is, that sometimes ye shall have such a Rap upon the Knuckles, by a sharp-edg'd
Peg, and a stiff strong String, that the very Skin will be taken off. And 7thly. It is oftentimes
an occasion of the Thrusting off the Treble-Peg-Nut, and sometime of the Upper Long Head; And
I have seen the Neck of an Old Viol, thrust off into two pieces, by reason of the Badness of
the Pegs, meerly with the Anger and hasty Choller of Him that has been Tuning. Now I say that
These are very Great Inconveniences, and do adde much to the Trouble and Hardness of the Instrument.
I shall therefore inform you how ye may Help All These with Ease; viz. Thus. When you perceive
any Peg to be troubled with the slippery Disease, assure your self he will never grow better
of Himself, without some of Your Care; Therefore take Him out, and examine the Cause."

We may infer from Master Mace his work, that the trivial virginals were gaining in popular
estimation upon the nobler instrument which is the theme of his eulogy. He has no patience
with those who object to his beloved lute that it is out of fashion. He remarks upon this subject
in a truly delicious strain:--

"I cannot understand, how Arts and Sciences should be subject unto any such Phantastical, Giddy,
or Inconsiderate Toyish Conceits, as ever to be said to be in Fashion, or out of Fashion. I
remember there was a Fashion, not many years since, for Women in their Apparel to be so Pent
up by the Straitness, and Stiffness of their Gown-Shoulder-Sleeves, that They could not so
much as Scratch Their Heads, for the Necessary Remove of a Biting Louse; nor Elevate their
Arms scarcely to feed themselves Handsomly; nor Carve a Dish of Meat at a Table, but their
whole Body must needs Bend towards the Dish. This must needs be concluded by Reason, a most
Vnreasonable, and Inconvenient Fashion; and They as Vnreasonably Inconsiderate, who would be
so Abus'd, and Bound up. I Confess It was a very Good Fashion, for some such Viragoes, who
were us'd to Scratch their Husbands Faces or Eyes, and to pull them down by the Coxcombes.
And I am subject to think, It was a meer Rogery in the Combination, or Club-council of the
Taylors, to Abuse the Women in That Fashion, in Revenge of some of the Curst Dames their Wives."

Some lute-makers, this author informs us, were so famous in Europe, that he had seen lutes
of their making, "pittifull, old, batter'd, crack'd things," that were valued at a hundred
pounds sterling each; and he had often seen lutes of three or four pounds' value "far more
illustrious and taking to a Common eye." In refuting the "aspersion that one had as good keep
a horse (for cost) as a Lute," he declares, that he never in his life "took more than five
shillings the quarter to maintain a Lute with strings, only for the first stringing I ever
took ten shillings." He says, however: "I do confess Those who will be Prodigal and Extraordinary
Curious, may spend as much as may maintain two or three Horses, and Men to ride upon them too,
if they please. But 20s. per ann. is an Ordinary Charge; and much more they need not spend,
to practise very hard."

Keyed instruments, despite the remonstrances of the lutists, continued to advance toward their
present supremacy. As often as an important improvement was introduced, the instrument changed
its name, just as in our day the melodeon was improved into the harmonium, then into the organ-harmonium,
and finally into the cabinet organ. The virginals of 1600 became the spinet of 1700,--so called
because the pieces of quill employed in twanging the strings resembled thorns, and spina, in
Latin, means thorn. Any lady who will take the trouble to mount to the fourth story of the
Messrs. Chickering's piano store in the city of New York, may see such a spinet as Mrs. Washington,
Mrs. Adams, and Mrs. Hamilton played upon when they were little girls. It is a small, harp-shaped
instrument on legs, exceedingly coarse and clumsy in its construction,--the case rough and
unpolished, the legs like those of a kitchen table, with wooden castors such as were formerly
used in the construction of cheap bedsteads of the "trundle" variety. The keys, however, are
much like those now in use, though they are fewer in number, and the ivory is yellow with age.
If the reader would know the tone of this ancient instrument, he has but to stretch a brass
wire across a box between two nails, and twang them with a short pointed piece of quill. And
if the reader would know how much better the year 1867 is than the year 1700, he may first
hear this spinet played upon in Messrs. Chickering's dusty garret, and then descend to one
of the floors below, and listen to the round, full, brilliant singing of a Chickering grand,
of the present illustrious year. By as much as that grand piano is better than that poor little
spinet, by so much is the present time better than the days when Louis XIV. was king. If any
intelligent person doubts it, it is either because he does not know that age, or because he
does not know this age.

The spinet expanded into the harpsichord, the leading instrument from 1700 to 1800. A harpsichord
was nothing but a very large and powerful spinet. Some of them had two strings for each note;
some had three; some had three kinds of strings,--catgut, brass, and steel; and some were painted
and decorated in the most gorgeous style. Frederick the Great had one made for him in London,
with silver hinges, silver pedals, inlaid case, and tortoise-shell front, at a cost of two
hundred guineas. Every part of the construction of the spinet was improved, and many new minor
devices were added; but the harpsichord, in its best estate, was nothing but a spinet, because
its strings were always twanged by a piece of quill. How astonished would an audience be to
hear a harpsichord of 1750, and to be informed that such an instrument Handel felt himself
fortunate to possess!

Next, the piano,--invented at Florence in 1710, by Bartolommeo Cristofali.

The essential difference between a harpsichord and a piano is described by the first name given
to the piano, which was hammer-harpsichord, i. e. a harpsichord the strings of which were struck
by hammers, not twanged by quills. The next name given to it was forte-piano, which signified
soft, with power; and this name became piano-forte, which it still retains. One hundred years
were required to prove to the musical public the value of an invention without which no further
development of stringed instruments had been possible. No improvement in the mere mechanism
of the harpsichord could ever have overcome the trivial effect of the twanging of the strings
by pieces of quill; but the moment the hammer principle was introduced, nothing was wanting
but improved mechanism to make it universal. It required, however, a century to produce the
improvements sufficient to give the piano equal standing with the harpsichord. The first pianos
gave forth a dull and feeble sound to ears accustomed to the clear and harp-like notes of the
fashionable instrument.

In that same upper room of the Messrs. Chickering, near the spinet just mentioned, there is
an instrument, made perhaps about the year 1800, which explains why the piano was so slow in
making its way. It resembles in form and size a grand piano of the present time, though of
coarsest finish and most primitive construction, with thin, square, kitchen-table legs, and
wooden knobs for castors. This interesting instrument has two rows of keys, and is both a harpsichord
and a piano,--one set of keys twanging the wires, and the other set striking them. The effect
of the piano notes is so faint and dull, that we cannot wonder at the general preference for
the harpsichord for so many years. It appears to have been a common thing in the last century
to combine two or more instruments in one. Dr. Charles Burney, writing in 1770, mentions "a
very curious keyed instrument" made under the direction of Frederick II. of Prussia. "It is
in shape like a large clavichord, has several changes of stops, and is occasionally a harp,
a harpsichord, a lute, or piano-forte; but the most curious property of this instrument is,
that, by drawing out the keys, the hammers are transferred to different strings. By which means
a composition may be transposed half a note, a whole note, or a flat third lower at pleasure,
without the embarrassment of different notes or clefs, real or imaginary."

The same sprightly author tells us of "a fine Rucker harpsichord, which he has had painted
inside and out with as much delicacy as the finest coach, or even snuff-box, I ever saw at
Paris. On the outside is the birth of Venus; and on the inside of the cover, the story of Rameau's
most famous opera, Castor and Pollux. Earth, Hell, and Elysium are there represented; in Elysium,
sitting on a bank, with a lyre in his hand, is that celebrated composer himself."

This gay instrument was at Paris. In Italy, the native home of music, the keyed instruments,
in 1770, Dr. Burney says, were exceedingly inferior to those of the North of Europe. "Throughout
Italy, they have generally little octave spinets to accompany singing in private houses, sometimes
in a triangular form, but more frequently in the shape of an old virginal; of which the keys
are so noisy and the tone is so feeble, that more wood is heard than wire. I found three English
harpsichords in the three principal cities of Italy, which are regarded by the Italians as
so many phenomena."

To this day Italy depends upon foreign countries for her best musical instruments. Italy can
as little make a grand piano as America can compose a grand opera.

The history of the piano from 1710 to 1867 is nothing but a history of the improved mechanism
of the instrument. The moment the idea was conceived of striking the strings with hammers,
unlimited improvement was possible; and though the piano of to-day is covered all over with
ingenious devices, the great, essential improvements are few in number. The hammer, for example,
may contain one hundred ingenuities, but they are all included in the device of covering the
first wooden hammers with cloth; and the master-thought of making the whole frame of the piano
of iron suggested the line of improvement which secures the supremacy of the piano over all
other stringed instruments forever.

Sebastian Erard, the son of a Strasbourg upholsterer, went to Paris, a poor orphan of sixteen,
in the year 1768, and, finding employment in the establishment of a harpsichord-maker, rose
rapidly to the foremanship of the shop, and was soon in business for himself as a maker of
harpsichords, harps, and pianos. To him, perhaps, more than to any other individual, the fine
interior mechanism of the piano is indebted; and the house founded by Sebastian Erard still
produces the pianos which enjoy the most extensive reputation in the Old World. He may be said
to have created the "action" of the piano, though his devices have been subsequently improved
upon by others. He found the piano in 1768 feeble and unknown; he left it, at his death in
1831, the most powerful, pleasing, and popular stringed instrument in existence; and, besides
gaining a colossal fortune for himself, he bequeathed to his nephew, Pierre Erard, the most
celebrated manufactory of pianos in the world. Next to Erard ranks John Broadwood, a Scotchman,
who came to London about the time of Erard's arrival in Paris, and, like him, procured employment
with a harpsichord-maker, the most noted one in England. John Broadwood was a "good apprentice,"
married his master's daughter, inherited his business, and carried it on with such success,
that, to-day, the house of Broadwood and Sons is the first of its line in England. John Broadwood
was chiefly meritorious for a general improvement in the construction of the instrument. If
he did not originate many important devices, he was eager to adopt those of others, and he
made the whole instrument with British thoroughness. The strings, the action, the case, the
pedals, and all the numberless details of mechanism received his thoughtful attention, and
show to the present time traces of his honest and intelligent mind. It was in this John Broadwood's
factory that a poor German boy named John Jacob Astor earned the few pounds that paid his passage
to America, and bought the seven flutes which were the foundation of the great Astor estate.
For several years, the sale of the Broadwood pianos in New York was an important part of Mr.
Astor's business. He used to sell his furs in London, and invest part of the proceeds in pianos,
for exportation to New York.

America began early to try her hand at improving the instrument. Mr. Jefferson, in the year
1800, in one of his letters to his daughter Martha, speaks of "a very ingenious, modest, and
poor young man" in Philadelphia, who "has invented one of the prettiest improvements in the
forte-piano I have ever seen." Mr. Jefferson, who was himself a player upon the violin, and
had some little skill upon the harpsichord, adds, "It has tempted me to engage one for Monticello."
This instrument was an upright piano, and we have found no mention of an upright of an earlier
date. "His strings," says Mr. Jefferson, "are perpendicular, and he contrives within that height"
(not given in the published extract) "to give his strings the same length as in the grand forte-piano,
and fixes his three unisons to the same screw, which screw is in the direction of the strings,
and therefore never yields. It scarcely gets out of tune at all, and then, for the most part,
the three unisons are tuned at once." This is an interesting passage; for, although the "forte-pianos"
of this modest young man have left no trace upon the history of the instrument, it shows that
America had no sooner cast an eye upon its mechanism than she set to work improving it. Can
it be that the upright piano was an American invention? It may be. The Messrs. Broadwood, in
the little book which lay upon their pianos in the Exhibition of 1851, say that the first vertical
or cabinet pianos were constructed by William Southwell, of their house, in 1804, four years
after the date of Mr. Jefferson's letter.

After 1800 there were a few pianos made every year in the United States, but none that could
compare with the best Erards and Broadwoods, until the Chickering era, which began in 1823.

The two Americans to whom music is most indebted in the United States are Jonas Chickering,
piano-maker, born in New Hampshire in 1798, and Lowell Mason, singing teacher and composer
of church tunes, born in Massachusetts in 1792. While Lowell Mason was creating the taste for
music, Jonas Chickering was improving the instrument by which musical taste is chiefly gratified;
and both being established in Boston, each of them was instrumental in advancing the fortunes
of the other. Mr. Mason recommended the Chickering piano to his multitudinous classes and choirs,
and thus powerfully aided to give that extent to Mr. Chickering's business which is necessary
to the production of the best work. Both of them began their musical career, we may say, in
childhood; for Jonas Chickering was only a cabinet-maker's apprentice when he astonished his
native village by putting in excellent playing order a battered old piano, long before laid
aside; and Lowell Mason, at sixteen, was already leading a large church choir, and drilling
a brass band. The undertaking of this brass band by a boy was an amusing instance of Yankee
audacity; for when the youth presented himself to the newly formed band to give them their
first lesson, he found so many instruments in their hands which he had never seen nor heard
of, that he could not proceed. "Gentlemen," said he, "I see that a good many of your instruments
are out of order, and most of them need a little oil, or something of the kind. Our best plan
will be to adjourn for a week. Leave all your instruments with me, and I will have them in
perfect condition by the time we meet again." Before the band again came together, the young
teacher, by working night and day, had gained a sufficient insight into the nature of the instruments
to instruct those who knew nothing of them.

Jonas Chickering was essentially a mechanic,--a most skilful, patient, thoughtful, faithful
mechanic,--and it was his excellence as a mechanic which enabled him to rear an establishment
which, beginning with one or two pianos a month, was producing, at the death of the founder,
in 1853, fifteen hundred pianos a year. It was he who introduced into the piano the full iron
frame. It was he who first made American pianos that were equal to the best imported ones.
He is universally recognized as the true founder of the manufacture of the piano in the United
States. No man has, perhaps, so nobly illustrated the character of the American mechanic, or
more honored the name of American citizen. He was the soul of benevolence, truth, and honor.
When we have recovered a little more from the infatuation which invests "public men" with supreme
importance, we shall better know how to value those heroes of the apron, who, by a life of
conscientious toil, place a new source of happiness, or of force, within the reach of their
fellow-citizens.

Henry Steinway, the founder of the great house of Steinway and Sons, has had a career not unlike
that of Mr. Chickering. He also, in his native Brunswick, amused his boyhood by repairing old
instruments of music, and making new ones. He made a cithara and a guitar for himself with
only such tools as a boy can command. He also was apprenticed to a cabinet-maker, and was drawn
away, by natural bias, from the business he had learned, to the making of organs and pianos.
For many years he was a German piano-maker, producing, in the slow, German manner, two or three
excellent instruments a month; striving ever after higher excellence, and growing more and
more dissatisfied with the limited sphere in which the inhabitant of a small German state necessarily
works. In 1849, being then past fifty years of age, and the father of four intelligent and
gifted sons, he looked to America for a wider range and a more promising home for his boys.
With German prudence, he sent one of them to New York to see what prospect there might be there
for another maker of pianos. Charles Steinway came, saw, approved, returned, reported; and
in 1850 all the family reached New York, except the eldest son, Theodore, who succeeded to
his father's business in Brunswick. Henry Steinway again showed himself wise in not immediately
going into business. Depositing the capital he had brought with him in a safe place, he donned
once more the journeyman's apron, and worked for three years in a New York piano factory to
learn the ways of the trade in America; and his sons obtained similar employment,--one of them,
fortunately, becoming a tuner, which brought him into relations with many music-teachers. During
these three years, their knowledge and their capital increased every day, for they lived as
wise men in such circumstances do live who mean to control their destiny. In plain English,
they kept their eyes open, and lived on half their income. In 1853, in a small back shop in
Varick Street, with infinite pains, they made their first piano, and a number of teachers and
amateurs were invited to listen to it. It was warmly approved and speedily sold. Ten men were
employed, who produced for the next two years one piano a week. In 1855, the Messrs. Steinway,
still unknown to the public, placed one of their best instruments in the New York Crystal Palace
Exhibition. A member of the musical jury has recorded the scene which occurred when the jury
came to this unknown competitor:--

"They were pursuing their rounds, and performing their duties with an ease and facility that
promised a speedy termination to their labors, when suddenly they came upon an instrument that,
from its external appearance,--solidly rich, yet free from the frippery that was then rather
in fashion,--attracted their attention. One of the company opened the case, and carelessly
struck a few chords. The others were doing the same with its neighbors, but somehow they ceased
to chatter when the other instrument began to speak. One by one the jurors gathered round the
strange polyphonist, and, without a word being spoken, every one knew that it was the best
piano-forte in the Exhibition. The jurors were true to their duties. It is possible that some
of them had predilections in favor of other makers; it is certain that one of them had,--the
writer of the present notice. But when the time for the award came, there was no argument,
no discussion, no bare presentment of minor claims; nothing, in fact, but a hearty indorsement
of the singular merits of the strange instrument."

From that time the Steinways made rapid progress. The tide of California gold was flowing in,
and every day some one was getting rich enough to treat his family to a new piano. It was the
Messrs. Steinway who chiefly supplied the new demand, without lessening by one instrument a
month the business of older houses. Various improvements in the framing and mechanism of the
piano have been invented and introduced by them; and, while some members of the family have
superintended the manufacture, others have conducted the not less difficult business of selling.
To this hour, the father of the family, in the dress of a workman, attends daily at the factory,
as vigilant and active as ever, though now past seventy; and his surviving sons are as laboriously
engaged in assisting him as they were in the infancy of the establishment.

Besides the Chickerings and the Steinways, there are twenty manufacturers in the United States
whose production exceeds one hundred pianos per annum. Messrs. Knabe & Co. of Baltimore, who
supply large portions of the South and West, sold about a thousand pianos in the year 1866;
W. P. Emerson of Boston, 935; Messrs. Haines Brothers of New York, 830; Messrs. Hallett and
Davis of Boston, 462; Ernest Gabler of New York, 312; Messrs. E. C. Lighte & Co. of New York,
286; Messrs. Hazelton and Brothers of New York, 269; Albert Webber of New York, 266; Messrs.
Decker Brothers of New York, 256; Messrs. George Steck and Co. of New York, 244; W. I. Bradbury
of New York, 244; Messrs. Lindeman and Sons of New York, 223; the New York Piano-forte Company,
139. About one half of all the pianos made in the United States are made in the city of New York.

To visit one of our large manufactories of pianos is a lesson in the noble art of taking pains.
Genius itself, says Carlyle, means, first of all, "a transcendent capacity for taking trouble."
Everywhere in these vast and interesting establishments we find what we may call the perfection
of painstaking.

The construction of an American piano is a continual act of defensive warfare against the future
inroads of our climate,--a climate which is polar for a few days in January, tropical for a
week or two in July, Nova-Scotian now and then in November, and at all times most trying to
the finer woods, leathers, and fabrics. To make a piano is now not so difficult; but to make
one that will stand in America,--that is very difficult. In the rear of the Messrs. Steinway's
factory there is a yard for seasoning timber, which usually contains an amount of material
equal to two hundred and fifty thousand ordinary boards, an inch thick and twelve feet long;
and there it remains from four months to five years, according to its nature and magnitude.
Most of the timber used in an American piano requires two years' seasoning at least. From this
yard it is transferred to the steam-drying house, where it remains subjected to a high temperature
for three months. The wood has then lost nearly all the warp there ever was in it, and the
temperature may change fifty degrees in twelve hours (as it does sometimes in New York) without
seriously affecting a fibre. Besides this, the timber is sawed in such a manner as to neutralize,
in some degree, its tendency to warp, or, rather, so as to make it warp the right way. The
reader would be surprised to hear the great makers converse on this subject of the warping
of timber. They have studied the laws which govern warping; they know why wood warps, how each
variety warps, how long a time each kind continues to warp, and how to fit one warp against
another, so as to neutralize both. If two or more pieces of wood are to be glued together,
it is never done at random; but they are so adjusted that one will tend to warp one way, and
another another. Even the thin veneers upon the case act as a restraining force upon the baser
wood which they cover, and in some parts of the instrument the veneer is double for the purpose
of keeping both in order. An astonishing amount of thought and experiment has been expended
upon this matter of warping,--so much, that now not a piece of wood is employed in a piano,
the grain of which does not run in the precise direction which experience has shown to be the best.

The forests of the whole earth have been searched for woods adapted to the different parts
of the instrument. Dr. Rimbault, in his learned "History of the Piano-forte," published recently
in London, gives a catalogue of the various woods, metals, skins, and fabrics used in the construction
of a piano, which forcibly illustrates the delicacy of the modern instrument and the infinite
care taken in its manufacture. We copy the list, though some of the materials differ from those
used by American manufacturers.

MATERIALS.                 WHERE USED.

Woods.     From

Oak         Riga           Framing, various parts.

Deal        Norway         Wood-bracing, &c.

Fir         Switzerland    Sounding-board.

Pine        America        Parts of framing, key-bed
                             or bottom.

Mahogany    Honduras       Solid wood of top, and various
                             parts of the framing
                             and the action.

Beech       England        Wrest-plank, bridge or
                             sound-board, centre of
                             legs.

Beef-wood   Brazils        Tongues in the beam,
                             forming the divisions
                             between the hammers.

Birch       Canada         Belly-rail, a part of the
                             framing.

Cedar       S. America     Round shanks of hammers.

Lime-tree   England        Keys.

Pear-tree   ----           Heads of dampers.

Sycamore    ----           Hoppers or levers, veneers
                             on wrest-plank.

Ebony       Ceylon         Black keys.

Spanish                    \ Mahogany    Cuba            \ Rosewood    Rio Janeiro     | Satinwood
East Indies     |--   For decoration. White Holly England         | Zebra-wood  Brazils   
| Other fancy                 / woods                      /

Woollen Fabrics.

Baize; green, blue,
     and brown             Upper surface of key-frame,
                             cushions for hammers to fall
                             on, to damp dead part of
                             strings, &c.

Cloth, various qualities   For various parts of the action
                             and in other places, to prevent
                             jarring; also for dampers.

Felt                       External covering for hammers.

Leather.

Buffalo              Under-covering of hammers-bass. Saddle                    "         "
tenor and treble. Basil           \ Calf            | Doeskin         |--  Various parts of
action. Seal            | Sheepskin       | Morocco         / Sole                 Rings for
pedal wires.

Metal.

Iron            \    Metallic bracing, and in various small Steel           |--  screws, springs,
centres, pins, &c., Brass           |    &c., throughout the instrument. Gun metal       /
Steel wire           Strings. Steel spun wire      Lapped strings. Covered copper wire    "
"   lowest notes.

Various.

Ivory                White keys.

Black lead           To smooth the rubbing surfaces of cloth
                       or leather in the action.

Glue (of a particular quality  \ made expressly for             |--  Woodwork throughout. this
trade.                    /

Beeswax, emery paper,          \ glass paper, French polish,    |--  Cleaning and finishing.
oil, putty powder,             | spirits of wine, &c., &c.      /

Such are the materials used. The processes to which they are subjected are far more numerous.
So numerous are they and so complicated, that the Steinways, who employ five hundred and twelve
men, and labor-saving machinery which does the work of five hundred men more, aided by three
steam-engines of a hundred and twenty-five, fifty, and twenty-five horse-power, can only produce
from forty-five to fifty-five pianos a week. The average number is about fifty,--six grand,
four upright, and forty square. The reader has seen, doubtless, a piano with the top taken
off; but perhaps it has never occurred to him what a tremendous pull those fifty to sixty strings
are keeping up, day and night, from one year's end to another. The shortest and thinnest string
of all pulls two hundred and sixty-two pounds,--about as much as we should care to lift; and
the entire pull of the strings of a grand piano is sixty pounds less than twenty tons,--a load
for twenty cart-horses. The fundamental difficulty in the construction of a piano has always
been to support this continuous strain. When we look into a piano we see the "iron frame" so
much vaunted in the advertisements, and so splendid with bronze and gilding; but it is not
this thin plate of cast-iron that resists the strain of twenty tons. If the wires were to pull
upon the iron for one second, it would fly into atoms. The iron plate is screwed to what is
called the "bottom" of the piano, which is a mass of timber four inches thick, composed of
three layers of plank glued together, and so arranged that the pull of the wires shall be in
a line with the grain of the wood. The iron plate itself is subjected to a long course of treatment.
The rough casting is brought from the foundery, placed under the drilling-machine, which bores
many scores of holes of various sizes with marvellous rapidity. Then it is smoothed and finished
with the file; next, it is japanned; after which it is baked in an oven for forty-eight hours.
It is then ready for the bronzer and gilder, who covers the greater part of the surface with
a light-yellow bronzing, and brightens it here and there with gilding. All this long process
is necessary in order to make the plate retain its brilliancy of color.

Upon this solid foundation of timber and iron the delicate instrument is built, and it is enclosed
in a case constructed with still greater care. To make so large a box, and one so thin, as
the case of a piano stand our summer heats and our furnace heats (still more trying), is a
work of extreme difficulty. The seasoned boards are covered with a double veneer, designed
to counteract all the tendencies to warp; and the surface is most laboriously polished. It
takes three months to varnish and polish the case of a piano. In such a factory as the Steinways'
or the Chickerings', there will be always six or seven hundred cases undergoing this expensive
process. When the surface of the wood has been made as smooth as sand-paper can make it, the
first coat of varnish is applied, and this requires eight days to harden. Then all the varnish
is scraped off, except that which has sunk into the pores of the wood. The second coat is then
put on; which, after eight days' drying, is also scraped away, until the surface of the veneer
is laid bare again. After this four or five coats of varnish are added, at intervals of eight
days, and, finally, the last polish is produced by the hand of the workman. The object of all
this is not merely to produce a splendid and enduring gloss, but to make the case stand for
a hundred years in a room which is heated by a furnace to seventy degrees by day, and in which
water will freeze at night. During the war, when good varnish cost as much as the best champagne,
the varnish bills of the leading makers were formidable indeed.

The labor, however, is the chief item of expense. The average wages of the five hundred and
twelve men employed by the Messrs. Steinway is twenty-six dollars a week. This force, aided
by one hundred and two labor-saving machines, driven by steam-power equivalent to two hundred
horses, produces a piano in one hour and fifteen minutes. A man with the ordinary tools can
make a piano in about four months, but it could not possibly be as good a one as those produced
in the large establishments. Nor, indeed, is such a feat ever attempted in the United States.
The small makers, who manufacture from one to five instruments a week, generally, as already
mentioned, buy the different parts from persons who make only parts. It is a business to make
the hammers of a piano; it is another business to make the "action"; another, to make the keys;
another, the legs; another, the cases; another, the pedals. The manufacture of the hardware
used in a piano is a very important branch, and it is a separate business to sell it. The London
Directory enumerates forty-two different trades and businesses related to the piano, and we
presume there are not fewer in New York. Consequently, any man who knows enough of a piano
to put one together, and can command capital enough to buy the parts of one instrument, may
boldly fling his sign to the breeze, and announce himself to an inattentive public as a "piano-forte-maker."
The only difficulty is to sell the piano when it is put together. At present it costs rather
more money to sell a piano than it does to make one.

When the case is finished, all except the final hand-polish, it is taken to the sounding-board
room. The sounding-board--a thin, clear sheet of spruce under the strings--is the piano's soul,
wanting which, it were a dead thing. Almost every resonant substance in nature has been tried
for sounding-boards, but nothing has been found equal to spruce. Countless experiments have
been made with a view to ascertain precisely the best way of shaping, arranging, and fixing
the sounding-board, the best thickness, the best number and direction of the supporting ribs;
and every great maker is happy in the conviction that he is a little better in sounding-boards
than any of his rivals. Next, the strings are inserted; next, the action and the keys. Every
one will pause to admire the hammers of the piano, so light, yet so capable of giving a telling
blow, which evoke all the music of the strings, but mingle with that music no click, nor thud,
nor thump, of their own. The felt employed varies in thickness from one sixteenth of an inch
to an inch and an eighth, and costs $5.75 in gold per pound. Only Paris, it seems, can make
it good enough for the purpose. Many of the keys have a double felting, compressed from an
inch and a half to three quarters of an inch, and others again have an outer covering of leather
to keep the strings from cutting the felt. Simple as the finished hammer looks, there are a
hundred and fifty years of thought and experiment in it. It required half a century to exhaust
the different kinds of wood, bone, and cork; and when, about 1760, the idea was conceived of
covering the hammers with something soft, another century was to elapse before all the leathers
and fabrics had been tried, and felt found to be the ne plus ultra. With regard to the action,
or the mechanism by which the hammers are made to strike the strings, we must refer the inquisitive
reader to the piano itself.

When all the parts have been placed in the case, the instrument falls into the hands of the
"regulator," who inspects, rectifies, tunes, harmonizes, perfects the whole. Nothing then remains
but to convey it to the store, give it its final polish and its last tuning.

The next thing is to sell it. Six hundred and fifty dollars seems a high price for a square
piano, such as we used to buy for three hundred, and the "natural cost" of which does not much
exceed two hundred dollars. Fifteen hundred dollars for a grand piano is also rather startling.
But how much tax, does the reader suppose, is paid upon a fifteen-hundred-dollar grand? It
is difficult to compute it; but it does not fall much below two hundred dollars. The five per
cent manufacturer's tax, which is paid upon the price of the finished instrument, has also
to be paid upon various parts, such as the wire; and upon the imported articles there is a
high tariff. It is computed that the taxes upon very complicated articles, in which a great
variety of materials are employed, such as carriages, pianos, organs, and fine furniture, amount
to about one eighth of the price. The piano, too, is an expensive creature to keep, in these
times of high rents, and its fare upon a railroad is higher than that of its owner. We saw,
however, a magnificent piano, the other day, at the establishment of Messrs. Chickering, in
Broadway, for which passage had been secured all the way to Oregon for thirty-five dollars,--only
five dollars more than it would cost to transport it to Chicago. Happily for us, to whom fifteen
hundred dollars--nay, six hundred and fifty dollars--is an enormous sum of money, a very good
second-hand piano is always attainable for less than half the original price.

For, reader, you must know that the ostentation of the rich is always putting costly pleasures
within the reach of the refined not-rich. A piano in its time plays many parts, and figures
in a variety of scenes. Like the more delicate and sympathetic kinds of human beings, it is
naught unless it is valued; but, being valued, it is a treasure beyond price. Cold, glittering,
and dumb, it stands among the tasteless splendors with which the wealthy ignorant cumber their
dreary abodes,--a thing of ostentation merely,--as uninteresting as the women who surround
it, gorgeously apparelled, but without conversation, conscious of defective parts of speech.
"There is much music, excellent voice, in that little organ," but there is no one there who
can "make it speak." They may "fret" the noble instrument; they "cannot play upon it."

But a fool and his nine-hundred-dollar piano are soon parted. The red flag of the auctioneer
announces its transfer to a drawing-room frequented by persons capable of enjoying the refined
pleasures. Bright and joyous is the scene, about half past nine in the evening, when, by turns,
the ladies try over their newest pieces, or else listen with intelligent pleasure to the performance
of a master. Pleasant are the informal family concerts in such a house, when one sister breaks
down under the difficulties of Thalberg, and yields the piano-stool to the musical genius of
the family, who takes up the note, and, dashing gayly into the midst of "Egitto," forces a
path through the wilderness, takes the Red Sea like a heroine, bursts at length into the triumphal
prayer, and retires from the instrument as calm as a summer morning. On occasions of ceremony,
too, the piano has a part to perform, though a humble one. Awkward pauses will occur in all
but the best-regulated parties, and people will get together, in the best houses, who quench
and neutralize one another. It is the piano that fills those pauses, and gives a welcome respite
to the toil of forcing conversation. How could "society" go on without the occasional interposition
of the piano? One hundred and sixty years ago, in those days beloved and vaunted by Thackeray,
when Louis XIV. was king of France, and Anne queen of England, society danced, tattled, and
gambled. Cards have receded as the piano has advanced in importance.

From such a drawing-room as this, after a stay of some years, the piano may pass into a boarding-school,
and thence into the sitting-room of a family who have pinched for two years to buy it. "It
must have been," says Henry Ward Beecher, "about the year 1820, in old Litchfield, Connecticut,
upon waking one fine morning, that we heard music in the parlor, and, hastening down, beheld
an upright piano, the first we ever saw or heard of! Nothing can describe the amazement of
silence that filled us. It rose almost to superstitious reverence, and all that day was a dream
and marvel." It is such pianos that are appreciated. It is in such parlors that the instrument
best answers the end of its creation. There is many a piano in the back room of a little store,
or in the uncarpeted sitting-room of a farm-house, that yields a larger revenue of delight
than the splendid grand of a splendid drawing-room. In these humble abodes of refined intelligence,
the piano is a dear and honored member of the family.

The piano now has a rival in the United States in that fine instrument before mentioned, which
has grown from the melodeon into the cabinet organ. We do not hesitate to say, that the cabinet
organs of Messrs. Mason and Hamlin only need to be as generally known as the piano in order
to share the favor of the public equally with it. It seems to us peculiarly the instrument
for men. We trust the time is at hand when it will be seen that it is not less desirable for
boys to learn to play upon an instrument than girls; and how much more a little skill in performing
may do for a man than for a woman! A boy can hardly be a perfect savage, nor a man a money-maker
or a pietist, who has acquired sufficient command of an instrument to play upon it with pleasure.
How often, when we have been listening to the swelling music of the cabinet organs at the ware-rooms
of Messrs. Mason and Hamlin in Broadway, have we desired to put one of those instruments in
every clerk's boarding-house room, and tell him to take all the ennui, and half the peril,
out of his life by learning to play upon it! No business man who works as intensely as we do
can keep alive the celestial harmonies within him,--no, nor the early wrinkles from his face,--without
some such pleasant mingling of bodily rest and mental exercise as playing upon an instrument.

The simplicity of the means by which music is produced from the cabinet organ is truly remarkable.
It is called a "reed" instrument; which leads many to suppose that the cane-brake is despoiled
to procure its sound-giving apparatus. Not so. The reed employed is nothing but a thin strip
of brass with a tongue slit in it, the vibration of which causes the musical sound. One of
the reeds, though it produces a volume of sound only surpassed by the pipes of an organ, weighs
about an ounce, and can be carried in a vest-pocket. In fact, a cabinet organ is simply an
accordeon of immense power and improved mechanism. Twenty years ago, one of our melodeon-makers
chanced to observe that the accordeon produced a better tone when it was drawn out than when
it was pushed in; and this fact suggested the first great improvement in the melodeon. Before
that time, the wind from the bellows, in all melodeons, was forced through the reeds. Melodeons
on the improved principle were constructed so that the wind was drawn through the reeds. The
credit of introducing this improvement is due to the well-known firm of Carhart, Needham, &
Co., and it was as decided an improvement in the melodeon as the introduction of the hammer
in the harpsichord.

At this point of development, the instrument was taken up by Messrs. Mason and Hamlin, who
have covered it with improvements, and rendered it one of the most pleasing musical instruments
in the possession of mankind. When we remarked above, that the American piano was the best
in the world, we only expressed the opinion of others; but now that we assert the superiority
of the American cabinet organ over similar instruments made in London and Paris, we are communicating
knowledge of our own. Indeed, the superiority is so marked that it is apparent to the merest
tyro in music. During the year 1866, the number of these instruments produced in the United
States by the twenty-five manufacturers was about fifteen thousand, which were sold for one
million six hundred thousand dollars, or a little more than one hundred dollars each. Messrs.
Mason and Hamlin, who manufacture one fourth of the whole number, produce thirty-five kinds,
varying in power, compass, and decoration, and in price from seventy-five dollars to twelve
hundred. In the new towns of the great West, the cabinet organ is usually the first instrument
of music to arrive, and, of late years, it takes its place with the piano in the fashionable
drawing-rooms of the Atlantic States.

Few Americans, we presume, expected that the department of the Paris Exposition in which the
United States should most surpass other nations would be that appropriated to musical instruments.
Even our cornets and bugles are highly commended in Paris. The cabinet organs, according to
several correspondents, are much admired. We can hardly credit the assertion of an intelligent
correspondent of the Tribune, that the superiority of the American pianos is not "questioned"
by Erard, Pleyel, and Hertz, but we can well believe that it is acknowledged by the great players
congregated at Paris. The aged Rossini is reported to have said, after listening to an American
piano, "It is like a nightingale cooing in a thunder-storm."

AN EMBER-PICTURE.

    How strange are the freaks of memory!
      The lessons of life we forget,
    While a trifle, a trick of color,
      In the wonderful web is set,--

    Set by some mordant of fancy,
      And, despite the wear and tear
    Of time or distance or trouble,
      Insists on its right to be there.

    A chance had brought us together;
      Our talk was of matters of course;
    We were nothing, one to the other,
      But a short half-hour's resource.

    We spoke of French acting and actors,
      And their easy, natural way,--
    Of the weather, for it was raining
      As we drove home from the play.

    We debated the social nothings
      Men take such pains to discuss;
    The thunderous rumors of battle
      Were silent the while for us.

    Arrived at her door, we left her
      With a drippingly hurried adieu,
    And our wheels went crunching the gravel
      Of the oak-darkened avenue.

    As we drove away through the shadow,
      The candle she held in the door,
    From rain-varnished tree-trunk to tree-trunk
      Flashed fainter, and flashed no more,--

    Flashed fainter and wholly faded
      Before we had passed the wood;
    But the light of the face behind it
      Went with me and stayed for good.

    The vision of scarce a moment,
      And hardly marked at the time,
    It comes unbidden to haunt me,
      Like a scrap of ballad-rhyme.

    Had she beauty? Well, not what they call so:
      You may find a thousand as fair,
    And yet there's her face in my memory,
      With no special right to be there.

    As I sit sometimes in the twilight,
      And call back to life in the coals
    Old faces and hopes and fancies
      Long buried,--good rest to their souls!--

    Her face shines out of the embers;
      I see her holding the light,
    And hear the crunch of the gravel
      And the sweep of the rain that night.

    'Tis a face that can never grow older,
      That never can part with its gleam;
    'Tis a gracious possession forever,
      For what is it all but a dream?

AN ARTIST'S DREAM. I could not wonder. Who would not thrill at the touch of some such memorial
of Mary of Scotland, or of Heloise? and what was all the regal beauty of the past to him? It
is my only dream. It has all vanished. Sometimes she seemed to stop and ask a question, and
at every answer I could see her father's arm tighten, and the iron girdle grow more close.

THE RELIGIOUS SIDE OF THE ITALIAN QUESTION.

I.

I have of late frequently been asked by my English friends why it is that I decline to return
to my country, and to associate my own efforts for the moral and political advancement of Italy
with those of her governing classes. "The amnesty has opened up a path for the legal dissemination
of your ideas," they tell me. "By taking the place already repeatedly offered you among the
representatives of the people, you would secure to those who hold the helm of the state the
support of the whole Republican party. Do you not, by throwing the weight of your name and
influence on the side of the malcontents, increase the difficulties of the government, and
prolong the fatal want of moral and political unity, without which the mere material fact of
union is barren, and unproductive of benefit to the people?"

The question is asked by serious men, who wish my country well, and is therefore deserving
of a serious answer.

Before treating the personal matter, however, let me say that, since 1859, the Republican party
has done precisely what my English friends required it to do. The Italian Republicans have
actually assisted and upheld the government with an abnegation worthy of all praise,--sacrificing
even their right of Apostolate to the great idea of Italian unity. Perceiving that the nation
was determined to give monarchy the benefit of a trial, they have--in that reverence for the
national will which is the first duty of Republicans--patiently awaited its results, and endured
every form of misgovernment rather than afford a pretext to those in power for the non-fulfilment
of their declared intention of initiating a war to regain our own territory and true frontier,--a
war without which, as they well knew, the permanent security and dignity of Italy were impossible,
and which, had it been conducted from a truly national point of view, would have wrought the
moral redemption of our people.

The monarchy, however, which, as I pointed out in my article on "The Republican Alliance,"
had had five years to prepare, and was in a position to take the field with thirty-five thousand
regular troops, one hundred thousand mobilized National Guards, thirty thousand volunteers
under Garibaldi, and the whole of Italy ready to act as reserve, and make any sacrifices in
blood or money, abruptly broke off the war after the unqualifiable disasters of Custozza and
Lissa, at a signal from France,--basely abandoning our true frontier, the heroic Trentino,--and
accepted Venice as an alms scornfully flung to us by the man of the 2d of December.

I may be told that a people of twenty-four millions who tamely submit to dishonor deserve it.

I admit it; but it must not be forgotten that our masses are uneducated, and that it is the
natural tendency of the uneducated to accept their rulers as their guides, and to govern their
own conduct by the example of their soi-disant superiors; and I assert that, if our people
have no consciousness of their great destiny, nor sense of their true power and mission,--if,
while twenty-four millions of Italians are at the present day grouped around, I will not say
the conception of unity, but the mere unstable fact of union, the great soul of Italy still
lies prostrate in the tomb dug for her three centuries ago by the Papacy and the Empire,--the
cause is to be found in the immorality and corruption of our rulers.

The true life of a people must be sought in the ruling idea or conception by which it is governed
and directed.

The true idea of a nation implies the consciousness of a common aim, and the fraternal association
and concentration of all the vital forces of the country towards the realization of that aim.

The national aim is indicated by the past tradition, and confirmed by the present conscience,
of the country.

The national aim once ascertained, it becomes the basis of the sovereign power, and the criterion
of judgment with regard to the acts of the citizens.

Every act tending to promote the national aim is good; every act tending to a departure from
that aim is evil.

The moral law is supreme. The religion of duty forms the link between the nation and humanity;
the source of its right, and the sign of its place and value in humanity.

       *       *       *       *       *

Such are the essential characteristics of what we term a nation at the present day. Where these
are wanting, there exists but an aggregate of families, temporarily united for the purpose
of diminishing the ills of life, and loosely bound together by past habits or interests, which
are destined, sooner or later, to clash. All intellectual or economic development among them,--unregulated
by a great conception supreme over every selfish interest,--instead of being equally diffused
over the various members of the national family, leads to the gradual formation of educated
or financial castes, but obtains for the nation itself neither recognized function, position,
dignity, nor glory among foreign peoples.

These things, which are true of all peoples, are still more markedly so of a people emerging
from a prolonged and deathlike stupor into new life. Other nations earnestly watch its every
step. If its advance is illumined by the signs of a high mission, and its first manifestations
sanctified by the baptism of a great principle, other nations will surround the new collective
being with affection and hope, and be ready to follow it upon the path assigned to it by God.
If they discover in it no signs of any noble inspiration, ruling moral conception, or potent
future, they will learn to despise it, and to regard its territory as a new field for a predatory
policy, and direct or indirect domination.

Tradition has marked out and defined the characteristics of a high mission more distinctly
in Italy than elsewhere. We alone, among the nations that have expired in the past, have twice
arisen in resurrection and given new life to Europe. The innate tendency of the Italian mind
always to harmonize thought and action confirms the prophecy of history, and points out the
rôle of Italy in the world to be a work of moral unification,--the utterance of the synthetic
word of civilization.

Italy is a religion.

And if we look only to the immediate national aim, and the inevitable consequences that must
follow the complete constitution of Italy as a nation, we see that to no people in Europe has
been assigned a higher office in the fulfilment of the educational design, to the evolution
of which Providence guides humanity from epoch to epoch. Our unity will be of itself a potent
initiative in the world. The mere fact of our existence as a nation will carry with it an important
modification of the external and internal life of Europe.

Had we regained Venice through a war directed as justice and the exigencies of the case required,
instead of basely submitting to the humiliation of receiving it from the hands of a foreign
despot, we should have dissolved two empires, and called into existence a Slavo-Magyaro-Teutonic
federation along the Danube, and a Slavo-Hellenic-Rouman federation in the east of Europe.

We shall not regain Rome without dissolving the Papacy, and proclaiming, for the benefit of
all humanity, that inviolability of conscience which Protestantism achieved for a fraction
of Europe only, and confined within Biblical limits.

Great ideas make great peoples, and the sense of the enormous power which is an inseparable
condition of the existence of our Italy as a nation should have sufficed to make us great.
That sense, however,--God alone knows the grief with which I write it,--that sense with us
is wanting.

And now a word as to the amnesty.

Were it my nature to allow any personal considerations to interfere where the welfare of my
country is concerned, I might answer that none who know me would expect me to give the lie
to the whole of my past life, and sully the few years left to me by accepting an offer of oblivion
and pardon for having loved Italy above all earthly things, and preached and striven for her
unity when all others regarded it as a dream.

But my purpose in the present writing is far other than self-defence; and the sequel will show
that, even were the sacrifice of the dignity of my last years possible, it would be useless.

My past, present, and future labors towards the moral and political regeneration of my country
have been, are, and will be governed by a religious idea.

The past, present, and future of our rulers have been, are, and will be led astray by materialism.

Now the religious question sums up and dominates every other. Political questions are necessarily
secondary and derivative.

They who earnestly believe in the supremacy of the moral law as the sole legitimate source
of all authority--in a religion of duty, of which politics should be the application--cannot,
through any amount of personal abnegation, act in concert with a government based upon the
worship of temporary and material interest.

Our rulers have no great ruling conception,--no belief in the supremacy of the moral law,--no
just notion of life, nor of the human unity,--no belief in a divinely appointed goal which
it is the duty of mankind to reach through labor and sacrifice. They are materialists, and
the logical consequence of their want of all faith in God and his law are the substitution
of the idea of interest for the idea of duty,--of a paltry notion of tactics, for the fearless
affirmation of the truth,--of opportunity, for principle.

It is for this that they protest against, without resisting, wrong,--for this that they have
abandoned the straight road to wander in tortuous by-paths, fascinated by the thought of displaying
state-craft, and forgetting that it was through such paths we first descended into slavery.
It is for this that our government has reduced Italy to the condition of a French prefecture,
and that our parliamentary opposition copies the wretched tactics of the Left in the French
Chamber, which prepared the way, during the Restoration, for the present corruption, degradation,
and enslavement of their country.

These things, I repeat, are consequences, not causes. We may change as we will the individuals
at the head of the government; the system itself being based upon a false principle, the fatal
idea will govern them. They cannot righteously direct the new life of the Italian people, and
redeem them from a profound unconscious immorality of ancient date.

The present duty of the democratic party in Italy, then,--since they cannot serve God and Mammon,--is
to educate the people; and, remembering that the basis of all education is truth, to endeavor
to prove to them that the actual political impotence and corruption of Italy are derived from
two causes which may be summed up in one,--we have no religion, and we have set up a negation
in its place.

II.

On the one side we have--as our only form and semblance of religion--the Papacy.

I remember to have written, more than thirty years ago, when none other dared openly to venture
on the problem,--when the boldest contented themselves with whispering of reforms in Church
discipline, and those writers who, like Gioberti, set themselves up as philosophers, thought
proper, as a matter of tactics, to caress the Utopia of an Italian primacy, intrusted to I
know not what impossible revival of Catholicism,--I remember to have written then that both
the Papacy and Catholicism were things extinct, and that their death was a consequence of quite
another death.

I spoke of the dogma which was the foundation of both.

Years have confirmed what I then declared. The Papacy is now a corpse beyond all power of galvanization.
It is the lying mockery of a religion,--a source of perennial corruption and immorality among
the nations, and most fatally such to our own, upon whose very soul weighs the incubus and
example of that lie. But at the present day we either know or ought to know the cause of this.

All contact with the Papacy is contact with death, carrying the taint of its corruption over
rising Italy, and educating her masses in falsehood,--not because cardinals, bishops, and monks
traded in indulgences three centuries ago,--not because this or that Pope trafficked in cowardly
concessions to princes, or in the matrimony of his own bastards with the bastards of dukes,
petty tyrants, or kings, in order to obtain some patch of territory or temporal dominion,--not
because they have governed and persecuted men according to their arbitrary will; but because
they cannot do other, even if they would.

These evils and these sins are not causes, but consequences.

Even admitting the impossible hypothesis that the guilty individuals should be converted;--that
the Jansenists, or other Reformers, should recall the misguided Popes to the charity and humility
of their ancient way of life,--they could only cause the Papacy to die with greater dignity;--it
can never again be what once it was, the ruler and director of the conscience of the peoples.

The mission of the Papacy--a great and holy mission, whatever the fanatics of rebellion at
the present day, falsifying history and calumniating the soul and mind of humanity in the past,
may say to the contrary--is fulfilled. It was fulfilled six centuries ago; and no power of
genius, no miracle of will, can avail to revive it. Innocent III. was the last true Pope. He
was the last who endeavored to make the supremacy of the moral law of the epoch over the brute
force of the temporal governments--of the spirit over matter, of God over Cæsar--an organic
social fact.

And such was in truth the mission of the Papacy,--the secret of its power, and of the willing
adherence and submission yielded to it by humanity for eight hundred years. That mission was
incarnated in one of the greatest of Italians in genius, virtue, and iron strength of will,--Gregory
VII.,--and yet he failed to prolong it. One hundred and fifty years afterwards, the gigantic
attempt had become but the dim record of a past never to return. With the successors of Innocent
III. began the decline of the Papacy; it ceased to infuse life into humanity. A hundred years
later, and the Church had become scandalously corrupt in the higher spheres of its hierarchy,
persecuting and superstitious in the lower. A hundred years later it was the ally, and in one
hundred more the servant of Cæsar, and had lost one half of Europe.

From that time forward it has unceasingly declined, until it has sunk to the thing we now behold
it;--disinherited of all power of inspiration over civilization; the impotent negation of all
movement, of all liberty, of all development of science or life; destitute of all sense of
duty, power of sacrifice, or faith in its own destiny; held up by foreign bayonets; trembling
before the face of the peoples, and forsaken by humanity, which is seeking the path of progress
elsewhere.

The Papacy has lost all moral basis, aim, sanction, and source of action at the present day.
Its source of action in the past was derived from a conception of heaven since changed,--from
a notion of life since proved imperfect,--from a conception of the moral law inferior to that
of the new epoch in course of initiation,--from a solution of the eternal problem of the relation
between man and God since rejected by the human heart, intellect, conscience, and tradition.

The dogma itself which the Church once represented is exhausted and consumed. It no longer
inspires faith, no longer has power to unite or direct the human race.

The time of a new dogma is approaching, which will re-link earth with heaven in a vaster synthesis,
fruitful of new and harmonious life.

It is for this that the Papacy expires. And it is our duty to declare this, without hypocritical
reticence, or formulæ of speech, which, feigning to attack and venerate at one and the same
time, do but parcel out, not solve the problem; because the future cannot be fully revealed
until the past is entombed, and by weakly prolonging the delay we run the risk of introducing
gangrene into the wound.

The formula of life and of the law of life from which the Papacy derived its existence and
its mission was that of the fall of man and his redemption. The logical and inevitable consequences
of this formula were:--

The doctrine of the necessity of mediation between man and God;

The belief in a direct, immediate, and immutable revelation, and hence in a privileged class,--naturally
destined to centralize in one individual,--the office of which was to preserve that revelation
inviolate;

The inefficacy of man's own efforts to achieve his own redemption, and the consequent substitution
of unlimited faith in the Mediator, for works,--hence grace and predestination more or less
explicitly substituted for free-will;

The separation of the human race into the elect and the non-elect;

The salvation of the one, and the eternal damnation of the other; and, above all,

The duality between earth and heaven, between the ideal and the real, between the aim set before
man and a world condemned to anathema by the fall, and incapable, through the imperfection
of its finite elements, of affording him the means of realizing that aim.

In fact, the religious synthesis which succeeded Polytheism did not contemplate, nor did the
historical succession of the epochs allow it to contemplate, any conception of life embracing
more than the individual; it offered the individual a means of salvation in despite of the
egotism, tyranny, and corruption by which he is surrounded on earth, and which no individual
effort could hope to overcome; it came to declare to him, The world is adverse to thee; renounce
the world and put thy faith in Christ; this will lead thee to heaven.

The new formula of life and its law--unknown at that day, but revealed to us in our own day
by our knowledge of the tradition of humanity, confirmed by the voice of individual conscience,
by the intuition of genius and the grand results of scientific research--may be summed up in
the single word Progress,[D] which we now know to be, by Divine decree, the inherent tendency
of human nature,--whether manifested in the individual or the collective being,--and destined,
more or less speedily, but inevitably, to be evolved in time and space.

The logical consequences of the new formula are:--

The substitution of the idea of a law for the idea of a Mediator;--the idea of a continuous
educational revelation for that of an immediate arbitrary revelation;

The apostolate of genius and virtue, and of the great collective intuitions of the peoples,
when roused to enthusiastic action in the service of a truth, substituted for the privilege
of a priestly class;

The sanctity of tradition, as the depository of the progress already achieved; and the sanctity
of individual conscience, alike the pledge and the means of all future progress;

Works, sanctified by faith, substituted for mere faith alone, as the criterion of merit and
means of salvation.

The new formula of life cancels the dogma of grace, which is the negation of that capacity
of perfectibility granted to all men; as well as that of predestination, which is the negation
of free-will, and that of eternity of punishment, which is the negation of the divine element
existing in every human soul.

The new formula substitutes the conception of the slow, continuous progress of the human Ego
throughout an indefinite series of existences, for the idea of an impossible perfection to
be achieved in the course of one brief existence; it presents an absolutely, new view of the
mission of man upon earth, and puts an end to the antagonism between earth and heaven, by teaching
us that this world is an abode given to man wherein he is bound to merit salvation, by his
own works, and hence enforces the necessity of endeavoring, by thought, by action, and by sacrifice,
to transform the world,--the duty of realizing our ideal here below, as far as in us lies,
for the benefit of future generations, and of reducing to an earthly fact as much as may be
of the kingdom--the conception--of God.

The religious synthesis which is slowly but infallibly taking the place of the synthesis of
the past comprehends a new term,--the continuous collective life of humanity; and this alone
is sufficient to change the aim, the method, and the moral law of our existence.

All links with heaven broken, and useless to the earth, which is ready to hail the proclamation
of a new dogma, the Papacy has no longer any raison d'être. Once useful and holy, it is now
a lie, a source only of corruption and immorality.

Once useful and holy, I say, because, had it not been for the unity of moral life in which
we were held for more than eight centuries by the Papacy, we should not now have been prepared
to realize the new unity to come; had it not been for the dogma of human equality in heaven,
we should not now have been prepared to proclaim the dogma of human equality on earth. And,
I declare it a lie and a source of immorality at the present day, because every great institution
becomes such if it seeks to perpetuate its authority after its mission is fulfilled. The substitution
of the enslavement for the slaughter of the conquered foe was a step towards progress, as was
the substitution of servitude for slavery. The formation of the Bourgeoise class was a progress
from servitude. But he who at the present day should attempt to recede towards slavery and
servitude, and presumptuously endeavor to perpetuate the exclusion of the proletarian from
the rights and benefits of the social organization, would prove himself the enemy of all civilization,
past and future, and a teacher of immorality.

It is therefore the duty of all those amongst us who have it at heart to win the city of the
future and the triumph of truth, to make war, not only upon the temporal power,--who should
dare deny that to the admitted representative of God on earth?--but upon the Papacy itself.
It is therefore our duty to go back to the dogma upon which the institution is founded, and
to show that that dogma has become insufficient and unequal to the moral wants, aspirations,
and dawning faith of humanity.

They who at the present day attack the Prince of Rome, and yet profess to venerate the Pope,
and to be sincere Catholics, are either guilty of flagrant contradiction, or are hypocrites.

They who profess to reduce the problem to the realization of a free Church in a free State
are either influenced by a fatal timidity, or destitute of every spark of moral conviction.

The separation of Church and State is good as a weapon of defence against the corruptions of
a Church no longer worthy the name. It is--like all the programmes of mere liberty--an implicit
declaration that the institution against which we are compelled to invoke either our individual
or collective rights is corrupt, and destined to perish.

Individual or collective rights may be justly invoked against the authority of a religious
institution as a remedial measure in a period of transition; just as it may occasionally be
necessary to isolate a special locality for a given time, in order to protect others from infection.
But the cause must be explicitly declared. By declaring it, you educate the country to look
beyond the temporary measure,--to look forward to a return to a normal state of things, and
to study the positive organic principle destined to govern that normal state. By keeping silence,
you accustom the mass to disjoin the moral from the political, theory from practice, the ideal
from the real, heaven from earth.

When once all belief in the past synthesis shall be extinct, and faith in the new synthesis
established, the State itself will be elected into a Church; it will incarnate in itself a
religious principle, and become the representative of the moral law in the various manifestations
of life.

So long as it is separate from the State, the Church will always conspire to reconquer power
over it in the interest of the past dogma. If separated from all collective and avowed faith
by a negative policy, such as that adopted by the atheistic and indifferent French Parliament,
the State will fall a prey to the anarchical doctrine of the sovereignty of the individual,
and the worship of interest; it will sink into egotism and the adoration of the accomplished
fact, and hence, inevitably, into despotism, as a remedy for the evils of anarchy.

For an example of this among modern nations, we have only to look at France.

III.

On the other hand, in opposition to the Papacy, but itself a source of no less corruption,
stands materialism.

Materialism, the philosophy of all expiring epochs and peoples in decay, is, historically speaking,
an old phenomenon, inseparable from the death of a religious dogma. It is the reaction of those
superficial intellects which, incapable of taking a comprehensive view of the life of humanity,
and tracing and deducing its essential characteristics from tradition, deny the religious ideal
itself, instead of simply affirming the death of one of its incarnations.

Luther compared the human mind to a drunken peasant, who, falling from one side of his horse,
and set straight on his seat by one desirous of helping him, instantly falls again on the other
side. The simile--if limited to periods of transition--is most just. The youth of Italy, suddenly
emancipated from the servile education of more than three centuries, and intoxicated with their
moral liberty, find themselves in the presence of a Church destitute of all mission, virtue,
love for the people, or adoration of truth or progress,--destitute even of faith in itself.
They see that the existing dogma is in flagrant contradiction of the ruling idea that governs
all the aspirations of the epoch, and that its conception of divinity is inferior to that revealed
by science, human conscience, philosophy, and the improved conception of life acquired by the
study of the tradition of humanity, unknown to man previously to the discovery of his Eastern
origin. Therefore, in order--as they believe--to establish their moral freedom radically and
forever, they reject alike all idea of a church, a dogma, and a God.

Philosophically speaking, the unreflecting exaggerations of men who have just risen up in rebellion
do not portend any serious damage to human progress. These errors are a mere repetition of
what has always taken place at the decay and death of every dogma, and will--as they always
have done--sooner or later wear away. The day will come when our Italian youth will discover
that, just as reasonably as they, not content with denying the Christian dogma, proceed to
deny the existence of a God, and the religious life of humanity, their ancestors might have
proceeded, from their denial and rejection of the feudal system, to the rejection of every
form of social organization, or have declared art extinct forever during the transition period
when the Greek form of art had ceased to correspond to those aspirations of the human mind
which prepared the way for the cathedrals of the Middle Ages and the Christian school of art.

Art, society, religion,--all these are faculties inseparable from human life itself, progressive
as life itself, and eternal as life itself. Every epoch of humanity has had and will have its
own social, artistic, and religious expression. In every epoch man will ask of tradition and
of conscience whence he came, and to what goal he is bound; he will ask through what paths
that goal is to be reached, and seek to solve the problem suggested by the existence within
him of a conception of the Infinite, and of an ideal impossible of realization in the finite
conditions of his earthly existence. He will, from time to time, adopt a different solution,
in proportion as the horizon of tradition is progressively enlarged, and the human conscience
enlightened; but assuredly it will never be a mere negation.

Philosophically speaking, materialism is based upon a singular but constant confusion of two
things radically distinct;--life, and its successive modes of manifestation; the Ego, and the
organs by which it is revealed in a visible form to the external world, the non-Ego. The men
who, having succeeded in analyzing the instruments by means of which life is made manifest
in a series of successive finite phenomena, imagine that they have acquired a proof of the
materiality of life itself, resemble the poor fool, who, having chemically analyzed the ink
with which a poem was written, imagines he has penetrated the secret of the genius that composed
it.

Life,--thought,--the initiative power of motion,--the conception of the Infinite, of the Eternal,
of God, which is inborn in the human mind,--the aspiration towards an ideal impossible of realization
in the brief stage of our earthly existence,--the instinct of free will,--all that constitutes
the mysterious link within us to a world beyond the visible,--defy all analysis by a philosophy
exclusively experimental, and impotent to overpass the sphere of the secondary laws of being.

If materialists choose to reject the teachings of tradition, the voice of human conscience
and intuition, to limit themselves to the mechanism of analytical observation, and substitute
their narrow, undirected physiology for biology and psychology,--if then, finding themselves
unable by that imperfect method to comprehend the primary laws and origin of things, they childishly
deny the existence of such laws, and declare all humanity before their time to have been deluded
and incapable,--so be it. Nor should I, had Italy been a nation for half a century, have regarded
their doctrines as fraught with any real danger. Humanity will not abandon its appointed path
for them; and to hear them--in an age in which the discoveries of all great thinkers combine
to demonstrate the existence of an intelligent preordained law of unity and progress--spouting
materialism in the name of science, because they have skimmed a volume of Vogt, or attended
a lecture by Moleschott, might rather move one to amusement than anger.

But Italy is not a nation; she is only in the way to become one. And the present is therefore
a moment of grave importance; for, even as the first examples set before infancy, so the first
lessons taught to a people emerging from a long past of error and corruption, and hesitating
as to the choice of its future, may be of serious import. The doctrines of federalism, which,
if preached in France at the present day, would be but an innocent Utopia, threatened the dissolution
of the country during the first years of the Revolution. They laid bare the path for foreign
conquest, and roused the Mountain to bloody and terrible means of repression.

Such for us are the wretched doctrines of which I speak. Fate has set before us a great and
holy mission, which, if we fail to accomplish it now, may be postponed for half a century.
Every delay, every error, may be fatal. And the people through whom we have to work are uneducated,
liable to accept any error which wears a semblance of war against the past, and in danger,
from their long habit of slavery, of relapsing into egotism.

Now the tendency of the doctrines of materialism is to lead the mass to egotism through the
path of interest. Therefore it grieves me to hear them preached by many worthy but inconsiderate
young men amongst us; and I conjure them, by all they hold most sacred, to meditate deeply
the moral consequences of the doctrines they preach, and especially to study their effect in
the case of a neighboring nation, which carried negation to the extreme during the past century,
and which we behold at the present day utterly corrupted by the worship of temporary and material
interest, disinherited of all noble activity, and sunk in the degradation and infamy of slavery.

Every error is a crime in those whose duty it is to watch over the cradle of a nation.

Either we must admit the idea of a God,--of the moral law, which is an emanation from him,--and
the idea of human duty, freely accepted by mankind, as the practical consequence of that law,--or
we must admit the idea of a ruling force of things, and its practical consequence, the worship
of individual force or success, the omnipotence of fact. From this dilemma there is no escape.

Either we must accept the sovereignty of an aim prescribed by conscience, in which all the
individuals composing a nation are bound to unite, and the pursuit of which constitutes the
nationality of a given people among the many of which humanity is composed,--an aim recognized
by them all, and superior to them all, and therefore religious; or we must accept the sovereignty
of the right, arbitrarily defined, of each nation, and its practical consequences,--the pursuit
by each individual of his own interest and his own well-being, the satisfaction of his own
desires,--and the impossibility of any sovereign duty, to which all the citizens, from those
who govern down to the humblest of the governed, owe obedience and sacrifice.

Which of these doctrines will be most potent to lead our nation to high things? Let us not
forget that, although the educated, intellectual, and virtuous may be willing to admit that
the well-being of the individual should be founded--even at the cost of sacrifice--upon the
well-being of the many, the majority will, as they always have done, understand their well-being
to mean their positive satisfaction or enjoyment; they will reject the notion of sacrifice
as painful, and endeavor to realize their own happiness, even to the injury of others. They
will seek it one day from liberty, the next from the deceitful promises of a despot; but the
practical result of encouraging them to strive for the realization of their own happiness as
a right, will inevitably be to lead them to the mere gratification of their own individual egotism.

If you reject all Supreme law, all Providential guidance, all aim, all obligation imposed by
the belief in a mission towards humanity, you have no right to prescribe your conception of
well-being to others, as worthier or better. You have no certain basis, no principle upon which
to found a system of education; you have nothing left but force, if you are strong enough to
impose it. Such was the method adopted by the French Revolutionists, and they, in their turn,
succumbed to the force of others, without knowing in the name of what to protest. And you would
have to do the same. Without God, you must either accept anarchy as the normal condition of
things,--and this is impossible,--or you must seek your authority in the force of this or that
individual, and thus open the way to despotism and tyranny.

But what then becomes of the idea of progress?--what of the conception we have lately gained
from historic science of the gradual but infallible education of humanity,--of the link of
solidary ascending life which unites succeeding generations,--of the duty of sacrificing, if
need be, the present generation to the elevation and morality of the generations of the future,--of
the pre-eminence of the fatherland over individuals, and the certainty that their devotion
and martyrdom will, in the fulness of time, advance the honor, greatness, or virtue of their
nation?

There are materialists, illogical and carried away by the impulses of a heart superior to their
doctrines, who do both feel and act upon this worship of the ideal; but materialism denies
it. Materialism, as a doctrine, only recognizes in the universe a finite and determinate quantity
of matter, gifted with a definite number of properties, and susceptible of modification, but
not of progress; in which certain productive forces act by the fortuitous agglomeration of
circumstances not to be predicated or foreseen; or through the necessary succession of causes
and effects,--of events inevitable and independent of all human action.

Materialism admits neither the intervention of any creative intelligence, Divine initiative,
nor human free-will; by denying the law-giving Intellect, it denies all intelligent Providential
law; and the philosophy of the squirrel in its cage, which men term Pantheism at the present
day, by confounding the subject and the object in one, cancels alike the Ego and non-Ego, good
and evil, God and man, and, consequently, all individual mission or free-will. The wretched
doctrine, recognizing no higher historic formula than the necessary alternation of vicissitudes,
condemns humanity to tread eternally the same circle, being incapable of comprehending the
conception of the spiral path of indefinite progress upon which humanity traces its gradual
ascent towards an ideal beyond.

Strange contradiction! Men whose aim it is to combat the practice of egotism instilled into
the Italian people by tyranny, to inspire them with a sacred devotion to the fatherland, and
make of them a great nation, the artificer of the progress of humanity, present as the first
intellectual food of this people now awakening to new life, whose whole strength lies in their
good instincts and virginity of intellect, a theory the ultimate consequences of which are
to establish egotism upon a basis of right!

They call upon their people worthily to carry on the grand traditions of their past, when all
around them--popes, princes, military leaders, literati, and the servile herd--have either
insolently trampled liberty under foot, or deserted its cause in cowardly indifference; and
they preach to them a doctrine which deprives them of every pledge of future progress, every
stimulus to affection, every noble aspiration towards sacrifice,--they take from them the faith
that inspires confidence in victory, and renders even the defeat of to-day fruitful of triumph
on the morrow. The same men who urge upon them the duty of shedding their blood for an idea
begin by declaring to them: There is no hope of any future for you. Faith in immortality--the
lesson transmitted to you by all past humanity--is a falsehood; a breath of air, or trifling
want of equilibrium in the animal functions, destroys you wholly and forever. There is even
no certainty that the results of your labors will endure; there is no Providential law or design,
consequently no possible theory of the future; you are but building up to-day what any unforeseen
fact, blind force, or fortuitous circumstance may overthrow to-morrow.

They teach these brothers of theirs, whom they desire to elevate and ennoble, that they are
but dust,--a necessary, unconscious secretion of I know not what material substance; that the
thought of a Kepler or Dante is dust, or rather phosphorus; that genius, from Prometheus to
Jesus, brought down no divine spark from heaven; that the moral law, free-will, merit, and
the consequent progress of the Ego, are illusions; that events are successively our masters,--inexorable,
irresponsible, and insuperable to human will.

And they see not that they thus confirm that servile submission to the accomplished fact, that
doctrine of opportunity, that bastard Machiavellism, that worship of temporary interests, and
that indifference to every great idea, which find expression in our country at the present
day in the betrayal of national duty by our higher classes, and in the stupid resignation of
our masses.

IV.

I invoke the rising--and I should die consoled, even in exile, could I see the first signs
of its advent, but this I dare not hope--I invoke the rising of a truly Italian school;--a
school which, comprehending the causes of the downfall of the Papacy, and the impotence of
the merely negative doctrine which our Italian youth have borrowed from superficial French
materialists and the German copyists, should elevate itself above both, and come forward to
announce the approaching and inevitable religious transformation which will put an end to the
existing divorce between thought and action, and to the crisis of egotism and immorality through
which Europe is passing.

I invoke the rising of a school destined to prepare the way for the initiative of Italy;--which
shall, on the one side, undertake the examination of the dogma upon which Catholicism was founded,
and prove it to be worn out, exhausted, and in contradiction to our new conception of life
and its laws; and, on the other hand, the refutation of materialism under whatsoever form it
may present itself, and prove that it also is in contradiction of that new conception,--that
it is a stupid, fatal negation of all moral law, of human free-will, of our every sacred hope,
and of the calm and constant virtue of sacrifice.

I invoke a school which shall philosophically develop all the consequences, the germ of which--neglected
or ignored by superficial intellects--is contained in the word Progress considered as a new
term in the great historical synthesis, the expression of the ascending advance of humanity
from epoch to epoch, from religion to religion, towards a vaster conception of its own aim
and its own law.

I invoke the rising of a school destined to demonstrate to the youth of Italy that rationalism
is but an instrument,--the instrument adopted in all periods of transition by the human intellect
to aid its progress from a worn-out form of religion to one new and superior,--and science
only an accumulation of materials to be arranged and organized in fruitful synthesis by a new
moral conception;--a school that will recall philosophy from this puerile confusion of the
means with the aim, to bring it back to its sole true basis, the knowledge of life and comprehension
of its law.

I invoke a school which will seek the truth of the epoch, not in mere analysis,--always barren
and certain to mislead, if undirected by a ruling principle,--but in an earnest study of universal
tradition, which is the manifestation of the collective life of humanity; and of conscience,
which is the manifestation of the life of the individual.

I invoke a school which shall redeem from the neglect cast upon it by theories deduced from
one of our human faculties alone that intuition which is the concentration of all the faculties
upon a given subject;--a school which, even while declaring it exhausted, will respect the
past, without which the future would be impossible,--which will protest against those intellectual
barbarians for whom every religion is falsehood, every form of civilization now extinct a folly,
every great pope, king, or warrior now in the course of things surpassed a criminal or a hypocrite,
and revoke the condemnation, thus uttered by presumption in the present, of the past labors
and intellect of entire humanity;--a school which may condemn, but will not defame,--will judge,
but never, through frenzy of rebellion, falsify history;--a school which will declare the death
that is, without denying the life that was,--which will call upon Italy to emancipate herself
for the achievement of new glories, but strip not a single leaf from her wreath of glories past.

Such a school would regain for Italy her European initiative, her primacy.

Italy--as I have said--is a religion.

Some have affirmed this of France. They were mistaken. France--if we except the single moment
when the Revolution and Napoleon summed up the achievements of the epoch of individuality--has
never had any external mission, other than, occasionally, as an arm of the Church, the instrument
of an idea emanating from Papal Rome.

But the mission of Italy in the world was at all times religious, and the essential character
of Italian genius was at all times religious.

The essence of every religion lies in a power, unknown to mere science, of compelling man to
reduce thought to action, and harmonize his practical life with his moral conception. The genius
of our nation, whenever it has been spontaneously revealed, and exercised independently of
all foreign inspiration, has always evinced the religious character, the unifying power to
which I allude. Every conception of the Italian mind sought its incarnation in action,--strove
to assume a form in the political sphere. The ideal and the real, elsewhere divided, have always
tended to be united in our land. Sabines and Etruscans alike derived their civil organization
and way of life from their conception of Heaven. The Pythagoreans founded their philosophy,
religious associations, and political institutions at one and the same time. The source of
the vitality and power of Rome lay in a religious sense of a collective mission, of an aim
to be achieved, in the contemplation of which the individual was submerged. Our democratic
republics were all religious. Our early philosophical thinkers were all tormented by the idea
of translating their ideal conceptions into practical rules of government.

And as to our external mission.

We alone have twice given moral unity to Europe, to the known world. The voice that issued
from Rome in the past was addressed to and reverenced by humanity,--"Urbs Orbi."

Italy is a religion. And when, in my earliest years, I believed that the initiative of the
third life of Europe would spring from the heart, the action, the enthusiasm and sacrifice
of our people, I heard within me the grand voice of Rome sounding once again, hailed and accepted
with loving reverence by the peoples, and telling of moral unity and fraternity in a faith
common to all humanity. It was not the unity of the past,--which, though sacred and conducive
to civilization for many centuries, did but emancipate individual man, and reveal to him an
ideal of liberty and equality only to be realized in Heaven: it was a new unity, emancipating
collective humanity, and revealing the formula of Association, through which liberty and equality
are destined to be realized here on earth; sanctifying the earth and rendering it what God
wills it should be,--a stage upon the path of perfection, a means given to man wherewith to
deserve a higher and nobler existence hereafter.

And I saw Rome, in the name of God and Republican Italy, substituting a declaration of PRINCIPLES
for the barren declaration of rights,--principles the logical consequences of the parent idea,
PROGRESS,--and revealing to the nations a common aim, and the basis of a new religion. And
I saw Europe, weary of scepticism, egotism, and moral anarchy, receive the new faith with acclamations.
I saw a new pact founded upon that faith,--a pact of united action in the work of human perfectibility,
involving none of the evils or dangers of the former pact, because among the first consequences
of a faith founded upon the dogma of progress would be the justification of heresy, as either
a promise or endeavor after progress in the future.

The vision which brightened my first dream of country has vanished, so far as concerns my own
life. Even if that vision be ever fulfilled,--as I believe it will be,--I shall be in the tomb.
May the young, as yet uncorrupted by scepticism, prepare the way for its realization; and may
they, in the name of our national tradition and the future, unceasingly protest against all
who seek to immobilize human life in the name of a dogma extinct, or to degrade it by diverting
it from the eternal worship of the Ideal.

The religious question is pre-eminent over every other at the present day, and the moral question
is indissolubly linked with it. We are bound either to solve these, or renounce all idea of
an Italian mission in the world.

                      JOSEPH MAZZINI.

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote D: This sacred word, which sums up the dogma of the future, has been uttered by every
school, but misunderstood by the majority. Materialists have usurped the use of it, to express
man's ever-increasing power over the productive forces of the earth; and men of science, to
indicate that accumulation of facts discovered and submitted to analysis which has led us to
a better knowledge of secondary causes. Few understand it as the expression of a providential
conception or design, inseparable from our human life and foundation of our moral law.]

REVIEWS AND LITERARY NOTICES.

Miss Ravenel's Conversion from Secession to Loyalty. By J. W. DE FORREST. New York: Harper
and Brothers.

The light, strong way in which our author goes forward in this story from the first, and does
not leave difficulty to his readers, is pleasing to those accustomed to find an American novel
a good deal like the now extinct American stage-coach whose passengers not only walked over
bad pieces of road, but carried fence-rails on their shoulders to pry the vehicle out of the
sloughs and miry places. It was partly the fault of the imperfect roads, no doubt, and it may
be that our social ways have only just now settled into such a state as makes smooth going
for the novelist; nevertheless, the old stage-coach was hard to travel in, and what with drafts
upon one's good nature for assistance, it must be confessed that our novelists have been rather
trying to their readers. It is well enough with us all while the road is good,--a study of
individual character, a bit of landscape, a stretch of well-worn plot, gentle slopes of incident;
but somewhere on the way the passengers are pretty sure to be asked to step out,--the ladies
to walk on ahead, and the gentlemen to fetch fence-rails.

Our author imagines a Southern loyalist and his daughter sojourning in New Boston, Barataria,
during the first months of the war. Dr. Ravenel has escaped from New Orleans just before the
Rebellion began, and has brought away with him the most sarcastic and humorous contempt and
abhorrence of his late fellow-citizens, while his daughter, an ardent and charming little blonde
Rebel, remembers Louisiana with longing and blind admiration. The Doctor, born in South Carolina,
and living all his days among slaveholders and slavery, has not learned to love either; but
Lillie differs from him so widely as to scream with joy when she hears of Bull Run. Naturally
she cannot fall in love with Mr. Colburne, the young New Boston lawyer, who goes into the war
conscientiously for his country's sake, and resolved for his own to make himself worthy and
lovable in Lillie's blue eyes by destroying and desolating all that she holds dear. It requires
her marriage with Colonel Carter--a Virginia gentleman, a good-natured drunkard and roué and
soldier of fortune on our side--to make her see Colburne's worth, as it requires some comparative
study of New Orleans and New Boston, on her return to her own city, to make her love the North.
Bereft of her husband by his own wicked weakness, and then widowed, she can at last wisely
love and marry Colburne; and, cured of Secession by experiencing on her father's account the
treatment received by Unionists in New Orleans, her conversion to loyalty is a question of
time duly settled before the story ends.

We sketch the plot without compunction, for these people of Mr. De Forrest's are so unlike
characters in novels as to be like people in life, and none will wish the less to see them
because he knows the outline of their history. Not only is the plot good and very well managed,
but there is scarcely a feebly painted character or scene in the book. As to the style, it
is so praiseworthy that we will not specifically censure occasional defects,--for the most
part, slight turgidities notable chiefly from their contrast to the prevailing simplicity of
the narrative.

Our war has not only left us the burden of a tremendous national debt, but has laid upon our
literature a charge under which it has hitherto staggered very lamely. Every author who deals
in fiction feels it to be his duty to contribute towards the payment of the accumulated interest
in the events of the war, by relating his work to them; and the heroes of young-lady writers
in the magazines have been everywhere fighting the late campaigns over again, as young ladies
would have fought them. We do not say that this is not well, but we suspect that Mr. De Forrest
is the first to treat the war really and artistically. His campaigns do not try the reader's
constitution, his battles are not bores. His soldiers are the soldiers we actually know,--the
green wood of the volunteers, the warped stuff of men torn from civilization and cast suddenly
into the barbarism of camps, the hard, dry, tough, true fibre of the veterans that came out
of the struggle. There could hardly be a better type of the conscientious and patriotic soldier
than Captain Colburne; and if Colonel Carter must not stand as type of the officers of the
old army, he mast be acknowledged as true to the semi-civilization of the South. On the whole
he is more entertaining than Colburne, as immoral people are apt to be to those who suffer
nothing from them. "His contrasts of slanginess and gentility, his mingled audacity and insouciance
of character, and all the picturesque ins and outs of his moral architecture, so different
from the severe plainness of the spiritual temples common in New Boston," do take the eye of
peace-bred Northerners, though never their sympathy. Throughout, we admire, as the author intends,
Carter's thorough and enthusiastic soldiership, and we perceive the ruins of a generous nature
in his aristocratic Virginian pride, his Virginian profusion, his imperfect Virginian sense
of honor. When he comes to be shot, fighting bravely at the head of his column, after having
swindled his government, and half unwillingly done his worst to break his wife's heart, we
feel that our side has lost a good soldier, but that the world is on the whole something better
for our loss. The reader must go to the novel itself for a perfect conception of this character,
and preferably to those dialogues in which Colonel Carter so freely takes part; for in his
development of Carter, at least, Mr. De Forrest is mainly dramatic. Indeed, all the talk in
the book is free and natural, and, even without the hard swearing which distinguishes the speech
of some, it would be difficult to mistake one speaker for another, as often happens in novels.

The character of Dr. Ravenel, though so simple, is treated in a manner invariably delightful
and engaging. His native purity, amiability, and generosity, which a life-long contact with
slavery could not taint; his cordial scorn of Southern ideas; his fine and flawless instinct
of honor; his warm-hearted courtesy and gentleness, and his gayety and wit; his love of his
daughter and of mineralogy; his courage, modesty, and humanity,--these are the traits which
recur in the differing situations with constant pleasure to the reader.

Miss Lillie Ravenel is as charming as her adored papa, and is never less nor more than a bright,
lovable, good, constant, inconsequent woman. It is to her that the book owes its few scenes
of tenderness and sentiment; but she is by no means the most prominent character in the novel,
as the infelicitous title would imply, and she serves chiefly to bring into stronger relief
the traits of Colonel Carter and Doctor Ravenel. The author seems not even to make so much
study of her as of Mrs. Larue, a lady whose peculiar character is skilfully drawn, and who
will be quite probable and explicable to any who have studied the traits of the noble Latin
race, and a little puzzling to those acquainted only with people of Northern civilization.
Yet in Mrs. Larue the author comes near making his failure. There is a little too much of her,--it
is as if the wily enchantress had cast her glamour upon the author himself,--and there is too
much anxiety that the nature of her intrigue with Carter shall not be misunderstood. Nevertheless,
she bears that stamp of verity which marks all Mr. De Forrest's creations, and which commends
to our forbearance rather more of the highly colored and strongly-flavored parlance of the
camps than could otherwise have demanded reproduction in literature. The bold strokes with
which such an amusing and heroic reprobate as Van Zandt and such a pitiful poltroon as Gazaway
are painted, are no less admirable than the nice touches which portray the Governor of Barataria,
and some phases of the aristocratic, conscientious, truthful, angular, professorial society
of New Boston, with its young college beaux and old college belles, and its life pure, colorless,
and cold to the eye as celery, yet full of rich and wholesome juices. It is the goodness of
New Boston, and of New England, which, however unbeautiful, has elevated and saved our whole
national character; and in his book there is sufficient evidence of our author's appreciation
of this fact, as well as of sympathy only and always with what is brave and true in life. With
Maps and Illustrations. New York: D. Appleton & Co.

Somewhere in the heart of the African continent, Mr. Du Chaillu, laying his head upon a rock,
after a day of uncommon hardship, finds reason to lament the ungratefulness of the traveller's
fate, which brings him, through perilous adventure and great suffering, to the incredulity
and coldness of a public unable to receive his story with perfect faith. It is such a meditation
as ought to reproach very keenly the sceptics who doubted Mr. Du Chaillu's first book; it certainly
renews in the reader of the present work the satisfaction felt in the comparative reasonableness
of the things narrated, and his consequent ability to put an unmurmuring trust in the author.
Here, indeed, is very little of the gorilla whom we formerly knew: his ferocity is greatly
abated; he only once beats his breast and roars; he does not twist gun-barrels; his domestic
habits are much simplified; his appearance here is relatively as unimportant as Mr. Pendennis's
in the "Newcomes"; he is a deposed hero; and Mr. Du Chaillu pushes on to Ashango-Land without
him. Otherwise, moreover, the narrative is quite credible, and, so far, unattractive, though
there is still enough of incident to hold the idle, and enough of information in the appendices
concerning the characteristics of the African skulls collected by Du Chaillu, the geographical
and astronomical observations made en route, and the linguistic peculiarities noted, to interest
the scientific. The book is perhaps not a fortunate one for those who occupy a place between
these classes of readers, and who are tempted to ask of Mr. Du Chaillu, Have you really four
hundred and thirty-seven royal octavo pages of news to tell us of Equatorial Africa?

Our traveller landed in West Africa in the autumn of 1863, and, after a short excursion in
the coast country in search of the gorilla, he ascended the Fernand Vaz in a steamer seventy
miles, to Goumbi, whence he proceeded by canoe to Obindji. Here, provided with a retinue of
one hundred men of the Commi nation, his overland journey began, and led him through the hilly
country of the Bakalai southeastwardly to the village of Olenda. From this point, before continuing
his route, he visited the falls of the Samba Nagoshi, some fifty miles to the northward, and
Adingo Village, twenty miles below Olenda. Starting anew after these excursions, he penetrated
the continent, on a line deflecting a little south of east, as far as Mouaou Kombo, which is
something more than two hundred miles from the sea.

In first landing from his ship, Mr. Du Chaillu lost his astronomical instruments, and was obliged
to wait in the coast country until a new supply could be obtained from England. Midway on his
journey to Mouaou Kombo, his photographic apparatus was stolen, and the chemicals were, as
he supposes, swallowed by the robbers, to some of whom their dishonest experiments in photography
proved fatal. The traveller's means of usefulness were limited to observation of the general
character of the country, some investigation of its vegetable and animal life, and study of
the customs of its human inhabitants,--in none of which does he develop much variety or novelty.

Nearly the whole route lay through hilly or mountainous country, for the most part thickly
wooded and sparsely peopled. There was a very notable absence of all the larger African animals,
and those encountered seemed to be as peaceful in their characters as their neighbors, the
tribes of wild men. The nations through which Du Chaillu passed after leaving the Commi were
the Ashira, the Ishogo, the Apono, and the Ashango, and none appears to have differed greatly
from the others except in name. In habits they are all extremely alike, uniting a primitive
simplicity of costume and architecture to highly sophisticated traits of lying and stealing.
They are not warlike, and not very cruel, except in cases of witchcraft, which are extremely
dealt with,--as, indeed, they used to be in New England. Fetichism is the only religion of
these tribes, and they seem to believe firmly in no superior powers but those of evil. They
are docile, however, and susceptible of control. Du Chaillu had the misfortune to spread the
small-pox among them from some infected members of his train; and although all their superstitious
fears were excited against him, the people were held in check by their principal men; and Du
Chaillu met with no serious molestation until he reached Mouaou Kombo. Here he found the inhabitants
comparatively hostile and distrustful, and in firing off a salute,--with the double purpose
of intimidating them and restoring them to confidence,--one of his retinue accidentally shot
two of the villagers. All hopes of friendly intercourse and of further progress were now at
an end, and Du Chaillu began a rapid retreat, his men casting away in their flight his photographs,
journals, and note-books, and hopelessly impairing the value of the possible narrative which
he might survive to write.

Such narrative as he has actually written, we have briefly sketched. Its fault is want of condensation
and of graphic power, so that, although you must follow the traveller through his difficulties
and dangers, it is quite as much by effort of sympathy as by reason of interest that you do
so. For the paucity of result from all the labor and hardship undergone, the author--considering
the losses of material he sustained--cannot be justly criticised; but certainly the bulk of
his volume makes its meagre substance somewhat too apparent.

Liffith Lank, or Lunacy. By C. H. WEBB. New York: Carleton.

St. Twel'mo, or the Cuneiform Cyclopedist of Chattanooga. By C. H. WEBB. New York: C. H. Webb.

In the first of these clever and successful burlesques, Mr. Webb has travestied rather the
ideas than the manner of Mr. Reade; and one who turned to "Liffith Lank" from the wonderful
parodies in "Punch's Prize Novelists," or those exquisitely finished pieces of mimicry, the
"Condensed Novelists" of the Californian Harte, would feel its want of fidelity to the method
and style of the author burlesqued. Yet the essential absurdities of "Griffith Gaunt" are most
amusingly brought out in "Liffith Lank"; and as the little work makes the reader laugh at the
great one, he has no right, perhaps, to ask more of it, or to complain that it trusts too much
to the facile pun for its effects, which are oftener broad than poignant.

Nevertheless, in spite of our logical content with "Liffith Lank," we are very glad to find
"St. Twel'mo" much better, and we only doubt whether the game is worth the candle; but as the
candle is Mr. Webb's, he can burn it, we suppose, upon whatever occasion he likes. He has here
made a closer parody than in his first effort, and has lost nothing of the peculiar power with
which he there satirized ideas. That quality of the Bronté sisters, of which Miss Evans of
Mobile is one of the many American dilutions,--that quality by which any sort of masculine
wickedness and brutality short of refusing ladies seats in horse-cars is made lovely and attractive
to the well-read and well-bred of the sex,--is very pleasantly derided, while the tropical
luxuriance of general information characteristic of "St. Elmo" is unsparingly ridiculed, with
the help of frequent extracts from the novel itself.

Mr. Webb appears in "St. Twel'mo" as both publisher and author, and, with a good feeling significant
of very great changes in the literary world since a poet toasted Napoleon because he hanged
a bookseller, dedicates his little work "To his best friend and nearest relative, the publisher."

The Literary Life of James K. Paulding. Compiled by his Son, WILLIAM I. PAULDING. New York:
Charles Scribner and Company.

James K. Paulding was born in 1778 at Great-Nine Partners, in Dutchess County, New York, and
nineteen years later came to the city of New York to fill a clerkship in a public office. His
family was related to that of Washington Irving by marriage; he was himself united to Irving
by literary sympathy and ambition, and the two young men now formed a friendship which endured
through life. They published the Salmagundi papers together, and they always corresponded;
but with Irving literature became all in all, and with Paulding a favorite relaxation from
political life and a merely collateral pursuit. He wrote partisan satires and philippics, waxing
ever more bitter against the party to which Irving belonged, and against England, where Irving
was tasting the sweets of appreciation and success. He came to be Navy Agent at New York in
1823, and in 1838 President Van Buren made him his Secretary of the Navy. Three years later
he retired from public life, and spent his remaining days in the tranquil and uneventful indulgence
of his literary tastes.

Dying in 1859, he had survived nearly all his readers, and the present memoir was required
to remind many, and to inform more, of the existence of such works as "The Backwoodsman," a
poem; the Salmagundi papers in a second series; "Koningsmarke, the Long Finne, a story of the
New World," in two volumes; "The Merry Tales of the Three Wise Men of Gotham," satirizing Owen's
theories of society, law, and science; "The New Mirror for Travellers, and Guide to the Springs,"
a satire of fashionable life in the days before ladies with seventy-five trunks were born;
"Tales of the Good Woman," a collection of short stories; "A Life of Washington"; "American
Comedies"; "The Old Continental," and "The Puritan and his Daughter," historical novels; and
innumerable political papers of a serious or a satirical sort. As it has been the purpose of
the author of this memoir to let Paulding's life in great part develop itself from his letters,
so it has also been his plan to spare comment on his father's literary labors, and to allow
their character to be estimated by extracts from his poems, romances, and satires. From these
we gather the idea of greater quantity than quality; of a poetical taste rather than poetic
faculty; of a whimsical rather than a humorous or witty man. There is a very marked resemblance
to Washington Irving's manner in the prose, which is inevitably, of course, less polished than
that of the more purely literary man, and which is apt to be insipid and strained in greater
degree in the same direction. It would not be just to say that Paulding's style was formed
upon that of Irving; but both had given their days and nights to the virtuous poverty of the
essayists of the last century; and while one grew into something fresher and more original
by dint of long and constant literary effort, the other, writing only occasionally, remained
an old-fashioned mannerist to the last. When he died, he passed out of a world in which Macaulay,
Dickens, Thackeray, and Hawthorne had never lived. The last delicacy of touch is wanting in
all his work, whether verse or prose; yet the reader, though unsatisfied, does not turn from
it without respect. If it is second-rate, it is not tricksy; its dulness is not antic, but
decorous and quiet; its dignity, while it bores, enforces a sort of reverence which we do not
pay to the ineffectual fire-works of our own more pyrotechnic literary time.

Of Paulding himself one thinks, after reading the present memoir, with much regard and some
regret. He was a sturdy patriot and cordial democrat, but he seems not to have thought human
slavery so very bad a thing. He is perceptibly opinionated, and would have carried things with
a high hand, whether as one of the government or one of the governed. He was not swift to adopt
new ideas, but he was thoroughly honest in his opposition to them. His somewhat exaggerated
estimate of his own importance in the world of letters and of politics was one of those venial
errors which time readily repairs.

History and General Description of New France. By the Rev. P. F. X. DE CHARLEVOIX, S. J. Translated,
with Notes, by JOHN GILMARY SHEA. New York: J. G. Shea. Vol. I.

Charlevoix's "History of New France" is very well known to all who study American history in
its sources. It is a well-written, scholarlike, and readable book, treating of a subject which
the author perfectly understood, and of which he may be said to have been a part. Tried by
the measure of his times, his research was thorough and tolerably exact. The work, in short,
has always been justly regarded as a "standard," and very few later writers have thought it
necessary to go beyond or behind it. Appended to it is a journal of the author's travels in
America, in the form of a series of letters to the Duchesse de Lesdiguières, full of interest,
and a storehouse of trustworthy information.

Charlevoix had been largely quoted and extensively read. Not to know him, indeed, was to be
ignorant of some of the most memorable passages in the history of this continent; but, what
is certainly remarkable, he had never found an English translator. At the time of the Old French
War, when the public curiosity was strongly interested in everything relating to America, the
journal appended to the history was "done into English" and eagerly read; but the history itself
had remained to this time in the language in which it was originally written. This is not to
be regretted, if it has been the occasion of giving us the truly admirable work which is the
subject of this notice.

The spirit and the manner in which Mr. Shea has entered upon his task are above all praise.
It is with him a "labor of love." In these days of literary "jobs," when bad translating and
careless editing are palmed off upon the amateurs of choice books in all the finery of broad
margins and faultless typography, it is refreshing to meet with a book of which the mechanical
excellence is fully equalled by the substantial value of its contents, and by the thorough,
conscientious, and scholarlike character of the literary execution. The labor and the knowledge
bestowed on this translation would have sufficed to produce an original history of high merit.
Charlevoix rarely gives his authorities. Mr. Shea has more than supplied this deficiency. Not
only has he traced out the sources of his author's statements and exhibited them in notes,
but he has had recourse to sources of which Charlevoix knew nothing. He is thus enabled to
substantiate, correct, or amplify the original narrative. He translates it, indeed, with literal
precision, but, in his copious notes he sheds such a flood of new light upon it that this translation
is of far more value to the student than the original work. Since Charlevoix's time, many documents,
unknown to him, though bearing on his subject, have been discovered, and Mr. Shea has diligently
availed himself of them. The tastes and studies of many years have made him familiar with this
field of research, and prepared him to accomplish an undertaking which would otherwise have
been impracticable.

The first volume is illustrated by facsimiles of Charlevoix's maps, together with his portrait
and those of Cartier and Menendez. It forms a large octavo of about three hundred pages, and
as a specimen of the typographical art is scarcely to be surpassed. We learn that the second
volume is about to appear.

The Comparative Geography of Palestine, and the Sinaitic Peninsula. By CARL RITTER. Translated
and adapted to the use of Biblical Students by WILLIAM L. GAGE. New York: D. Appleton & Co.,
1866. 4 vols.

American critics have found fault with Mr. Gage, as it seems to us somewhat too strongly, for
certain features of this work. He has been blamed for adapting it "to the use of Biblical students,"
as though thereby he must necessarily tamper with scientific accuracy of statement,--for too
much condensation, and for too little,--for omitting Ritter's maps,--and for certain incongruities
of figures and measurement. It has also been said, that the book itself, being fifteen years
old, is already antiquated, and that many recent works, not mentioned by Ritter, or at least
not adequately used, have modified our knowledge of Palestine since his day. But, after all,
these critics have ended by saying that the work is a good and useful one, and by awarding
credit to Mr. Gage for his fidelity, industry, and accuracy in his part of the work. So that,
perhaps, the fault-finding was thrown in only as a necessary part of the duty of the reviewer;
for fault-finding is, ex officio, his expected function. A judge ought always to be seated
above the criminal, and every author before his reviewer is only a culprit. The author may
have given years to the study of the subject to which his reviewer has only given hours. But
what of that? The position of the reviewer is to look down, and his tone must always be de
haut en bas.

We do not, ourselves, profess to know as much of the geography of Palestine as Professor Ritter,
probably not as much as Mr. Gage. Were it not for the sharp-eyed critics, we should have wholly
missed the important verification of the surface-level of Lake Huleh. We have in past years
studied our "Palästina," by Von Raumer, and followed the careful Dr. Robinson with gratitude
through his laborious researches. But we must confess that we are grateful for these volumes,
even though they have no maps, and cannot but think it honorable in Mr. Gage to prefer to publish
the book with none, rather than with poor ones. We see no harm in adapting the work to the
use of Biblical students, by abridging of omitting the topics which have no bearing on the
Bible history. No one else is obliged to purchase it, and the warning is given beforehand.

These four volumes contain a vast amount of interesting and important matter concerning Sinai
and Palestine. The journals of travellers of all times are laid under contribution, and you
are allowed often to form your own judgments from the primitive narratives. You are like one
sitting in a court and hearing a host of witnesses examined and cross-examined by able counsel,
and then listening to the summing up of a learned judge. It is easy to see how much more vivid
such descriptions must be than a dry résumé without these accompanying pièces justificatifs.

The first of the four volumes concerns the peninsula of Mount Sinai. It gives the history of
all the travels in that region, and the chief works concerning it from the earliest time; the
routes to Mount Sinai; the voyages of Hiram and Solomon through the Red Sea to India; an interesting
discussion of the name Ophir; the different groups of mountains in this region; the Bedouin
tribes of the peninsula, and of Arabia Petræa; and a full account of Petra, the monolithic
city of Edom.

The second volume begins with a comparative view of Syria, and a review of the authorities
on the geography of Palestine. Then follows an account of the Land of Canaan and its inhabitants
before the conquest by the Israelites, and of the tribes outside of Palestine who remained
hostile to the Israelites. We next have an account of the great depression of the Jordan Valley,
the river and its basin. Chapters on the sources of the Jordan, the Sea of Galilee, the caravan
road to Damascus, and the river to the Dead Sea, and an account of the travellers who have
surveyed the region, follow,--with an Appendix, in which is contained a discussion of the site
of Capernaum, and Tobler's full list of works on Palestine.

Vol. III. contains chapters on the Mouth of the Jordan; the Dead Sea; the Division among the
Ten Tribes; an account of Judæa, Samaria, and Galilee; the routes through the Land; and several
scientific essays.

Vol. IV. gives a full account of Jerusalem, ancient, mediæval, and modern; a discussion of
the holy places; an account of the inhabitants; the region around Jerusalem; the roads to and
from the city; Samaria; and Galilee;--concluding with an index of subjects, and another of texts.

On the whole, we must express our gratitude to Mr. Gage for his labor of love, in thus giving
us the results of the studies of his friend and master on this important theme. Students of
the Bible and of Syrian geography can nowhere else find the matters treated so fully and conscientiously
and exhaustively discussed as here.

As the principal objection made to the translation of Mr. Gage is that it omits Ritter's maps,
it is proper to state that Professor Kiepert declared them to be worthless; that the publisher
declined an offer to sell five hundred sets, lying on his hands, to the Clarks of Edinburgh,
because he could not conscientiously recommend them. Inasmuch as good Bible maps of Palestine
are to be had everywhere, and as Robinson's are sold by themselves in a little volume, the
student does not seem to have much reason to complain.

The past quarter of a century has not added much to our knowledge of Palestine. Stanley, Bonor,
Stewart, Lynch, Tobler, Barclay, De Saulcy, Sepp, Tristam, Porter, Wetystein, the Duc de Luyner,
and others, have travelled and written, but the mysteries remain mysteries still.

Memoirs and Correspondence of Madame Récamier. Translated from the French and edited by ISAPHENE
M. LUYSTER. Fourth Edition. Boston: Roberts Brothers.

In an article contributed a year or two since to these pages, Miss Luyster sketched the career
of the beautiful and good woman whose history is minutely recounted in the volume before us.
It is a fascinating history, for Madame Récamier was altogether as anomalous as any creation
of French fiction. Her marriage was such only in name; she lived pure, and with unblemished
repute, in the most vicious and scandalous times; she inspired friendship by coquetry; her
heart was never touched, though full of womanly tenderness; a leader of society and of fashion,
she never ceased to be timid and diffident; she ruled witty and intellectual circles by the
charm of the most unepigrammatic sweetness, the merest good-heartedness.

The correspondence of Madame Récamier consists almost entirely of letters written to her; for
this adored friend of literary men wrote seldom herself, and at her death even caused to be
destroyed the greater part of the few notes she had made toward an autobiography. In the present
Memoirs Madame Lenormant chiefly relies upon her own personal knowledge of Madame Récamier's
life, and upon contemporary hearsay. It is a very interesting book, as we have it, though at
times provokingly unsatisfactory, and at times inflated and silly in style. It is not only
a history of Madame Récamier, but a sketch of French society, politics, and literature during
very long and interesting periods.

Miss Luyster has faithfully performed the ever-thankless task of translation; and, in preparing
Madame Lenormant's work for the American public, has somewhat restrained the author's tendency
to confusion and diffusion. Here and there, as editor, she has added slight but useful notes,
and has accompanied the Memoirs with a very pleasantly written introduction, giving a skilful
and independent analysis of Madame Récamier's character.

Old England: its Scenery, Art, and People. By JAMES M. HOPPIN, Professor in Yale College. New
York; Hurd and Houghton.

"The 'Pavilion,' with its puerile domes and minarets, recalls the false and flimsy epoch of
that semi-Oriental monarch, George IV. His statue by Chantrey stands upon a promenade called
the 'Old Steine.' The house of Mrs. Thrale, where Doctor Johnson visited, is still standing.
The atmosphere of Brighton is considered to be favorable for invalids in the winter-time, as
well as the summer."

In this haphazard way many of the various objects of interest in Old England are introduced
to his reader by a New England writer, who possibly mistakes the disorder of a note-book for
literary ease, or who possibly has little of the method of picturesqueness in him. In either
case his reader returns from Old England with the impression that his travelling-companion
is a sensible, honest observer, who, in forming a book out of very good material, has often
builded, not better, but worse, than he knew. There is no want of graphic touches; there is
enough of fine and poetic feeling; but there is no perspective, no atmosphere: much of Old
England through this book affects one somewhat as a faithful Chinese drawing of the moon might.

At other times Mr. Hoppin's treatment of his subject is sufficiently artistic, and he has seen
some places and persons not worn quite threadbare by travel. He did not pay the national visit
to Mr. Tennyson, although he had a letter of introduction; and of those people whose hospitality
he did enjoy, he writes with great discretion and good taste. His sketch of the High Church
clergyman at Land's End is a case in point, and it has an interest to Americans for the light
it throws upon the present conflict of religious thought in England.

Mr. Hoppin writes best of the less frequented parts of England,--of Land's End, and of Cornwall
and Penzance; but he writes no more particularly of them than of the suburbs of London. The
chapter on London art and the London pulpit is a curious mélange of shrewd, original thoughts
about pictures and of acceptations of critical authority, of sectarian belief and of worldly
toleration, together with a certain immaturity of literary judgment and a characteristic tendency
to incoherence. "Turner," he says, "did a great work, if it were only to have been the occasion
of Ruskin's marvellous eloquence"; and of Dr. Cumming he writes, as if transcribing literally
from his note-book: "His voice is rich, and mellow without being powerful. He is a tall man,
with high, white forehead and white hair. It was difficult to find a seat, even upon the pulpit
stairs. Dr. Cumming, as a graceful, yet not effeminate preacher, has good claims to his celebrity."

It remains for us to praise the author's conscientious effort at all times to convey information,
and his success in this effort. He has doubtless seen everything that is worth seeing in the
country he has passed over; and if we cannot accept the whole of his book as literature, we
have still the impression that we should find it one of the best and thoroughest of hand-books
for travel in Old England.

Hymns. By HARRIET MCEWEN KIMBALL, Boston: E. P. Dutton and Company.

Religious emotion has asked very little of literary art; and if we are to let hymnology witness,
it has received as little as it has asked in times past. To call upon Christ's name, to bless
God for goodness and mercy, suffice it; and no form of words enabling it to do this seems to
be found too feeble, or affected, or grotesque. For anything more, the inarticulate tones of
music are as adequate to devotion as the sublimest formula that Milton or Dante could have
shaped. It is only since religion has been so much philosophized, and has in so great degree
ceased to be a passion, that we have begun to find the hymns which our forefathers sang with
rapturous unconsciousness rather rubbishy literature. How blank, and void of all inspiration,
they seem for the most part to be! Good men wrote them, but evidently in seasons of great mental
depression. How commonplace is the language, how strained are the fancies, how weak the thoughts!
Yet through these stops of lead and wood, the music of charity, love, repentance, aspiration,
has poured from millions of humble hearts in sweetness that blessed and praised.

With no thought probably of affecting the standard hymnnology were the hymns written in the
little book before us. They are characterized by poetic purity of diction as well as tenderness
of sentiment. They express, without freshness of intuition, the emotions and desires of a devoutly
religious nature; and they commend themselves, like some of the best and earliest Christian
hymns, by their realization of the Divine essence as something to be directly approached with
filial and personal affection. Here is no burst of fervid devotion, but rather a quiet love,
breathing contrition, faith, and praise in poems of gentle earnestness, which even the reader
not imbued with the element of their inspiration may find graceful and pleasing.

