I could have felled the man with a single blow, but I saw that to make a brawl with a common
soldier about Mademoiselle Capello would be fatal. Old Peter then managed to gasp out:

"This young lady is Mademoiselle Francezka Capello del Medina y Kirkpatrick, niece of the Countess
Margarita Riano del Valdozo y Kirkpatrick, and she must be instantly released."

"Well, then," replied the soldier, laughing, "why doesn't the Countess Margarita Riano del
Valdozo y Kirkpatrick keep an eye on her niece, Mademoiselle Francezka Capello del Medina y
Kirkpatrick, instead of letting her play with these little vagabonds of actors? But, my old
cock, I think you are lying--so here goes!"

And he dragged Francezka off toward the carts, in which the rest of the children were being
tumbled. Peter turned to me.

"For the love of God--" he began, and could say no more for terror and grief.

"I will follow her," said I, "and no harm shall come to her unless my right hand loses its
cunning. No doubt as soon as her identity is known she will be released. But, it must be kept
quiet, you understand? Her absence must be concealed if possible."

"O God! O God!"

The misery of old Peter was piteous. First, he would run toward the carts, swearing he would
follow them on foot; then he would totter back, crying:

"I must tell Madame Riano!"

Meanwhile I had gone out, had engaged the first coach for hire and followed the odd procession
as it started toward the Temple. In the first cart sat, besides the soldier driving, the officer,
Jacques Haret, and Lafarge, who was to lodge the information. Jacques Haret and Lafarge got
to fighting in the cart, but that was speedily stopped. Then Jacques took to sharpening his
wit on Lafarge and his bad acting, and the first thing I saw, the officer and the soldier were
near tumbling out of the cart with laughter at their prisoner. I thought this boded ill for
Lafarge, as the case would be heard before the Grand Prieur de Vendôme, and this Grand Prieur
was not the great grandson of Henri Quatre for nothing--he, too, loved wit as well as wine
and women. In the next cart were several children including the cobbler's boy, who continued
to yell vociferously and to beg that he should not be hanged. On the plank with the soldier
driving sat Francezka Capello.

She wore no hat, and still had on her blond wig, and her fresh cheeks were raddled with paint--she
had been unpainted in the first piece. But I could see her pallor under her rouge. She had
on a large crimson mantle, which she wrapped around her, and sat perfectly still and silent.
After all, she was the only creature in the party who had anything to fear, and yet she was
the calmest of them all. The soldier driving, who was a good-natured fellow, began to cheer
up the weeping children, and soon had them all smiling except the cobbler's boy and Francezka.

"Come now," he said. "This is nothing but a pleasant ride to a nice place, called the Temple,
where there will be plenty of bread and cheese for you, and some nice clean straw for you to
sleep on--and early to-morrow morning you will be sent home to your fathers and mothers, and
you will each have a penny--or perhaps a whole livre, so don't be crying, but hold on now--"

Then he whipped up the horse so as to give the children a merry jolt, and the youngsters all
began to laugh--still excepting the two co-stars of the troupe.

Mademoiselle Capello confessed to me, years afterward, that she fully expected to be executed,
although she did not look for the ignominy of hanging, but rather decapitation--and she firmly
resolved to die with the courage of the Capellos and the Kirkpatricks. To heighten this, she
kept repeating to herself all the names, titles and dignities in her family, and thanked God
that she was not as the other children were, or even the cobbler's boy. And to render her exit
more dignified, she wiped the paint from her lips and cheeks and managed to throw away her
blond wig as the cart rolled under the dark and forbidding archway of the Temple, between the
two peaked towers that had frowned there for five centuries.

CHAPTER III

THE RESCUE

The prison of the Temple was a huge gloomy building, fronting on two streets. Monsieur, the
Grand Prieur de Vendôme, was governor of the prison, and had a whole wing of it fitted up very
luxuriously for himself--for the Temple was the very pleasantest quarter of Paris, and the
wits, the songs, the plays of the Temple have been celebrated ever since I knew Paris. Mirepoix
was the deputy governor--there is always in these places a governor who draws the money and
a deputy who does the work. Mirepoix was a great fool--I knew him well.

When the carts rattled under the archway which led into the courtyard on which the great hall
of the prison fronted, I had dismissed my coachman and was waiting to see what could be done
to screen Mademoiselle Capello. A few minutes after I arrived, old Peter came, breathless and
almost speechless. I told him to remain in the courtyard until I should deliver his young mistress
into his hands.

The sight of the black archway, the great, silent courtyard dimly lighted with lanterns--for
night had fallen by that time--frightened the children. They stopped laughing and some of them
began to whimper; the cobbler's boy had never stopped howling a moment.

I stood close and saw Mademoiselle Francezka descend, and I made her a low bow, pointing to
old Peter who stood close to me and made her a sign. She understood, and flashed me a tremulous
little smile as she led the procession into the vast dark hall of the prison which opens on
the courtyard.

I went in too. It was but dimly lighted. Mirepoix was already there--a weak, irresolute man
of fifty or thereabouts, completely off his head, listening first to Lafarge, then to Jacques
Haret, and seemingly not knowing whether the giving of a theatrical performance without a license
was a misdemeanor or high treason. He knew Jacques Haret, however, and his reputation or want
of reputation, and was inclined to take Lafarge's side of the case.

The children were in a row, all shivering and trembling, except Francezka Capello, who stood
with the pale beauty and virginal majesty of a Joan of Arc at the stake.

Jacques Haret--commend me to the Jacques Harets of this world for knowing all their rights!--seeing
what a muddlehead Mirepoix was, cried stoutly:

"I demand to see the governor of the prison, the Grand Prieur de Vendôme."

Now, this was his right--but Mirepoix proceeded to argue the point with him. The Grand Prieur
was having a supper party. The Grand Prieur must not be disturbed--and much else to the same
purpose. But all he could get out of Jacques Haret was:

"I demand to see the Grand Prieur. My great grandfather and his ancestor, Henri Quatre, were
boon companions. My ancestor fought at Ivry under his ancestor, and my family now possesses
a letter from Henri Quatre to Jacques Haret, asking the loan of fifty crowns and a pair of
breeches!"

I could have wrung Jacques Haret's neck for his persistence, but I could do nothing but stand
and watch and fume, with the young girl's tragic face before me, and old Peter breaking his
heart in the courtyard.

A messenger was sent for the Grand Prieur, and Jacques Haret consumed the intervening time
in a wordy war with Mirepoix and Lafarge, and he got the better of both of them.

I scarce thought the messenger had got the length of the prison, when the door opened, and
the Grand Prieur appeared. He was a very old man, but still handsome and black-browed, very
like his brother Marshal, the Duc de Vendôme--but not so dirty, nor did he sleep with dogs
in his bed. On the contrary, he was given to luxury, made excellent verses, and was of polished
manners.

When he entered the hall I saw that he looked anxious, and peered eagerly into the half darkness
that surrounded the company gathered there. Mirepoix plunged into the story, and to justify
himself for interrupting the Grand Prieur's supper party, one would have thought the twenty
or so children were twenty malefactors and giving a theatrical performance without a license
was the unpardonable sin.

The Grand Prieur heard him through and then cried:

"Good God! I thought it was an attempt on the king's life! And for these brats you took me
away from the supper table!"

Jacques Haret now came to the front, gravely reminding the Grand Prieur of the connection between
their ancestors and the loan of the breeches. The Grand Prieur tried to scowl, but instead,
burst out laughing. Jacques Haret then proceeded to give his account of the affair, including
his preliminary interview with Madame Riano--or Peggy Kirkpatrick, as he called her--and he
acted Peggy to the life so that even the frightened children laughed without understanding
it; all laughed, in fact, except Mademoiselle Capello, who scowled tragically at the game made
of her aunt. And not being deficient in sense, Jacques Haret took pretty good care not to hint
that his star actress was Madame Riano's niece. The climax came, however, when he apostrophized
Lafarge as being the self-constituted protector of Madame Riano's property. This brought down
the house, and Lafarge stuttered:

"I--I was not thinking of protecting Madame Riano--it was the majesty of the law that was being
outraged--the king--"

"Ah! You were protecting the king, then," cried the Grand Prieur. "Well, I dare say the court
and the army and the people and the church, among them, can do that without your help, Lafarge--and
Jacques Haret--suppose, since you have spoiled my supper, you recompense me with a performance
by this army of young criminals?"

"With the greatest pleasure, Monsieur."

"And by that time, their parents will all be howling in the courtyard, and we can give the
criminals each a coin, and let them go."

Some of the parents had indeed already arrived, and word was sent to them that the children
would be released as soon as they had given their play.

There were some benches and tables against the walls--for here it was that the guard dined
and supped--and these were hauled forth, some scenery was improvised with stools and sheets,
and torches were procured to light up the vast dark place. The Grand Prieur had gone back to
fetch his guests.

"Come, Mademoiselle," said Jacques Haret to Mademoiselle Capello, "you must act your best,
and get us all out of this scrape."

For the first time I saw a look on Mademoiselle Capello's face, indicating shame and humiliation
at her position. She had not so far spoken a word that I knew of. She glanced toward me as
much as to ask if she should agree--and I nodded. My one idea was to prevent a catastrophe
before getting her into old Peter's hands, and I dared not make any disturbance on her account.

"But, Monsieur," she said to Jacques Haret, "you must let Peter, my servant, come to me--he
followed me on foot all the distance from the garden."

"I will! I will!"

Jacques Haret ran out and fetched Peter, who was outside the door. Peter dashed in, ran up
to Francezka and began to cry:

"Oh, my darling little mistress! Oh, what will madame say to you? What will she do to you?"

I gave him a look of warning, which checked his lamentations. He squeezed himself into a little
place back of the improvised stage, and from there I watched his anxious face during what followed.

