To some of these came disastrous failures--to the Huguenots and Spaniards in Florida, to the
English in Roanoke, Cuttyhunk and Kennebee. Others who survived had stern and precarious first
years--the English in Jamestown and Plymouth, the Dutch in New York, the French in New Orleans.
Chief among leaders stand John Smith, Bradford, Penn, Bienville and Oglethorpe, and chief among
settlements, Jamestown, Plymouth, New York, Massachusetts Bay, Wilmington, Philadelphia, New
Orleans and Savannah. The several movements, in their failures as in their successes, were
distributed over a century and three-quarters, but since the coming of Columbus a much longer
period had elapsed. From the discovery to the arrival of Oglethorpe lie 240 years, or a hundred
years more than the period that separates our day from the years when America gained her independence
from England.

Each center of settlement had been inspired by an impulse separate from that of others. Alike
as some of them were, in having as a moving cause a desire to escape from persecution, religious
or political, or otherwise to better conditions, they were divided by years, if not by generations,
in time; the settlers came from lands isolated and remote from one another; they were different
as to race, form of government, and religious and political ideals, and, once communities had
been founded, each expanded on lines of its own and knew little of its neighbors.

The Spaniards who founded St. Augustine continued long to live there, but of social and political
growth in Spanish Florida there was none. Spain, in those eventful European years, was fully
absorbed elsewhere in Continental wars which taxed all her strength, especially that furious
war, waged for forty years against Holland, and from which Spain retired ultimately in failure.
In those years also was overthrown Philip's Armada, an event in which the scepter of maritime-empire
passed from Spain to England.

Of the French settlements the chief was New Orleans, French from the beginning, and so to remain
in racial preponderance, religious beliefs, and political ideals, for a century and a half
after Bienville founded it--so, in fact, it still remains in our day. But elsewhere the French
gave to the United States no permanent settlements. Numbers of them came to Florida, only to
perish by the sword; others in large numbers settled in South Carolina, only to become merged
with other races, among whom the English, with their speech and their laws, became supreme.

On Manhattan Island and in the valleys of the Hudson and lower Mohawk settled the Dutch a few
years after the English at Jamestown. They erected forts on Manhattan Island and at Albany,
Hartford and near Philadelphia; they partitioned vast tracts of fertile lands among favorite
patroons; they built up a successful trade in furs with the Indians--and sent the profits home.
Real settlements they did not found--at least, not settlements that were infused with the spirit
of local enterprise, or animated by vital ambitions looking to growth in population and industry.
After forty years of prosperity in trade they had failed to become a settled and well-ordered
colonial state, looking bravely forward to permanence, expansion and eventual statehood. The
first free school in America is credited to their initiative, and they were tolerant of other
religions than their own, but they planted no other seeds from which a great State could grow.

As Coligny before him had sought to plant in Florida a colony of French Huguenots, so Raleigh,
who had served under that great captain in the religious wars of the Continent, sought to found
in Virginia a Protestant state. Much private wealth and many of his best years were given by
Raleigh to the furtherance of a noble ambition, but all to futile immediate results. Raleigh's
work, however, like all good work nobly done, was not lost. Out of his failure at Roanoke came
English successes in later years--John Smith at Jamestown, the Pilgrims at Plymouth.

Oldest of permanent English settlements in America is Jamestown, but the English failures at
Cuttyhunk and Kennebec antedate it by a few years, and the failure at Roanoke by a quarter
of a century. At Jamestown, ten years after the arrival of the first settlers, a legislative
assembly was organized--a minature parliament, modeled after the English House of Commons,
and the first legislative body the new world ever knew. Here, too, in Jamestown began negro
slavery in the United States, and in the same, or the next, year. Thus legislative freedom
and human slavery had their beginning in America at the same time and in the same place.

Plymouth and Massachusetts Bay, next among the English settlements, followed in due time the
failure of Gosnold at Cuttyhunk and the description of New England John Smith wrote and printed
in 1614 after a voyage of exploration along her coast. After several years Plymouth contained
only about 300 souls, but the Bay colony, founded ten years later, increased rapidly. By 1634
nearly 4,000 of Winthrop's followers had arrived, many of them college graduates. From this
great parent colony went forth Roger Williams to Rhode Island, Hooker to Hartford, Davenport
to New Haven, so that by the middle of the seventeenth century five English colonies had been
planted within the borders of New England.

Long after all these came the Maryland and Pennsylvania settlements, founded by Lord Baltimore
and William Penn as lords proprietor, owners of vast tracts of land and possessing privileges
more extensive than ever before were bestowed on British subjects. In the new century arrived
Oglethorpe, with his insolvent debtors, soon to find Spaniards from St. Augustine hostile to
his enterprise. But Oglethorpe was a soldier as well as a colonizer; he had served in Continental
wars, and, after laying siege to St. Augustine further aggressions from that source ceased.

Thus at last, in the New World, the English race, their flag, their language and their laws,
had displaced the Spaniards in that world-important contest for dominion and power, of which
the second issue was soon to be fought out on many bloody fields with France.

F.W.H.

CONTENTS

VOL. II--THE PLANTING OF THE FIRST COLONIES

INTRODUCTION. By the Editor

THE FOUNDING OF ST. AUGUSTINE AND THE MASSACRE BY MENENDEZ (1562-1565):

    I. The Account by John A. Doyle

   II. Mendoza's Account

SIR WALTER RALEIGH'S VIRGINIA COLONIES (1584-1587):

    I. The Account by John A. Doyle

   II. The Return of the Colonists with Sir Francis Drake. By Ralph
       Lane

  III. The Birth of Virginia Dare. By John White

BARTHOLOMEW GOSNOLD'S DISCOVERY OF CAPE COD (1602):

    I. By Gabriel Archer, One of Gosnold's Companions

   II. Gosnold's Own Account

THE FOUNDING OF JAMESTOWN (1607). By Captain John Smith

THE FIRST AMERICAN LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY (1819). By John Twine, its Secretary

THE ORIGIN OF NEGRO SLAVERY IN AMERICA:

    I. In the West Indies (1518). By Sir Arthur Helps

   II. Its Beginnings in the United States (1620). By John A. Doyle

NEW ENGLAND BEFORE THE PILGRIM FATHERS LANDED (1614). By Captain John Smith

THE FIRST VOYAGE OF THE "MAYFLOWER" (1620). By Governor William Bradford

THE FIRST NEW YORK SETTLEMENTS (1623-1628). By Nicolas Jean de Wassenaer

THE SWEDES AND DUTCH IN NEW JERSEY (1627). By Israel Acrelius

THE BEGINNINGS OF THE MASSACHUSETTS BAY COLONY (1627-1631). By Governor Thomas Dudley

HOW THE BAY COLONY DIFFERED FROM PLYMOUTH. By John G. Palfrey

LORD BALTIMORE IN MARYLAND (1633). By Contemporary Writers

ROGER WILLIAMS IN RHODE ISLAND (1636). By Nathaniel Morton

THE FOUNDING OF CONNECTICUT (1633-1636). By Alexander Johnston

WITCHCRAFT IN NEW ENGLAND (1647-1696). By John G. Palfrey

THE ENGLISH CONQUEST OF NEW YORK (1664). By John H. Brodhead

BACON'S REBELLION IN VIRGINIA (1676). By an Anonymous Writer

KING PHILIP'S WAR (1676). By William Hubbarrd

THE FOUNDING OF PENNSYLVANIA:

    I. Penn's Account of the Colony (1684)

   II. Penn's Treaty with the Indians (1683). His Own Account

  III. The Reality of Penn's Treaty. By George E. Ellis

THE CHARTER OAK AFFAIR IN CONNECTICUT (1682). By Alexander Johnston

THE COLONIZATION OF LOUISIANA (1699). By Charles E.T. Gayarré

OGELETHORPE IN GEORGIA (1733). Two ships set sail under the command of Jean Ribault, a brave
and experienced seaman, destined to play a memorable and tragic part in the history of America.
Ribault does not seem to have set out with any definite scheme of colonization, but rather,
like Amidas and Barlow, to have contented himself with preliminary exploration. In April he
landed on the coast of Florida....

After he had laid the foundations of a fort, called in honor of the king Charlefort, Ribault
returned to France. He would seem to have been unfortunate in his choice alike of colonists
and of a commander. The settlers lived on the charity of the Indians, sharing in their festivities,
wandering from village to village and wholly doing away with any belief in their superior wisdom
and power which might yet have possest their savage neighbors....

France was torn asunder by civil war, and had no leisure to think of an insignificant settlement
beyond the Atlantic. No supplies came to the settlers, and they could not live forever on the
bounty of their savage neighbors. The settlers decided to return home. To do this it was needful
to build a bark with their own hands from the scanty resources which the wilderness offered.
Whatever might have been the failings of the settlers, they certainly showed no lack of energy
or of skill in concerting means for their departure. They felled the trees to make planks,
moss served for calking, and their shirts and bedding for sails, while their Indian friends
supplied cordage. When their bark was finished they set sail. Unluckily in their impatience
to be gone, they did not reckon what supplies they would need. The wind, at first favorable,
soon turned against them, and famine stared them in the face. Driven to the last resort of
starving seamen, they cast lots for a victim, and the lot, by a strange chance, fell upon the
very man whose punishment had been a chief count against De Pierria. Life was supported by
this hideous relief, till they came in sight of the French coast. Even then their troubles
were not over. An English privateer bore down upon them and captured them. The miseries of
the prisoners seem, in some measure, to have touched their enemies. A few of the weakest were
landed on French soil. The rest ended their wanderings in an English prison.

The needs of the abandonment of the colony did not reach France till long after the event.
Before its arrival a fleet was sent out to the relief of the colony. Three ships were dispatched,
the largest of a hundred and twenty tons, the least of sixty tons, under the command of René
Laudonnière, a young Poitevin of good birth. On their outward voyage they touched at Teneriffe
and Dominica, and found ample evidence at each place of the terror which the Spaniards had
inspired among the natives. In June the French reached the American shore south of Port Royal.
As before, their reception by the Indians was friendly. Some further exploration failed to
discover a more suitable site than that which had first presented itself, and accordingly a
wooden fort was soon built with a timber palisade and bastions of earthen work. Before long
the newcomers found that their intercourse with the Indians was attended with unlooked-for
difficulties. There were three tribes of importance, each under the command of a single chief,
and all more or less hostile to the other. In the South the power of the chiefs seems to have
been far more dreaded, and their influence over the national policy more authoritative than
among the tribes of New England and Canada. Laudonnière, with questionable judgment, entangled
himself in these Indian feuds, and entered into an offensive alliance with the first of these
chiefs whom he encountered, Satouriona....

A new source of trouble, however, soon beset the unhappy colonists. Their quarrels had left
them no time for tilling the soil, and they were wholly dependent on the Indians for food.
The friendship of the savages soon proved but a precarious means of support. The dissensions
in the French camp must have lowered the new-corners in the eyes of their savage neighbors.
They would only part with their supplies on exorbitaut terms. Laudonnière himself throughout
would have adopted moderate and conciliatory measures, but his men at length became impatient
and seized one of the principal Indian chiefs as a hostage for the good behavior of his countrymen.
A skirmish ensued, in which the French were victorious. It was clear, however, that the settlement
could not continue to depend on supplies extorted from the Indians at the point of the sword.
The settlers felt that they were wholly forgotten by their friends in France, and they decided,
tho with heavy hearts, to forsake the country which they had suffered so much to win....

Just, however, as all the preparations for departure were made, the long-expected help came.
Ribault arrived from France with a fleet of seven vessels containing three hundred settlers
and ample supplies. This arrival was not a source of unmixed joy to Laudonnière. His factious
followers had sent home calumnious reports about him, and Ribault brought out orders to send
him home to stand his trial. Ribault himself seems to have been easily persuaded of the falsity
of the charges, and prest Laudonnière to keep his command; but he, broken in spirit and sick
in body, declined to resume office.

All disputes soon disappeared in the face of a vast common misfortune. Whatever internal symptoms
of weakness might already display themselves in the vast fabric of the Spanish empire, its
rulers showed as yet no lack of jealous watchfulness against any attempts to rival her successes
in America. The attempts of Cartier and Roberval[3] had been watched, and the Spanish ambassador
at Lisbon had proposed to the King of Portugal to send out a joint armament to dispossess the
intruders. The king deemed the danger too remote to be worth an expedition, and the Spaniards
unwillingly acquiesced. An outpost of fur traders in the ice-bound wilderness of Canada might
seem to bring little danger with it. But a settlement on the coast of Florida, within some
eight days' sail of Havana, with a harbor whence privateers might waylay Spanish ships and
even attack Spanish colonies, was a rival not to be endured. Moreover, the colonists were not
only foreigners but Huguenots, and their heresy served at once as a pretext and stimulus to
Spanish zeal.

The man to whose lot it fell to support the monopoly of Spain against French aggression was
one who, if we may judge by his American career, needed only a wider field to rival the genius
and the atrocities of Alva. Pedro de Menendez, when he had scarcely passed from boyhood, had
fought both against the French and the Turks, and had visited America and returned laden with
wealth. He then did good service in command of the Spanish fleet in the French war, and his
prompt cooperation with the land force gave him a share in the glories of St. Quentin.[4] A
second voyage to America was even more profitable than the first, but his misconduct there
brought him into conflict with the Council of the Indies, by whom he was imprisoned, and heavily
fined. His previous services, however, had gained him the favor of the court. Part of his fine
was remitted, and he was emboldened to ask not merely for pardon, but for promotion. He proposed
to revive the attempt of De Soto and to extend the Spanish power over Florida. The expedition
was to be at Menendez's own cost; he was to take out five hundred colonists, and in return
to be made Governor of Florida for life and to enjoy certain rights for free trade with the
West Indies and with the mother country....

The military genius of Menendez rose to the new demands made upon it. He at once decided on
a bold and comprehensive scheme which would secure the whole coast from Port Royal to Chesapeake
Bay, and would ultimately give Spain exclusive possession of the South Seas and the Newfoundland
fisheries. The Spanish captain had a mind which could at once conceive a wide scheme and labor
at the execution of details. So resolutely were operations carried on that by June, 1565, Menendez
sailed from Cadiz with thirty-four vessels and four thousand six hundred men. After a stormy
voyage he reached the mouth of the St. John's river. Ribault's party was about to land, and
some of the smaller vessels had crossed the harbor, while others yet stood out to sea. Menendez
hailed the latter, and after some parley told them that be had come there with orders from
the king of Spain to kill all intruders that might be found on the coast. The French being
too few to fight, fled. Menendez did not for the present attack the settlement, but sailed
southward till he reached a harbor which be named St. Augustine. There the Spaniards disembarked
and threw up a fortification destined to grow into the town of St. Augustine, the first permanent
Spanish settlement north of the Gulf of Mexico. Various attempts had been made, and with various
motives. The slave-hunter, the gold-seeker, the explorer had each tried his fortunes in Florida,
and each failed. The difficulties which had baffled them all were at length overcome by the
spirit of religious hatred.

Meanwhile a council of war was sitting at the French settlement, Charlefort. Ribault, contrary
to the wishes of Laudonnière and the rest, decided to anticipate the Spaniards by an attack
from the sea. A few sick men were left with Laudonnière to garrison the fort; all the rest
went on board. Just as everything was ready for the attack, a gale sprang up, and the fleet
of Ribault, instead of bearing down on St. Augustine, was straggling in confusion off an unknown
and perilous coast. Menendez, relieved from immediate fear for his own settlement, determined
on a bold stroke. Like Ribault, he bore down the opposition of a cautious majority, and with
five hundred picked men marched overland through thirty miles of swamp and jungle against the
French fort. Thus each commander was exposing his own settlement in order to menace his enemies.

In judging, however, of the relative prudence of the two plans, it must be remembered that
an attack by land is far more under control, and far less liable to be disarranged by unforeseen
chances than one by sea. At first it seemed as if each expedition was destined to the same
fate. The weather was as unfavorable to the Spanish by land as to the French by sea. At one
time a mutiny was threatened, but Menendez succeeded in inspiring his men with something of
his own enthusiasm, and they persevered. Led by a French deserter, they approached the unprotected
settlement. So stormy was the night that the sentinels had left the walls. The fort was stormed;
Laudonnière and a few others escaped to the shore and were picked up by one of Ribault's vessels
returning from its unsuccessful expedition. The rest, to the number of one hundred and forty,
were slain in the attack or taken prisoners. The women and children were spared, the men were
hung on trees with an inscription pinned to their breasts: "Not as to Frenchmen, but as to
Lutherans."

The fate of Ribault's party was equally wretched. All were shipwrecked, but most apparently
succeeded in landing alive. Then began a scene of deliberate butchery, aggravated, if the French
accounts may be believed, by the most shameless treachery. As the scattered bands of shipwrecked
men wandered through the forest, seeking to return to Fort Caroline, they were mercilessly
entrapped by friendly words, if not by explicit promises of safety. Some escaped to the Indians,
a few were at last spared by the contemptuous mercy of the foes. Those of the survivors who
profest themselves converts were pardoned, the rest were sent to the galleys. Ribault himself
was among the murdered. If we may believe the story current in France, his head, sawn in four
parts, was set up over the corners of the fort of St. Augustine, while a piece of his beard
was sent as a trophy to the king of Spain....

Dominic de Gourgues had already known as a prisoner of war the horrors of the Spanish galleys.
Whether he was a Huguenot is uncertain. Happily in France, as the history of that and all later
ages proved, the religion of the Catholic did not necessarily deaden the feelings of the patriot.
Seldom has there been a deed of more reckless daring than that which Dominic de Gourgues now
undertook. With the proceeds of his patrimony he bought three small ships, manned by eighty
sailors and a hundred men-at-arms. He then obtained a commission as a slaver on the coast of
Guinea, and in the summer of 1567 set sail. With these paltry resources he aimed at overthrowing
a settlement which had already destroyed a force of twenty times his number, and which might
have been strengthened in the interval....

Three days were spent in making ready, and then De Gourgues, with a hundred and sixty of his
own men and his Indian allies, marched against the enemy. In spite of the hostility of the
Indians the Spaniards seem to have taken no precaution against a sudden attack. Menendez himself
had left the colony. The Spanish force was divided between three forts, and no proper precautions
were taken for keeping up the communications between them. Each was successively seized, the
garrison slain or made prisoners, and as each fort fell those in the next could only make vague
guesses as to the extent of the danger. Even when divided into three the Spanish force outnumbered
that of De Gourgues, and savages with bows and arrows would have counted for little against
men with firearms and behind walls. But after the downfall of the first fort a panic seemed
to seize the Spaniards, and the French achieved an almost bloodless victory. After the death
of Ribault and his followers nothing could be looked for but merciless retaliation, and De
Gourgues copied the severity, though not the perfidy, of his enemies. The very details of Menendez's
act were imitated, and the trees on which the prisoners were hung bore the inscription: "Not
as Spaniards, but as traitors, robbers, and murderers." Five weeks later De Gourgues anchored
under the walls of Rochelle, and that noble city, where civil and religious freedom found a
home In their darkest hour, received him with the honor he deserved. This settlement was soon
destroyed by the Portuguese.

    Menendez's expedition of 1565 followed the earlier Spanish
    expeditions by Ponce de Leon, Narvaez and De Soto. It sailed from
    Cadiz and comprized eleven ships. Twenty-three other vessels
    followed, the entire company numbering 2,646 persons. The aim
    of Menendez was to begin a permanent settlement in Florida. On
    arrival he found a colony of French Huguenots already in
    possession, having been there three years. A conflict was
    inevitable, and one which forms a most melancholy chapter in the
    early history of American colonization. Menendez hanged Huguenots,
    "not as Frenchmen, but as heretics," while Gourgues hanged
    Spaniards "not as Spaniards, but as traitors, robbers and
    murderers." After the conflicts closed the Spaniards maintained
    themselves in St. Augustine until 1586, when St. Augustine was
    completely destroyed by Sir Francis Drake. Two years later the
    Armada of Spain was overthrown in the English Channel, largely as
    the work of Drake.

    [3] In the valley of the St. Lawrence as described in Volume I.

    [4] St. Quentin is a town in northeastern France, near which on
    August 10, 1557, the army of Philip II, Spain, won a great victory
    over the combined armies of France and England.

II

MENDOZA'S ACCOUNT OF THE MASSACRE[1]

We saw two islands, called the Bahama Islands. The shoals which lie between them are so extensive
that the billows are felt far out at sea. The general gave orders to take soundings. The ship
purchased at Porto Rico got aground that day in two and a half fathoms of water. At first we
feared she might stay there; but she soon got off and came to us. Our galley, one of the best
chips afloat, found herself all day in the same position, when suddenly her keel struck three
times violently against the bottom. The sailors gave themselves up for lost, and the water
commenced to pour into her hold. But, as we had a mission to fulfil for Jesus Christ and His
blessed mother, two heavy waves, which struck her abaft, set her afloat again, and soon after
we found her in deep water, and at midnight we entered the Bahama Channel.

On Saturday, the 25th, the captain-general (Menendez) came to visit our vessel and get the
ordnance for disembarkment at Florida. This ordnance consisted of two rampart pieces, of two
sorts of culverins, of very small caliber, powder and balls; and he also took two soldiers
to take care of the pieces. Having armed his vessel, he stopt and made us an address, in which
he instructed us what we had to do on arrival at the place where the French were anchored.
I will not dwell on this subject, on which there was a good deal said for and against, although
the opinion of the general finally prevailed. There were two thousand (hundred) Frenchmen in
the seaport into which we were to force an entrance. I made some opposition to the plans, and
begged the general to consider that he had the care of a thousand souls, for which he must
give a good account....

On Tuesday, the 4th, we took a northerly course, keeping all the time close to the coast. On
Wednesday, the 5th, two hours before sunset, we saw four French ships at the mouth of a river.[2]
When we were two leagues from them the first galley joined the rest of the fleet, which was
composed of four other vessels. The general concerted a plan with the captains and pilots,
and ordered the flag-ship, the San Pelayo, and a chaloupe to attack the French flag-ship, the
Trinity, while the first galley and another chaloupe would attack the French galley, both of
which vessels were very large and powerful. All the ships of our fleet put themselves in good
position; the troops were in the best of spirits, and full of confidence in the great talents
of the captain-general. They followed the galley; but, as our general is a very clever and
artful officer, he did not fire, nor seek to make any attack on the enemy. He went straight
to the French galley, and cast anchor about eight paces from her. The other vessels went to
the windward, and very near the enemy. During the maneuvers, which lasted until about two hours
after sunset, not a word was said on either side. Never in my life have I known such stillness.
Our general inquired of the French galley, which was the vessel nearest his, "Whence does this
fleet come?" They answered, "From France." "What are you doing here?" said the Adelantado.
"This is the territory of King Philip II. I order you to leave directly; for I neither know
who you are nor what you want here."

The French commander then replied, "I am bringing soldiers and supplies to the fort of the
King of France." He then asked the name of the general of our fleet, and was told, "Pedro Menendez
de Aviles, Captain-general of the King of Spain, who have come to hang all Lutherans I find
here." Our general then asked him the name of his commander, and he replied, "Lord Gasto."
While this parleying was going on, a long-boat was sent from the galley to the flag-ship. The
person charged with this errand managed to do it so secretly that we could not hear what was
said; but we understood the reply of the French to be, "I am the admiral," which made us think
he wished to surrender, as they were in so small a force. Scarcely had the French made this
reply, when they slipped their cables, spread their sails, and passed through our midst. Our
admiral, seeing this, followed the French commander, and called upon him to lower his sails,
in the name of King Philip, to which he received an impertinent answer. Immediatly our admiral
gave an order to discharge a small culverin, the ball from which struck the vessel amidship,
and I thought she was going to founder. We gave chase, and some time after he again called
on them to lower their sails. "I would sooner die first than surrender!" replied the French
commander. The order was given to fire a second shot, which carried off five or six men; but,
as these miserable devils are very good sailors, they maneuvered so well that we could not
take one of them; and, notwithstanding all the guns we fired at them, we did not sink one of
their ships. We only got possession of one of their large boats, which was of great service
to us afterward. During the whole night our flag-ship (the San Pelayo) and the galley chased
the French flag-ship (Trinity) and galley....

The next morning, being fully persuaded that the storm had made a wreck of our galley, or that,
at least, she had been driven a hundred leagues out to sea, we decided that so soon as daylight
came we would weigh anchor, and withdraw in good order, to a river (Seloy) which was below
the French colony, and there disembark, and construct a fort, which we would defend until assistance
came to us.

On Thursday, just as day appeared, we sailed toward the vessel at anchor, passed very close
to her, and would certainly have captured her, when we saw another vessel appear on the open
sea, which we thought was one of ours. At the same moment, however, we thought we recognized
the French admiral's ship. We perceived the ship on the open sea: it was the French galley
of which we had been in pursuit. Finding ourselves between these two vessels, we decided to
direct our course toward the galley, for the sake of deceiving them and preventing them from
attacking us, so as not to give them any time to wait. This bold maneuver having succeeded,
we sought the river Seloy and port, of which I have spoken, where we had the good fortune to
find our galley, and another vessel which had planned the same thing we had. Two companies
of infantry now disembarked: that of Captain Andres Soyez Patino, and that of Captain Juan
de San Vincente, who is a very distinguished gentleman. They were well received by the Indians,
who gave them a large house belonging to a chief, and situated near the shore of a river. Immediately
Captain Patino and Captain San Vincente, both men of talent and energy, ordered an intrenchment
to be built around this house, with a slope of earth and fascines, these being the only means
of defense possible in that country, where stones are nowhere to be found. Up to to-day we
have disembarked twenty-four pieces of bronze guns of different calibers, of which the least
weighed fifteen hundred weight. Our fort is at a distance of about fifteen leagues from that
of the enemy (Fort Carolin). The energy and talents of those two brave captains, joined to
the efforts of their brave soldiers, who had no tools with which to work the earth, accomplished
the construction of this fortress of defence; and, when the general disembarked he was quite
surprized with what had been done.

On Saturday, the 8th, the general landed with many banners spread, to the sound of trumpets
and salutes of artillery. As I had gone ashore the evening before, I took a cross and went
to meet him, singing the hymn Te Deum laudamus. The general marched up to the cross, followed
by all who accompanied him, and there they all kneeled and embraced the cross. A large number
of Indians watched these proceedings and imitated all they saw done. The same day the general
took formal possession of the country in the name of his Majesty, and all the captains took
the oath of allegiance to him, as their general and governor of the country....

Our general was very bold in all military matters, and a great enemy of the French. He immediately
assembled his captains and planned an expedition to attack the French settlement and fort on
the river with five hundred men; and, in spite of the opinion of a majority of them, and of
my judgment and of another priest, he ordered his plan to be carried out. Accordingly, on Monday,
September 17, he set out with five hundred men, well provided with fire-arms and pikes, each
soldier carrying with him a sack of bread and supply of wine for the journey. They also took
with them two Indian chiefs, who were the implacable enemies of the French, to serve as guides....

I have previously stated that our brave captain-general set out on the 17th of September with
five hundred arquebusiers and pikemen, under the guidance of two Indian chiefs, who showed
them the route to the enemy's fort. They marched the whole distance until Tuesday evening,
the 17th of September, 1565, when they arrived within a quarter of a league of the enemy's
fort (Carolin), where they remained all night up to their waists in water. When daylight came,
Captains Lopez, Patino, and Martin Ochoa had already been to examine the fort, but, when they
went to attack the fort, a greater part of the soldiers were so confused they scarcely knew
what they were about.

On Thursday morning our good captain-general, accompanied by his son-in-law, Don Pedro de Valdes,
and Captain Patino, went to inspect the fort. He showed so much vivacity that he did not seem
to have suffered by any of the hardships to which he had been exposed, and, seeing him march
off so brisk, the others took courage, and without exception followed his example. It appears
the enemy did not perceive their approach until the very moment of the attack, as it was very
early in the morning and had rained in torrents. The greater part of the soldiers of the fort
were still in bed. Some arose in their shirts, and others, quite naked, begged for quarter;
but, in spite of that, more than one hundred and forty were killed. A great Lutheran cosmographer
and magician was found among the dead. The rest, numbering about three hundred, scaled the
walls, and either took refuge in the forest or on their ships floating in the river, laden
with treasures, so that in an hour's time the fort was in our possession, without our having
lost a single man, or even had one wounded. There were six vessels on the river at the time.
They took one brig, and an unfinished galley and another vessel, which had been just discharged
of a load of rich merchandise, and sunk. These vessels were placed at the entrance to the bar
to blockade the harbor, as they expected we would come by sea. Another, laden with wine and
merchandise, was near the port. She refused to surrender, and spread her sails, when they fired
on her from the fort, and sunk her in a spot where neither the vessel nor cargo will be lost.

The taking of this fort gained us many valuable objects, namely, two hundred pikes, a hundred
and twenty helmets, a quantity of arquebuses and shields, a quantity of clothing, linen, fine
cloths, two hundred tons of flour, a good many barrels of biscuit, two hundred bushels of wheat,
three horses, four asses, and two she-asses, hogs, tallow, books, furnace, flour-mill, and
many other things of little value. But the greatest advantage of this victory is certainly
the triumph which our Lord has granted us, and which will be the means of the holy Gospel being
introduced into this country, a thing necessary to prevent the loss of many souls....

When we had reached the sea, we went about three leagues along the coast in search of our comrades.
It was about ten o'clock at night when we met them, and there was a mutual rejoicing at having
found each other. Not far off we saw the camp fires of our enemies, and our general ordered
two of our soldiers to go and reconnoiter them, concealing themselves in the bushes, and to
observe well the ground where they were encamped, so as to know what could be done. About two
o'clock the men returned, saying that the enemy was on the other side of the river, and that
we could not get at them. Immediately the general ordered two soldiers and four sailors to
return to where we bad left the boats, and bring them down the river, so that we might pass
over to where the enemy was. Then he marched his troops forward to the river, and we arrived
before daylight. We concealed ourselves in a hollow between the sandhills, with the Indians
who were with us; and, when it became light, we saw a great many of the enemy go down to the
river to get shell-fish for food. Soon after we saw a flag hoisted, as a war-signal.

Our general, who was observing all that, enlightened by the Holy Spirit, said to us, "I intend
to change these clothes for those of a sailor, and take a Frenchman with me (one of those whom
we had brought with us from Spain), and we will go and talk with these Frenchmen. Perhaps they
are without supplies, and would be glad to surrender without fighting." He had scarcely finished
speaking before he put his plan into execution. As soon as he had called to them, one of them
swam toward and spoke to him; told him of their having been shipwrecked, and the distress they
were in; that they had not eaten bread for eight or ten days; and, what is more, stated that
all, or at least the greater part of them, were Lutherans. Immediately the general sent him
back to his countrymen, to say they must surrender, and give up their arms, or he would put
them all to death. A French gentleman, who was a sergeant, brought back the reply that they
would surrender on condition their lives should be spared. After having parleyed a long time,
our brave captain-general answered "that he would make no promises, that they must surrender
unconditionally, and lay down their arms, because, if he spared their lives, he wanted them
to be grateful for it, and, if they were put to death, that there should be no cause for complaint."
Seeing that there was nothing else left for them to do, the sergeant returned to the camp;
and soon after he brought all their arms and flags, and gave them up to the general, and surrendered
unconditionally. Finding they were all Lutherans, the captain-general ordered them all to be
put to death; but, as I was a priest, and had bowels of mercy, I begged him to grant me the
favor of sparing those whom we might find to be Christians. He granted it; and I made investigations,
and found ten or twelve of the men Roman Catholics, whom we brought back. All the others were
executed, because they were Lutherans and enemies of our Holy Catholic faith. All this took
place on Saturday (St. Michael's Day), September 29, 1565.[3]

    [1] Francisco Lopez de Mendoza was the chaplain of the expedition.
    His account is printed in "Old South Leaflets."

    [2] These ships, commanded by Ribault,--seven in number, with 500
    men besides families of artizans on board,--had arrived at the
    mouth of the St. John's River on August 29, 1565. The four left
    outside, as seen by Menendez, were at the time disembarking their
    passengers.

    [3] When the French Government learned of this massacre, the event
    did not arouse any particular interest. Indeed, the colony seems
    not to have had any special protection from the home authorities.
    Had the contrary been the case, it would have been easily possible
    for the French to have built up a flourishing colony in America
    nearly half a century before the English were ever established in
    the new world. If any Englishman in that age seemed
to be marked out as the founder of a colonial empire, it was Raleigh.
Like Gilbert, he had studied books; like Drake, he could rule men. The
pupil of Coligny, the friend of Spenser, traveler-soldier, scholar,
courtier, statesman, Raleigh with all his varied graces and powers
rises before us, the type and personification of the age in which he
lived. The associations of his youth, and the training of his early
manhood, fitted him to sympathize with the aims of his half-brother
Gilbert, and there is little reason to doubt that Raleigh had a share
in his undertaking and his failure.

In 1584 he obtained a patent precisely similar to Gilbert's. His first step showed the thoughtful
and well-planned system on which he began his task. Two ships were sent out, not with any idea
of settlement, but to examine and report upon the country. Their commanders were Arthur Barlow
and Philip Amidas. To the former we owe the extant record of the voyage: the name of the latter
would suggest that he was a foreigner. Whether by chance or design, they took a more southerly
course than any of their predecessors....

Coasting along for about a hundred and twenty miles the voyagers reached an inlet and with
some difficulty entered. They solemnly took possession of the land in the Queen's name, and
then delivered it over to Raleigh according to his patent. They soon discovered that the land
upon which they had touched was an island about twenty miles long and not above six broad,
named, as they afterward learned, Roanoke. Beyond, separating them from the mainland, lay an
enclosed sea, studded with more than a hundred fertile and well-wooded islets....

Barlow and Amidas returned to England in the middle of September. With them they brought two
of the savages, named Wanchese and Manteo. A probable tradition tells us that the Queen herself
named the country Virginia, and that Raleigh's knighthood was the reward and acknowledgement
of his success. On the strength of this report Raleigh at once made preparations for a settlement.
A fleet of seven ships was provided for the conveyance of a hundred and eight settlers. The
fleet was under the command of Sir Richard Grenville, who was to establish the settlement and
leave it under the charge of Ralph Lane....

On the 20th of June the fleet reached the coast of Florida, and three days later narrowly escaped
being cast away off Cape Fear. In a few days more they anchored at Wococon, an island near
Roanoke. In entering the harbor the largest ship, the Tiger, struck a sand-bar, and was nearly
lost, either through the clumsiness or treachery of the pilot, Simon Fernando, a Portuguese.
On the 11th of July Grenville, with forty others, including Lane, Amidas, and the chief men
of the expedition, crossed over to the mainland. Taking northerly direction, they explored
the coast as far as Secotan, an Indian town some sixty miles mouth of Roanoke, where they were
hospitably received by the savages. It is melancholy, after the bright picture of the intercourse
between the natives and the English drawn by Barlow, to have to record hostilities, in which
by far the greater share of blame lay with our countrymen. On the voyage back to Roanoke a
silver cup was stolen from the English at one of the Indian villages. In revenge the English
put the inhabitants to flight, burnt the village and destroyed the crops. On the 3d of August
one ship sailed home, and on the 25th Grenville left the colony, followed, as it would seem,
during the course of the next month by the rest of the fleet[3]....

The site of the settlement was at the northeast corner of the island of Roanoke, whence the
settlers could command the strait. There, even now, choked by vines and underwood, and here
and there broken by the crumbling remains of an earthen bastion, may be traced the outlines
of the ditch which enclosed the camp, some forty yards square, the home of the first English
settlers in the New World....

If the failure of his colony was likely to deter Raleigh from further efforts, this was more
than outweighed by the good report of the country given both by Lane and Heriot. Accordingly,
in the very next year, Raleigh put out another and a larger expedition under the leadership
of John White. The constitution of White's expedition would seem to show that it was designed
to be more a colony, properly speaking, than Lane's settlement at Roanoke. A government was
formed by Raleigh, consisting of White and twelve others, incorporated as the governor and
assistants of the city of Raleigh. Of the hundred and fifty settlers seventeen were women,
of whom seven seem to have been unmarried. The emigrants evidently did not go as mere explorers
or adventurers; they were to be the seed of a commonwealth....

On the 2d of July the fleet reached Haterask, the port at which Grenville had landed on his
last voyage. There White took fifty men ashore to search for the fifteen whom Grenville had
left there. They found nothing but the bones of one man, slain, as they afterward learned,
by the Indians. The rest had disappeared, and it was not till some time afterward that their
countrymen learned any tidings of their fate. Ignorant, no doubt, of the altered feelings of
the natives, Grenvile's men had lived carelessly, and kept no watch. Pemissapan's warriors
had seized the opportunity to revenge the death of their chief, and had sent a party of thirty
men against the English settlement. Two of the chief men were sent forward to demand a parley
with two of the English. The latter fell into the trap, and sent out two of their number. One
of these was instantly seized and killed, whereupon the other fled. The thirty Indians then
rushed out and fired the house, in which the English settlers took refuge. The English, thus
dislodged, forced their way out, losing one man in the skirmish, and at last, after being sorely
prest by the arrows of their enemies, and by their skill in fighting behind covert, they reached
the boat and escaped to Haterask. After this neither Indians nor English ever heard of them
again....

A more hopeful omen might be drawn from the birth of a child five days later, the first born
to English parents in the New World. Her father, Ananias Dare, was one of the twelve assistants,
and her mother, Eleanor, was the daughter of John White. Each event, the birth of Virginia
Dare, the baptism and ennobling of Manteo, was trivial in itself, yet when brought together,
the contrast gives a solemn meaning. It seemed as if within five days the settlement of Roanoke
had seen an old world pass away, a new world born.

In August White wished to send home two of the assistants to represent the state of the colony,
but, for some reason, none of them were willing to go. The wish of the colony generally seemed
to be that White himself should undertake the mission. After some demur, chiefly on the ground
that his own private interests required his presence in the settlement, White assented, and
on the 27th of August he sailed....

Soon after White's return Raleigh fitted out a fleet under the command of Grenville. Before
that fleet could sail Raleigh and Grenville were called off to a task even more pressing than
the relief of the Virginia plantation. Yet, notwithstanding the prospect of a Spanish invasion,
White persuaded Raleigh to send out two small vessels, with which White himself sailed from
Bideford on the 25th of April, 1588. The sailors, however, fell into the snare so often fatal
to the explorers of that age. In the words of a later writer, whose vigorous language seemed
to have been borrowed from some contemporary chronicler, the captains, "being more intent on
a gainful voyage than the relief of the colony, ran in chase of prizes; till at last one of
them, meeting two ships of war, was, after a bloody fight, overcome, boarded and rifled. In
this maimed, ransacked, and ragged condition she returned to England in a month's time; and
in about three weeks after the other also returned, having perhaps tasted of the same fare,
at least without performing her intended voyage, to the distress, and, as it proved, the utter
destruction of the colony of Virginia, and to the great displeasure of their patron at home."

Raleigh had now spent forty thousand pounds on the colonization of
Virginia, with absolutely no return. In March, 1589, he made an
assignment, granting to Sir Thomas Smith, White and others the
privilege of trading in Virginia, while he proved at the same time
that he had not lost his interest in the undertaking by a gift of a
hundred pounds for the conversion of the natives. The unhappy
colonists gained nothing by the change. For a whole year no relief was
sent. When, at length, White sailed with three ships, he or his
followers imitated the folly of their predecessors, and preferred
buccaneering among the Spaniards in the West Indies to conveying
immediate relief to the colonists. On their arrival nothing was to be
seen of the settlers. After some search the name Croaton was seen
carved on a post, according to an arrangement made with White before
his departure, by which the settlers were thus to indicate the course
they had taken. Remnants of their goods were found, but no trace of
the settlers themselves. Years afterward, when Virginia had been at
length settled by Englishmen, a faint tradition found its way among
them of a band of white captives, who, after being for years kept by
the Indians in laborious slavery, were at length massacred. Such were
the only tidings of Raleigh's colonists that ever reached the ears of
their countrymen. White, with his three ships, returned, and the
colonization of Virginia was for a time at an end. Even Raleigh's
indomitable spirit gave way, and he seems henceforth to have abandoned
all hope of a plantation. Yet he did not, till after fifteen years of
disappointment and failure, give up the search for his lost settlers.
Before he died the great work of his life had been accomplished, but
by other hands. In spite of the intrigues of the Spanish court and the
scoffs of playwrights, Virginia had been settled and had become a
flourishing colony. A ship had sailed into London laden with Virginia
goods, and an Indian princess,[4] the wife of an Englishman, had been
received at court, and had for a season furnished wonder and amusement
to the fashionable world. In 1578 he had obtained royal permission to found a
    colony in America, but his expedition, after starting, turned back,
    a failure. In 1588 he again set out, landing at St. John's,
    Newfoundland, where he established the first English colony in
    North America. On returning home his ship was lost in a storm off
    the Azores.

    [3] See in the next chapter an account of Lane's return with Drake.

    [4] Pocahontas, married to John Rolfe, went to England with Rolfe
    and there died about a year later. She left a son who returned to
    Virginia, where he left descendants, among whom was the famous John
    Randolph of Roanoke. John Smith's account of the saving of his life
    by Pocahontas is printed in Volume I of "The Best of the World's
    Classics."

II

THE RETURN OF THE COLONISTS WITH SIR FRANCIS DRAKE

(1586)

BY RALPH LANE[1]

This fell out the first of June, 1586, and the eight of the same came advertisement to me from
captaine Stafford, lying at my lord Admirals Island, that he had discovered a great fleet of
three and twentie sailes: but whether they were friends or foes, he could not yet discerne.
He advised me to stand upon as good guard as I could.

With such thanks unto him and his captaines for his care both of us and of our action, not
as the matter deserved, but as I could both for my company and myselfe, I (being aforehand
prepared what I would desire) craved at his hands that it would please him to take with him
into England a number of weake and unfit men for any good action, which I would deliver to
him; and in place of them to supply me of his company with oare-men, artificers, and others.

That he would leave us so much shipping and victuall, as about August then next following would
cary me and all my company into England, when we had discovered somewhat, that for lacke of
needfull provision in time left with us as yet remained undone.

From whence the Generall in the name of the Almighty, weying his ankers (having bestowed us
among his fleet) for the reliefe of whom hee had in that storme susteined more perill of wracke
then in all his former most honourable actions against the Spanyards, with praises unto God
for all, set saile the nineteenth of June 1596, and arrived in Portsmouth the seven and twentieth
of July the same yeere.

    [1] Ralph Lane went out to Virginia in 1585 with the ships
    dispatched in that year by Raleigh and commanded by Sir Richard
    Grenville, the company numbering one hundred householders. After
    landing at Roanoke, Grenville returned to England for supplies,
    leaving the colony in charge of Lane. Lane has left an important
    account of the experiences and sufferings of the colonists during
    the absence of Grenville, whose return was delayed. Drake,
    meanwhile coming up from St. Augustine, which he had just
    destroyed, put in at Roanoke in 1586, and the whole company
    returned to England with him. Grenville afterward arrived in
    Roanoke, finding no one there. He then returned to England, leaving
    on the island fifteen men. In the following year Raleigh sent out
    to Roanoke John White. When White arrived he found that these men
    had all been massacred by the Indians. Other expeditions were sent
    out later, but none was able to establish any colony at Roanoke.
    Lane's account is printed In "Old South Leaflets."

III

THE BIRTH OF VIRGINIA DARE[1]

(1587)

BY JOHN WHITE

The two and twentieth day of July we came safely to Cape Hatteras, where our ship and pinnace
anchored. The Governor went aboard the pinnace accompanied by forty of his best men, intending
to pass up to Roanoke. He hoped to find those fifteen Englishmen whom Sir Richard Grenville
had left there the year before. With these he meant to have a conference concerning the state
of the country and the savages, intending then to return to the fleet and pass along the coast
to the Bay of Chesapeake. Here we intended to make our settlement and fort according to the
charge given us among other directions in writing under the hand of Sir Walter Raleigh. We
passed to Roanoke and the same night at sunset went ashore on the island, in the place where
our fifteen men were left. But we found none of them, nor any sign that they had been there,
saving only that we found the bones of one of them, whom the savages had slain long before.

The Governor with several of his company walked the next day to the north end of the island,
where Master Ralph Lane, with his men the year before, had built his fort with sundry dwelling
houses. We hoped to find some signs here, or some certain knowledge of our fifteen men.

When we came thither we found the fort razed, but all the houses standing unhurt, saving that
the lower rooms of them, and of the fort also, were overgrown with melons of different sorts,
and deer were in rooms feeding on those melons. So we returned to our company without the hope
of ever seeing any of the fifteen men living.

The same day an order was given that every man should be employed in remodelling those houses
which we found standing, and in making more cottages.

On the eighteenth a daughter was born in Roanoke to Eleanor, the daughter of the Governor and
the wife of Ananias Dare. This baby was christened on the Sunday following, and because this
child was the first Christian born in Virginia she was named Virginia Dare.

By this time our shipmasters had unloaded the goods and victuals of the planters and taken
wood and fresh water, and were newly calking and trimming their vessels for their return to
England. The settlers also prepared their letters and news to send back to England.

    [1] Virginia Dare was the first child of English parentage born in
    America. Her father was Ananias Dare. She was named Virginia after
    the colony which had already received the name in compliment to
    Queen Elizabeth.

BARTHOLOMEW GOSNOLD'S DISCOVERY OF CAPE COD[1]

(1602)

I

BY GABRIEL ARCHER, ONE OF HIS COMPANIONS

The said captain [Gosnold] did set sail from Falmouth the day and year above written accompanied
with thirty-two persons, whereof eight mariners and sailors, twelve purposing upon the discovery
to return with the ship for England, the rest remain there for population. The fourteenth of
April following, we had sight of Saint Mary's, an island of the Azores....

The fifteenth day of May we had again sight of the land, which made ahead, being as we thought
an island, by reason of a large sound that appeared westward between it and the main, for coming
to the west end thereof, we did perceive a large opening, we called it Shoal Hope. Near this
cape we came to anchor in fifteen fathoms, where we took great store of codfish, for which
we altered the name, and called it Cape Cod.[2] Here we saw sculls of herring, mackerel, and
other small fish, in great abundance. This is a low sandy shoal, but without danger, also we
came to anchor again in sixteen fathoms, fair by the land in the latitude of 42 degrees. This
cape is well near a mile broad, and lieth north-east by east. The captain went here ashore
and found the ground to be full of pease, strawberries, whortleberries, &c., as then unripe,
the sand also by the shore somewhat deep, the firewood there by us taken in was of cypress,
birch, witch-hazel and beech. A young Indian came here to the captain, armed with his bow and
arrows, and had certain plates of copper hanging at his ears; he showed a willingness to help
us in our occasions.

The sixteenth, we trended the coast southerly, which was all champaign and full of grass, but
the island somewhat woody. Twelve leagues from Cape Cod, we descried a point with some breach,
a good distance off, and keeping our luff to double it, we came on the sudden into shoal water,
yet well quitted ourselves thereof. This breach we called Tucker's Terror, upon his exprest
fear. The point we named Point Care; having passed it we bore up again with the land, and in
the night came with it anchoring in eight fathoms, the ground good.

The seventeenth, appeared many breaches round about us, so as we continued that day without
remove. The eighteenth, being fair we sent forth the boat, to sound over a breach, that in
our course lay of another point, by us called Gilbert's Point, who returned us four, five,
six, and seven fathoms over. Also, a discovery of divers islands which after proved to be hills
and hammocks, distinct within the land. This day there came unto the ship's side divers canoes,
the Indians apparelled as aforesaid, with tobacco and pipes steeled with copper, skins, artificial
strings and other trifles to barter; one had hanging about his neck a plate of rich copper,
in length a foot, in breadth half a foot for a breastplate, the ears of all the rest had pendants
of copper. Also, one of them had his face painted over, and head stuck with feathers in manner
of a turkey-cock's train. These are more timorous than those of the Savage Rock, yet very thievish.

The nineteenth, we passed over the breach of Gilbert's Point in four or five fathoms, and anchored
a league or somewhat more beyond it; between the last two points are two leagues, the interim,
along shoal water, the latitude here is 41 degrees two third parts.

The twentieth, by the ship's side, we there killed penguins, and saw many sculls of fish. The
coast from Gilbert's Point to the supposed isles lieth east and by south. Here also we discovered
two inlets which might promise fresh water, inwardly whereof we perceived much smoke, as though
some population had there been. This coast is very full of people, for that as we trended the
same savages still run along the shore, as men much admiring at us.

The one-and-twentieth, we went coasting from Gilbert's Point to the supposed isles, in ten,
nine, eight, seven, and six fathoms, close aboard the shore, and that depth lieth a league
off. A little from the supposed isles, appeared unto us an opening, with which we stood, judging
it to be the end which Captain Gosnold descried from Cape Cod, and as he thought to extend
some thirty or more miles in length, and finding there but three fathoms a league off, we omitted
to make further discovery of the same, calling it Shoal Hope.

From this opening the main lieth southwest, which coasting along we saw a disinhabited island,
which so afterward appeared unto us: we bore with it, and named it Martha's Vineyard; from
Shoal Hope it is eight leagues in circuit, the island is five miles, and hath 41 degrees and
one quarter of latitude. The place most pleasant; for the two-and-twentieth, we went ashore,
and found It full of wood, vines, gooseberry bushes, whortleberries, raspberries, eglantines,
&c. Here we had cranes, stearnes, shoulers, geese, and divers other birds which there at that
time upon the cliffs being sandy with some rocky stones, did breed and had young. In this place
we saw deer: here we rode in eight fathoms near the shore where we took great store of cod,--as
before at Cape Cod, but much better.

The three-and-twentieth we weighed, and toward night came to anchor at the northwest part of
this island, where the next morning offered unto us fast running thirteen savages apparelled
as aforesaid, and armed with bows and arrows without any fear. They brought tobacco, deer-skins,
and some sodden fish. These offered themselves unto us in great familiarity, who seemed to
be well-conditioned. They came more rich in copper than any before. This island is sound, and
hath no danger about it.

The four-and-twentieth, we set sail and doubled the Cape of another island next unto it, which
we called Dover Cliff, and then came into a fair sound[3], where we rode all night; the next
morning we sent off one boat to discover another cape, that lay between us and the main, from
which were a ledge of rocks a mile into the sea, but all above water, and without danger; we
went about them, and came to anchor in eight fathoms, a quarter of a mile from the shore, in
one of the stateliest sounds that ever I was in. This called we Gosnold's Hope; the north bank
whereof is the main, which stretcheth east and west. This island Captain Gosnold called Elizabeth's
isle, where we determined our abode; the distance between every one of these islands is, viz,
from Martha's Vineyard to Dover Cliff, half a league over the sound, thence to Elizabeth's
isle[4], one league distant. From Elizabeth's island unto the main is four leagues. On the
north side, near adjoining unto the island Elizabeth, is an islet in compass half a mile, full
of cedars, by me called Hill's Hap, to the northward of which, in the mouth of an opening on
the main, appeareth another the like, that I called Hap's Hill, for that I hope much hap may
be expected from it.

The eight-and-twentieth we entered counsel about our abode and plantation, which was concluded
to be in the west part of Elizabeth's island. The north-east thereof running from out our ken.
The south and north standeth in an equal parallel....

The one-and-thirtieth, Captain Gosnold, desirous to see the main because of the distance, he
set sail over; where coming to anchor, went ashore with certain of his company, and immediately
there presented unto him men, women, and children, who, with all courteous kindness entertained
him, giving him certain skins of wild beasts, which may be rich furs, tobacco, turtles, hemp,
artificial strings colored, chains, and such like things as at the instant they had about them.
These are a fair-conditioned people. On all the sea-coast along we found mussel shells that
in color did represent mother-of-pearl, but not having means to dredge, could not apprehend
further knowledge thereof. This main is the goodliest continent that ever we saw, promising
more by far than we any way did expect; for it is replenished with fair fields, and in them
fragrant flowers, also meadows, and hedged in with stately groves, being furnished also with
pleasant brooks, and beautified with two main rivers that (as we judge) may haply become good
harbors, and conduct us to the hopes men so greedily do thirst after....

The first of June we employed ourselves in getting sassafras, and the building of our fort.
The second, third, and fourth, we wrought hard to make ready our house for the provision to
be had ashore to sustain us till our ship's return. This day from the main came to our ship's
side a canoe, with their lord or chief commander, for that they made little stay only pointing
to the sun, as in sign that the next day he would come and visit us, which he did accordingly.

The fifth, we continued our labor, when there came unto us ashore from the main fifty savages,
stout and lusty men with their bows and arrows; amongst them there seemed to be one of authority,
because the rest made an inclining respect unto him. The ship was at their coming a league
off, and Captain Gosnold aboard, and so likewise Captain Gilbert, who almost never went ashore,
the company with me only eight persons. These Indians in hasty manner came toward us, so as
we thought fit to make a stand at an angle between the sea and a fresh water; I moved myself
toward him seven or eight steps, and clapt my hands first on the sides of mine head, then on
my breast, and after presented my musket with a threatening countenance, thereby to signify
unto them, either a choice of peace or war, whereupon he using me with mine own signs of peace,
I stept forth and embraced him; his company then all sat down in manner like greyhounds upon
their heels, with whom my company fell a bartering. By this time Captain Gosnold was come with
twelve men more from aboard, and to show the savage seignior that he was our Captain, we received
him in a guard, which he passing through, saluted the seignior with ceremonies of our salutations,
whereat he nothing moved or altered himself. Our Captain gave him a straw hat and a pair of
knives; the hat awhile he wore, but the knives he beheld with great marveling, being very bright
and sharp; this our courtesy made them all in love with us....

The eighth we divided the victuals, namely, the ship's store for England, and that of the planters,
which by Captain Gilbert's allowance could be but six weeks for six months, whereby there fell
out controversy, the rather, for that some seemed secretly to understand of a purpose Captain
Gilbert had not to return with supply of the issue, those goods should make by him to be carried
home. Besides, there wanted not ambitious conceits in the minds of some wrangling and ill-disposed
persons who overthrew the stay there at that time, which upon consultation thereof had, about
five days after was fully resolved all for England again. There came in this interim aboard
unto us, that stayed all night, an Indian, whom we used kindly, and the next day sent ashore;
he showed himself the most sober of all the rest, we held him sent as a spy. In the morning,
he filched away our pothooks, thinking he had not done any ill therein; being ashore we bid
him strike fire, which with an emerald stone (such as the glaziers use to cut glass) he did.
I take it to be the very same that in Latin is called smiris, for striking therewith upon touch-wood
that of purpose he had, by means of a mineral stone used therein, sparkles proceeded and forthwith
kindled with making of flame. The ninth, we continued working on our storehouse, for as yet
remained in us a desired resolution of making stay. The tenth, Captain Gosnold fell down with
the ship to the little islet of cedars, called Hill's Hap, to take in cedar wood, leaving me
and nine more in the fort, only with three meals meat, upon promise to return the next day....

The thirteenth, began some of our company that before vowed to stay, to make revolt: whereupon
the planters diminishing, all was given over. The fourteenth, fifteenth and sixteenth, we spent
in getting sassafras and fire-wood of cedar, leaving house and little fort, by ten men in nineteen
days sufficient made to harbor twenty persons at least with their necessary provisions.

The seventeenth, we set sail, doubling the rocks of Elizabeth's island, and passing by Dover
Cliff, came to anchor at Martha's Vineyard, being five leagues distant from our fort, where
we went ashore, and had young cranes, herneshowes, and geese, which now were grown to pretty
bigness.

The eighteenth, we set sail and bore for England, cutting off our shallop, that was well able
to land five and twenty men or more, a boat very necessary for the like occasions. The winds
do range most commonly upon this coast in the summer time, westerly. In our homeward course
we observed the foresaid floating weeds to continue till we came within two hundred leagues
of Europe. The three-and-twentieth of July we came to anchor before Exmouth.[5]

    [1] Gosnold sailed from Falmouth, England, in 1602, Raleigh being
    interested in the expedition. He reached the New England coast in
    May of the same year, and discovered Cape Cod, to which, because of
    the abundance of codfish in neighboring waters he gave the name it
    bears. He afterward discovered Martha's Vineyard, and on the
    neighboring island of Cuttyhunk founded a settlement called
    Elizabeth, the first ever made in New England by Englishmen. This
    settlement lasted only a few weeks, the settlers returning to
    England.

    [2] The entire group of islands, of which Cuttyhunk is one, are now
    known as the Elizabeth Islands. The township which these islands
    comprize bears Gosnold's name. Gosnold became active afterward in
    promoting the expedition which In 1607 resulted in the settlement
    of Jamestown. The report of the expedition to Cape Cod, from which
    this account is taken, is known as "The Relation of Captain
    Gosnold's Voyage." It was "delivered by Gabriel Archer, a gentleman
    in the said voyage." Archer's account is printed in "Old South
    Leaflets."

    [3] Vineyard Sound.

    [4] Now Cuttyhunk, the westermost of the chain of islands called
    the Elizabeth Islands, which separate Buzzard's Bay from Vineyard
    Sound.

    [5] From Exmouth the ship sailed for Portsmouth, her real
    destination.

II

GOSNOLD'S OWN ACCOUNT[1]

I was in good hope that my occasions would have allowed me so much liberty, as to have come
unto you before this time; otherwise I would have written more at large concerning the country
from whence we lately came, than I did: but not well remembering what I have already written
(though I am assured that there is nothing set down disagreeing with the truth), I thought
it fittest not to go about to add anything in writing, but rather to leave the report of the
rest till I come myself; which now I hope shall be shortly, and so soon as with conveniency
I may. In the mean time, notwithstanding whereas you seem not to be satisfied by that which
I have already written, concerning some especial matters; I have here briefly (and as well
as I can) added these few lines for your further satisfaction....

We cannot gather, by anything we could observe in the people, or by any trial we had thereof
ourselves, but that it is as healthful a climate as any can be. The inhabitants there, as I
wrote before, being of tall stature, comely proportion, strong, active, and some of good years,
and as it should seem very healthful, are sufficient proof of the healthfulness of the place.
First, for ourselves (thanks be to God) we had not a man sick two days together in all our
voyage; whereas others that went out with us, or about that time on other voyages (especially
such as went upon reprisal,) were most of them infected with sickness, whereof they lost some
of their men, and brought home a many sick, returning notwithstanding long before us. But Verazzano,
and others (as I take it, you may read in the Book of Discoveries), do more particularly entreat
of the age of the people in that coast.

The sassafras which we brought we had upon the islands; where though we had little disturbance,
and reasonable plenty; yet for that the greatest part of our people were employed about the
fitting of our house, and such like affairs, and a few (and those but easy laborers) undertook
this work, the rather because we were informed before our going forth, that a ton was sufficient
to cloy England, and further, for that we had resolved upon our return, and taken view of our
victual, we judged it then needful to use expedition; which afterward we had more certain proof
of; for when we came to an anchor before Portsmouth, which was some four days after we made
the land, we had not one cake of bread, nor any drink, but a little vinegar left: for these
and other reasons we returned no otherwise laden than you have heard. And thus much I hope
shall suffice till I can myself come to give you further notice, which though it be not so
soon as I could have wished, yet I hope it shall be in convenient time.

    [1] From a letter to his father, dated September 1, 1602.

THE FOUNDING OF JAMESTOWN

(1607)

I

BY CAPTAIN JOHN SMITH[1]

Captaine Bartholomew Gosnoll, one of the first movers of this plantation, having many yeares
solicited many of his friends, but found small assistants; at last prevailed with some Gentlemen,
as Captaine Iohn Smith, Master Edward-maria Wingfield, Master Robert Hunt, and divers others,
who depended a yeare vpon his proiects, but nothing could be effected, till by their great
charge and industrie, it came to be apprehended by certaine of the Nobilitie, Gentry, and Marchants,
so that his Maiestie by his letters patents, gaue commission for establishing Councels, to
direct here; and to governe, and to execute there. To effect this, was spent another yeare,
and by that, three ships were provided, one of 100 Tuns, another of 40, and a Pinnace of 20.
The transportation of the company was committed to Captaine Christopher Newport, a Marriner
well practised for the Westerne parts of America. But their orders for government were put
in a box, not to be opened, nor the governours knowne vntill they arrived in Virginia.... On
the 19 of December, 1606, we set sayle from Blackwell, but by vnprosperous winds, were kept
six weekes in the sight of England; all which time, Master Hunt our Preacher, was so weake
and sicke, that few expected his recovery.

We watered at the Canaries, we traded with the Salvages at Dominica; three weekes we spent
in refreshing our selues amongst these west-India Isles; in Gwardalupa we found a bath so hot,
as in it we boyled Porck as well as over the fire. And a little Isle called Monica, we tooke
from the bushes with our hands, neare two hogsheads full of Birds in three or foure houres.
In Mevis, Mona, and the Virgin Isles, we spent some time; where, with a lothsome beast like
a Crocodil, called a Gwayn, Tortoises, Pellicans, Parrots, and fishes, we daily feasted.

Gone from thence in search of Virginia, the company was not a little discomforted, seeing the
Marrinershad 3 dayes passed their reckoning and found no land; so that Captaine Ratliffe (Captaine
of the Pinnace) rather desired to beare vp the helms to returns for England, then make further
search. But God the guider of all good actions, forcing them by an extreame storme to hull
all night, did driue them by his providence to their desired Port, beyond all their expectations;
for never any of them had seene that coast.

The first land they made they called Cape Henry; where thirtie of them recreating themselues
on shore, were assaulted by fiue Salvages, who hurt two of the English very dangerously.

That night was the box opened, and the orders read, in which Bartholomew Gosnoll, Iohn Smith,
Edward Wingfield, Christopher Newport, Iohn Ratliffe, Iohn Martin, and George Kendall, were
named to be the Councell, and to choose a President amongst them for a year, who with the Councell
should governs. Matters of moment were to be examined by a Iury, but determined by the maior
part of the Councell, in which the President had two voyces.

Untill the 13 of May they sought a place to plant in; then the Councell was sworne, Master
Wingfield was chosen President, and an Oration made, why Captain Smith was not admitted of
the Councell as the rest.

Now falleth every man to works, the Councell contriue the Fort, the rest cut downe trees to
make place to pitch their Tents; some provide clapbord to relade the ships, some make gardens,
some nets, &c. The Salvages often visited vs kindly. The Presidents overweening iealousie would
admit no exercise at armes, or fortification but the boughs of trees cast together in the forms
of a halfe moons by the extraordinary paines and diligence of Captaine Kendall. To this place
the river is navigable: but higher within a myle, by reason of the Rocks and Isles, there is
not passage for a small Boat, this they call the Falles[2]. The people in all parts kindly
intreated them, till being returned within twentie myles of Iames towns, they gaue iust cause
of iealousie: but had God not blessed the discoverers otherwise than those at the Fort, there
had then beene an end of that plantation; for at the Fort, where they arrived the next day,
they found 17 men hurt, and a boy slaine by the Salvages, and had it not chanced a crosse barre
shot from the Ships strooke downe a bough from a tree amongst them, that caused them to retire,
our men had all beene slams, being securely all at works, and their armes in dry fats.

Herevpon the President was contented the Fort should be pallisadoed, the Ordnance mounted,
his men armed and exercised: for many were the assaults, and ambuscadoes of the Salvages, and
our men by their disorderly stragling were often hurt, when the Salvages by the nimblenesse
of their heels well escaped.

What toyle we had, with so small a power to guard our workemen adayes, watch all night, resist
our enemies, and effect our businesse, to relade the ships, cut downe trees, and prepare the
ground to plant our Corne, &c. I referre to the Readers consideration.

With this lodging and dyet, our extreame toils in bearing and planting Pallisadoes, so strained
and bruised vs, and our continuall labour in the extremitie of the heat had so weakened vs,
as were cause sufficient to haue made vs as miserable in our natiue Countrey, or any other
place in the world.

From May, to September, those that escaped, lined vpon Sturgeon, and Sea-crabs, fiftie in this
time we buried, the rest seeing the Presidents projects to escape these miseries in our Pinnace
by flight (who all this time had neither felt want nor sicknes) so moved our dead spirits,
as we deposed him; and established Ratcliffe in his place, (Gosnoll being dead) Kendall deposed.
Smith newly recovered, Martin and Ratcliffe was by his care preserved and relieued, and the
most of the souldiers recovered with the skilfull diligence of Master Thomas Wotton our Chirurgian
generall.

But now was all our provision spent, the Sturgeon gone, all helps abandoned, each houre expecting
the fury of the Salvages; when God the patron of all good indevours, in that desperate extremitie
so changed the hearts of the Salvages, that they brought such plenty of their fruits, and provision,
as no man wanted....

The new President, and Martin, being little beloved, of weake iudgement in dangers, and lesse
industrie in peace, committed the managing of all things abroad to Captaine Smith: who by his
owne example, good words, and faire promises, set some to mow, others to binde thatch, some
to build houses, others to thatch them, himselfe alwayes bearing the greatest tasks for his
owns share, so that in short time, he provided most of them lodgings, neglecting any for himselfe.

This done, seeing the Salvages superfluitie beginne to decrease (with some of his workmen)
shipped himselfe in the Shallop to search the Country for trade. The want of the language,
knowledge to mannage his boat without sailes, the want of a sufficient power (knowing the multitude
of the Salvages), apparell for his men, and other necessaries, were infinite impediments.

Being but six or seauen in company he went downe the river to Kecoughtan: where at first they
scorned him, as a famished man; and would in derision offer him a handfull of Corne, a peece
of bread, for their swords and muskets, and such like proportions also for their apparell.
But seeing by trade and courtesie there was nothing to be had, he made bold to try such conclusions
as necessitie inforced, though contrary to his Commission: Let fly his muskets, ran his boat
on shore; whereat they all fled into the woods.

So marching towards their houses, they might see great heapes of corne: much adoe he had to
restraine his hungry souldiers from present taking of it, expecting as it hapned that the Salvages
would assault them, as not long after they did with a most hydeous noyse.

Smith told them, if onely six of them would come vnarmed and loade his boat, he would not only
be their friend, but restore them their Okee, and gins them Beads, Copper, and Hatchets besides:
which on both sides was to their contents performed: and then they brought him Venison, Turkies,
wild foule, bread, and what they had; singing and dauncing in signs of friendship till they
departed.

In his returns he discovered the Towne and Country of Warraskoyack.

  Thus God vnboundlesse by his power,
  Made them thus kind, would vs deuour.

Smith perceiving (notwithstanding their late miserie) not any regarded but from hand to mouth:
(the company being well recovered) caused the Pinnace to be provided with things fitting to
get provision for the years following; but in the interim he made 3, or 4, iournies and discovered
the people of Chickahamania: yet what he carefully provided the rest carelesly spent.

Wingfield and Kendall liuing in disgrace, seeing all things at randome in the absence of Smith,
the companies dislike of their Presidents weaknes, and their small loue to Martins never mending
sicknes, strengthened themselues with the sailers and other confederates, to regaine their
former credit and authority, or at least such meanes abord the Pinnace, (being fitted to saile
as Smith had appointed for trade) to alter her course and to goe for England.

These brawles are so disgustful, as some will say they were better forgotten, yet all men of
good iudgement will conclude it were better their basenes should be manifest to the world,
then the busines beare the scorne and shame of their excused disorders. But finding plentis
of Corns in the riuer of Chickahamania, where hundreds of Salvages in diuers places stood with
baskets expecting his comming.

And now the winter approaching, the rivers became so covered with swans, geese, duckes, and
cranes, that we daily feasted with good bread. Virginia pease, pumpions, and putchamins, fish,
fowls, and diverse sorts of wild beasts as fat as we could eate them: so that none of our Tuftaffaty
humorists desired to goe for England.

But our Comoedies never endured long without a Tragedie; some idle exceptions being muttered
against Captaine Smith, for not discovering the head of Chickahamania river, and taxed by the
Councell, to be slow in so worthy an attempt. But at last we regained some conference with
them, and gaue them such toyes; and sent to Powhatan, his women, and children such presents,
as gaue them in generall full content.

Now ever once in foure or fiue dayes, Pocahontas with her attendants, brought him so much provision,
that saved many of their liues, that els for all this had starved with hunger....

Thus you may see what difficulties still crossed any good indevour; and the good successe of
the businesse being thus oft brought to the very period of destruction; yet you see by what
strange means God hath still delivered it.

Now whether it had beane better for Captaine Smith, to haue concluded with any of those severall
proiects, to haue abandoned the Countrey, with some ten or twelue of them, who were called
the better sort, and haue left Master Hunt our Preacher, Master Anthony Gosnoll, a most honest,
worthy, and industrious Gentleman, Master Thomas Wotton and some 27 others of his Countrymen
to the fury of the Salvages, famine, and all manner of mischiefes, and inconveniences, (for
they were but fortie in all to keepe possession of this large Country;) or starue himselfe
with them for company, for want of lodging: or but adventuring abroad to make them provision,
or by his opposition to preserve the action, and saue all their liues; I leaue to the censure
of all honest men to consider.

    [1] From Smith's "General History of Virginia." Edward Arbor has
    contended that, had not John Smith "strove, fought and endured as
    he did the present United States of America might never have come
    into existence." Spaniards and French alike had failed in their
    attempts at colonization and so had the repeated expeditions sent
    out by Sir Walter Raleigh. Smith carried the Jamestown settlement
    through its difficulties.--Smith, the "self-denying, energetic, so
    full of resources, and so trained in dealing with the savage
    races." Had Jamestown failed the Pilgrim fathers "would not have
    gone to New England." Smith was not the sole author of the "History
    of Virginia." Others contributed to the work.

    [2] Richmond.

THE FIRST AMERICAN LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY

(1619)

BY JOHN TWINE, ITS SECRETARY[1]

A reporte of the manner of proceedings in the General assembly convented at James citty in
Virginia, July 30, 1619, consisting of the Gouvernor, the Counsell of Estate and two Burgesses
elected out of eache Incorporation and Plantation, and being dissolved the 4th of August next
ensuing.

First. Prayer being ended, to the intente that as we had begun at God Almighty, so we might
proceed w^th awful and due respecte towards the Lieutenant, our most gratious and dread Soveraigne,
all the Burgesses were intreatted to retyre themselves into the body of the Churche, w^ch being
done, before they were fully admitted, they were called in order and by name, and so every
man (none staggering at it) tooke the oathe of Supremacy, and then entred the Assembly....

These obstacles removed, the Speaker, who a long time had bene extreame sickly and therefore
not able to passe through long harrangues, delivered in briefe to the whole assembly the occasions
of their meeting. Which done, he read unto them the comission for establishing the Counsell
of Estate and the general Assembly, wherein their duties were described to the life.

Having thus prepared them, he read over unto them the greate Charter, or comission of priviledges,
orders and lawes, sent by Sir George Yeardly out of Englande. Which for the more ease of the
Committies, having divided into fower books, he read the former two the same forenoon for expeditious
sake, a second time over and so they were referred to the perusall of twoe Comitties, w^ch
did reciprocally consider of either, and accordingly brought in their opinions. But some men
may here objecte to what ende we should presume to referre that to the examination of the Comitties
w^ch the Counsell and Company in Enggland had already resolved to be perfect, and did expecte
nothing but our assente thereunto? To this we answere that we did it not to the ende to correcte
or controll anything therein contained, but onely in case we should finde ought not perfectly
squaring wth the state of this Colony or any lawe w^ch did presse or binde too harde, that
we might by waye of humble petition, seeke to have it redressed, especially because this great
Charter is to binde us and our heyers for ever....

After dinner the Governor and those that were not of the Comitties sate a seconde time, while
the said Comitties were employed in the perusall of those twoe bookes. And whereas the Speaker
had propounded fower severall objects for the Assembly to consider on: namely, first, the great
charter of orders, lawes, and priviledges; Secondly, which of the instructions given by the
Counsel in England to my lo: la: warre, Captain Argall or Sir George Yeardley, might conveniently
putt on the habite of lawes; Thirdly, what lawes might issue out of the private conceipte of
any of the Burgesses, or any other of the Colony; and lastly, what petitions were fitt to be
sente home for England. It pleased the Governour for expedition sake to have the second objecte
of the fower to be examined & prepared by himselfe and the Non-Comitties. Wherein after having
spente some three howers conference, the twoe Committies brought in their opinions concerning
the twoe former bookes, (the second of which beginneth at these words of the Charter: And forasmuche
as our intente is to establish one equall and uniforme kinde of government over all Virginia
&c.,) w^ch the whole Assembly, because it was late, deffered to treatt of till the next morning....

There remaining no farther scruple in the mindes of the Assembly, touching the said great Charter
of lawes, orders and priviledges, the Speaker putt the same to the question, and so it had
both the general assent and the applause of the whole assembly, who, as they professed themselves
in the first place most submissivily thankfull to almighty god, therefore so they commaunded
the Speaker to returne (as nowe he doth) their due and humble thankes to the Treasurer, Counsell
and company for so many priviledges and favours as well in their owne names as in the names
of the whole Colony whom they represented. By this present Generall Assembly be it enacted,
that no injury or oppression be wrought by the Englishe against the Indians whereby the present
peace might be disturbed and antient quarrells might be revived. And farther be it ordained
that the Chicohomini are not to be excepted out of this lawe; untill either that suche order
come out of Englande, or that they doe provoke us by some newe injury.

Against Idleness, Gaming, drunkeness & excesse in apparell the Assembly hath enacted as followeth:

First, in detestation of Idlenes be it enacted, that if any men be founde to live as an Idler
or renagate, though a freedman, it shal be lawfull for that Incorporation or Plantation to
w^ch he belongeth to appoint him a M^r to serve for wages, till he shewe apparent signes of
amendment.

Against gaming at dice & Cardes be it ordained by this present assembly that the winner or
winners shall lose all his or their winninges and both winners and loosers shall forfaicte
ten shillings a man, one ten shillings whereof to go to the discoverer, and the rest to charitable
& pious uses in the Incorporation where the faulte is comitted.

Against drunkenness be it also decreed that if any private person be found culpable thereof,
for the first time he is to be reprooved privately by the Minister, the second time publiquely,
the thirde time to lye in boltes 12 howers in the house of the Provost Marshall & to paye his
fee, and if he still continue in that vice, to undergo suche severe punishment as the Governor
and Counsell of Estate shall thinke fitt to be inflicted on him. But if any officer offende
in this crime, the first time he shall receive a reprooff from the Governour, the second time
he shall openly be reprooved in the churche by the minister, and the third time he shall first
be comitted and then degraded. Provided it be understood that the Governor hath alwayes power
to restore him when he shall, in his discretion thinke fitte.

Against excesse in apparell that every man be cessed in the churche for all publique contributions,
if he be unmarried according to his owne apparrell, if he be married according to his owne
and his wives, or either of their apparrell....

Be it enacted by this present assembly that for laying a surer foundation of the conversion
of the Indians to Christian Religion, eache towne, citty, Borrough, and particular plantation
do obtaine unto themselves by just means a certaine number of the natives' children to be educated
by them in the true religion and civile course of life--of w^ch children the most towardly
boyes in witt & graces of nature to be brought up by them in the first elements of litterature,
so to be fitted for the Colledge intended for them that from thence they may be sente to that
worke of conversion.

As touching the business of planting come this present Assembly doth ordaine that yeare by
yeare all & every householder and householders have in store for every servant he or they shall
keep, and also for his or their owne persons, whether they have any Servants or no, one spare
barrell of come, to be delivered out yearly, either upon sale or exchange as need shall require.
For the neglecte of w^ch duty he shalbe subject to the censure of the Governr and Counsell
of Estate. Provided always that the first yeare of every newe man this lawe shall not be of
force....

All ministers shall duely read divine service, and exercise their ministerial function according
to the Ecclesiastical lawes and orders of the churche of Englande, and every Sunday in the
afternoon shall Catechize suche as are not yet ripe to come to the Com. And whosoever shalbe
found negligent or faulty in this kinde shalbe subject to the censure of the Governor and Counsell.

All persons whatsoever upon the Sabaoth daye shall frequente divine service and sermons both
forenoon and afternoon, and all suche as beare arms shall bring their pieces, swordes, poulder
and shotte. And every one that shall transgresse this lawe shall forfaicte three shillings
a time to the ues of the churche, all lawful and necessary impediments excepted. But if a servant
in this case shall wilfully neglecte his M^r's he shall suffer bodily punishmente.

No maide or woman servant, either now resident in the Colonie or hereafter to come, shall contract
herselfe in marriage w^thout either the consente of her parents, or of her M^r or M^ris, or
of the magistrat and minister of the place both together. And whatsoever minister shall marry
or contracte any suche persons w^thout some of the foresaid consentes shalbe subjecte to the
severe censure of the Governr and Counsell of Estate...

In sume Sir George Yeardley, the Governor prorogued the said General Assembly till the firste
of Marche, which is to fall out this present yeare of 1619, and in the mean season dissolved
the same.

    [1] This account is taken from the official report of the assembly,
    of which Twine was clerk. It is printed in the "Colonial Records of
    Virginia," and in Hart's "American History Told by Contemporaries." At Seville the emigrants were to be lodged in the Casa de
la Contratacion (the India House), and were to have from eleven to
thirteen maravedis a day. From thence they were to have a free passage
to Epañola, and to be provided with food for a year. And if the
climate "should try them so much" that at the expiration of this year
they should not be able to work for themselves, the King was to
continue to maintain them; but this extra maintenance was to be put
down to the account of the emigrants, as a loan which they were to
repay. The King was to give them lands--his own lands--furnish them
with plowshares and spades, and provide medicines for them. Lastly,
whatever rights and profits accrued from their holdings were to become
hereditary. This was certainly a most liberal plan of emigration. And,
in addition, there were other privileges held out as inducements to
these laborers.

In connection with the above scheme, Las Casas, unfortunately for his reputation in after-ages,
added another provision, namely, that each Spanish resident in the island should have license
to import a dozen negro slaves. The origin of this suggestion was, as he informs us, that the
colonists had told him that, if license were given them to import a dozen negro slaves each,
they, the colonists, would then set free the Indians. And so, recollecting that statement of
the colonists, he added this provision.

The above confession is delicately and truthfully worded--"not considering"; he does not say,
not being aware of; but though it was a matter known to him, his moral sense was not watchful,
as it were, about it. We must be careful not to press the admissions of a generous mind too
far, or to exaggerate the importance of the suggestion of Las Casas. It would be quite erroneous
to look upon this suggestion as being the introduction of negro slavery. From the earliest
times of the discovery of America, negroes had been sent there. But what is of more significance,
and what it is strange that Las Casas was not aware of, or did not mention, the Hieronymite
Fathers had also come to the conclusion that negroes must be introduced into the West Indies.
Writing in January, 1518, when the fathers could not have known what was passing in Spain in
relation to this subject, they recommended licenses to be given to the inhabitants of Española,
or to other persons, to bring negroes there. From the tenor of their letter it appears that
they had before recommended the same thing. Zuazo, the judge of residencia, and the legal colleague
of Las Casas, wrote to the same effect. He, however, suggested that the negroes should be placed
in settlements and married. Fray. Bernardino de Manzanedo, the Hieronymite father, sent over
to counteract Las Casas, gave the same advice as his brethren about the introduction of negroes.
He added a proviso, which does not appear in their letter--perhaps it did exist in one of the
earlier ones--that there should be as many women as men sent over, or more.

The suggestion of Las Casas was approved of by the Chancellor; and, indeed, it is probable
there was hardly a man of that time who would have seen further than the excellent clerigo
did. Las Casas was asked what number of negroes would suffice? He replied that he did not know;
upon which a letter was sent to the officers of the India House at Seville to ascertain the
fit number in their opinion. They said that four thousand at present would suffice, being one
thousand for each of the islands, Española, Porto Rico, Cuba, and Jamaica. Somebody now suggested
to the Governor, De Bresa, a Fleming of much influence and a member of the council, that he
should ask for this license to be given to him. De Bresa accordingly asked the King for it,
who granted his request; and the Fleming sold this license to certain Genoese merchants for
twenty-five thousand ducats, having obtained from the King a pledge that for eight years he
should give no other license of this kind.

The consequence of this monopoly enjoyed by the Genoese merchants was that negroes were sold
at a great price, of which there are frequent complaints. Both Las Casas and Pasamonte--rarely
found in accord--suggested to the King that it would be better to pay the twenty-five thousand
ducats and resume the license, or to abridge its term. Figueroa, writing to the Emperor from
Sonto Domingo, says: "Negroes are very much in request; none have come for about a year. It
would have been better to have given De Bresa the customs duties--i.e., the duties that had
been usually paid on the importation of slaves--than to have placed a prohibition." I have
scarcely a doubt that the immediate effect of the measure adopted in consequence of the clerigo's
suggestion was greatly to check that importation of negro slaves which otherwise, had the license
been general, would have been very abundant.

Before quitting this part of the subject, something must be said for Las Casas which he does
not allege for himself. This suggestion of his about the negroes was not an isolated one. Had
all his suggestions been carried out, and the Indians thereby been preserved, as I firmly believe
they might have been, these negroes might have remained a very insignificant number in the
general population. By the destruction of Indians a void in the laborious part of the community
was being constantly created, which had to be filled up by the labor of negroes. The negroes
could bear the labor in the mines much better than the Indians; and any man who perceived that
a race, of whose Christian virtues and capabilities he thought highly, were fading away by
reason of being subjected to labor which their natures were incompetent to endure, and which
they were most unjustly condemned to, might prefer the misery of the smaller number of another
race treated with equal injustice, but more capable of enduring it. I do not say that Las Casas
considered all these things; but, at any rate, in estimating his conduct, we must recollect
that we look at the matter centuries after it occurred, and see all the extent of the evil
arising from circumstances which no man could then be expected to foresee, and which were inconsistent
with the rest of the clerigo's plans for the preservation of the Indians.

I suspect that the wisest among us would very likely have erred with him; and I am not sure
that, taking all his plans together, and taking for granted, as he did then, that his influence
at court was to last, his suggestion about the negroes was an impolite one.

    [1] Helps was an English writer who is best known for his social
    essays entitled "Friends in Council." He was the author of several
    works on America, including "The Spanish Conquest in America."

    [2] Las Casas was a Dominican, born in Spain, who came to the West
    Indies in 1502 and devoted himself to protecting the Indians
    against slavery at the hands of their conquerors. In 1544 he was
    made a Mexican bishop.

II

ITS BEGINNINGS IN THE UNITED STATES

(1620)

BY JOHN A. DOYLE[1]

The economical success which had attended the introduction of negroes into the West Indies
made it almost certain that the American colonies would betake themselves to the same resource.
The first introduction of negroes is commonly placed in the year 1620, when a Dutch ship landed
twenty of them for sale at Jamestown. For some years their numbers increased but slowly. In
1649 Virginia contained only three hundred. By 1661 they had increased to two thousand, while
the indented servants were four times that number. Twenty-two years later, if we may trust
Culpepper's statement, the number of white servants was nearly doubled, while that of the negroes
had only increased by one-half. Of their numbers and proportions in Maryland and North Carolina
we have no definite evidence. In South Carolina negro slavery seems to have been almost from
the outset the prevalent form of industry.

As early as 1708 we are told that three-fifths of the population were blacks. This alteration
in the relative numbers of white servants and black slaves was accelerated by a change which
had come over the commercial policy of the English Government. In 1662 the Royal African Company
was incorporated. At the head of it was the Duke of York, and the King himself was a large
shareholder. The chief profit of this company was derived from the exportation of negroes from
Guinea to the plantations. The King and his brother henceforth had a direct interest in limiting
the supply of indented servants, and it is not unlikely that this explains why Jeffreys for
once deviated into the paths of humanity and justice....

Had negro slavery never existed, had the natural resources of the Southern colonies favored
the growth of a free yeomanry, the system of indenture would have been admirably fitted to
establish a population of small proprietors, trained in habits of industry and in a competent
knowledge of agriculture. The social and industrial life of the colonies forbade this. A peasant
proprietary can only exist under severe restraints as to increase, or where there is urban
life to take off the surplus population for trades and handicrafts. The Southern colonies fulfilled
neither of these conditions. When the servant was out of his indentures there was no place
for him. He could not become a shopkeeper or craftsman or a free agricultural laborer, for
none of these callings existed. Moreover, the very same conditions of soil and climate which
enabled slavery to exist, made it possible for the freeman to procure a scanty livelihood,
without any habits of settled industry. Thus the liberated servant became an idler, socially
corrupt, and often politically dangerous. He furnished that class justly described by a Virginian
of that day as "a foeculum of beings called overseers, a most abject, unprincipled race." He
was the forerunner, and possibly in some degree the progenitor, of that class who did so much
to intensify the evils of slavery, the "mean whites" of later times....

When once negro slavery was firmly established, any rival form of industry was doomed. For
it is an economical law of slavery, that where it exists it must exist without a rival. It
can only succeed where it is a predominant form of labor. The utility of the slave is that
of a machine. When once he has been trained to any special kind of industry, no attempts to
enlarge his sphere of activity can be attended with profit. The time given to the new acquisition
is so much waste, and his mental incapacity and absence of any moral interest in his work almost
necessarily limits him to a single task. Thus, as we have seen, the many attempts to develop
varied forms of production in the Southern colonies all failed. Maryland and Virginia grew
only tobacco. South Carolina grew mainly rice. Moreover, the spectacle of the free laborer
working on the same soil and at the same task, would be fatal to that resignation, and that
complete moral and intellectual subjection, which alone can make slave labor possible. Thus
the cheaper and more efficient system obtained the mastery so completely that by the beginning
of the eighteenth century slave and negro had become well-nigh synonymous terms. For our Golde,
it was rather the Masters deuice to get a voyage that proiected it, then any knowledge hee
had at all of any such matter. Fish & Furres was now our guard: & by our late arriual, and
long lingring about the Whale, the prime of both those seasons were past ere wee perceiued
it; we thinking that their seasons serued at all times: but wee found it otherwise; for, by
the midst of Iune, the fishing failed.

Yet in Iuly and August some was taken, but not sufficient to defray so great a charge as our
stay required. Of dry fish we made about 40000. of Cor fish about 7000.

Whilest the sailers fished, my selfe with eight or nine others of them might best bee spared;
Ranging the coast in a small boat, wee got for trifles neer 1100 Beuer skinnes, 100 Martins,
and neer as many Otters; and the most of them within the distance of twenty leagues. We ranged
the Coast both East and West much furder; but Eastwards our commodities were not esteemed,
they were so neare the French who affords them better: and right against vs in the Main was
a Ship of Sir Frances Popphames, that had there such acquaintance, hauing many years vsed onely
that porte, that the most parte there was had by him. And 40 leagues westwards were two French
Ships, that had made there a great voyage by trade, during the time wee tryed those conclusions,
not knowing the Coast, nor Saluages habitation. With these Furres, the Traine, and Corfish
I returned for England in the Bark: where within six monthes after our departure from the Downes,
we safe arriued back. The best of this fish was solde for fiue pound the hundreth, the rest
by ill vsage betwixt three pound and fifty shillings. The other Ship staied to fit herselfe
for Spaine with the dry fish which was sould, by the Sailers reporte that returned, at forty
ryalls the quintall, each hundred weighing two quintalls and a halfe.

New England is that part of America in the Ocean Sea opposite to Noua Albyon in the South Sea;
discouered by the most memorable Sir Francis Drake in his voyage about the worlde. In regarde
whereto this is stiled New England, beeing in the same latitude. New France, off it, is Northward:
Southwardes is Virginia, and all the adioyning Continent, with New Grenada, New Spain, New
Andolosia and the West Indies. Now because I haue beene so oft asked such strange questions,
of the goodnesse and greatnesse of those spatious Tracts of land, how they can bee thus long
vnknown, or not possessed by the Spaniard, and many such like demands; I intreat your pardons,
if I chance to be too plaine, or tedious in relating my knowledge for plaine mens satisfaction.

That part wee call New England is betwixt the degrees of 41. and 45: but that parte this discourse
speaketh of, stretcheth but from Penobscot to Cape Cod, some 75 leagues by a right line distant
each from other: within which bounds I haue scene at least 40. seuerall habitations vpon the
Sea Coast, and sounded about 25 excellent good Harbours; In many whereof there is ancorage
for 500 sayle of ships of any burthen; in some of them for 5000: And more than 200 Iles ouergrowne
with good timber, of diuers sorts of wood, which doe make so many harbours as requireth a longer
time then I had, to be well discouered....

And surely by reason of those sandy cliffes and cliffes of rocks, both which we saw so planted
with Gardens and Corne fields, and so well inhabited with a goodly, strong and well proportioned
people, besides the greatnesse of the Timber growing on them, the greatnesse of the fish and
the moderate temper of the ayre (for of twentie fiue, not any was sicke, but two that were
many yeares diseased before they went, notwithstanding our bad lodging and accidentall diet)
who can but approue this a most excellent place, both for health & fertility? And of all the
foure parts of the world that I haue yet seene not inhabited, could I haue but meanes to transport
a Colonie, I would rather liue here than any where: and if it did not maintaine it selfe, were
wee but once indifferently well fitted, let vs starue.

The maine Staple, from hence to bee extracted for the present to produce the rest, is fish;
which howeuer it may seeme a mean and a base commoditie: yet who will but truely take the pains
and consider the sequell, I thinke will allow it well worth the labour....

First, the ground is so fertill, that questionless it is capable of producing any Grain, Fruits,
or Seeds you will sow or plant, growing in the Regions afore named: But it may be, not euery
kinde to that perfection of delicacy; or some tender plants may miscarie, because the Summer
is not so hot, and the winter is more colde in those parts wee haue yet tryed neere the Sea
side, then we finde in the same height in Europe or Asia; Yet I made a Garden vpon the top
of a Rockie Ile in 43-1/2, 4 leagues from the Main, in May, that grew so well, as it serued
vs for sallets in Iune and Iuly. All sorts of cattell may here be bred and fed in the Iles,
or Peninsulaes, securely for nothing. In the Interim till they encrease if need be (obseruing
the seasons) I durst vndertake to haue corne enough from the Saluages for 300 men, for a few
trifles; and if they should bee vntoward (as it is most certaine they are) thirty or forty
good men will be sufficient to bring them all in subjection, and make this prouision; if they
vnderstand what they doe: 200 whereof may nine monethes in the yeare be imployed in making
marchandable fish, till the rest prouide other necessaries, fit to furnish vs with other commodities....

But, to retumne a little more to the particulars of this Countrey, which I intermingle thus
with my proiects and reasons, not being so sufficiently yet acquainted in those parts, to write
fully the estate of the Sea, the Ayre, the Land, the Fruites, the Rocks, the People, the Gouernment,
Religions, Territories, and Limitations, Friends, and Foes: but, as I gathered from the niggardly
relations in a broken language to my vnderstanding, during the time I ranged those Countries
&c. The most Northern part I was at, was the Bay of Penobscot, which is East and West, North
and South, more than ten leagues; but such were my occasions, I was constrained to be satisfied
of them I found in the Bay, that the Riuer ranne farre vp into the Land, and was well inhabited
with many people, but they were from their habitations, either fishing among the Iles, or hunting
the Lakes and Woods, for Deer and Beuers. The Bay is full of great Ilands, of one, two, six,
eight, or ten miles in length, which diuides it into many faire and excellent good harbours.
On the East of it, are the Tarrantines, their mortall enemies, where inhabit the French, as
they report that line with those people, as one nation or family. And Northwest of Pennobscot
is Mecaddacut, at the foot of a high mountaine, a kinde of fortresse against the Tarrantines
adioyning to the high mountaines of Pennobscot, against whose feet doth beat the Sea.

But ouer all the Land, Iles, or other impediments, you may well see them sixteene or eighteene
leagues from their situation. Segocket is the next; then Nufconcus, Pemmaquid, and Sagadahock.
Vp this Riuer where was the Westerne plantation are Aumuckcawgen, Kinnebeck, and diuers others,
where there is planted some corne fields. Along this Riuer 40 or 50 miles, I saw nothing but
great high cliffes of barren Rocks, ouergrowne with wood: but where the Saluages dwelt there
the ground is exceeding fat & fertill. Westward of this Riuer, is the Countrey of Aucocisco,
in the bottome of a large deepe Bay, full of runny great Iles, which diuides it into many good
harbours. Sowocotuck is the next, in the edge of a large sandy Bay, which bath many Rocks and
Iles, but few good harbours, but for Barks, I yet know. But all this Coast to Pennobscot, and
as farre I could see Eastward of it is nothing but such high craggy Cliffy Rocks & stony Iles
that I wondered such great trees could growe vpon so hard foundations. It is a Countrie rather
to affright, then delight one. And how to describe a more plaine spectacle of desolation or
more barren I knowe not. Yet the Sea there is the strangest fish-pond I euer saw; and those
barren Iles so furnished with good woods, springs, fruits, fish, and foule, that it makes mee
thinke though the Coast be rockie, and thus affrightable; the Values, Plaines, and interior
parts, may well (notwithstanding) be verie fertile.

But there is no kingdome so fertile bath not some part barren: and New England is great enough,
to make many Kingdomes and Countries, were it all inhabited. As you passe the Coast still Westward,
Accominticus and Passataquack are two conuenient harbors for small barks; and a good Countrie,
within their craggie cliffs. Angoam is the next; This place might content a right curious iudgement:
but there are many sands at the entrance of the harbor: and the worst is, it is inbayed too
farre from the deepe Sea. Heere are many rising hilles, and on their tops and descents many
come fields, and delightfull groues. On the East, is an Ile of two or three leagues in length;
the one halfe, plaine morish grasse fit for pasture, with many faire high groues of mulberrie
trees gardens: and there is also Okes, Pines, and other woods to make this place an excellent
habitation, beeing a good and safe harbor.

Naimkeek though it be more rockie ground (for Angoam is sandie) not much inferior; neither
for the harbor, nor any thing I could perceiue, but the multitude of people. From hence doth
stretch into the sea the faire headland Tragabigzanda, fronted with three lies called the three
Turks heads: to the North of this, doth enter a great Bay, where wee founde some habitations
and corne fields: they report a great Riuer[2], and at least thirtie habitations, doo possesse
this Countrie. But because the French had got their Trade, I had no leasure to discouer it.

The Iles of Mattahunts are on the West side of this Bay, where are many Iles, and questionlesse
good harbors: and then the Countrie of the Massachusets, which is the Paradise of all those
parts: for, heere are many lies all planted with corne; groues, mulberries, saluage gardens,
and good harbors: the Coast is for the most part, high clayie sandie cliffs. The Sea Coast
as you passe, shewes you all along large corne fields, and great troupes of well proportioned
people: but the French hauing remained heere neere sixe weekes, left nothing, for vs to take
occasion to examine the inhabitants relations, viz, if there be neer three thousand people
vpon these Iles; and that the Riuer doth pearce many daies iourneies the intralles of that
Countrey. We found the people in those parts verie kinde; but in their furie no lesse valiant.
For, vpon a quarrell wee had with one of them, hee onely with three others crossed the harbor
of Quonahassit to certaine rocks whereby wee must passe; and there let flie their arrowes for
our shot, till we were out of danger.

Then come you to Accomack, an excellent good harbor, good land; and no want of any thing, but
industrious people.

    [1] From Smith's "Description of New England," published in London
    in 1616. Smith's exploration of New England was made after he had
    become separated from the Jamestown colony, of which in 1608, he
    had been president. He went there under an engagement with London
    merchants to fish for cod, barter for furs and explore the country
    for settlement. It was he who at the request of Prince Charles
    named the country New England.

    [2] Probably the Merrimac.

THE FIRST VOYAGE OF THE "MAYFLOWER"

(1620)

BY GOVERNOR WILLIAM BRADFORD[1]

Sept^r: 6. In witness wherof we have hereunder subscribed our names at Cape-Codd y^e 11. of
November, in y^e year of England, Franc, & Ireland y^e eighteenth, and of Scotland y^e fiftie
fourth. An^o: Dom. 1620."

    [1] William Bradford had already been a leading member of a little
    dissenting congregation in England, when, in 1608, it fled from
    England to Holland, and in 1620 settled at Plymouth, Mass. A year
    after the arrival at Plymouth Bradford was elected Governor of the
    Colony, and, with the exception of two short intervals, held this
    office until his death nearly forty years afterward.

    Bradford's "History of Plymouth" is a classic in New England
    historical literature--the foundation-stone, in fact, of the
    history of New England. A curious item in the survival of the
    manuscript is that, at the time of the evacuation of Boston by the
    British, during the Revolution, it disappeared mysteriously, to be
    discovered eighty years afterward in the palace of the Bishop of
    London. More than forty years after this discovery, the manuscript
    was restored by the diocese of London to the commonwealth of
    Massachusetts, which now preserves it in the State Library in
    Boston.

    [2] Now known as Provincetown, where a lofty monument on a hilt
    back of the harbor, dedicated in 1910, commemorates the landing
    there of the Pilgrim Fathers. While the Mayflower lay in this
    harbor, Paregrine White was born, the first child of English
    parentage born in New England.

    [3] The landing at Plymouth was effected on December 21.

THE FIRST NEW YORK SETTLEMENTS

(1623-1628)

BY NICHOLAS JEAN DE WASSENAER[1]

We treated in our preceding discourse of the discovery of some rivers in Virginia; the studious
reader will learn how affairs proceeded. The West India Company being chartered to navigate
these rivers, did not neglect so to do, but equipped in the spring [of 1623] a vessel of 130
lasts, called the New Netherland whereof Cornelis Jacobs of Hoorn was skipper, with 30 families,
mostly Walloons, to plant a colony there. They sailed in the beginning of March, and directing
their course by the Canary Islands, steered towards the wild coast, and gained the westwind
which luckily (took) them in the beginning of May into the river called, first Rio de Montagnes,
now the river Mauritius, lying in 40-1/2 degrees. This being done, the ship sailed up to the
Maykans, 44 miles, near which they built and completed a fort named "Orange," with 4 bastions,
on an island, by them called Castle Island....

Respecting these colonies, they have already a prosperous beginning; and the hope is that they
will not fall through provided they be zealously sustained, not only in that place but in the
South river. For their increase and prosperous advancement, it is highly necessary that those
sent out be first of all well provided with means both of support and defense, and that being
freemen, they be settled there on a free tenure; that all they work for and gain be theirs
to dispose of and to sell it according to their pleasure; that whoever is placed over them
as commander act as their father not as their executioner, leading them with a gentle hand;
for whoever rules them as a friend and associate will be beloved by them, as he who will order
them as a superior will subvert and nullify everything; yea, they will excite against him the
neighbouring provinces to which they will fly. `Tis better to rule by love and friendship than
by force....

As the country is well adapted for agriculture and the raising of every thing that is produced
here, the aforesaid Lords resolved to take advantage of the circumstances, and to provide the
place with many necessaries, through the Honble. Pieter Evertsen Hulst, who undertook to ship
thither, at his risk, whatever was requisite, to wit: one hundred and three head of cattle;
stallions, mares, steers and cows, for breeding and multiplying, besides all the hogs and sheep
that might be thought expedient to send thither; and to distribute these in two ships of one
hundred and forty lasts, in such a manner that they should be well foddered and attended to....

In company with these, goes a fast sailing vessel at the risk of the directors. In these aforesaid
vessels also go six complete families with some freemen, so that forty five newcomers or inhabitants
are taken out, to remain there. The natives of New Netherland are very well disposed so long
as no injury is done them. But if any wrong be committed against them they think it long till
they be revenged....

They are a wicked, bad people, very fierce in arms. Their dogs are small. When the Honble.
Lebrecht van Twenhuyzen, once a skipper, had given them a big dog, and it was presented to
them on ship-board, they were very much afraid of it; calling it, also a Sachem of dogs, being
the biggest. The dog, tied with a rope on board, was very furious against them, they being
clad like beasts with skins, for he thought they were game; but when they gave him some of
their bread made of Indian corn, which grows there, he learned to distinguish them, that they
were men.

The Colony was planted at this time, on the Manhates where a Fort was staked out by Master
Kryn Frederyeke, an engineer. It will be of large dimensions....

The government over the people of New Netherland continued on the 15th of August of this year
in the aforesaid Minuit, successor to Verhulst, who went thither from Holand on 9th January,
Anno, 1626, and took up his residence in the midst of a nation called Manhates, building a
fort there, to be called Amsterdam, having four points and faced outside entirely with stone,
as the walls of sand fall down, and are now more compact.

The population consists of two hundred and seventy souls, including men, women, and children.
They remained as yet without the Fort, in no fear, as the natives live peaceably with them.
They are situate three miles from the Sea, on the river by us called Mauritius, by others,
Rio de Montagne....

After the Right Honble Lords Directors of the Privileged West India Company in the United Netherlands,
had provided for the defence of New Netherland and put everything there in good order, they
taking into consideration the advantages of said place, the favorable nature of the air, and
soil, and that considerable trade and goods and many commodities may be obtained from thence,
sent some persons, of their own accord, thither with all sorts of cattle and implements necessary
for agriculture, so that in the year 1628 there already resided on the island of the Manhates,
two hundred and seventy souls, men, women, and children, under Governor Minuit, Verhulst's
successor, living there in peace with the natives. But as the land, in many places being full
of weeds and wild productions, could not be properly cultivated in consequence of the scantiness
of the population, the said Lords Directors of the West India Company, the better to people
their lands, & to bring the country to produce more abundantly, resolved to grant divers privileges,
freedoms, and exemptions to all patroons, masters or individuals who should plant any colonies
and cattle in New Netherland, and they accordingly have constituted and published in print
(certain) exemptions, to afford better encouragement and infuse greater zeal into whomsoever
should be inclined to reside and plant his colonie in New Netherland.

    [1] From Wassenaer's "Description of the first settlement of New
    Netherland." Printed in Hart's "American History Told by
    Contemporaries." Wassenaer was a Dutchman, and wrote
    contemporaneously with the events he describes. After Hudson's
    discovery of the Hudson River, Dutch ships were sent over to
    Manhattan Island to establish an agency for the collection of furs.
    Rude cabins were pitched and lived in at the southern end of the
    island but these did not constitute a permanent settlement; they
    were a mere trading-post. The trade became so profitable, however,
    that something more permanent was desired, and in 1623 the West
    India Company dispatched ships with thirty families as the nucleus
    of a colony to be established near the present site of Albany. Not
    until two years later was it decided that the headquarters of the
    colony should be on Manhattan Island. Two ships were then sent out
    to establish there a permanent and more extensive settlement.

THE SWEDES AND DUTCH IN NEW JERSEY AND DELAWARE

(1627)

BY ISRAEL ACRELIUS[1]

After that the magnanimous Genoese Christopher Columbus, had, at the expense of Ferdinand,
King of Spain, in the year 1492, discovered the Western hemisphere, and the illustrious Florentine,
Americus Vespucius, sent out by King Emanuel of Portugal, in the year 1502, to make a further
exploration of its coasts, had had the good fortune to give the country his name, the European
powers have, from time to time, sought to promote their several interests there. Our Swedes
and Goths were the less backward in such expeditions, as they had always been the first therein.
They had already, in the year 996 after the birth of Christ, visited America, had named it
Vinland the Good, and also Skrællings Land, and had called its inhabitants "the Skrællings
of Vinland." It is therefore evident that the Northmen had visited some part of North America
before the Spaniards and Portuguese went to South America....

From that time until 1623, when the West India Company obtained its charter, their trade with
the Indians was conducted almost entirely on shipboard, and they made no attempts to build
any house or fortress until 1629. Now, whether that was done with or without the permission
of England, the town of New Amsterdam was built and fortified, as also the place Aurania, Orange,
now called Albany, having since had three general-governors, one after the other. But that
was not yet enough. They wished to extend their power to the river Delaware also, and erected
on its shores two or three small forts, which were, however, soon after destroyed by the natives
of the country.

It now came in order for Sweden also to take part in this enterprise. William Usselinx,[2]
a Hollander, born at Antwerp in Brabant, presented himself to King Gustaf Adolph, and laid
before him a proposition for a Trading Company, to be established in Sweden, and to extend
its operations to Asia, Africa, and Magellan's Land (Terra Magellanica), with the assurance
that this would be a great source of revenue to the kingdom. Full power was given him to carry
out this important project; and thereupon a contract of trade was drawn up, to which the Company
was to agree and subscribe it. Usselinx published explanations of this contract, wherein he
also particularly directed attention to the country on the Delaware, its fertility, convenience,
and all its imaginable resources. To strengthen the matter, a charter (octroy) was secured
for the Company, and especially to Usselinx, who was to receive a royalty of one thousandth
upon all articles bought or sold by the Company. The Trading Company was dissolved, its subscriptions
nullified, and the whole project seemed about to die with the king. But, just as it appeared
to be at its end, it received new life. Another Hollander by the name of Peter Menewe, sometimes
called Menuet,[3] made his appearance in Sweden.

As a good beginning, the first colony was sent off; and Peter Menewe was placed over it, as
being best acquainted in those regions. They set sail from Götheborg, in a ship-of-war called
the Key of Colmar, followed by a smaller vessel bearing the name of the Bird Griffin, both
laden with people, provisions, ammunition, and merchandise, suitable for traffic and gifts
to the Indians. The ships successfully reached their place of destination. The high expectations
which our emigrants had of that new land were well met by the first views which they had of
it. They made their first landing on the bay or entrance to the river Poutaxat, which they
called the river of New Sweden; and the place where they landed they called Paradise Point.[4]

A purchase of land was immediately made from the Indians; and it was determined that all the
land on the western side of the river, from the point called Cape Inlopen or Hinlopen,[5] up
to the fall called Santickan, and all the country inland, as much as was ceded, should belong
to the Swedish crown forever. Posts were driven into the ground as landmarks, which were still
seen in their places sixty years afterward. A deed was drawn up for the land thus purchased.
This was written in Dutch, because no Swede was yet able to interpret the language of the heathen.
The Indians subscribed their hands and marks. The writing was sent home to Sweden to be preserved
in the royal archives. Mans Kling was the surveyor. He laid out the land and made a map of
the whole river, with its tributaries, islands, and points, which is still to be found in the
royal archives in Sweden. Their clergyman was Reorus Torkillus of East Gothland.

The first abode of the newly arrived emigrants was at a place called by the Indians Hopokahacking.
There, in the year 1638, Peter Menuet built a fortress which he named Fort Christina, after
the reigning queen of Sweden.[6] The place, situated upon the west side of the river, was probably
chosen so as to be out of the way of the Hollanders, who claimed the eastern side,--a measure
of prudence, until the arrival of a greater force from Sweden. The fort was built upon an eligible
site, not far from the mouth of the creek, so as to secure them in the navigable water of the
Maniquas, which was afterward called Christina Kihl, or creek.

Peter Menuet made a good beginning for the settlement of the Swedish colony in America. He
guarded his little fort for over three years, and the Hollanders neither attempted nor were
able to overthrow it. After some years of faithful service he died at Christina. In his place
followed Peter Hollendare, a native Swede, who did not remain at the head of its affairs more
than a year and a half. He returned home to Sweden, and was a major at Skkepsholm, in Stockholm,
in the year 1655.

The second emigration took place under Lieutenant Colonel John Printz, who went out with the
appointment of Governor of New Sweden. He had a grant of four hundred six dollars for his traveling
expenses, and one thousand two hundred dollars silver as his annual salary. The Company was
invested with the exclusive privilege of importing tobacco into Sweden, altho that article
was even then regarded as unnecessary and injurious, altho indispensable since the establishment
of the bad habit of its use. Upon the same occasion was also sent out Magister John Campanius
Holm, who was called by their excellencies the Royal Council and Admiral Claes Flemming, to
become the government chaplain, and watch over the Swedish congregation.

The ship on which they sailed was called the Fama. It went from Stockholm to Götheborg, and
there took in its freight. Along with this went two other ships of the line, the Swan and the
Charitas, laden with people, and other necessaries. Under Governor Printz, ships came to the
colony in three distinct voyages. The first ship was the Black Cat, with ammunition, and merchandise
for the Indians. Next, the ship Swan, on a second voyage, with emigrants, in the year 1647.
Afterward, two other ships, called the Key and the Lamp. During these times the clergymen,
Mr. Lawrence Charles Lockenius and Mr. Israel Holgh, were sent out to the colony....

The voyage to New Sweden was at that time quite long. The watery way to the West was not yet
well discovered, and, therefore, for fear of the sand-banks off Newfoundland, they kept their
course to the east and south as far as to what were then called the Brazates. The ships which
went under the command of Governor Printz sailed along the coast of Portugal, and down the
coast of Africa, until they found the eastern passage, then directly over to America, leaving
the Canaries high up to the north. They landed at Antigua, then continued their voyage northward,
past Virginia and Maryland, to Cape Hinlopen. Yet, in view of the astonishingly long route
which they took, the voyage was quick enough in six months' time,--from Stockholm on August
16, 1642, to the new fort of Christina, in New Sweden, on February 15, 1643.

The Swedes who emigrated to America belonged partly to a trading company, provided with a charter,
who for their services, according to their condition of agreement, were to receive pay and
monthly wages; a part of them also went on their own impulse to try their fortune. For these
it was free to settle and live in the country as long as they pleased or to leave it, and they
were therefore, by way of distinction from the others, called freemen. At first, also, malefactors
and vicious people were sent over, who were used as slaves to labor upon the fortifications.
They were kept in chains and not allowed to have intercourse with the other settlers; moreover,
a separate place of abode was assigned to them. The neighboring people and country were dissatisfied
that such wretches should come into the colony. It was also, in fact, very objectionable in
regard to the heathen, who might be greatly offended by it. Whence it happened that, when such
persons came over in Governor Printz's time, it was not permitted that one of them should set
foot upon the shore, but they had all to be carried back again, whereupon a great part of them
died during the voyage or perished in some other way. Afterward it was forbidden at home in
Sweden, under a penalty, to take for the American voyage any persons of bad fame; nor was there
ever any lack of good people for the colony.

Governor Printz was now in a position to put the government upon a safe footing to maintain
the rights of the Swedes, and to put down the attempts of the Hollanders. They had lately,
before his arrival, patched their little Fort Nassau. On this account he selected the island
of Tenaekong as his residence, which is sometimes also called Tutaeaenung and Tenicko, about
three Swedish miles from Fort Christina. The convenient situation of the place suggested its
selection as also the location of Fort Nassau,[7] which lay some miles over against it, to
which he could thus command the passage by water. The new fort, which was erected and provided
with considerable armament, was called New Götheborg. His place of residence, which he adorned
with orchards, gardens, a pleasure-house, etc., he named Printz Hall. A handsome wooden church
was also built at the same place, which Magister Campanius consecrated, on the last great prayer-day
which was celebrated in New Sweden, on the 4th of September, 1646. Upon that place also all
the most prominent freemen had their residences and plantations.

    [1] From Acrelius's "History of New Sweden." Printed in "Old South
    Leaflets." Acrelius from 1749 until 1756 was provost over Swedish
    Congregations in America and pastor of their church at Christina,
    now Wilmington, on the Delaware. His complete work is an exhaustive
    one, and covers not only the early but the later years of Swedish
    history on the Delaware. It has long been esteemed the best work we
    have on the subject.

    [2] Usselinx had proposed the formation of a company to trade in
    foreign countries, including America, as early as 1604.

    [3] Peter Minuit, the Governor of New Amsterdam, who purchased
    Manhattan Island from the Indians for goods worth $24, is here
    referred to.

    [4] Paradise Point was near the present town of Lewes, in the State
    of Delaware. The site is near where the Bay merges in the ocean.

    [5] This name has been corrupted Into Henlopen. The cape was named
    by Captain Cornelius May after a towu in Friesland. May's name was
    given to the southern point of New Jersey now known as Cape May.
    He visited Delaware Bay in or about 1614.

    [6] Ft. Christina was within the limits of the present city of
    Wilmington. The ancient Swedish church, built in 1698 and still
    standing in Wilmington, marks the site of this, the original
    settlement of Swedes in Delaware.

    [7] Fort Nassau was on Delaware Bay at the mouth of Timber Creek,
    below Gloucester Point, in New Jersey.

The next year 1629 wee sent diverse shipps over w'th about 300 people, and some Cowes, Goates
& Horses many of which arrived safely. Theis [these] by their too large comendacons [commendations]
of the country, and the comodities thereof, invited us soe strongly to goe on that Mr. Wenthropp
of Soffolke (who was well knowne in his own country & well approved heere for his pyety, liberality,
wisedome & gravity) comeinge in to us, wee came to such resolution that in April 1630, wee
sett saile from Old England with 4 good shipps. And in May following 8 more followed, 2 having
gone before in February and March, and 2 more following in June and August, besides another
set out by a private merchant. Theis 17 Shipps arrived all safe in New England, for the increase
of the plantacon here theis yeare 1630....

Our 4 shipps which sett out in April arrived here in June and July, where wee found the colony
in a sadd and unexpected condicon above 80 of them being dead the winter before and many of
those alive weake and sicke: all the corne & bread amongst them all hardly sufficient to feed
them a fortnight, insoemuch that the remainder of 180 servants wee had the 2 years before sent
over, comeinge to vs for victualls to sustaine them wee found ourselves wholly unable to feed
them by reason that the p'visions [provisions] shipped for them were taken out of the shipp
they were put in, and they who were trusted to shipp them in another failed us, and left them
behind; whereupon necessity enforced us to our extreme loss to giue them all libertie; who
had cost us about: 16 or 20 £s [sterling] a person furnishing and sending over.

But bearing theis things as wee might, wee beganne to consult of the place of our sitting downe:
ffor Salem where wee landed, pleased us not. And to that purpose some were sent to the Bay[2]
to search vpp the rivers for a convenient place; who vppon their returne reported to haue found
a good place vppon Mistick; but some other of us seconding theis to approoue [approve] or dislike
of their judgment; we found a place [that] liked vs better 3 leagues vp Charles river--And
there vppon vnshipped our goods into other vessels and with much cost and labour brought them
in July to Charles Towne; but there receiveing advertisements by some of the late arived shipps
from London and Amsterdam of some Ffrench preparations against vs (many of our people brought
with vs beeing sick of ffeavers [fevers] & the scurvy and wee thereby vnable to car[r]y vp
our ordinance and baggage soe farr) wee were forced to change counsaile and for our present
shelter to plant dispersedly, some at Charles Towne which standeth on the North Side of the
mouth of Charles River; some on the South Side thereof, which place we named Boston (as wee
intended to haue done the place wee first resolved on) some of vs vppon Mistick, which wee
named Meadford; some of vs westward on Charles river, 4 miles from Charles Towne, which place
wee named Watertoune; others of vs 2 miles from Boston in a place wee named Rocksbury, others
vppon the river of Sawgus betweene Salem and Charles Toune. And the westerne men 4 miles South
from Boston at a place wee named Dorchester.

This dispersion troubled some of vs, but helpe it wee could not, wanting abillity to remove
to any place fit to build a Toune vppon, and the time too short to deliberate any longer least
[lest] the winter should surprize vs before wee had builded our houses.... of the people who
came over with vs from the time of their setting saile from England in Aprill 1630. vntill
December followinge there dyed by estimacon about 200 at the least--Soe lowe hath the Lord
brought vs! Well, yet they who survived were not discouraged but bearing God's corrections
with humilitye and trusting in his mercies, and considering how after a greater ebb hee had
raised vpp our neighbours at Plymouth we beganne againe in December to consult about a fitt
place to build a Toune [town] vppon, leavinge all thoughts of a fort, because vppon any invasion
wee were necessarily to loose our howses when we should retire thereinto; soe after diverse
meetings at Boston, Rocksbury and Waterton on the 28th of December wee grew to this resolution
to bind all the Assistants Mr. Endicott & Mr. Sharpe excepted, which last purposeth to returne
by the next ships into England to build howses at a place, a mile east from Waterton neere
Charles river,[3] the next Springe, and to winter there the next yeare, that soe by our examples
and by removeinge the ordinance and munition thether, all who were able, might be drawne thether,
and such as shall come to vs hereafter to their advantage bee compelled soe to doe; and soe
if God would, a fortifyed Toune might there grow vpp, the place fitting reasonably well thereto....

But now haueing some leasure to discourse of the motiues for other mens comeinge to this place
or their abstaining from it, after my brief manner I say this--That if any come hether [hither]
to plant for worldly ends that canne live well at home hee co[m]mits an errour of which hee
will soon repent him. But if for spirittuall [ends] and that noe particular obstacle hinder
his removeall, he may finde here what may well content him: vizt: materialls to build, fewell
[fuel] to burn, ground to plant, seas and rivers to ffish in, a pure ayer [air] to breath[e]
in, good water to drinke till wine or beare canne be made, which togeather with the cowes,
hoggs and goates brought hether allready may suffice for food, for as for foule [fowl] and
venison, they are dainties here a well as in England. Ffor cloaths and beddinge they must bring
them with them till time and industry produce them here. In a word, wee yett enioy [enjoy]
little to bee envyed but endure much to be pittyed in the sicknes & mortalitye of our people.

    [1] From Dudley's letter to the Countess of London. Printed in
    Hart's "Source Book of American History." Dudley came over with
    Winthrop, and at one time was governor of the Colony.

    [2] Boston Harbor is here referred to.

    [3] The place was alterward called Newtown, and is now Cambridge.

HOW THE BAY COLONY DIFFERED FROM PLYMOUTH

BY JOHN G. PALFREY[1]

The emigration of the Englishmen who settled at Plymouth had been prompted by religious dissent.
In what manner Robinson, who was capable of speculating on political tendencies, or Brewster,
whose early position had compelled him to observe them, had augured concerning the prospect
of public affairs in their native country, no record tells; while the rustics of the Scrooby
congregation, who fled from a government which denied them liberty in their devotions, could
have had but little knowledge and no agency in the political sphere. The case was widely different
with the founders of the Colony of Massachusetts Bay. That settlement had its rise in a state
of things in England which associated religion and politics in an intimate alliance....

Winthrop, then forty-two years old, was descended from a family of good condition, long seated
at Groton, in Suffolk, where he had a property of six or seven hundred pounds a year, the equivalent
of at least two thousand pounds at the present day. His father was a lawyer and magistrate.
Commanding uncommon respect and confidence from an early age, he had moved in the circles where
the highest matters of English policy were discust, by men who had been associates of Whitgift,
Bacon, Essex, and Cecil. Humphrey was "a gentleman of special parts, of learning and activity,
and a godly man"; in the home of his father-in-law, Thomas, third earl of Lincoln, the head
in that day of the now ducal house of Newcastle, he had been the familiar companion of the
patriotic nobles.

Of the assistants, Isaac Johnson, esteemed the richest of the emigrants, was another son-in-law
of Lord Lincoln, and a landholder in three counties. Sir Richard Saltonstall of Halifax, in
Yorkshire, was rich enough to be a bountiful contributor to the company's operations. Thomas
Dudley, with a company of volunteers which he had raised, had served, thirty years before,
under Henry IV of France; since which time he had managed the estates of the Earl of Lincoln.
He was old enough to have lent a shrill voice to the huzzas at the defeat of the armada, and
his military services had indoctrinated him in the lore of civil and religious freedom. Theophilus
Eaton, an eminent London merchant, was used to courts and had been minister of Charles I in
Denmark. Simon Bradstreet, the son of a Non-conformist minister in Lincolnshire, and a grandson
of "a Suffolk gentleman of a fine estate," had studied at Emanuel College, Cambridge. William
Vassall was an opulent West India proprietor. "The principal planters of Massachusetts," says
the prejudiced Chalmers, "were English country gentlemen of no inconsiderable fortunes; of
enlarged understandings, improved by liberal education; of extensive ambition, concealed under
the appearance of religious humility."

But it is not alone from what we know of the position, character, and objects of those few
members of the Massachusetts Company who were proposing to emigrate at the early period now
under our notice, that we are to estimate the power and the purposes of that important corporation.
It had been rapidly brought into the form which it now bore, by the political exigencies of
the age. Its members had no less in hand than a wide religious and political reform--whether
to be carried out in New England, or in Old England, or in both, it was for circumstances,
as they should unfold themselves, to determine. The leading emigrants to Massachusetts were
of that brotherhood of men who, by force of social consideration as well as of the intelligence
and resolute patriotism, molded the public opinion and action of England in the first half
of the seventeenth century. While the large part stayed at home to found, as it proved, the
short-lived English republic, and to introduce elements into the English Constitution which
had to wait another half-century for their secure reception, another part devoted themselves
at once to the erection of free institutions in this distant wilderness.

In an important sense the associates of the Massachusetts Company were builders of the British,
as well as of the New England, commonwealth. Some ten or twelve of them, including Cradock,
the Governor, served in the Long Parliament. Of the four commoners of that Parliament distinguished
by Lord Clarendon as first in influence, Vane had been governor of the company, and Hampden,
Pym, and Fiennes--all patentees of Connecticut--if not members, were constantly consulted upon
its affairs. The latter statement is also true of the Earl of Warwick, the Parliament's admiral,
and of those excellent persons, Lord Say and Sele and Lord Brooke, both of whom at one time
proposed to emigrate.

The company's meetings placed Winthrop and his colleagues in relations with numerous persons
destined to act busy parts in the stirring times that were approaching--with Brereton and Hewson,
afterward two of the Parliamentary major-generals; with Philip Nye, who helped Sir Henry Vane
to "cozen" the Scottish Presbyterian Commissioners in the phraseology of the Solemn League
and Covenant; with Samuel Vassall, whose name shares with those of Hampden and Lord Say and
Sele the renown of the refusal to pay ship-money, and of courting the suit which might ruin
them or emancipate England; with John Venn, who, at the head of six thousand citizens, beset
the House of Lords during the trial of Lord Strafford, and whom, with three other Londoners,
King Charles, after the battle of Edgehil, excluded from his offer of pardon; with Owen Rowe,
the "firebrand of the city"; with Thomas Andrews, the lord mayor, who proclaimed the abolition
of royalty....

He who well weighs the facts which have been presented in connection with the principal emigration
to Massachusetts, and other related facts which will offer themselves to notice as we proceed,
may find himself conducted to the conclusion that when Winthrop and his associates prepared
to convey across the water a charter from the King which, they hoped, would in their beginnings
afford them some protection both from himself and through him from the powers of Continental
Europe, they had conceived a project no less important than that of laying, on this side of
the Atlantic, the foundations of a nation of Puritan Englishmen, foundations to be built upon
as future circumstances should decide or allow. It would not perhaps be pressing the point
too far to say that in view of the thick clouds that were gathering over their home, they contemplated
the possibility that the time was near at hand when all that was best of what they left behind
would follow them to these shores; when a renovated England, secure in freedom and pure in
religion, would rise in North America; when a transatlantic English empire would fulfil, in
its beneficent order, the dreams of English patriots and sages of earlier times....

The Arbella arrived at Salem after a passage of nine weeks, and was joined in a few days by
three vessels which had sailed in her company. The assistants, Ludlow and Rossiter, with a
party from the west country, had landed at Nantasket a fortnight before, and some of the Leyden
people, on their way to Plymouth, had reached Salem a little earlier yet. Seven vessels from
Southampton made their voyages three or four weeks later. Seventeen in the whole came before
winter, bringing about a thousand passengers....

It is desirable to understand how this population, destined to be the germ of a state, was
constituted. Of members of the Massachusetts Company, it cannot be ascertained that so many
as twenty had come over. That company, as has been explained, was one formed mainly for the
furtherance, not of any private interests, but of a great public object. As a corporation,
it had obtained the ownership of a large American territory, on which it designed to place
a colony which should be a refuge for civil and religious freedom. By combined counsels, it
had arranged the method of ordering a settlement, and the liberality of its members had provided
the means of transporting those who should compose it. This done, the greater portion were
content to remain and await the course of events at home, while a few of their number embarked
to attend to providing the asylum which very soon might be needed by them all.

The reception of the newcomers was discouraging. More than a quarter part of their predecessors
at Salem had died during the previous winter, and many of the survivors were ill or feeble.
The faithful Higginson was wasting with a hectic fever, which soon proved fatal. There was
a scarcity of all sorts of provisions, and not corn enough for a fortnight's supply after the
arrival of the fleet. "The remainder of a hundred eighty servants," who, in the two preceding
years, had been conveyed over at heavy cost, were discharged from their indentures, to escape
the expense of their maintenance. Sickness soon began to spread, and before the close of autumn
had proved fatal to two hundred of this year's emigration. Death aims at the "shining mark"
he is said to love. Lady Arbella Johnson, coming "from a paradise of plenty and pleasure, which
she enjoyed in the family of a noble earldom, into a wilderness of wants," survived her arrival
only a month; and her husband, esteemed and beloved by the colonists, died of grief a few weeks
after. "He was a holy man and wise and died in sweet peace."

    [1] From Palfrey's "History of New England." By permission of and
    by arrangement with the authorized publishers, Houghton, Mifflin
    Co. Copyright, 1873.

LORD BALTIMORE IN MARYLAND

(1633)

BY CONTEMPORARY WRITERS[1]

On Friday the 22 of November 1633, a small gale of winde comming gently from the Northwest,
weighed from the Cowes, in the Ile of Wight, about ten in the morning; & (having stayed by
the way twenty dayes at the Barbada's, and fourtene dayes at St. Christophers, upon some necessary
occasions,) wee arrived at Point-Comfort in Virginia, on the 24. of February following, the
Lord be praised for it. At this time one Captaine Claybourne was come from parts where wee
intended to plant, to Virginia, and from him wee vnderstood, that all the natiues of these
parts were in preparation of defence, by reason of a rumour somebody had raised amongst them,
of sixe ships that were come with a power of Spanyards, whose meaning was to driue all the
inhabitants out of the Countrey.

On the 3. of March wee came into Chesapeake Bay, and made sayle to the North of Patoemeck river,
the Bay running betweene two sweete lands in the channell of 7. 8. and 9 fathome deepe, 10
leagues broad, and full of fish at the time of the yeere; It is one of the delightfullest waters
I euer saw, except Potoemeck, which wee named St. Gregories. And now being in our own Countrey,
wee began to give names to places, and called the Southerne Pointe, Cape Saint Gregory; and
the Northerly Point, Saint Michaels.

This river, of all I know, is the greatest and sweetest, much broader than the Thames; so pleasant,
as I for my part, was never satisfied in beholding it. Few marshes or swamps, but the greatest
part sollid good earth, with great Curiosity of woods which are not Choaked up with under-shrubbes,
but set commonly one from the other in such distance, as a Coach and foure horses may easily
trauell through them.

At the first loaming of the ship vpon the river, wee found (as was foretold us) all the Countrey
in Armes. The King of the Paschattowayes had drawen together 1500 bowe-men, which wee ourselves
saw, the woods were fired in manner of beacons the night after; and for that our vessel was
the greatest that euer those Indians saw, the scowtes reported wee came in a Canoe, as bigge
as an Island, and had as many men as there bee trees in the woods.

Wee sayled vp the river till wee came to Heron Ilands, so called from the infinite swarmes
of that fowle there. The first of those Ilands we called Saint Clement's: The second Saint
Katharine's; And the third, Saint Cicilie's. We took land first in Saint Clement's, which is
compassed about with a shallow water, and admitts no accesse without wading; here by the overturning
of the Shallop, the maids which had been washing at the land were almost drowned, beside the
losse of much linnen, and amongst the rest, I lost the best of mine which is a very maine losse
in these parts. The ground is couered thicke with pokickeries (which is a wild Wall-nut very
hard and thick of shell; but the meate (though little) is passing sweete,) with black Wall-nuts,
and acorns bigger than Ours. It abounds with Vines and Salletts, hearbs and flowers, full of
Cedar and Sassafras. It is but 400 acres bigg, & therefore too little for vs to settle vpon.

Heere we went to a place, where a large tree was made into a Crosse; and taking it on our shoulders,
wee carried it to the place appointed for it. The Gouernour and Commissioners putting their
hands first vnto it, then the rest of the chiefest adventurers. At the place prepared wee all
kneeled downe, & said certain Prayers; taking possession of the Countrey for our Saviour, and
for our soueraigne Lord the King of England... The Gouernour being returned, wee Came some
nine leagues lower to a river on the North Side of that land, as bigg as the Thames: which
wee called Saint Gregorie's river.[2] It runs vp to the North about 20 miles before it comes
to the fresh. This river makes two excellent Bayes, for 300 sayle of Shippes of 1000. tunne,
to harbour in with great safety. The one Bay we named Saint George's; the other (and more inward)
Saint Marie's. The King of Yaocomico, dwells on the left-hand or side thereof: & we tooke vp
our Seate on the right, one mile within the land. It is as braue a piece of ground to set down
on as most is in the Countrey, & I suppose as good, (if not much better) than the primest parcel
of English ground.

Our Town we call Saint Marie's; and to auoid all iust occasion of offence, & collour of wrong,
wee bought of the King for Hatchets, Axes, Howes, and Cloathes, a quantitie of some 30 miles
of Land, which wee call Augusta Carolina; And that which made them the more willing to sell
it, was the warres they had with the Sasqusa-han-oughs,[3] a mighty bordering nation, who came
often into their Countrey, to waste & destroy; & forced many of them to leaue their Countrey,
and passe ouer Patoemeck to free themselues from perill before wee came. God no doubt disposing
all this for them, who were to bring his law and light among the Infidells. Yet, seeing wee
came soe well prepared with armes, their feare was much lesse, & they could be content to dwell
by vs: Yet doe they daily relinquish their houses, lands, & Cornefields, & leaue them to vs.
Is not this a piece of wonder that a nation, which a few dayes before was in armes with the
rest against vs, should yeeld themselues now vnto vs like lambes, & giue vs their houses, land
& linings, for a trifle? Digitus Dei est hic: and surely some great good is entended by God
to his Nation. Some few families of Indians, are permitted to stay by vs till next yeere, &
then the land is free....

And now to returne to the place itself, chosen for our plantation. Wee have been vpon it but
one month, and therefore can make no large relation of it. Yet thus much I can say of it allready;
For our own safety, we haue built a good strong Fort or Palizado, & haue mounted vpon it one
good piece of Ordnance, and 4 Murderers, and haue seuen pieces of Ordnance more, ready to mount
forthwith. For our prouision, heere is some store of Peasen, and Beanes, and Wheate left on
the ground by the Indians, who had satisfaction for it.

Wee haue planted since wee came, as much Maize (or Indian Wheate) as will suffice (if God prosper
it) much more company than we haue. It is vp about knee high aboue ground allready, and wee
expect return of 1000. for one, as wee have reason for our hope, from the experience of the
yeelde in other parts of this Countrey, as is very credibly related to vs.

Wee haue also English Peasen, & French-beanes, Cotten, Oringes, Limons, Melocotunes, Apples,
Peares, Potatos, and Sugar-Canes of our owne planting, beside Hortage comming vp very finely.

But such is the quantity of Vines and Grapes now allready vpon them (though young) as I dare
say if wee had Vessells and skill, wee might make many a tonne of Wine, euen from about our
Plantation; and such Wine, as those of Virginia say (for yet we can say nothing) as is as good
as the Wine of Spaine. I feare they exceede; but surely very good. For the Clime of this Countrey
is neere the same with Sivill and Corduba: lying betweene 38 & 40 degrees of Northerlie latitude.

Of Hoggs wee haue allready got from Achomack (a plantation in Virginia) to the number of 100,
& more: and some 30 Cowes; and more wee expect daily, with Goates and Hennes; our Horses and
Sheepe wee must have out of England, or some other place by the way, for wee can haue none
in Virginia.

    [1] This account was compiled from letters written to friends in
    England by some of the original settlers about a year after their
    arrival. George Calvert, first Lord Baltimore, founder of Maryland,
    had sent a group of colonists to Newfoundland in 1621, but the
    venture being unsuccessful he secured a new grant north of the
    Potomac, to which, at the request of Charles I, he gave the name of
    Maryland, in honor of Queen Henrietta Maria. Calvert, after a visit
    to Virginia, returned to England and there died before his charter
    was actually issued. In consequence the grant was made out to
    Calvert's son, Cecil. Cecil Calvert at once organized a company of
    more than two hundred men, who effected a permanent settlement at
    St. Mary's, which for sixty years was the capital of the colony of
    Maryland, Annapolis being afterward chosen. Baltimore was not
    founded until 1729.

    The account here given was published in London in 1634, and is the
    first extant description of the province. It has been conjectured
    that Cecil Calvert prepared it from letters written by his
    brothers, Leonard and George. The account is believed to preserve
    the exact language of the original writers of the letters. Printed
    in "Old South Leaflets."

    [2] Now called the Susquehanna.

    [3] The Susquehanna Indians.

ROGER WILLIAMS IN RHODE ISLAND

(1636)

BY NATHANIEL MORTON[1]

In the year 1634 Mr. Roger Williams removed from Plymouth to Salem: he had lived about three
years at Plymouth, where he was well accepted as an assistant in the ministry to Mr. Ralph
Smith, then pastor of the church there, but by degrees venting of divers of his own singular
opinions, and seeking to impose them upon others, he not finding such a concurrence as he expected,
he desired his dismission to the Church of Salem, which though some were unwilling to, yet
through the prudent counsel of Mr. Brewster (the ruling elder there) fearing that his continuance
amongst them might cause division, and [thinking that] there being then many able men in the
Bay, they would better deal with him then [than] themselves could ... the Church of Plymouth
consented to his dismission, and such as did adhere to him were also dismissed, and removed
with him, or not long after him, to Salem....

But he having in one year's time filled that place with principles of rigid separation, and
tending to Anabaptistry, the prudent Magistrates of the Massachusetts Jurisdiction, sent to
the Church of Salem, desiring them to forbear calling him to office, which they not hearkening
to, was a cause of much disturbance; for Mr. Williams had begun, and then being in office,
he proceeded more vigorously to vent many dangerous opinions, as amongst many others these
were some; That it is not lawful for an unregenerate man to pray, nor to take an Oath, and
in special, not the Oath of Fidelity to the Civil Government; nor was it lawful for a godly
man to have communion either in Family Prayer, or in an Oath with such as they judged unregenerate:
and therefore he himself refused the Oath of Fidelity, and taught others so to do; also, That
it was not lawful so much as to hear the godly Ministers of England, when any occasionally
went thither; & therefore he admonished any Church-members that had done so, as for hainous
sin: also he spake dangerous words against the Patent, which was the foundation of the Government
of the Massachusets Colony: also he affirmed, That the Magistrates had nothing to do in matters
of the first Table [of the commandments], but only the second; and that there should be a general
and unlimited Toleration of all Religions, and for any man to be punished for any matters of
his Conscience, was persecution....

He persisted, and grew more violent in his way, insomuch as he staying at home in his own house,
sent a Letter, which was delivered and read in the publick Church assembly, the scope of which
was to give them notice, That if the Church of Salem would not separate not only from the Churches
of Old-England, but the Churches of New-England too, he would separate from them: the more
prudent and sober part of the Church being amazed at his way, could not yield unto him: whereupon
he never came to the Church Assembly more, professing separation from them as Antichristian,
and not only so, but he withdrew all private religious Communion from any that would hold Communion
with the Church there, insomuch as he would not pray nor give thanks at meals with his own
wife nor any of his family, because they went to the Church Assemblies ... which the prudent
Magistrates understanding, and seeing things grow more and more towards a general division
and disturbance, after all other means used in vain, they passed a sentence of Banishment against
him out of the Massachusets Colony, as against a disturber of the peace, both of the Church
and Commonwealth.

After which Mr. Williams sat down in a place called Providence, out of the Massachusets Jurisdiction,
and was followed by many of the members of the Church of Salem, who did zealously adhere to
him, and who cried out of the Persecution that was against him: some others also resorted to
him from other parts. They had not been long there together, but from rigid separation they
fell to Anabaptistry, renouncing the Baptism which they had received in their Infancy, and
taking up another Baptism, and so began a Church in that way; but Mr. Williams stopt not there
long, for after some time he told the people that had followed him, and joyned with him in
a new Baptism, that he was out of the way himself, and had mis-led them, for he did not finde
that there was any upon earth that could administer Baptism, and therefore their last Baptism
was a nullity, as well as their first; and therefore they must lay down all, and wait for the
coming of new Apostles: and so they dissolved themselves, and turned Seekers, keeping that
one Principle, That every one should have liberty to Worship God according to the Light of
their own Consciences; but otherwise not owning any Churches or Ordinances of God any where
upon Earth.

    [1] From Morton's "New England Memorial," published at the request
    of the Commismoners of the Four United Colonies of New England.
    Morton lived in the family of Governor Bradford and served as
    secretary of the court at Plymouth. This fact should be kept in
    mind when reading his account.

THE FOUNDING OF CONNECTICUT

(1633-1636)

BY ALEXANDER JOHNSTON[1]

During the ten years after 1620, the twin colonies of Plymouth and Massachusetts Bay had been
fairly shaken down into their places, and had even begun to look around them for opportunities
of extension. It was not possible that the fertile and inviting territory to the southwest
should long escape their notice. In 1629, De Rasières, an envoy from New Amsterdam, was at
Plymouth. He found the Plymouth people building a shallop for the purpose of obtaining a share
in the wampum trade of Narragansett Bay; and he very shrewdly sold them at a bargain enough
wampum to supply their needs, for fear they should discover at Narragansett the more profitable
peltry trade beyond. This artifice only put off the evil day.

Within the next three years, several Plymouth men, including Winslow, visited the Connecticut
River, "not without profit." In April, 1631, a Connecticut Indian visited Governor Winthrop
at Boston, asking for settlers, and offering to find them corn and furnish eighty beaver skins
a year. Winthrop declined even to send an exploring party. In the midsummer of 1633, Winslow
went to Boston to propose a joint occupation of the new territory by Plymouth and Massachusetts
Bay; but the latter still refused, doubting the profit and the safety of the venture.

Three months later Plymouth undertook the work alone. A small vessel, under command of William
Holmes, was sent around by sea to the mouth of the Connecticut River, with the frame of a trading
house and workmen to put it up. When Holmes had sailed up the river as far as the place where
Hartford was afterward built, he found the Dutch already in possession. For ten years they
had been talking of erecting a fort on the Varsche River; but the ominous and repeated appearance
of New Englanders in the territory had roused them to action at last.

John Van Corlear, with a few men, had been commissioned by Governor Van Twiller, and had put
up a rude earthwork, with two guns, within the present jurisdiction of Hartford. His summons
to Holmes to stop under penalty of being fired into met with no more respect than was shown
by the commandant of Rensselaerswyck to his challengers, according to the veracious Knickerbocker.
Holmes declared that he had been sent up the river, and was going up the river, and furthermore
he went up the river. His little vessel passed on to the present site of Windsor. Here the
crew disembarked, put up and garrisoned their trading house, and then returned home. Plymouth
had at least planted the flag far within the coveted and disputed territory.

In December of the following year a Dutch force of seventy men from New Amsterdam appeared
before the trading house to drive out the intruders. He must be strong who drives a Yankee
away from a profitable trade; and the attitude of the little garrison was so determined that
the Dutchmen, after a few hostile demonstrations, decided that the nut was too hard to crack,
and withdrew. For about twenty years thereafter the Dutch held post at Hartford, isolated from
Dutch support by a continually deepening mass of New Englanders, who refrained from hostilities,
and waited until the apple was ripe enough to drop.

With respect to the claims of the Indians, the attitudes of the two parties to the struggle
were directly opposite. The Dutch came on the strength of purchase from the Pequots, the conquerors
and lords paramount of the local Indians. Holmes brought to the Connecticut River in his vessel
the local sachems, who had been driven away by the Pequots, and made his purchases from them.
The English policy will account for the unfriendly disposition of the Pequots, and, when followed
up by the tremendous overthrow of the Pequots, for Connecticut's permanent exemption from Indian
difficulties. The Connecticut settlers followed a straight road, buying lands fairly from the
Indians found in possession, ignoring those who claimed a supremacy based on violence, and,
in ease of resistance by the latter, asserting and maintaining for Connecticut an exactly similar
title,--the right of the stronger. Those who claimed right received it; those who preferred
force were accommodated.

One route to the new territory by Long Island Sound and the Connecticut River, had thus been
appropriated. The other, the overland route through Massachusetts, was explored during the
same year, 1633, by one John Oldham, who was murdered by the Pequots two years afterward. He
found his way westward to the Connecticut River, and brought back most appetizing accounts
of the upper Connecticut Valley; and his reports seem to have suggested a way out of a serious
difficulty which had come to a head in Massachusetts Bay.

The colony of Massachusetts Bay was at this time limited to a district covering not more than
twenty or thirty miles from the sea, and its greatest poverty, as Cotton stated, was a poverty
of men. And yet the colony was to lose part of its scanty store of men. Three of the eight
Massachusetts towns, Dorchester, Watertown, and Newtown (now Cambridge), had been at odds with
the other five towns on several occasions; and the assigned reasons are apparently so frivolous
as to lead to the suspicion that some fundamental difference was at the bottom of them. The
three towns named had been part of the great Puritan influx of 1630. Their inhabitants were
"newcomers," and this slight division may have been increased by the arrival and settlement,
in 1633, of a number of strong men at these three towns, notably Hooker, Stone, and Haynes
at Newtown. Dorchester, Watertown, and Newtown showed many symptoms of an increase of local
feeling: the two former led the way, in October, 1633, in establishing town governments under
"selectmen;" and all three neglected or evaded, more or less, the fundamental feature of Massachusetts
policy,--the limitation of office-holding and the elective franchise to church-members. The
three towns fell into the position of the commonwealth's opposition, a position not particularly
desirable at the time and under all the circumstances.

The ecclesiastical leaders of Dorchester were Warham and Maverick; of Newtown, Hooker and Stone;
of Watertown, Phillips. Haynes of Newtown, Ludlow of Dorchester, and Pynchon of Roxbury, were
the principal lay leaders of the half-formed opposition. Some have thought that Haynes was
jealous of Governor Winthrop, Hooker of Cotton, and Ludlow of everybody. But the opposition,
if it can be fairly called an opposition, was not so definite as to be traceable to any such
personal source. The strength which marked the divergence was due neither to ambition nor to
jealousy, but to the strength of mind and character which marked the leaders of the minority.

Thomas Hooker and Samuel Stone were of Emmanuel College, Cambridge. Hooker began to preach
at Chelmsford in 1626, and was silenced for non-conformity in 1629. He then taught school,
his assistant being John Eliot, afterward the apostle to the Indians; but the chase after him
became warmer, and in 1630 he retired to Holland and resumed his preaching. In 1632 he and
Stone came to New England as pastor and teacher of the church at Newtown; and the two took
part in the migration to Hartford. Here Hooker became the undisputed ecclesiastical leader
of Connecticut until his death in 1647. John Warham and John Maverick, both of Exeter in England,
came to New England in 1630, as pastor and teacher of Dorchester. Maverick died while preparing
to follow his church, but Warham settled with his parishioners at Windsor, and died there in
1670. George Phillips, also a Cambridge man, came to New England in 1630, as pastor of the
church at Watertown. He took no part in the migration, but lived and died at Watertown. Fate
seems to have determined that Wendell Phillips should belong to Massachusetts.

Roger Ludlow was Endicott's brother-in-law. He came to New England in 1630, and settled at
Dorchester. He was deputy governor in 1634, and seems to have been "slated," to use the modern
term, for the governorship in the following year. But this private agreement among the deputies
was broken, for some unknown reason, by the voters, who chose Haynes, perhaps as a less objectionable
representative of the opposition. Ludlow complained so openly and angrily of the failure to
carry out the agreement that he was dropped from the magistracy at the next election. He went
at once to Connecticut, and was deputy governor there in alternate years until 1654. Incensed
at the interference of New Haven to prevent his county, Fairfield, from waging an independent
warfare against the Dutch, he went to Virginia in 1654, taking the records of the county with
him. It is not known when or where he died. Pynchon, the third lay leader of the opposition,
took part in the migration, but remained within the jurisdiction of Massachusetts, founding
the town of Springfield.

At the May session of the Massachusetts General Court in 1634, an application for "liberty
to remove" was received from Newtown. It was granted. At the September session the request
was changed into one for removal to Connecticut. This was a very different matter, and, after
long debate, was defeated by the vote of the Assistants, tho the Deputies passed it. Various
reasons were assigned for the request to remove to Connecticut,--lack of room in their present
locations, the desire to save Connecticut from the Dutch, and "the strong bent of their spirits
to remove thither;" but the last looks like the strongest reason. In like manner, while the
arguments to the contrary were those which would naturally suggest themselves, the weakening
of Massachusetts, and the peril of the emigrants, the concluding argument, that "the removing
of a candlestick" would be "a great judgment," seems to show the feeling of all parties that
the secession was the result of discord between two parties.

Haynes was made governor at the next General Court. Successful inducements were offered to
some of the Newtown people to remove to Boston, and some few concessions were made. But the
migration which had been denied to the corporate towns had probably been begun by individuals.
There is a tradition that some of the Watertown people passed this winter of 1634-35 at the
place where Wethersfield now stands. In May, 1635, the Massachusetts General Court voted that
liberty be granted to the people of Watertown and Roxbury to remove themselves to any place
within the jurisdiction of Massachusetts. In March, 1636, the secession having already been
accomplished, the General Court issued a "Commission to Several Persons to govern the people
at Connecticut."

Its preamble reads: "Whereas, upon some reasons and grounds, there are to remove from this
our Commonwealth and body of the Massachusetts in America divers of our loving friends and
neighbors, freemen and members of Newtown, Dorchester, Watertown, and other places, who are
resolved to transport themselves and their estates unto the river of Connecticut, there to
reside and inhabit; and to that end divers are there already, and divers others shortly to
go." This tacit permission was the only authorization given by Massachusetts; but it should
be noted that the unwilling permission was made more gracious by a kindly loan of cannon and
ammunition for the protection of the new settlements.

If it be true that some of the Watertown people had wintered at Wethersfield in 1634-35, this
was the first civil settlement in Connecticut; and it is certain that, all through the following
spring, summer, and autumn, detached parties of Watertown people were settling at Wethersfield.
During the summer of 1635, a Dorchester party appeared near the Plymouth factory, and laid
the foundations of the town of Windsor. In October of the same year a party of sixty persons,
including women and children, largely from Newtown, made the overland march and settled where
Hartford now stands. Their journey was begun so late that the winter overtook them before they
reached the river, and, as they had brought their cattle with them, they found great difficulty
in getting everything across the river by means of rafts.

It may have been that the echoes of all these preparations had reached England, and stirred
the tardy patentees to action. During the autumn of 1635, John Winthrop, Jr., agent of the
Say and Sele associates, reached Boston, with authority to build a large fort at the mouth
of the Connecticut River. He was to be "Governor of the River Connecticut" for one year, and
he at once issued a proclamation to the Massachusetts emigrants, asking "under what right and
preference they had lately taken up their plantation."

It is said that they agreed to give up any lands demanded by him, or to return on having their
expenses repaid. A more dangerous influence, however, soon claimed Winthrop's attention. Before
the winter set in he had sent a party to seize the designated spot for a fort at the mouth
of the Connecticut River. His promptness was needed. Just as his men had thrown up a work sufficient
for defense and had mounted a few guns, a Dutch ship from New Amsterdam appeared, bringing
a force intended to appropriate the same place. Again the Dutch found themselves a trifle late;
and their post at Hartford was thus finally cut off from effective support.

This was a horrible winter to the advanced guard of English settlers on the upper Connecticut.
The navigation of the river was completely blocked by ice before the middle of November; and
the vessels which were to have brought their winter supplies by way of Long Island Sound and
the river were forced to return to Boston, leaving the wretched settlers unprovided for. For
a little while some scanty supplies of corn were obtained from the neighboring Indians, but
this resource soon failed. About seventy persons straggled down the river to the fort at its
mouth. There they found and dug out of the ice a sixty-ton vessel, and made their way back
to Boston. Others turned back on the way they had come, and struggled through the snow and
ice to "the Bay." But a few held their grip on the new territory. Subsisting first on a little
corn bought from more distant Indians, then by hunting, and finally on ground-nuts and acorns
dug from under the snow, they fought through the winter and held their ground. But it was a
narrow escape. Spring found them almost exhausted, their unsheltered cattle dead, and just
time enough to bring necessary supplies from home. The Dorchester people alone lost cattle
to the value of two thousand pounds.

The Newtown congregation, in October, 1635, found customers for their old homes in a new party
from England; and in the following June Hooker and Stone led their people overland to Connecticut.
They numbered one hundred, with one hundred and sixty head of cattle. Women and children were
of the party. Mrs. Hooker, who was ill, was carried on a litter; and the journey, of "about
one hundred miles," occupied two weeks. Its termination was well calculated to dissipate the
evil auguries of the previous winter. The Connecticut Valley in early June! Its green meadows,
flanked by wooded hills, lay before them. Its oaks, whose patriarch was to shelter their charter,
its great elms and tulip-trees, were broken by the silver ribbon of the river; here and there
were the wigwams of the Indians, or the cabins of the survivors of the winter; and, over and
through all, the light of a day in June welcomed the newcomers. The thought of abandoning Connecticut
disappeared forever.

    [1] From Johnston's "History of Connecticut." By permission of, and
    by arrangement with, the authorized publishers, Houghton, Mifflin
    Co. Copyright, 1887, by Alexander Johnston. They thought they had Scripture for that
belief, and they knew they had law for it, explicit and abundant; and
with them law and Scripture were absolute authorities for the
regulation of opinion and of conduct.

In a few instances, witches were believed to have appeared in the earlier years of New England.
But the cases had been sporadic. The first instance of an execution for witchcraft is said
to have occurred in Connecticut, soon after the settlement [1647, May 30th]; but the circumstances
are not known, and the fact has been doubted. A year later, one Margaret Jones, of Charlestown
in Massachusetts, and it has been said, two other women in Dorchester and Cambridge, were convicted
and executed for the goblin crime. These cases appear to have excited no more attention than
would have been given to the commission of any other felony, and no judicial record of them
survives....

With three or four exceptions,--for the evidence respecting the asserted sufferers at Dorchester
and Cambridge is imperfect,--no person appears to have been punished for witchcraft in Massachusetts,
nor convicted of it, for more than sixty years after the settlement, though there had been
three or four trials of other persons suspected of the crime. At the time when the question
respecting the colonial charter was rapidly approaching an issue, and the public mind was in
feverish agitation, the ministers sent out a paper of proposals for collecting facts concerning
witchcraft [1681]. This brought out a work from President Mather entitled "Illustrious Providences,"
in which that influential person related numerous stories of the performances of persons leagued
with the Devil [1684].

The imagination of his restless young son[2] was stimulated, and circumstances fed the flame.
In the last year of the government of Andros [1688], a daughter, thirteen years old, of John
Goodwin,--a mason living at the South End of Boston,--had a quarrel with an Irish washerwoman
about some missing clothes. The woman's mother took it up, and scolded provokingly. Thereupon
the wicked child, profiting, as it seems, by what she had been hearing and reading on the mysterious
subject, "cried out upon her," as the phrase was, as a witch, and proceeded to act the part
understood to be fit for a bewitched person; in which behavior she was presently joined by
three others of the circle, one of them only four or five years old. Now they would lose their
hearing, now their sight, now their speech; and sometimes all three faculties at once. They
mewed like kittens; they barked like dogs.

Cotton Mather prayed with one of them; but she lost her hearing, he says, when he began, and
recovered it as soon as he finished. Four Boston ministers and one of Charlestown held a meeting,
and passed a day in fasting and prayer, by which exorcism the youngest imp was "delivered."
The poor woman, crazed with all this pother,--if in her right mind before,--and defending herself
unskilfully in her foreign gibberish and with the volubility of her race, was interpreted as
making some confession. A gossiping witness testified that six years before she had heard another
woman say that she had seen the accused come down a chimney. She was required to repeat the
Lord's Prayer in English,--an approved test; but being a Catholic, she had never learned it
in that language. She could recite it, after a fashion, in Latin; but she was no scholar, and
made some mistakes. The helpless wretch was convicted and sent to the gallows.

Cotton Mather took the oldest "afflicted" girl to his house, where she dexterously played upon
his self-conceit to stimulate his credulity. She satisfied him that Satan regarded him as his
most terrible enemy, and avoided him with especial awe. When he prayed or read in the Bible,
she was seized with convulsion fits. When he called to family devotion she would whistle, and
sing, and scream, and pretend to try to strike and kick him; but her blows would be stopt before
reaching his body, indicating that he was unassailable by the Evil One. Mather published an
account of these transactions,[3] with a collection of other appropriate matter. The treatise
circulated not only in Massachusetts, but widely also in England, where it obtained the warm
commendation of Richard Baxter; and it may be supposed to have had an important effect in producing
the more disastrous delusion which followed three years after. The Goodwin children soon got
well: in other words, they were tired of their atrocious foolery; and the death of their victim
gave them a pretense for a return to decent behavior....

Martha Corey and Rebecca Nourse were cried out against. Both were church-members of excellent
character; the latter seventy years of age. They were examined by the same magistrates, and
sent to prison, and with them a child of Sarah Good, only four or five years old, also charged
with diabolical practises. Mr. Parris preached upon the text, "Have not I chosen you twelve,
and one of you is a devil?" Sarah Cloyse, understanding the allusion to be to Nourse, who was
her sister, went out of church, and was accordingly cried out upon, examined, and committed.
Elizabeth Procter was another person charged. The Deputy-Governor and five magistrates came
to Salem for the examination of the two prisoners last named. Procter appealed to one of the
children who was accusing her. "Dear child," she said, "it is not so; there is another judgment,
dear child:" and presently they denounced as a witch her husband, who stood by her side. A
week afterward warrants were issued for the apprehension of four other suspected persons; and
a few days later for three others, one of whom, Philip English, was the principal merchant
of Salem. On the same day, on the information of one of the possessed girls, an order was sent
to Maine for the arrest of George Burroughs, formerly a candidate for the ministry at Salem
Village, and now minister of Wells. The witness said that Burroughs, besides being a wizard,
had killed his first two wives, and other persons whose ghosts had appeared to her and denounced
him....

Affairs were in this condition when the King's Governor arrived. About a hundred alleged witches
were now in jail, awaiting trial. Their case was one of the first matters to which his attention
was called. Without authority for so doing,--for by the charter which he represented, the establishment
of judicial courts was a function of the General Court,--he proceeded to institute a special
commission of Oyer and Terminer, consisting of seven magistrates, first of whom was the hard,
obstinate, narrow-minded Stoughton. The commissioners applied themselves to their office without
delay. Their first act was to try Bridget Bishop, against whom an accusation twenty years old
and retracted by its author on his death-bed, had been revived. The court sentenced her to
die by hanging, and she was accordingly hanged at the end of eight days. Cotton Mather, in
his account of the proceedings, relates that as she passed along the street under guard, Bishop
"had given a look toward the great and spacious meeting-house of Salem, and immediately a dæmon,
invisibly entering the house, tore down a part of it." It may be guessed that a plank or a
partition had given way under the pressure of the crowd of lookers-on collected for so extraordinary
a spectacle.

At the end of another four weeks the court sat again and sentenced five women, two of Salem,
and one each of Amesbury, Ipswich, and Topsfield, all of whom were executed, protesting their
innocence. In respect to one of them, Rebecca Nourse, a matron eminent for piety and goodness,
a verdict of acquittal was first rendered. But Stoughton sent the jury out again, reminding
them that in her examination, in reference to certain witnesses against her who had confest
their own guilt, she had used the expression, "they came among us." Nourse was deaf, and did
not catch what had been going on. When it was afterward repeated to her she said that by the
coming among us she meant that they had been in prison together. But the jury adopted the court's
interpretation of the word as signifying an acknowledgment that they had met at a witch orgy.
The Governor was disposed to grant her a pardon. But Parris, who had an ancient grudge against
her, interfered and prevailed. On the last communion day before her execution she was taken
into church, and formally excommunicated by Noyes, her minister....

In the course of the next month, in which the Governor left Boston for a short tour of inspection
in the Eastern country, fifteen persons--six women in one day, and on another eight women and
one man--were tried, convicted, and sentenced. Eight of them were hanged. The brave Giles Corey,
eighty years of age, being arraigned, refused to plead. He said that the whole thing was an
imposture, and that it was of no use to put himself on his trial, for every trial had ended
in a conviction,--which was the fact. It is shocking to relate that, suffering the penalty
of the English common law for a contumacious refusal to answer,--the peine forte et dure,--he
was prest to death with heavy weights laid on his body. By not pleading he intended to protect
the inheritance of his children, which, as he had been informed, would by a conviction of felony
have been forfeit to the crown.

There had been twenty human victims, Corey included; besides two dogs, their accomplices in
the mysterious crime. Fifty persons had obtained a pardon by confessing; a hundred and fifty
were in prison awaiting trial; and charges had been made against two hundred more. The accusers
were now flying at high quarries. Hezekiah Usher, known to the reader as an ancient magistrate
of fair consideration, was complained of; and Mrs. Thacher, mother-in-law of Corwin, the justice
who had taken the earliest examinations. Zeal in pushing forward the prosecution began to seem
dangerous; for what was to prevent an accused person from securing himself by confession, and
then revenging himself on the accuser by arraigning him as a former ally?...

The drunken fever-fit was now over, and with returning sobriety came profound contrition and
disgust. A few still held out against the return of reason. There are some men who never own
that they have been in the wrong, and a few men who are forever incapable of seeing it. Stoughton,
with his bull-dog stubbornness, that might in other times have made him a St. Dominic, continued
to insist that the business had been all right, and that the only mistake was in putting a
stop to it. Cotton Mather was always infallible in his own eyes. In the year after the executions
he had the satisfaction of studying another remarkable case of possession in Boston; but when
it and the treatise which he wrote upon it failed to excite much attention, and it was plain
that the tide had set the other way, he soon got his consent to let it run at its own pleasure,
and turned his excursive activity to other objects....

Members of some of the juries, in a written public declaration, acknowledged the fault of their
wrongful verdicts, entreated forgiveness, and protested that, "according to their present minds,
they would none of them do such things again, on such grounds, for the whole world; praying
that this act of theirs might be accepted in way of satisfaction for their offense."

    [2] Cotton Mather, son of Increase Mather, the president of Harvard
    College.

    [3] This work was entitled "Wonders of the Invisible World." It is
    now much sought after by collectors of Americana.

THE ENGLISH CONQUEST OF NEW YORK

(1664)

BY JOHN R. BRODHEAD[1]

England now determined boldly to rob Holland of her American province.

The Duke of York lost no time in giving effect to his patent. As lord high admiral he directed
the fleet. Four ships, the Guinea, of thirty-six guns; the Elias, of thirty; the Martin, of
sixteen; and the William and Nicholas, of ten, were detached for service against New Netherlands,
and about four hundred fifty regular soldiers, with their officers, were embarked. The command
of the expedition was intrusted to Colonel Richard Nicolls, a faithful Royalist, who had served
under Turenne with James, and had been made one of the gentlemen of his bedchamber. Nicolls
was also appointed to be the Duke's deputy-governor, after the Dutch possessions should have
been reduced. These commissioners were furnished with detailed instructions; and the New England
governments were required by royal letters to "join and assist them vigorously" in reducing
the Dutch to subjection.

Intelligence from Boston that an English expedition against New Netherlands had sailed from
Portsmouth was soon communicated to Stuyvesant by Captain Thomas Willett; and the burgomasters
and schepens of New Amsterdam were summoned to assist the council with their advice. The capital
was ordered to be put in a state of defense, guards to be maintained, and schippers to be warned.
As there was very little powder at Fort Amsterdam a supply was demanded from New Amstel, and
a loan of five or six thousand guilders was asked from Rensselaerswyck. The ships about to
sail for Curaçao were stopt; agents were sent to purchase provisions at New Haven; and as the
enemy was expected to approach through Long Island Sound, spies were sent to obtain intelligence
at West Chester and Milford.

But at the moment when no precaution should have been relaxed, a dispatch from the West India
directors, who appear to have been misled by advices from London, announced that no danger
need be apprehended from the English expedition, as it was sent out by the King only to settle
the affairs of his colonies and establish episcopacy, which would rather benefit the company's
interests in New Netherlands. Willett now retracting his previous statements, a perilous confidence
returned. The Curacao ships were allowed to sail; and Stuyvesant, yielded to the solicitation
of his council, went up the river to look after affairs at Fort Orange.

The English squadron had been ordered to assemble at Gardiner's Island. But, parting company
in a fog, the Guinea, with Nicolls and Cartwright on board, made Cape Cod, and went on to Boston,
while the other ships put in at Piscataway. The commissioners immediately demanded the assistance
of Massachusetts, but the people of the Bay, who feared, perhaps, that the King's success in
reducing the Dutch would enable him the better to put down his enemies in New England, were
full of excuses. Connecticut, however, showed sufficient alacrity; and Winthrop was desired
to meet the squadron at the west end of Long Island, whither it would sail with the first fair
wind.

When the truth of Willett's intelligence became confirmed, the council sent an express to recall
Stuyvesant from Fort Orange. Hurrying back to the capital, the anxious director endeavored
to redeem the time which had been lost. The municipal authorities ordered one-third of the
inhabitants, without exception, to labor every third day at the fortifications; organized a
permanent guard; forbade the brewers to malt any grain; and called on the provincial government
for artillery and ammunition. Six pieces, besides the fourteen previously allotted, and a thousand
pounds of powder were accordingly granted to the city. The colonists around Fort Orange, pleading
their own danger from the savages, could afford no help; but the soldiers of Esopus were ordered
to come down, after leaving a small garrison at Ronduit.

In the meantime the English squadron had anchored just below the Narrows, in Nyack Bay, between
New Utrecht and Coney Island. The mouth of the river was shut up; communication between Long
Island and Manhattan, Bergen and Achter Cul, interrupted; several yachts on their way to the
South River captured; and the block-house on the opposite shore of Staten Island seized. Stuyvesant
now dispatched Counsellor de Decker, Burgomaster Van der Grist, and the two domines Megapolensis
with a letter to the English commanders inquiring why they had come, and why they continued
at Nyack without giving notice. The next morning, which was Saturday, Nicolls sent Colonel
Cartwright, Captain Needham, Captain Groves, and Mr. Thomas Delavall up to Fort Amsterdam with
a summons for the surrender of "the town situate on the island and commonly known by the name
of Manhatoes, with all the forts thereunto belonging."

This summons was accompanied by a proclamation declaring that all who would submit to his majesty's
government should be protected "in his majesty's laws and justice," and peaceably enjoy their
property. Stuyvesant immediately called together the council and the burgomasters, but would
not allow the terms offered by Nicolls to be communicated to the people, lest they might insist
on capitulating. In a short time several of the burghers and city officers assembled at the
Stadt-Huys. It was determined to prevent the enemy from surprizing the town; but, as opinion
was generally against protracted resistance, a copy of the English communication was asked
from the director. On the following Monday the burgomasters explained to a meeting of the citizens
the terms offered by Nicolls. But this would not suffice; a copy of the paper itself must be
exhibited. Stuyvesant then went in person to the meeting. "Such a course," said he, "would
be disapproved of in the Fatherland--it would discourage the people." All his efforts, however,
were in vain; and the director, protesting that he should not be held answerable for the "calamitous
consequences," was obliged to yield to the popular will. Visiting the city under a flag of
truce Winthrop delivered this to Stuyvesant outside the fort and urged him to surrender. The
director declined; and, returning to the fort, he opened Nicolls' letter before the council
and the burgomasters, who desired that it should be communicated, as "all which regarded the
public welfare ought to be made public." Against this Stuyvesant earnestly remonstrated, and,
finding that the burgomasters continued firm, in a fit of passion he "tore the letter in pieces."
The citizens suddenly ceasing their work at the palisades, hurried to the Stadt-Huys, and sent
three of their number to the fort to demand the letter.

In vain the director hastened to pacify the burghers and urge them to go on with the fortifications.
"Complaints and curses" were uttered on all sides against the company's misgovernment; resistance
was declared to be idle; "The letter! the letter!" was the general cry. To avoid a mutiny Stuyvesant
yielded, and a copy, made out from the collected fragments, was handed to the burgomasters.
In answer, however, to Nicolls' summons he submitted a long justification of the Dutch title;
yet while protesting against any breach of the peace between the King and the States-General,
"for the hinderance and prevention of all differences and the spilling of innocent blood, not
only in these parts, but also in Europe," he offered to treat. "Long Island is gone and lost;"
the capital "can not hold out long," was the last dispatch to the "Lord Majors" of New Netherlands,
which its director sent off that night "in silence through hell Gate."

Observing Stuyvesant's reluctance to surrender, Nicolls directed Captain Hyde, who commanded
the squadron, to reduce the fort. Two of the ships accordingly landed their troops just below
Breuckelen (Brooklyn), where volunteers from New England and the Long Island villages had already
encamped. The other two, coming up with full sail passed in front of Fort Amsterdam and anchored
between it and Nutten Island.[2] Standing on one of the angles of the fortress--an artilleryman
with a lighted match at his side--the director watched their approach. At this moment the two
domines Megapolensis, imploring him not to begin hostilities, led Stuyvesant from the rampart,
who then, with a hundred of the garrison, went into the city to resist the landing of the English.
Hoping on against hope, the director now sent Counsellor de Decker, Secretary Van Ruypen, Burgomaster
Steenwyck, and "Schepen" Cousseau with a letter to Nicolls stating that, as he felt bound "to
stand the storm," he desired if possible to arrange on accommodation. But the English commander
merely declared, "To-morrow I will speak with you at Manhattan."

"Friends," was the answer, "will be welcome if they come in a friendly manner."

"I shall come with ships and soldiers," replied Nicolls; "raise the white flag of peace at
the fort, and then something may be considered." When this imperious message became known,
men, women, and children flocked to the director, beseeching him to submit. His only answer
was, "I would rather be carried out dead." The next day the city authorities, the clergymen,
and the officers of the burgher guard, assembling at the Stadt-Huys, at the suggestion of Domine
Megapolensis, adopted a remonstrance to the director, exhibiting the hopeless situation of
New Amsterdam, on all sides encompassed and hemmed in by enemies, and protesting against any
further opposition to the will of God. Besides the schout, burgomasters, and schepens, the
remonstrance was signed by Wilmerdonck and eighty-five of the principal inhabitants, among
whom was Stuyvesant's own son, Balthazar.

At last the director was obliged to yield. Although there were now fifteen hundred souls in
New Amsterdam, there were not more than two hundred and fifty men able to bear arms, besides
the one hundred fifty regular soldiers. The people had at length refused to be called out,
and the regular troops were already heard talking of "where booty is to be found, and where
the young women live who wear gold chains." The city, entirely open along both rivers, was
shut on the northern side by a breastwork and palisades[3], which, though sufficient to keep
out the savages, afforded no defense against a military siege. There were scarcely six hundred
pounds of serviceable powder in store.

A council of war had reported Fort Amsterdam untenable; for though it mounted twenty-four guns,
its single wall of earth, not more than ten feet high and four thick, was almost touched by
the private dwellings clustered around, and was commanded, within a pistol-shot, by hills on
the north, over which ran the "Heereweg" or Broadway.

Upon the faith of Nicolls' promise to deliver back the city and fort "in case the difference
of the limits of this province be agreed upon betwixt his majesty of England and the high and
mighty States-General," Stuyvesant now commissioned Counsellor John de Decker, Captain Nicholas
Varlett, Dr. Samuel Megapolensis, Burgomaster Cornelius Steenwyck, old Burgomaster Oloff Stevenson
van Cortlandt, and old Schepen Jacques Cousseau to agree upon articles with the English commander
or his representatives. Nicolls, on his part, appointed Sir Robert Carr and Colonel George
Cartwright, John Winthrop, and Samuel Willys, of Connecticut, and Thomas Clarke and John Pynchon,
of Massachusetts. "The reason why those of Boston and Connecticut were joined," afterward explained
the royal commander, "was because those two colonies should hold themselves the more engaged
with us if the Dutch had been overconfident of their strength."

At eight o'clock the next morning, which was Saturday, the commissioners on both sides met
at Stuyvesant's "bouwery" and arranged the terms of capitulation. The only difference which
arose was respecting the Dutch soldiers, whom the English refused to convey back to Holland.
The articles of capitulation promised the Dutch security in their property, customs of inheritance,
liberty of conscience and church discipline. The municipal officers of Manhattan were to continue
for the present unchanged, and the town was to be allowed to chose deputies, with "free voices
in all public affairs." Owners of property in Fort Orange might, if they pleased, "slight the
fortifications there," and enjoy their houses "as people do where there is no fort."

For six months there was to be free intercourse with Holland. Public records were to be respected.
The articles, consented to by Nicolls, were to be ratified by Stuyvesant the next Monday morning
at eight o'clock, and within two hours afterward, the "fort and town called New Amsterdam,
upon the Isle of Manhatoes," were to be delivered up, and the military officers and soldiers
were to "march out with their arms, drums beating, and colors flying, and lighted matches."

On the following Monday morning at eight o'clock Stuyvesant, at the head of the garrison, marched
out of Fort Amsterdam with all the honors of war, and led his soldiers down the Beaver Lane
to the water-side, whence they were embarked for Holland. An English corporal's guard at the
same time took possession of the fort; and Nicolls and Carr, with their two companies, about
a hundred seventy strong, entered the city, while Cartwright took possession of the gates and
the Stadt-Huys. The New England and Long Island volunteers, however, were prudently kept at
the Breuckelen ferry, as the citizens dreaded most being plundered by them. The English flag
was hoisted on Fort Amsterdam, the name of which was immediately changed to "Fort James." Nicolls
was now proclaimed by the burgomasters deputy-governor for the Duke of York, in compliment
to whom he directed that the city of New Amsterdam should thenceforth be known as "New York."

To Nicolls' European eye the Dutch metropolis, with its earthen fort, enclosing a windmill
and high flag-staff, a prison and a governor's house, and a double-roofed church, above which
loomed a square tower, its gallows and whipping-post at the river's side, and its rows of houses
which hugged the citadel, presented but a mean appearance. Yet before long he described it
to the Duke as "the best of all his majesty's towns in America," and assured his royal highness
that, with proper management, "within five years the staple of America will be drawn hither,
of which the brethren of Boston are very sensible."...

The reduction of New Netherlands was now accomplished. All that could be further done was to
change its name; and, to glorify one of the most bigoted princes in English history, the royal
province was ordered to be called "New York."

Viewed in all its aspects, the event which gave to the whole of that country a unity in allegiance,
and to which a misgoverned people complacently submitted, was as inevitable as it was momentous.

    [1] From Brodhead's "History of New York."

    [2] Now called Governor's Island.

    [3] A fortification from which has come the modern name of Wall
    Street.

BACON'S REBELLION IN VIRGINIA

(1676)

BY AN ANONYMOUS WRITER[1]

There is no nation this day under the copes of Heaven can so experimentaly speak the sad effects
of men of great parts being reduc't to necessity, as England; but not to rake up the notorious
misdemeanours of the dead, I shall endeavour to prevent the sad effects of so deplorable a
cause, by giving you an account of the remarkable life and death of this gentleman of whom
I am about to discourse. And because when a man has once ingag'd himself in an ill action,
all men are ready to heap an innumerable aspersions upon him, of which he is no ways guilty,
I shall be so just in the History of his Life as not to rob him of those commendations which
his Birth and Acquisitions claim as due, and so kind both to Loyalty and the wholsom constituted
Laws of our Kingdom, as not to smother any thing which would render him to blame.

This Gentleman who has of late becconed the attention of all men of understanding who are any
ways desirous of Novelty, [or] care what becomes of any part of the World besides that themselves
live in, had the honour to be descended of an Ancient and Honourable Family, his name Nathanael
Bacon, to whom to the long known Title of Gentleman, by his long study [at] the Inns of Court
he has since added that of Esquire. He was the Son of Mr. Thomas Bacon of an ancient Seat known
by the denomination of Freestone-Hall, in the County of Suffolk, a Gentleman of known loyalty
and ability. His Father as he was able so he was willing to allow this his Son a very Gentile
Competency to subsist upon, but he as it proved having a Soul too large for that allowance,
could not contain himself within bounds; which his careful Father perceiving, and also that
he had a mind to Travel (having seen divers parts of the World before) consented to his inclination
of going to Virginia, and accommodated him with a Stock for that purpose, to the value of 1,800l.
Starling, as I am credibly informed by a Merchant of very good wealth, who is now in this City,
and had the fortune to carry him thither.

He began his Voyage thitherwards about Three years since, and lived for about a years space
in that Continent in very good repute, his extraordinary parts like a Letter of recommendation
rendring him aceptable in all mens company, whilst his considerable Concerns in that place
were able to bear him out in the best of Society. These Accomplishments of mind and fortune
rendred him so remarkable, that the worthy Governour of that Continent thought it requisite
to take him into his Privy Council.

That Plantation which he chose to settle in is generally known by the name of Curles, situate
in the upper part of James River and the time of his revolt was not till the beginning of March,
1675-6. At which time the Susquo-hannan Indians (a known Enemy to that Country) having made
an Insurrection, and kild divers of the English, amongst whom it was his misfortune to have
a Servant slain; in revenge of whose death, and other dammage(s) he received from those turbulent
Susquo-hanians, without the Governeur's consent he furiously took up Arms against them, and
was so fortunate as to put them to flight, but not content therewith; the aforesaid Governour
hearing of his eager pursuit after the vanquisht Indians, sent out a select Company of Souldiers
to command him to desist; but he instead of listning thereunto, persisted in his Revenge, and
sent to the Governour to intreat his Commission, that he might more chearfully prosecute his
design; which being denyed him by the Messenger he sent for that purpose, he notwithstanding
continued to make head with his own Servants, and other English then resident in Curles against
them.

In this interim the people of Henrico had returned him Burgess of their county; and he in order
thereunto took his own Sloop and came down towards James Town, conducted by thirty odd Souldiers,
with part of which he came ashore to Mr. Laurences House, to understand whether he might come
in with safety or not, but being discovered by one Parson Clough, and also it being perceived
that he had lined the Bushes of the said Town with Souldiers, the Governour thereupon ordered
an allarm to be beaten through the whole Town, which took so hot, that Bacon thinking himself
not secure whilst he remained there within reach of their Fort, immediately commanded his men
aboard, and tow'd his Sloop up the River; which the Governour perceiving, ordered the Ships
which lay at Sandy-point to pursue and take him; and they by the industry of their Commanders
succeeded so well in the attempt, that they presently stopt his passage; so that Mr. Bacon
finding himself pursued both before and behind, after some capitulations, quietly surrendered
himself Prisoner to the Governours Commissioners, to the great satisfaction of all his Friends;
which action of his was so obliging to the Governour, that he granted him his liberty immediately
upon Paroll, without confining him either to Prison or Chamber, and the next day, after some
private discourse passed betwixt the Governour, the Privy Council, and himself, he was amply
restored to all his former Honours and Dignities, and a Commission partly promised him to be
General against the Indian Army; but upon further enquiry into his Affairs it was not thought
fit to be granted him; whereat his ambitious mind seem'd mightily to be displeas'd; insomuch
that he gave out, that it was his intention to sell his whole concerns in Virginia, and to
go with his whole Family to live either in Merry-land or the South, because he would avoid
(as he said) the scandal of being accounted a factious person there.

But this resolution it seems was but a pretence, for afterwards he headed the same Runnagado
English that he formerly found ready to undertake and go sharers with him in any of his Rebellions,
and adding to them the assistance of his own Slaves and Servants, headed them so far till they
toucht at the Occonegies Town, where he was treated very civilly, and by the Inhabitants informed
where some of the Susquohanno's were inforted, whom presently he assails, and after he had
vanquished them, slew about seventy of them in their Fort: But as he returned back to the Occoneges,
he found they had fortified themselves with divers more Indians than they had at his first
arrival; wherefore he desired Hostages of them for their good behaviour, whilst he and his
followers lay within command of their Fort. But those treacherous Indians grown confident by
reason of their late recruit, returned him this Answer, That their Guns were the only Hostages
he was like to have of them, and if he would have them he must fetch them. Which was no soner
spoke, but the Indians salied out of the Fort and shot one of his Sentinels, whereupon he charged
them so fiercely, that the Fight continued not only all that day, but the next also, till the
approach of the Evening, at which time finding his men grow faint for want of Provision, he
laid hold of the opportunity, being befriended by a gloomy night, and so made an honourable
retreat homewards. Howbeit we may judge what respect he had gain'd in James-Town by this subsequent
transaction.

When he was first brought hither it was frequently reported among the Commonalty that he was
kept close Prisoner, which report caused the people of that Town, those of Charles-city, Henrico,
and New-Kent Countries, being in all about the Number of eight hundred, or a thousand, to rise
and march thitherwards in order to his rescue; whereupon the Governor was forced to desire
Mr. Bacon to go himself in Person, and by his open appearance quiet the people.

This being past, Mr. Bacon, about the 25th of June last, dissatisfied that he could not have
a Commission granted him to go against the Indians, in the night time departed the Town unknown
to any body, and about a week after got together between four and five hundred men of New-Kent
County, with whom he marched to James-Town, and drew up in order before the House of State;
and there peremptorily demanded of the Governor, Council and Burgesses (there then collected)
a Commission to go against the Indians, which if they should refuse to grant him, he told them
that neither he nor ne're a man in his Company would depart from their Doors till he had obtained
his request; whereupon to prevent farther danger in so great an exigence, the Council and Burgesses
by much intreaty obtain'd him a Commission Signed by the Governor, an Act for one thousand
men to be Listed under his command to go against the Indians, to whom the same pay was to be
granted as was allowed to them who went against the Fort. But Bacon was not satisfied with
this, but afterwards earnestly importuned, and at length obtained of the House, to pass an
Act of Indemnity to all Persons who had sided with him, and also Letters of recommendations
from the Governor to his Majesty in his behalf; and moreover caused Collonel Claybourn and
his Son, Captain Claybourn, Lieutenant Collonel West, and Lieutenant Collonel Hill, and many
others, to be degraded for ever bearing any Office, whether it were Military or Civil.

Having obtained these large Civilities of the Governor, &c. one would have thought that if
the Principles of honesty would not have obliged him to peace and loyalty, those of gratitude
should. But, alas, when men have been once flusht or entred with Vice, how hard is it for them
to leave it, especially it tends towards ambition or greatness, which is the general lust of
a large Soul, and the common error of vast parts, which fix their Eyes so upon the lure of
greatness, that they have no time left them to consider by what indirect and unlawful means
they must (if ever) attain it.

This certainly was Mr. Bacon's Crime, who, after he had once lanched into Rebellion, nay, and
upon submission had been pardoned for it, and also restored, as if he had committed no such
hainous offence, to his former honour and dignities (which weer considerable enough to content
any reasonable mind) yet for all this he could not forbear wading into his former misdemeanors,
and continued his opposition against that prudent and established Government, ordered by his
Majesty of Great Brittain to be duely observed in that Continent.

In fine, he continued (I cannot say properly in the Fields, but) in the Woods with a considerable
Army all last Summer, and maintain'd several Brushes with the Governors Party: sometime routing
them, and burning all before him, to the great damage of many of his Majesties loyal Subjects
there resident; sometimes he and his Rebels were beaten by the Governor, &c., and forc't to
run for shelter amongst the Woods and Swomps. In which lamentable condition that unhappy Continent
has remain'd for the space of almost a Twelve-month, every one therein that were able being
forc't to take up Arms for security of their own lives, and no one reckoning their Goods, Wives,
or Children to be their own, since they were so dangerously expos'd to the doubtful Accidents
of an uncertain War.

But the indulgent Heavens, who are alone able to compute what measure of punishments are adequate
or fit for the sins of transgressions of a Nation, has in its great mercy thought fit to put
a stop, at least, if not a total period and conclusion to these Virginian troubles, by the
death of this Nat. Bacon, the great Molestor of the quiet of that miserable Nation; so that
now we who are here in England, and have any Relations or Correspondence with any of the Inhabitants
of that Continent, may by the arrival of the next Ships from that Coast expect to hear that
they are freed from all their dangers, quitted of all their fears, and in great hopes and expectations
to live quietly under their own Vines, and enjoy the benefit of their commendable labours.

I know it is by some reported that this Mr. Bacon was a very hard drinker, and that he dyed
by inbibing, or taking in two much Brandy. But I am informed by those who are Persons of undoubted
Reputation, and had the happiness to see the same Letter which gave his Majesty an account
of his death, that there was no such thing therein mentioned: he was certainly a Person indued
with great natural parts, which notwithstanding his juvenile extravagances he had adorned with
many elaborate acquisitions, and by the help of learning and study knew how to manage them
to a Miracle, it being the general vogue of all that knew him, that he usually spoke as much
sense in as few words, and delivered that sense as opportunely as any they ever kept company
withal: Wherefore as I am my self a Lover of Ingenuity, though an abhorrer of disturbance or
Rebellion, I think fit since Providence was pleased to let him dye a Natural death in his Bed,
not to asperse him with saying he kill'd himself with drinking.

    [1] This account was written a year after the events described by
    an author whose name is unknown. Internal evidence points to his
    intimate personal knowledge of what took place. Writing after the
    failure of the rebellion; moreover, after Bacon himself was dead,
    and the strong popular movement led by him had consequently much
    disintegrated, the writer's view is naturally somewhat out of
    sympathy with Bacon. Printed in Hart's "American History Told by
    Contemporaries."

    John Easton Cooke, in his "History of Virginia," declares that
    Bacon was "the soul of the rebellion" and his rising "not a
    hair-brained project, but the result of deliberate calculation." As
    a representative of the Virginia people Bacon "protested strongly
    against public grievances, compelling redress." He anticipated that
    the country would profit from his uprising, "and his anticipation
    was justified." The result as against Berkeley, "compelled the
    dissolution of the Royal Assembly, which had remained unchanged
    since 1680, and resulted in 'Bacon's assembly,' which began by
    raising the public revenue, extending suffrage to freemen, and was
    so defiant that Berkeley dissolved it."

KING PHILIP'S WAR

(1676)

BY WILLIAM HUBBARD[1]

The Occasion of Philips so sudden taking up Arms the last Year, was this: There was one John
Sausaman, a very cunning and plausible Indian, well skilled in the English Language, and bred
up in the Profession of Christian Religion, employed as a Schoolmaster at Natick, the Indian
Town, who upon some Misdemeanor fled from his Place to Philip, by whom he was entertained in
the Room and Office of Secretary, and his chief Councellor, whom he trusted with all his Affairs
and secret Counsels: But afterwards, whether upon the Sting of his own Conscience, or by the
frequent Sollicitations of Mr. Eliot, that had known him from a Child, and instructed him in
the Principles of our Religion, who was often laying before him the heinous Sin of his Apostacy,
and returning back to his old Vomit; he was at last prevailed with to forsake Philip, and return
back to the Christian Indians at Natick where he was baptised, manifested publick Repentance
for all his former Offences, [15] and made a serious profession of the Christian Religion;
and did apply himself to preach to the Indians, wherein he was better gifted than any other
of the Indian Nation; so as he was observed to conform more to the English Manners than any
other Indian.

Yet having Occasion to go up with some others of his Country men to Namasket, whether for the
Advantage of Fishing or some such Occasion, it matters not; being there not far from Phillips
Country, he had Occasion to be much in the Company of Philips Indians, and of Philip himself:
by which Means he discerned by several Circumstances that the Indians were plotting anew against
us; the which out of Faithfulness to the English the said Sausaman informed the Governour of;
adding also, that if it were known that he revealed it, he knew they would presently kill him.
There appearing so many concurrent Testimonies from others, making it the more probable, that
there was certain Truth in the Information; some Inquiry was made into the Business, by examining
Philip himself, several of his Indians, who although they could do nothing, yet could not free
themselves from just Suspicion; Philip therefore soon after contrived the said Sausamans Death,
which was strangely discovered; notwithstanding it was so cunningly effected, for they that
murdered him, met him upon the Ice on a great Pond, and presently after they had knocked him
down, put him under the Ice, yet leaving his Gun and his Hat upon the Ice, that it might be
thought he fell in accidentally through the Ice and was drowned: but being missed by his Friend,
who finding his Hat and his Gun, they were thereby led to the Place, where his Body was found
under the Ice: when they took it up to bury him, some of his Friends, specially one David,
observed some Bruises about his Head, which made them suspect he was first knocked down, before
he was put into the Water: however, they buried him near about the Place where he was found,
without making any further Inquiry at present: nevertheless David his Friend, reported these
Things to some English at Taunton (a Town not far from Namasket), occasioned the Governour
to inquire further into the Business, wisely considering, that as Sausaman had told him, If
it were known that he had revealed any of their Plots, they would murder him for his Pains.

Wherefore by special Warrant the Body of Sausaman being digged again out of his Grave, it was
very apparent that he had been killed, and not drowned. And by a strange Providence an Indian
was found, that by Accident was standing unseen upon a Hill, had seen them murther the said
Sausaman, but durst never reveal it for Fear of losing his own Life likewise, until he was
called to the Court at Plimouth, or before the Governour, where he plainly [16] confessed what
he had seen. The Murderers being apprehended, were convicted by his undeniable Testimony, and
other remarkable Circumstances, and so were all put to Death, being but three in Number; the
last of them confessed immediately before his Death, that his Father (one of the Councellors
and special Friends of Philip) was one of the two that murdered Sausaman, himself only looking on.

This was done at Plimouth Court, held in June, 1674. Insomuch that Philip apprehending the
Danger his own Head was in next, never used any further Means to clear himself from what was
like to be laid to his Charge, either about his plotting against the English, nor yet about
Sausamans Death: but by keeping his Men continually about him in Arms, and gathering what Strangers
he could to join with him, marching up and down constantly in Arms, both all the while the
Court sat, as well as afterwards. The English of Plimouth hearing of all this, yet took no
further Notice, than only to order a Militia Watch in all the adjacent Towns, hoping that Philip
finding himself not likely to be arraigned by Order of the said Court, the present Cloud might
blow over, as some others of like Nature had done before; but in Conclusion, the Matter proved
otherwise; for Philip finding his Strength daily increasing, by the flocking of Neighbour-Indians
unto him, and sending over their Wives and Children to the Narhagansets for Security (as they
use to do when they intend War with any of their Enemies,) immediately they began to alarm
the English at Swanzy, (the next Town to Philips Country,) as it were daring the English to
begin; at last their Insolences grew to such an Height, that they began not only to use threatening
Words to the English, but also to kill their Cattel and rifle their Houses; whereat an English-man
was so provoked, that he let fly a Gun at an Indian, but did only wound, not kill him; whereupon
the Indians immediately began to kill all the English they could, so as on the 24th of June,
1675, was the Alarm of War first sounded in Plimouth Colony, when eight or nine of the English
were slain in and about Swanzy....

About this Time several Parties of English, within Plimouth Jurisdiction, were willing to have
a Hand in so good a Matter, as catching of Philip would be, who perceiving that he was now
going down the Wind, were willing to hasten his Fall. Amongst others, a small Party, July 31
[1676], went out of Bridgewater upon discovery, and by Providence were directed to fall upon
a Company of Indians where Philip was; they came up with them, and killed some of his special
Friends; Philip himself was next to his Uncle, that was shot down, and had the Soldier had
his Choice which to shoot at, known which had been the right Bird, he might as well have taken
him as his Uncle, but `tis said that he had newly cut off his Hair, that he might not be known:
the Party that did this Exploit were few in Number, and therefore not being able to keep altogether
close in the Reer, that cunning Fox escaped away through the Bushes undiscerned, in the Reer
of the English....

Within two Days after, Capt. Church, the Terror of the Indians in Plimouth Colony, marching
in pursuit of Philip, with but thirty English-men, and twenty reconciled Indians, took twenty
three of the Enemy, and the next Day following them by their Tracts, fell upon their Head-Quarters,
and killed and took about an hundred and thirty of them, but with the Loss of one English Man;
in this Engagement God did appear in a more than ordinary Manner to fight for the English:
for the Indians by their Number, and other Advantages of the Place, were so conveniently provided,
that they might have made the first Shot at the English, and done them much Damage; but one
of their own Country-men in Capt. Church's Company espying them, called aloud unto them in
their own Language, telling them that if they shot a Gun, they were all dead Men; with which
they were so amazed, that they durst not once offer to fire at the English, which made the
Victory the more remarkable: Philip made a very narrow Escape at that Time, being forced to
leave his Treasures, his beloved Wife and only Son to the Mercy of the English, Skin for Skin,
all that a Man hath will he give for his Life. Such Sentence sometimes passed upon Cain, made
him cry out, that his Punishment was greater than he could bear.

Such had been his inveterate Malice and Wickedness against the English, that despairing of
Mercy from them, he could not bear that any thing should be suggested to him about a Peace,
insomuch as he caused one of his Confederates to be killed for propounding an Expedient of
Peace; which so provoked some of his Company, not altogether so desperate as himself, that
one of them (being near of kin that was killed) fled to Road-Island (whither, that active Champion
Capt. Church was newly retired, to recruit his Men for a little Time, being much tired with
hard Marches all that Week) informing them that Philip was fled to a Swamp in Mount-hope whither
he would undertake to lead them that would pursue him. This was welcome News, and the best
Cordial for such martial Spirits: whereupon he immediately with a small Company of Men, part
English and part Indians, began another March, which shall prove fatal to Philip, and end that
Controversie betwixt the English and him: for coming very early to the side of the Swamp, his
Soldiers began presently to surround it, and whether the Devil appeared to him in a Dream that
Night, as he did unto Saul, forboding his tragical End (it matters not); as he intended to
make his Escape out of the Swamp, he was shot through the Heart by an Indian of his own Nation,
as is said, that had all this while kept himself in a Neutrality until this Time, but now had
the casting-vote in his Power, by which he determined the Quarrel that had held so long in
Suspense.

    [1] From Hubbard's "Narrative of the Troubles with the Indians of
    New England." Hubbard was graduated from Harvard in 1642 in the
    first class sent out by the college. In 1666 he was settled as
    minister at Ipswich, Mass., and died in 1704. His qualities as a
    minister, his learning and his ability as a writer were praised by
    John Eliot, the apostle to the Indians.

THE FOUNDING OF PENNSYLVANIA

I

PENN'S ACCOUNT OF THE COLONY[1]

(1684)

The first planters in these parts were the Dutch, and soon after them the Swedes and Finns.
The Dutch applied themselves to traffic, the Swedes and Finns to husbandry. There were some
disputes between them for some years; the Dutch looking upon them as intruders upon their purchase
and possession, which was finally ended in the surrender made by John Rizeing, the Swedish
governor, to Peter Stuyvesant, governor for the States of Holland, anno 1655.

The Dutch inhabit mostly those parts of the province that lie upon or near the bay, and the
Swedes the freshes of the river Delaware. There is no need of giving any description of them,
who are better known there than here; but they are a plain, strong, industrious people, yet
have made no great progress in culture, or propagation of fruit-trees; as if they desired rather
to have enough than plenty or traffic. But I presume the Indians made them the more careless
by furnishing them with the means of profit, to wit, skins and furs for rum and such strong
liquors. They kindly received me as well as the English, who were few before the people concerned
with me came among them. I must needs commend their respect to authority, and kind behaviour
to the English. They do not degenerate from the old friendship between both kingdoms. As they
are people proper and strong of body, so they have fine children, and almost every house full:
rare to find one of them without three or four boys and as many girls; some six, seven, and
eight sons. And I must do them that right; I see few young men more sober and laborious.

The Dutch have a meeting-place for religious worship at Newcastle; and the Swedes three; one
at Christina, one at Tenecum, and one at Wicoco, within half a mile of this town.

There rests that I speak of the condition we are in, and what settlement we have made; in which
I will be as short as I can. The country lieth bounded on the east by the river and bay of
Delaware and Eastern Sea. It hath the advantage of many creeks, or rivers, that run into the
main river or bay, some navigable for great ships, some for small craft. Those of most eminency
are Christina, Brandywine, Skilpot, and Sculkil, any one of which has room to lay up the royal
navy of England, there being from four to eight fathom of water.

The lesser creeks or rivers, yet convenient for sloops and ketches of good burthen, are Lewis,
Mespillion, Cedar, Dover, Cranbrook, Feversham, and Georges below; and Chichester, Chester,
Toacawny, Pammapecka, Portquessin, Neshimenck, and Pennberry in the freshes: many lesser, that
admit boats and shallops. Our people are mostly settled upon the upper rivers, which are pleasant
and sweet, and generally bounded with good land.

The planted part of the province and territories is cast into six counties: Philadelphia, Buckingham,
Chester, Newcastle, Kent, and Sussex, containing about four thousand souls. Two general assemblies
have been held, and with such concord and despatch that they sat but three weeks, and at least
seventy laws were passed without one dissent in any material thing. But of this more hereafter,
being yet raw and new in our gear. However, I cannot forget their singular respect to me in
this infancy of things, who, by their own private expenses, so early considered mine for the
public, as to present me with an impost upon certain goods imported and exported, which, after
my acknowledgment of their affection, I did as freely remit to the province and the traders
to it. And for the well-government of the said counties, courts of justice are established
in every county, with proper officers, as justices, sheriffs, clerks, constables; which courts
are held every two months. But, to prevent lawsuits, there are three peacemakers chosen by
every county court, in the nature of common arbitrators, to hear and end differences between
man and man. And spring and fall there is an orphans' court in each county, to inspect and
regulate the affairs of orphans and widows.

Philadelphia: the expectation of those who are concerned in this province is at last laid out,
to the great content of those here who are any ways interested therein. The situation is a
neck of land, and lieth between two navigable rivers, Delaware and Sculkill, whereby it hath
two fronts upon the water, each a mile, and two from river to river. Delaware is a glorious
river; but the Sculkill, being an hundred miles boatable above the falls, and its course north-east
toward the fountain of Susquehannah, (that tends to the heart of the province, and both sides
our own), it is like to be a great part of the settlement of this age. I say little of the
town itself, because a platform will be shown you by my agent, in which those who are purchasers
of me, will find their names and interests. But this I will say, for the good providence of
God, that of all the many places I have seen in the world, I remember not one better seated;
so that it seems to me to have been appointed for a town, whether we regard the rivers, or
the conveniency of the coves, ducks, and springs, the loftiness and soundness of the land,
and the air, held by the people of those parts to be very good.

It is advanced within less than a year, to about fourscore houses and cottages, such as they
are, where merchants and handicrafts are following their vocations as fast as they can; while
the countrymen are close at their farms. Some of them got a little winter corn in the ground
last season; and the generality have had a handsome summer-crop, and are preparing for their
winter corn. They reaped their barley this year, in the month called May, the wheat in the
month following; so that there is time in these parts for another crop of divers things before
the winter season. We are daily in hopes of shipping to add to our number; for, blessed be
God! here is both room and accommodation for them: the stories of our necessity being either
the fear of our friends, or the scarecrows of our enemies; for the greatest hardship we have
suffered hath been salt meat, which, by fowl in winter and fish in summer, together with some
poultry, lamb, mutton, veal, and plenty of venison, the best part of the year, hath been made
very passable. I bless God I am fully satisfied with the country and entertainment I got in
it; for I find that particular content, which hath always attended me, where God in his providence
hath made it my place and service to reside. You cannot imagine my station can be at present
free of more than ordinary business; and, as such, I may say it is a troublesome work. But
the method things are putting in will facilitate the charge, and give an easier motion to the
administration of affairs. However, as it is some men's duty to plow, some to sow, some to
water, and some to reap, so it is the wisdom as well as the duty of a man to yield to the mind
of providence, and cheerfully as well as carefully embrace and follow the guidance of it.

    [1] Penn had already been part proprietor of West Jersey when in
    1681 he received the grant of Pennsylvania, as compensation for a
    claim of his father's estate against the English Government. He
    came out in person to America in 1682, made his famous treaty with
    the Indians and founded Philadelphia. He returned to England in
    1684, and again visited Pennsylvania in 1699-1701. His account is
    printed in Hart's "American History Told by Contemporaries."

II

PENN'S TREATY WITH THE INDIANS

(1683)

HIS OWN ACCOUNT[1]

Every king hath his council; and that consists of all the old and wise men of his nation, which
perhaps is two hundred people. Nothing of moment is undertaken, be it war, peace, selling of
land, or traffic, without advising with them, and, which is more, with the young men, too.
It is admirable to consider how powerful the kings are, and yet how they move by the breath
of their people. I have had occasion to be in council with them upon treaties for land, and
to adjust the terms of trade. Having consulted and resolved their business, the king ordered
one of them to speak to me. He stood up, came to me, and in the name of the king saluted me,
then took me by the hand, and told me that he was ordered by his king to speak to me, and that
now it was not he but the king who spoke, because what he should say was the king's mind. He
first prayed me to excuse them, that they had not complied with me the last time. He feared
there might be some fault in the interpreter, being neither Indian nor English. Besides, it
was the Indian custom to deliberate and take up much time in council before they resolved;
and that, if the young people and owners of the land had been as ready as he, I had not met
with so much delay.

Having thus introduced his matter, he fell to the bounds of the land they had agreed to dispose
of, and the price; which now is little and dear, that which would have bought twenty miles
not buying now two. During the time that this person spoke, not a man of them was observed
to whisper or smile--the old grave, the young reverent, in their deportment. They, speak little,
but fervently, and with elegance. I have never seen more natural sagacity, considering them
without the help (I was going to say the spoil) of tradition: and he will deserve the name
of Wise who outwits them in any treaty about a thing they understand. Do not abuse them, but
let them have justice, and you win them.

    [1] Letter from Penn to the Free Society of Traders, dated Aug.
    16, 1683.

III

THE REALITY OF PENN'S TREATY

(1682)

BY GEORGE E. ELLIS[1]

There has been much discussion of late years concerning the far-famed Treaty of Penn with the
Indians. A circumstance, which has all the interest both of fact and of poetry, was confirmed
by such unbroken testimony of tradition that history seemed to have innumerable records of
it in the hearts and memories of each generation. But as there appears no document or parchment
of such criteria as to satisfy all inquiries, historical skepticism has ventured upon the absurd
length of calling in question the fact of the treaty. The Historical Society of Pennsylvania,
with commendable zeal, has bestowed much labor upon the questions connected with the treaty,
and the results which have been attained can scarcely fail to satisfy a candid inquirer. All
claim to a peculiar distinction for William Penn, on account of the singularity of his just
proceedings in this matter is candidly waived, because the Swedes, the Dutch, and the English
had previously dealt thus justly with the natives. It is in comparison with Pizarro and Cortés
that the colonists of all other nations in America appear to an advantage; but the fame of
William Penn stands, and ever will stand, preeminent for unexceptionable justice and peace
in his relations with the natives.

Penn had several meetings for conference and treaties with the Indians, besides those which
he held for the purchase of lands. But unbroken and reverently cherished tradition, beyond
all possibility of contradition, has designated one great treaty held under a large elm-tree,
at Shackamaxon (now Kensington)[2], a treaty which Voltaire justly characterizes as "never
sworn to, and never broken." In Penn's Letter to the Free Society of Traders, dated August
16, 1683, he refers to his conferences with the Indians. Two deeds, conveying land to him,
are on record, both of which bear an earlier date than this letter; namely, June 23d and July
14th of the same year. He had designed to make a purchase in May; but having been called off
to a conference with Lord Baltimore, he postponed the business till June.

The "Great Treaty" was doubtless unconnected with the purchase of land, and was simply a treaty
of amity and friendship, in confirmation of one previously held, by Penn's direction, by Markham,
on the same spot; that being a place which the Indians were wont to use for this purpose. It
is probable that the treaty was held on the last of November, 1682; that the Delawares, the
Mingos, and other Susquehanna tribes formed a large assembly on the occasion; that written
minutes of the conference were made, and were in possession of Governor Gordon, who states
nine conditions as belonging to them in 1728, but are now lost; and that the substance of the
treaty is given in Penn's Letter to the Free Traders. These results are satisfactory, and are
sufficient corroborated by known facts and documents. The Great Treaty, being distinct from
a land purchase, is significantly distinguished in history and tradition.

The inventions of romance and imagination could scarcely gather round this engaging incident
attractions surpassing in its own simple and impressive interest. Doubtless Clarkson has given
a fair representation of it, if we merely disconnect from his account the statement that the
Indians were armed, and all that confounds the treaty of friendship with the purchase of lands.
Penn wore a sky-blue sash of silk around his waist, as the most simple badge. The pledges there
given were to hold their sanctity "while the creeks and rivers run, and while the sun, moon,
and stars endure."

While the whites preserved in written records the memory of such covenants, the Indians had
their methods for perpetuating in safe channels their own relations. They cherished in grateful
regard, they repeated to their children and to the whites, the terms of the Great Treaty. The
Delawares called William Penn Miquon, in their own language, though they seem to have adopted
the name given him by the Iroquois, Onas; both which terms signify a quill or pen. Benjamin
West's picture of the treaty is too imaginative for a historical piece. He makes Penn of a
figure and aspect which would become twice the years that had passed over his head. The elm-tree
was spared in the war of the American Revolution, when there was distress for firewood, the
British officer, Simcoe, having placed a sentinel beneath it for protection. It was prostrated
by the wind on the night of Saturday, March 3, 1810. It was of gigantic size, and the circles
around its heart indicated an age of nearly three centuries. A piece of it was sent to the
Penn mansion at Stoke Poges, in England, where it is properly commemorated. A marble monument,
with suitable inscription was "placed by the Penn Society A.D. 1827 to mark the site of the
Great Elm Tree."

    [1] Mr. Ellis was a Unitarian clergyman, long pastor of a church
    at Charlestown, Mass.

    [2] Kensington is now a part of Philadelphia, being the northeastern
    section. It lies on the Delaware River, about two miles distant
    from the City Hall, and is a center of the ship-building industry.

THE CHARTER OAK AFFAIR IN CONNECTICUT

(1682)

BY ALEXANDER JOHNSTON[1]

In December, 1686, the Hartford authorities were called upon to measure their strength again
with their old antagonist. Andros had landed at Boston, commissioned as governor of all New
England, and bent on abrogating the charters. Following Dudley's lead, he wrote to Treat, suggesting
that by this time the trial of the writs had certainly gone against the colony; and that the
authorities would do much to commend the colony to his majesty's good pleasure by entering
a formal surrender of the charter. The colony authorities were possibly as well versed in the
law of the case as Andros, and they took good care to do nothing of the sort; and, as the event
showed, they thus saved the charter.

The assembly met as usual in October, 1687; but their records show that they were in profound
doubt and distress. Andros was with them, accompanied by some sixty regular soldiers, to enforce
his demand for the charter. It is certain that he did not get it, tho the records, as usual,
are cautious enough to give no reason why. Tradition is responsible for the story of the charter
oak. The assembly had met the royal governor in the meeting-house; the demand for the charter
had been made; and the assembly had exhausted the resources of language to show to Andros how
dear it was to them, and how impossible it was to give it up. Andros was immovable; he had
watched that charter with longing eyes from the banks of the Hudson, and he had no intention
of giving up his object now that the king had put him in power on the banks of the Connecticut.

Toward evening the case had become desperate. The little democracy was at last driven into
a corner, where its old policy seemed no longer available; it must resist openly, or make a
formal surrender of its charter. Just as the lights were lighted, the legal authorities yielded
so far as to order the precious document to be brought in and laid on the table before the
eyes of Andros. Then came a little more debate. Suddenly the lights were blown out; Captain
Wadsworth, of Hartford, carried off the charter, and hid it in a hollow oak-tree on the estate
of the Wyllyses, just across the "riveret;" and when the lights were relighted the colony was
no longer able to comply with Andros's demand for a surrender.

Altho the account of the affair is traditional, it is difficult to see any good grounds for
impeaching it on that account. It supplies, in the simplest and most natural manner, a blank
in the Hartford proceedings of Andros which would otherwise be quite unaccountable. His plain
purpose was to force Connecticut into a position where she must either surrender the charter
or resist openly. He failed: the charter never was in his possession; and the official records
assign no reason for his failure. The colony was too prudent, and Andros too proud to put the
true reason on record. Tradition supplies the gap with an exactness which proves itself.

Having done all that men could do, Treat and his associates bowed for the time to superior
force. Andros was allowed to read his commission, and Treat, Fitz-John and Wait Winthrop, and
John Allyn received appointments as members of his council for New England. John Allyn made
what the governor doubtless considered to be the closing record for all time.

The government was destined to last far longer than either the governor or his government.
But, while it lasted, Andros's government was bitterly hated, and with good reason. The reasons
are more peculiarly appropriate to the history of Massachusetts, where they were felt more
keenly than in Connecticut; but even in Connecticut, poor as was the field for plunder, and
distant as it was from the "ring" which surrounded Andros, the exactions of the new system
were wellnigh intolerable to a people whose annual expense of government had been carefully
kept down to the lowest limits, so that, says Bancroft, they "did not exceed four thousand
dollars; and the wages of the chief justice were ten shillings a day while on service."...

April, 1689, came at last. The people of Boston, at the first news of the English Revolution,
clapped Andros into custody. May 9, the old Connecticut authorities quietly resumed their functions,
and called the assembly together for the following month. William and Mary were proclaimed
with great favor. Not a word was said about the disappearance or reapeparance of the charter;
but the charter government was put into full effect again, as if Andros had never interrupted
it. An address was sent to the king, asking that the charter be no further interfered with;
but operations under it went on as before. No decided action was taken by the home government
for some years, except that its appointment of the New York governor, Fletcher, to the command
of the Connecticut militia, implied a decision that the Connecticut charter had been superseded.

Late in 1693 Fitz-John Winthrop was sent to England as agent to obtain a confirmation of the
charter. He secured an emphatic legal opinion from Attorney General Somers, backed by those
of Treby and Ward, that the charter was entirely valid, Treby's concurrent opinion taking this
shape: "I am of the same opinion, and, as this matter is stated, there is no ground of doubt."
The basis of the opinion was that the charter had been granted under the great seal; that it
had not been surrendered under the common seal of the colony, nor had any judgment of record
been entered against it; that its operation had merely been interfered with by overpowering
force; that the charter therefore remained valid; and that the peaceable submission of the
colony to Andros was merely an illegal suspension of lawful authority. In other words, the
passive attitude of the colonial government had disarmed Andros so far as to stop the legal
proceedings necessary to forfeit the charter; and then prompt action, at the critical moment,
secured all that could be secured under the circumstances. William was willing enough to retain
all possible fruits of James's tyranny, as he showed by enforcing the forfeiture of the Massachusetts
charter; but the law in this case was too plain, and he ratified the lawyers' opinion in April,
1694. The charter had escaped its enemies at last, and its escape is a monument of one of the
advantages of a real democracy.

THE COLONIZATION OF LOUISIANA

(1699)

BY CHARLES E.T. GAYARRE[1]

On February 27, 1699, Iberville and Bienville reached the Mississippi. When they approached
its mouth they were struck with the gloomy magnificence of the sight. As far as the eye could
reach, nothing was to be seen but reeds which rose five or six feet above the waters in which
they bathed their roots. They waved mournfully under the blast of the sharp wind of the north,
shivering in its icy grasp, as it tumbled, rolled, and gambolled on the pliant surface. Multitudes
of birds of strange appearance, with their elongated shapes so lean that they looked like metamorphosed
ghosts, clothed in plumage, screamed in the air, as if they were scared of one another. There
was something agonizing in their shrieks that was in harmony with the desolation of the place.
On every side of the vessel, monsters of the deep and huge alligators heaved themselves up
heavily from their native or favorite element, and, floating lazily on the turbid waters, seemed
to gaze at the intruders....

It was a relief for the adventurers when, after having toiled up the river for ten days, they
at last arrived at the village of the Bayagoulas. There they found a letter of Tonty to La
Salle, dated in 1685. The letter, or rather that "speaking bark" as the Indians called it,
had been preserved with great reverence. Tonty, having been informed that La Salle was coming
with a fleet from France to settle a colony on the banks of the Mississippi, had not hesitated
to set off from the northern lakes, with twenty Canadians and thirty Indians, and to come down
to the Balize to meet his friend, who had failed to make out the mouth of the Mississippi,
and had been landed by Beaujeu on the shores of Texas. After having waited for some time, and
ignorant of what had happened, Tonty, with the same indifference to fatigues and dangers of
an appalling nature, retraced his way back, leaving a letter to La Salle to inform him of his
disappointment. Is there not something extremely romantic in the characters of the men of that
epoch? Here is Tonty undertaking, with the most heroic unconcern, a journey of nearly three
thousand miles, through such difficulties as it is easy for us to imagine, and leaving a letter
to La Salle, as a proof of his visit, in the same way that one would, in these degenerate days
of effeminacy, leave a card at a neighbor's house.

The French extended their explorations up to the mouth of the Red River. On their return the
two brothers separated when they arrived at Bayou Manchac. Bienville was ordered to go down
the river to the French fleet, to give information of what they had seen and heard. Iberville
went through Bayou Manchac to those lakes which are known under the names of Pontchartrain
and Maurepas. Louisiana had been named from a king: was it not in keeping that those lakes
should be called after ministers?

From the Bay of St. Louis, Ibervile returned to his fleet, where, after consultation, he determined
to make a settlement at the Bay of Biloxi. On the east side, at the mouth of the bay, as it
were, there is a slight swelling of the shore, about four acres square, sloping gently to the
woods in the background, and on the bay. Thus this position was fortified by nature, and the
French skilfully availed themselves of these advantages. The weakest point, which was on the
side of the forest, they strengthened with more care than the rest, by connecting with a strong
intrenchment the two ravines, which ran to the bay in a parallel line to each other. The fort
was constructed with four bastions, and was armed with twelve pieces of artillery....

A few huts having been erected round the fort, the settlers began to clear the land, in order
to bring it into cultivation. Iberville having furnished them with all the necessary provisions,
utensils, and other supplies, prepared to sail for France.... As the country had been ordered
to be explored, Sauvolle availed himself of that circumstance to refresh the minds of his men
by the excitement of an expedition into the interior of the continent. He therefore hastened
to dispatch most of them with Bienville, who, with a chief of the Bayagoulas for his guide,
went to visit the Colapissas. They inhabited the northern shore of Lake Pontchartrain, and
their domains embraced the sites now occupied by Lewisburg, Mandeville, and Fontainebleau....

Ibervile had been gone for several months, and the year was drawing to a close without any
tidings of him. A deeper gloom had settled over the little colony at Biloxi, when, on December
7th, some signal-guns were heard at sea, and the grateful sound came booming over the waters,
spreading joy in every breast.... It was Iberville returning with the news that, on his representations,
Sauvolle had been appointed by the King governor of Louisiana; Bienville, lieutenant-governor;
and Boisbriant, commander of the fort at Biloxi, with the grade of major. Iberville, having
been informed by Bienville of the attempt of the English to make a settlement on the banks
of the Mississippi, and of the manner in which it had been foiled, resolved to take precautionary
measures against the repetition of any similar attempt. Without loss of time he departed with
Bienville, on January 16, 1700, and running up the river, he constructed a small fort, on the
first solid ground which he met, and which is said to have been at a distance of fifty-four
miles from its mouth.

When so engaged the two brothers one day saw a canoe rapidly sweeping down the river and approaching
the spot where they stood. It was occupied by eight men, six of whom were rowers, the seventh
was the steersman, and the eighth, from his appearance, was evidently of a superior order to
that of his companions, and the commander of the party. Well may it be imagined what greeting
the stranger received, when leaping on shore he made himself known as the Chevalier de Tonty,
who had again heard of the establishment of a colony in Louisiana, and who, for the second
time, had come to see if there was any truth in the report. With what emotion did Therville
and Bienville fold in their arms the faithful companion and friend of La Salle, of whom they
had heard so many wonderful tales from the Indians, to whom he was so well known under the
name of "Iron Hand!" With what admiration they looked at his person, and with what increasing
interest they listened to his long recitals of what he had done and had seen on that broad
continent, the threshold of which they had hardly passed!

After having rested three days at the fort, the indefatigable Tonty reascended the Mississippi,
with Ibervile and Bienvile, and finally parted with them at Natchez. Iberville was so much
pleased with that part of the bank of the river where now exists the city of Natchez that he
marked it down as a most eligible spot for a town, of which he drew the plan, and which he
called Rosalie, after the maiden name of the Countess Pontchartrain, the wife of the chancellor.
He then returned to the new fort he was erecting on the Mississippi, and Bienville went to
explore the country of the Yatasses, of the Natchitoehes, and of the Ouachitas. What romance
can be more agreeable to the imagination than to accompany Iberville and Bienville in their
wild explorations, and to compare the state of the country in their time with what it is in
our days?...

After these explorations Iberville departed again for France, to solicit additional assistance
from the government, and left Bienville in command of the new fort on the Mississippi. It was
very hard for the two brothers, Sauvolle and Bienville, to be thus separated, when they stood
so much in need of each other's countenance, to breast the difficulties that sprung up around
them with a luxuriance which they seemed to borrow from the vegetation of the country. The
distance between the Mississippi and Biloxi was not so easily overcome in those days as in
ours, and the means which the two brothers had of communing together were very scanty and uncertain.

Sauvolle died August 22, 1701, and Louisiana remained under the sole charge of Bienville, who,
tho very young, was fully equal to meet that emergency, by the maturity of his mind and by
his other qualifications. He had hardly consigned his brother to the tomb when Iberville returned
with two ships of the line and a brig laden with troops and provisions.

According to Iberville's orders, and in conformity with the King's instructions, Bienville
left Boisbriant, his cousin, with twenty men, at the old fort of Biloxi, and transported the
principal seat of the colony to the western side of the river Mobile, not far from the spot
where now stands the city of Mobile. Near the mouth of that river there is an island, which
the French had called Massacre Island from the great quantity of human bones which they found
bleaching on its shores. It was evident that there some awful tragedy had been acted; but Tradition,
when interrogated, laid her choppy fingers upon her skinny lips, and answered not....

The year 1703 slowly rolled by and gave way to 1704. Still, nothing was heard from the parent
country. There seemed to be an impassable barrier between the old and the new continent. The
milk which flowed from the motherly breast of France could no longer reach the parched lips
of her new-born infant; and famine began to pinch the colonists, who scattered themselves all
along the coast, to live by fishing. They were reduced to the veriest extremity of misery,
and despair had settled in every bosom, in spite of the encouragements of Bienville, who displayed
the most manly fortitude amid all the trials to which he was subjected....

Iberville had not been able to redeem his pledge to the poor colonists, but he sent his brother
Chateaugué in his place, at the imminent risk of being captured by the English, who occupied,
at that time, most of the avenues of the Gulf of Mexico. He was not the man to spare either
himself or his family in cases of emergency, and his heroic soul was inured to such sacrifices.
Grateful the colonists were for this act of devotedness, and they resumed the occupation of
their tenements which they had abandoned in search of food. The aspect of things was suddenly
changed; abundance and hope reappeared in the land, whose population was increased by the arrival
of seventeen persons, who came, under the guidance of Chateaugue, with the intention of making
a permanent settlement, and who had provided themselves with all the implements of husbandry.

This excitement had hardly subsided when it was revived by the appearance of another ship,
and it became intense when the inhabitants saw a procession of twenty females, with veiled
faces, proceeding arm in arm, and two by two, to the house of the Governor, who received them
in state and provided them with suitable lodgings. What did it mean? The next morning, which
was Sunday, the mystery was cleared by the officiating priest reading from the pulpit, after
mass, and for the general information, the following communication from the minister to Bienville:

"His majesty sends twenty girls to be married to the Canadians and to the other inhabitants
of Mobile, in order to consolidate the colony. All these girls are industrious and have received
a pious and virtuous education. You will take care to settle them in life as well as may be
in your power, and to marry them to such men as are capable of providing them with a commodious
home."...

Many were the gibes and high was the glee on that occasion; pointed were the jokes aimed at
young Bienville on his being thus transformed into a matrimonial agent and pater familiæ. The
intentions of the King, however, were faithfully executed, and more than one rough but honest
Canadian boatman of the St. Lawrence and of the Mississippi closed his adventurous and erratic
career and became a domestic and useful member of that little commonwealth, under the watchful
influence of the dark-eyed maid of the Loire or of the Seine.

    [1] From Gayarré's "History of Louisiana" (1847). La Salle's
    expedition to the mouth of the Mississippi, when he took
    possession of the country in the name of the King of France, had
    taken place in 1682. Louis XIV in 1689 sent out an expedition to
    colonize the lower Mississippi. It comprized about two hundred men
    and was commanded by Sieur d'Therville. Among his companions were
    two brothers, one of whom, Sieur de Bienville, was the real
    founder of New Orleans, and long served as Governor of Louisiana.
    Gayarré describes the arrival and experiences of these brothers.

    Gayarré lived in New Orleans. He began to practise law there in
    1880, and afterward served as reporter of the State Supreme Court.
    He died in 1895.

    [1] From Mr. Harris's "Georgia from the Invasion of De Soto to
    Recent Times." By permission of, and by arrangement with, the
    publishers, D. Appleton & Co. Copyright, 1899.

END OF VOL. II

