THE JUNGLE

by Upton Sinclair

(1906)

Chapter 1

It was four o'clock when the ceremony was over and the carriages began to arrive. There had
been a crowd following all the way, owing to the exuberance of Marija Berczynskas. The occasion
rested heavily upon Marija's broad shoulders--it was her task to see that all things went in
due form, and after the best home traditions; and, flying wildly hither and thither, bowling
every one out of the way, and scolding and exhorting all day with her tremendous voice, Marija
was too eager to see that others conformed to the proprieties to consider them herself. She
had left the church last of all, and, desiring to arrive first at the hall, had issued orders
to the coachman to drive faster. When that personage had developed a will of his own in the
matter, Marija had flung up the window of the carriage, and, leaning out, proceeded to tell
him her opinion of him, first in Lithuanian, which he did not understand, and then in Polish,
which he did. Having the advantage of her in altitude, the driver had stood his ground and
even ventured to attempt to speak; and the result had been a furious altercation, which, continuing
all the way down Ashland Avenue, had added a new swarm of urchins to the cortege at each side
street for half a mile.

This was unfortunate, for already there was a throng before the door. The music had started
up, and half a block away you could hear the dull "broom, broom" of a cello, with the squeaking
of two fiddles which vied with each other in intricate and altitudinous gymnastics. Seeing
the throng, Marija abandoned precipitately the debate concerning the ancestors of her coachman,
and, springing from the moving carriage, plunged in and proceeded to clear a way to the hall.
Once within, she turned and began to push the other way, roaring, meantime, "Eik! Eik! Uzdaryk-duris!"
in tones which made the orchestral uproar sound like fairy music.

"Z. Graiczunas, Pasilinksminimams darzas. Vynas. Sznapsas. Wines and Liquors. Union Headquarters"--that
was the way the signs ran. The reader, who perhaps has never held much converse in the language
of far-off Lithuania, will be glad of the explanation that the place was the rear room of a
saloon in that part of Chicago known as "back of the yards." This information is definite and
suited to the matter of fact; but how pitifully inadequate it would have seemed to one who
understood that it was also the supreme hour of ecstasy in the life of one of God's gentlest
creatures, the scene of the wedding feast and the joy-transfiguration of little Ona Lukoszaite!

She stood in the doorway, shepherded by Cousin Marija, breathless from pushing through the
crowd, and in her happiness painful to look upon. There was a light of wonder in her eyes and
her lids trembled, and her otherwise wan little face was flushed. She wore a muslin dress,
conspicuously white, and a stiff little veil coming to her shoulders. There were five pink
paper roses twisted in the veil, and eleven bright green rose leaves. There were new white
cotton gloves upon her hands, and as she stood staring about her she twisted them together
feverishly. It was almost too much for her--you could see the pain of too great emotion in
her face, and all the tremor of her form. She was so young--not quite sixteen--and small for
her age, a mere child; and she had just been married--and married to Jurgis,* (*Pronounced
Yoorghis) of all men, to Jurgis Rudkus, he with the white flower in the buttonhole of his new
black suit, he with the mighty shoulders and the giant hands.

Ona was blue-eyed and fair, while Jurgis had great black eyes with beetling brows, and thick
black hair that curled in waves about his ears--in short, they were one of those incongruous
and impossible married couples with which Mother Nature so often wills to confound all prophets,
before and after. Jurgis could take up a two-hundred-and-fifty-pound quarter of beef and carry
it into a car without a stagger, or even a thought; and now he stood in a far corner, frightened
as a hunted animal, and obliged to moisten his lips with his tongue each time before he could
answer the congratulations of his friends.

Gradually there was effected a separation between the spectators and the guests--a separation
at least sufficiently complete for working purposes. There was no time during the festivities
which ensued when there were not groups of onlookers in the doorways and the corners; and if
any one of these onlookers came sufficiently close, or looked sufficiently hungry, a chair
was offered him, and he was invited to the feast. It was one of the laws of the veselija that
no one goes hungry; and, while a rule made in the forests of Lithuania is hard to apply in
the stockyards district of Chicago, with its quarter of a million inhabitants, still they did
their best, and the children who ran in from the street, and even the dogs, went out again
happier. A charming informality was one of the characteristics of this celebration. The men
wore their hats, or, if they wished, they took them off, and their coats with them; they ate
when and where they pleased, and moved as often as they pleased. There were to be speeches
and singing, but no one had to listen who did not care to; if he wished, meantime, to speak
or sing himself, he was perfectly free. The resulting medley of sound distracted no one, save
possibly alone the babies, of which there were present a number equal to the total possessed
by all the guests invited. There was no other place for the babies to be, and so part of the
preparations for the evening consisted of a collection of cribs and carriages in one corner.
In these the babies slept, three or four together, or wakened together, as the case might be.
Those who were still older, and could reach the tables, marched about munching contentedly
at meat bones and bologna sausages.

The room is about thirty feet square, with whitewashed walls, bare save for a calendar, a picture
of a race horse, and a family tree in a gilded frame. To the right there is a door from the
saloon, with a few loafers in the doorway, and in the corner beyond it a bar, with a presiding
genius clad in soiled white, with waxed black mustaches and a carefully oiled curl plastered
against one side of his forehead. In the opposite corner are two tables, filling a third of
the room and laden with dishes and cold viands, which a few of the hungrier guests are already
munching. At the head, where sits the bride, is a snow-white cake, with an Eiffel tower of
constructed decoration, with sugar roses and two angels upon it, and a generous sprinkling
of pink and green and yellow candies. Beyond opens a door into the kitchen, where there is
a glimpse to be had of a range with much steam ascending from it, and many women, old and young,
rushing hither and thither. In the corner to the left are the three musicians, upon a little
platform, toiling heroically to make some impression upon the hubbub; also the babies, similarly
occupied, and an open window whence the populace imbibes the sights and sounds and odors.

Suddenly some of the steam begins to advance, and, peering through it, you discern Aunt Elizabeth,
Ona's stepmother--Teta Elzbieta, as they call her--bearing aloft a great platter of stewed
duck. Behind her is Kotrina, making her way cautiously, staggering beneath a similar burden;
and half a minute later there appears old Grandmother Majauszkiene, with a big yellow bowl
of smoking potatoes, nearly as big as herself. So, bit by bit, the feast takes form--there
is a ham and a dish of sauerkraut, boiled rice, macaroni, bologna sausages, great piles of
penny buns, bowls of milk, and foaming pitchers of beer. There is also, not six feet from your
back, the bar, where you may order all you please and do not have to pay for it. "Eiksz! Graicziau!"
screams Marija Berczynskas, and falls to work herself--for there is more upon the stove inside
that will be spoiled if it be not eaten.

So, with laughter and shouts and endless badinage and merriment, the guests take their places.
The young men, who for the most part have been huddled near the door, summon their resolution
and advance; and the shrinking Jurgis is poked and scolded by the old folks until he consents
to seat himself at the right hand of the bride. The two bridesmaids, whose insignia of office
are paper wreaths, come next, and after them the rest of the guests, old and young, boys and
girls. The spirit of the occasion takes hold of the stately bartender, who condescends to a
plate of stewed duck; even the fat policeman--whose duty it will be, later in the evening,
to break up the fights--draws up a chair to the foot of the table. And the children shout and
the babies yell, and every one laughs and sings and chatters--while above all the deafening
clamor Cousin Marija shouts orders to the musicians.

The musicians--how shall one begin to describe them? All this time they have been there, playing
in a mad frenzy--all of this scene must be read, or said, or sung, to music. It is the music
which makes it what it is; it is the music which changes the place from the rear room of a
saloon in back of the yards to a fairy place, a wonderland, a little corner of the high mansions
of the sky.

The little person who leads this trio is an inspired man. His fiddle is out of tune, and there
is no rosin on his bow, but still he is an inspired man--the hands of the muses have been laid
upon him. He plays like one possessed by a demon, by a whole horde of demons. You can feel
them in the air round about him, capering frenetically; with their invisible feet they set
the pace, and the hair of the leader of the orchestra rises on end, and his eyeballs start
from their sockets, as he toils to keep up with them.

Tamoszius Kuszleika is his name, and he has taught himself to play the violin by practicing
all night, after working all day on the "killing beds." He is in his shirt sleeves, with a
vest figured with faded gold horseshoes, and a pink-striped shirt, suggestive of peppermint
candy. A pair of military trousers, light blue with a yellow stripe, serve to give that suggestion
of authority proper to the leader of a band. He is only about five feet high, but even so these
trousers are about eight inches short of the ground. You wonder where he can have gotten them
or rather you would wonder, if the excitement of being in his presence left you time to think
of such things.

For he is an inspired man. Every inch of him is inspired--you might almost say inspired separately.
He stamps with his feet, he tosses his head, he sways and swings to and fro; he has a wizened-up
little face, irresistibly comical; and, when he executes a turn or a flourish, his brows knit
and his lips work and his eyelids wink--the very ends of his necktie bristle out. And every
now and then he turns upon his companions, nodding, signaling, beckoning frantically--with
every inch of him appealing, imploring, in behalf of the muses and their call.

For they are hardly worthy of Tamoszius, the other two members of the orchestra. The second
violin is a Slovak, a tall, gaunt man with black-rimmed spectacles and the mute and patient
look of an overdriven mule; he responds to the whip but feebly, and then always falls back
into his old rut. The third man is very fat, with a round, red, sentimental nose, and he plays
with his eyes turned up to the sky and a look of infinite yearning. He is playing a bass part
upon his cello, and so the excitement is nothing to him; no matter what happens in the treble,
it is his task to saw out one long-drawn and lugubrious note after another, from four o'clock
in the afternoon until nearly the same hour next morning, for his third of the total income
of one dollar per hour.

Before the feast has been five minutes under way, Tamoszius Kuszleika has risen in his excitement;
a minute or two more and you see that he is beginning to edge over toward the tables. His nostrils
are dilated and his breath comes fast--his demons are driving him. He nods and shakes his head
at his companions, jerking at them with his violin, until at last the long form of the second
violinist also rises up. In the end all three of them begin advancing, step by step, upon the
banqueters, Valentinavyczia, he cellist, bumping along with his instrument between notes. Finally
all three are gathered at the foot of the tables, and there Tamoszius mounts upon a stool.

Now he is in his glory, dominating the scene. Some of the people are eating, some are laughing
and talking--but you will make a great mistake if you think there is one of them who does not
hear him. His notes are never true, and his fiddle buzzes on the low ones and squeaks and scratches
on the high; but these things they heed no more than they heed the dirt and noise and squalor
about them--it is out of this material that they have to build their lives, with it that they
have to utter their souls. And this is their utterance; merry and boisterous, or mournful and
wailing, or passionate and rebellious, this music is their music, music of home. It stretches
out its arms to them, they have only to give themselves up. Chicago and its saloons and its
slums fade away--there are green meadows and sunlit rivers, mighty forests and snowclad hills.
They behold home landscapes and childhood scenes returning; old loves and friendships begin
to waken, old joys and griefs to laugh and weep. Some fall back and close their eyes, some
beat upon the table. Now and then one leaps up with a cry and calls for this song or that;
and then the fire leaps brighter in Tamoszius' eyes, and he flings up his fiddle and shouts
to his companions, and away they go in mad career. The company takes up the choruses, and men
and women cry out like all possessed; some leap to their feet and stamp upon the floor, lifting
their glasses and pledging each other. Before long it occurs to some one to demand an old wedding
song, which celebrates the beauty of the bride and the joys of love. In the excitement of this
masterpiece Tamoszius Kuszleika begins to edge in between the tables, making his way toward
the head, where sits the bride. There is not a foot of space between the chairs of the guests,
and Tamoszius is so short that he pokes them with his bow whenever he reaches over for the
low notes; but still he presses in, and insists relentlessly that his companions must follow.
During their progress, needless to say, the sounds of the cello are pretty well extinguished;
but at last the three are at the head, and Tamoszius takes his station at the right hand of
the bride and begins to pour out his soul in melting strains.

Little Ona is too excited to eat. Once in a while she tastes a little something, when Cousin
Marija pinches her elbow and reminds her; but, for the most part, she sits gazing with the
same fearful eyes of wonder. Teta Elzbieta is all in a flutter, like a hummingbird; her sisters,
too, keep running up behind her, whispering, breathless. But Ona seems scarcely to hear them--the
music keeps calling, and the far-off look comes back, and she sits with her hands pressed together
over her heart. Then the tears begin to come into her eyes; and as she is ashamed to wipe them
away, and ashamed to let them run down her cheeks, she turns and shakes her head a little,
and then flushes red when she sees that Jurgis is watching her. When in the end Tamoszius Kuszleika
has reached her side, and is waving his magic wand above her, Ona's cheeks are scarlet, and
she looks as if she would have to get up and run away.

In this crisis, however, she is saved by Marija Berczynskas, whom the muses suddenly visit.
Marija is fond of a song, a song of lovers' parting; she wishes to hear it, and, as the musicians
do not know it, she has risen, and is proceeding to teach them. Marija is short, but powerful
in build. She works in a canning factory, and all day long she handles cans of beef that weigh
fourteen pounds. She has a broad Slavic face, with prominent red cheeks. When she opens her
mouth, it is tragical, but you cannot help thinking of a horse. She wears a blue flannel shirt-waist,
which is now rolled up at the sleeves, disclosing her brawny arms; she has a carving fork in
her hand, with which she pounds on the table to mark the time. As she roars her song, in a
voice of which it is enough to say that it leaves no portion of the room vacant, the three
musicians follow her, laboriously and note by note, but averaging one note behind; thus they
toil through stanza after stanza of a lovesick swain's lamentation:--

     "Sudiev' kvietkeli, tu brangiausis;
     Sudiev' ir laime, man biednam,
     Matau--paskyre teip Aukszcziausis,
     Jog vargt ant svieto reik vienam!"

When the song is over, it is time for the speech, and old Dede Antanas rises to his feet. Grandfather
Anthony, Jurgis' father, is not more than sixty years of age, but you would think that he was
eighty. He has been only six months in America, and the change has not done him good. In his
manhood he worked in a cotton mill, but then a coughing fell upon him, and he had to leave;
out in the country the trouble disappeared, but he has been working in the pickle rooms at
Durham's, and the breathing of the cold, damp air all day has brought it back. Now as he rises
he is seized with a coughing fit, and holds himself by his chair and turns away his wan and
battered face until it passes.

Generally it is the custom for the speech at a veselija to be taken out of one of the books
and learned by heart; but in his youthful days Dede Antanas used to be a scholar, and really
make up all the love letters of his friends. Now it is understood that he has composed an original
speech of congratulation and benediction, and this is one of the events of the day. Even the
boys, who are romping about the room, draw near and listen, and some of the women sob and wipe
their aprons in their eyes. It is very solemn, for Antanas Rudkus has become possessed of the
idea that he has not much longer to stay with his children. His speech leaves them all so tearful
that one of the guests, Jokubas Szedvilas, who keeps a delicatessen store on Halsted Street,
and is fat and hearty, is moved to rise and say that things may not be as bad as that, and
then to go on and make a little speech of his own, in which he showers congratulations and
prophecies of happiness upon the bride and groom, proceeding to particulars which greatly delight
the young men, but which cause Ona to blush more furiously than ever. Jokubas possesses what
his wife complacently describes as "poetiszka vaidintuve"--a poetical imagination.

Now a good many of the guests have finished, and, since there is no pretense of ceremony, the
banquet begins to break up. Some of the men gather about the bar; some wander about, laughing
and singing; here and there will be a little group, chanting merrily, and in sublime indifference
to the others and to the orchestra as well. Everybody is more or less restless--one would guess
that something is on their minds. And so it proves. The last tardy diners are scarcely given
time to finish, before the tables and the debris are shoved into the corner, and the chairs
and the babies piled out of the way, and the real celebration of the evening begins. Then Tamoszius
Kuszleika, after replenishing himself with a pot of beer, returns to his platform, and, standing
up, reviews the scene; he taps authoritatively upon the side of his violin, then tucks it carefully
under his chin, then waves his bow in an elaborate flourish, and finally smites the sounding
strings and closes his eyes, and floats away in spirit upon the wings of a dreamy waltz. His
companion follows, but with his eyes open, watching where he treads, so to speak; and finally
Valentinavyczia, after waiting for a little and beating with his foot to get the time, casts
up his eyes to the ceiling and begins to saw--"Broom! broom! broom!"

The company pairs off quickly, and the whole room is soon in motion. Apparently nobody knows
how to waltz, but that is nothing of any consequence--there is music, and they dance, each
as he pleases, just as before they sang. Most of them prefer the "two-step," especially the
young, with whom it is the fashion. The older people have dances from home, strange and complicated
steps which they execute with grave solemnity. Some do not dance anything at all, but simply
hold each other's hands and allow the undisciplined joy of motion to express itself with their
feet. Among these are Jokubas Szedvilas and his wife, Lucija, who together keep the delicatessen
store, and consume nearly as much as they sell; they are too fat to dance, but they stand in
the middle of the floor, holding each other fast in their arms, rocking slowly from side to
side and grinning seraphically, a picture of toothless and perspiring ecstasy.

