Portraits of Bishops.--Can any of your correspondents inform me of portraits of John Williams,
archbishop of York (previously bishop of Lincoln); John Owen, bishop of St. Asaph; George Griffith,
bishop of St. Asaph; Lewis Bayley, bishop of Bangor; Humphrey Henchman, bishop of London (previously
bishop of Salisbury); Lord Chief Justice Glynne; and Sir Thomas Milward, chief justice of Chester.

Cassan, in his Bishops of Salisbury, mentions one of Henchman; but I mean exclusively of this.

Y.Y.

The Butcher Duke.--Can any of your readers furnish me with the rest of a Scotch song of which
I have heard these two couplets?

  "The Deil sat girning in a nook,
  Breaking sticks to burn the duke.
  A' the Whigs sal gae to hell!
  Geordie sal gae there hissel."

And who was the writer?

MEZZOTINTO.

Rodolph Gualter.-I think I have somewhere seen it stated that Rodolph Gualter (minister at
Zurich, and well known as a correspondent of our divines in the age of the Reformation) was
a Scotchman. Will any of your correspondents oblige me by supplying either a reference for
this statement, or a disproof of it--or both?

J.C.R.

Passage in St. Mark.--What Fathers of the early Christian Church have annotated that remarkable
text, Mark xiii. 32., "[Greek: oude ho hyios]," "Neither the Son?"

As this subject has certainly engaged the attention of many of your readers, it will be a great
favour conferred on the present writer, if their replies should indicate the authors' names,
the date and place of the edition, the page, and such other distinctive marks as shall lead
to a prompt investigation of the subject: among them, whether the authors quoted are in the
library of the British Museum.

CALMET.

"Fronte Capillatâ," &c.--On the Grammar School at Guilsbro, in Northamptonshire, is inscribed
the following hexameter:--

  "Fronte capillatâ post est Occasio calva."

I suppose it alludes to some allegorical representation of Occasio; and is intended to convey
the same meaning as our English proverb, "Seize time by the forelocks." From what author is
this inscription taken?

E.H.A.

       *       *       *       *       *

REPLIES.

"GOD SPEED THE PLOUGH."

(Vol. i., p. 230.)

L.S. asks, in what rebellion was the banner carried with the motto "God speed the plough?"--(Homily
against Wilful Rebellion.)

Probably in the rebellion of the Earls of Northumberland and Westmoreland in the north of England,
during the autumn of A.D. 1569. In the passage of the homily which immediately follows the
one quoted by L.S., occur these words:--

    "And though some rebels bear the picture of the five wounds painted,
    against those who put their only hope of salvation in the wounds of
    Christ ... and though they do bear the image of the cross painted in a
    rag ... yet let no good and godly subject ... follow such
    standard-bearers of rebellion."

Again: just before the quotation cited by L.S. {9} is an allusion to the "defacing or deformation"
which the rebels have made, "where through they tarry but a little while they make such reformation,
that they destroy all places, and undo all men where they come."

Collier, in his Eccles. History, vol. vi. p. 469. edit. Straker, 1840, part ii. b. vi., says,--

    "However, the insurrection went on, and the rebels made their first
    march to Durham. And here going into the churches they tore the
    English Bible and the Common Prayer. They officiated in the service
    of the mass, had the five wounds of Christ represented in some of
    their colours, and a chalice in others. One Richard Norton, an ancient
    gentleman, carried the standard with a cross in it."

In this passage we have three out of four facts enumerated: 1st. The defacing of places; 2d.
The banner with the five wounds; 3d. The standard with the cross. It does not, therefore, seem
unreasonable to infer, that the other fact alluded to, viz. the banner with the motto, is to
be referred to the same rebellion.

It is not, however, impossible that the rebellion, which broke out A.D. 1549, first in the
western counties, and then in Oxfordshire, Bucks, Norfolk, Suffolk, and Yorkshire, may be also
alluded to in the homily. For Cranmer, in his answer to the Devonshire and Cornish rebels,
urges this amongst other reasons:--

    "Fourthly, for that they let the harvest, which is the chief
    sustentation of our life; and God of his goodness hath sent it
    abundantly. And they by their folly do cause it to be lost and
    abandoned."--Strype's Mem. of C., ed. Oxf. 1840, vol. ii. p. 841.

An argument similar to the one used in the homily.

The insurrection, in fact, in the midland and north-eastern counties, began with an attempt
to redress an agricultural grievance; according to Fox (E.H. vol. ii. p. 665. edit. 1641);
"about plucking down of enclosures and enlarging of commons." The date of the homily itself
offers no objection; for though it is said (Oxf. ed. Pref. p. v.) not to occur in any collected
edition printed before 1571, yet there exists a separate edition of it printed in 4to. by Jugge
and Cawood, probably earlier than A.D. 1563. Collier does not quote his authority for the statement
about the banners, but probably it was either Camden or Holinshed, and a reference to these
authors, which I regret I have no means of making, might established the particular point in
question.

E.A.D.

       *       *       *       *       *

"DEFENDER OF THE FAITH."

(Vol. ii., pp. 442. 481.)

I regret that my Note, inserted in your paper of Nov. 30th, was so ambiguously written as to
elicit such a reply as it has been favoured with by MR. GIBSON of Newcastle-upon-Tyne.

What I meant to say in my last Note was simply this--that two persons, viz. Messrs. Christopher
Wren and Chamberlayne, have asserted that the title "Defender of the Faith" had been used by
our monarchs anterior to 1521; and in support of their assertions, cite the Black Book of the
order of the garter, and several charters granted to the University of Oxford: that is, each
gives a distinct proof of his allegation.

Had MR. GIBSON understood my Note, as I trust he now will, he will see at once that the expression
"untrue" is totally inapplicable to their statements, at least upon any showing upon his part;
for he does not appear to me to have consulted either the Black Book or the charters, on which
alone their assertions are based, to which alone we must in common honesty refer, and by which
alone their veracity must be judged.

That their "startling" statements do not appear in Selden, nor in Luder's brief paper in the
19th vol. of the Archæologia, is conceded; but I think it might have occurred to the mind of
one of less acumen than MR. GIBSON, that it was precisely because the allegations do not appear
in these or any other writers or authorities that I considered them not unworthy of the attention
of the readers of the "NOTES AND QUERIES". I am at a loss to reconcile MR. GIBSON'S expression
"startling," as applied to the assertions of Messrs. Wren and Chamberlayne (and I need not
add, that had they not been startling to myself as to him, they would never have found their
way to your paper), with the following paragraph:

    "In this sense, the sovereign and every knight became a sworn defender
    of the faith. Can this duty have come to be popularly attributed as
    part of the royal style and title?"

I do not allude to this statement in a critical point of view, but simply, as, from the general
tenor of his communication, MR. GIBSON appears to labour under an impression, that, from ignorance
of historical authorities, I have merely given utterance to a popular fallacy, unheard of by
him and other learned men; and, like the "curfew," to be found in no contemporaneous writer.
I beg, however, to assure him, that before forwarding the note and question to your paper,
I had examined not only the Bulls, and our best historians, but also the works of such writers
as Prynne, Lord Herbert, Spelman, Camdem, and others, who have in any way treated of regal
titles and prerogatives.

I have only to add, that beyond the investigation of the truth of the assertions of Messrs.
Wren and Chamberlayne, I am not in any way interested. I care not for the result. I only seek
for the elucidation of that which is at once "startling" and a "popular fallacy".

ROBERT ANSTRUTHER.

Bayswater.

       *       *       *       *       *

{10}

BEATRIX LADY TALBOT.

In reference to the Query of SCOTUS (Vol. ii., p 478.) respecting Beatrix Lady Talbot (so long
confounded by genealogists with her more illustrious contemporary, Beatrix Countess of Arundel),
perhaps I may be permitted to state, that the merit, whatever it may be, of having been the
first to discover this error, belongs to myself; and that the whole of the facts and authorities
to prove the non-identity of the two ladies were supplied by me to the late Sir H. Nicolas,
to enable him to compile the article on the subject in the Collectanea Topographica, vol. i.;
the notes to which also were almost entirely written by myself. From the note of SCOTUS, one
would suppose that he had made the discovery that Lady Talbot belonged to the Portuguese family
of Pinto; whereas he merely transcribes my words in p. 405. of the Addenda to vol. i. of the
Collectanea.

I had originally supposed that this lady was a member of the house of Sousa, which bore a coat
of four crescents, quartered with the arms of Portugal (without the border); and in that belief
a paragraph was written by Sir H. Nicolas, accompanied by a pedigree, to show the connexion
of Beatrix Lady Talbot, through her great-great-grandfather, with the royal line of Portugal,
and, consequently, with Beatrix Countess of Arundel; but these were subsequently struck out.
By an oversight, however, the note referring to some works on the genealogy of the house of
Sousa has been allowed to remain at p. 87. of the Collectanea; and as it stands at present,
it has no corresponding passage in the text. For the information that Lady Talbot bore the
arms of Pinto, I was really indebted to a Portuguese gentleman, the Chevalier M.T. de Moraes
Sarmento, who published (anonymously) a small volume entitled Russell de Albuquerque, Conto
Moral, por um Portuguez, 12mo. Cintra, 1833, at p. 331-2. of which work is a brief notice of
the two Beatrixes, from memoranda furnished by myself. At the time I collected the information
given to Sir H. Nicolas, I wrote to the Earl of Shrewsbury, to inquire whether among the family
papers any evidence could be found, to clear up the history of his ancestress; but his lordship
informed me he had no means of elucidating the difficulty, and that in the earliest pedigree
in his possession (drawn up in the reign of Elizabeth), Beatrix Lady Talbot was not only described
as daughter of the King of Portugal, but had the royal arms of Portugal assigned to her,--a
proof, by the way, that even in pedigrees compiled and attested by heralds, there are statements
which are not borne out by historic documents. I am still, therefore, like SCOTUS, anxious
to know more about this lady, and hope some of your correspondents versed in Portuguese genealogies
may supply the required information.

F. MADDEN.

       *       *       *       *       *

REPLIES TO MINOR QUERIES.

Passage in Hamlet (Vol. ii., p.494.).--The word modern, instead of moderate, in my editions
of Shakspeare, is a printer's error, which shall be corrected in the edition I am now publishing.
To a person unfamiliar with printing, it might appear impossible that any compositor, with
this copy before him,--

  "While one with moderate haste might tell a hundred,"

should substitute--

  "While one with modern haste might tell a hundred."

And yet such substitution of one word for another is a constant anxiety to every editor. Some
may consider that a competent editor would detect such a gross blunder. Unfortunately, the
more familiar the mind is with the correct reading, the more likely is such an error to escape
the eye. Your correspondent who did me the favour to point out this blunder will, I trust,
receive this explanation, as also your other readers, in a candid spirit. The error has run
through three editions, from the circumstance that the first edition furnished the copy for
the subsequent ones. The passage in question was not a doubtful text, and therefore required
no special editorial attention. The typographical blunder is, however, an illustration of the
difficulties which beset the editors of our old dramatists especially. Had the word modern
occurred in an early edition of Shakspeare, it would have perplexed very commentator; but few
would have ventured to substitute the correct word, moderate. The difficulty lies in finding
the just mean between timidity and rashness. With regard to typographical errors, the obvious
ones naturally supply their own correction; but in the instance before us, as in many others,
it is not easy to detect the substitution, and the blunder is perpetuated. If a compositor
puts one for won--a very common blunder--the context will show that the ear has misled the
eye; but if he change an epithet in a well-known passage, the first syllable of the right and
the wrong words being the same, and the violation of the propriety not very startling, the
best diligence may pass over the mistake. It must not be forgotten that many gross errors in
typography occur after the sheet is gone to press, through the accidents that are constantly
happening to the movable types.

CHARLES KNIGHT.

Passage in Tennyson (Vol. ii., p. 479.)--The following extract from Sir James Mackintosh's
History of England vol. ii. p. 185., will explain this passage:

    "The love of Margaret Roper continued to display itself in those
    outwardly unavailing tokens of tenderness to his (her father, Sir
    Thomas More's) remains, by which affection seeks to perpetuate itself;
    ineffectually, indeed, for the object, but very effectually for {11}
    softening the heart and exalting the soul. She procured his head be
    taken down from London Bridge, where more odious passions had struggled
    in pursuit of a species of infernal immortality by placing it. She kept
    it during her life as a sacred relic, and was buried with that object
    of fondness in her arms, nine years after she was separated from her
    father."

X.Z.

Was Quarles pensioned? (Vol. i., p. 201.).--I believe that no reply has been made to this Query.
The following passage, transcribed from the Epistle Dedicatory to the surreptitious edition
of Quarles's Judgment and Mercy, affords a slight negative proof to the contrary;--

    "And being so usefull, dare not doubt your patronage of this child,
    which survives a father, whose utmost abilities were (till death
    darkned that great light in his soule) sacrificed to your service."

Now if Charles had conferred a pension on Quarles, is it not exceedingly probable that the
publisher and dedicator, Richard Royston, would have recalled so honourable a circumstance
to the memory of his "Most gratious soveraigne King Charles" in this Epistle Dedicatory, when
he had so excellent an opportunity of doing so?

J.M.B.

Old Hewson the Cobbler (Vol. ii., p. 442.).--I remember that there was a low song sung at some
wine parties in Oxford about fifteen years ago, which began with the words, "My name is old
Hewson," &c. I do not remember the words, but they were gross: the chief fun seemed to consist
in the chorus,--a sort of burring noise being made with the lips, while the doubled fists were
rubbed and thumped upon the thigh, as if the cobbler's lapstone had been there.

Was Hewson, the Parliamentarian colonel, a cobbler?

C.P.

The Inquisition (Vol. ii., p. 358.).--The following reply to IOTA'S Queries is extracted from
Walchii Bibliotheca Theologica, tom. iii. p. 739.:

    "Auctor libri: Histoire de l'Inquisition et son origine. Coloniæ
    MDCXCIII. 12. qui Jacob Marsollierius est."[1]

Of the history of the Bohemians I can ascertain only that J. Amos Comenius was the author of
the original. (See Walch, tom. iii. p. 265.)

[Footnote 1: Journal des Savans, MDCXCIV, p. 331.; Niceronii Memoir., tom. vii. p. 64.]

T.J.

Mrs. Tempest (Vol. ii., p. 407.).--In reply to your correspondent requesting information respecting
this lady, I have much pleasure in sending you the following particulars, which I leave obtained
through the kindness of Colonel Tempest of Tong Hall, the present representative of the ancient
family of Tempest of Tong. Henry Tempest, the oldest son of Sir John Tempest, Bart., of Tong
Hall, by Henrietta his wife, daughter and heir of Sir Henry Cholmley of Newton Grange, married
Alathea, daughter of Sir Henry Thompson of Marston, county of York, and had two daughters,
Alathea and Henrietta; one of these ladies was celebrated as Pope's Daphne. Henry Tempest died
very young, before his father Sir John; the next brother, George, succeeded to the title and
Tong estates. Daphne was on the point of being, married very highly, tradition says to the
Duke of Wharton, but died of the small-pox before the celebration.

In the library at Tong Hall there is a painting, by Sir Godfrey Kneller, of Pope's Daphne.

OLIVER THOMLINSON WYNDOWE.

Cardinal Allen's Declaration (Vol ii., p. 497.).--I am happy to inform H.P. that the Declaration
of the Sentence and Deposition of Elizabeth, the Usurper and pretended Queen of England, alluded
to in his note, is in the Bodleian Library; where, a few days since, I saw Dr. Cumming poring
over it; and where, I have no doubt, he, or any friend, can easily obtain a sight of it by
applying to any of the librarians.

D.

Scandal against Queen Elizabeth (Vol. ii., p. 393.).--Although many of your correspondents
must be well able to reply to P.T.'s Query, I have seen no notice of it as yet. The note to
Burton's Diary, in citing Osborn, ought to have begun with the word which precedes the words
quoted. The note would then have run thus:--

    "That Queen Elizabeth had a son, &c., I neglect to insert, as fitter
    for a romance than to mingle with so much truth and integrity as I
    profess."

In the Add. MSS. 5524. is an apparently modern note, stated to be in the handwriting of Mr.
Ives, to the following effect:--

    "I have heard it confidently asserted, that Queen Elizabeth was with
    child by the Earl of Essex, and that she was delivered of a child at
    Kenilworth Castle, which died soon after its birth, was interred at
    Kenilworth, and had a stone put over it, inscribed 'Silentium.'"

This is doubtless one of the many tales, which, as Osborn says, "may be found in the black
relations of the Jesuits, and some French and Spanish Pasquilers." These slanderers were chiefly,
I believe, Parsons or Persons, and Sanders, who scrupled at nothing that would tend to blacken
the character and reputation of Elizabeth. Thus besides the above, and other stories of Elizabeth
{12} herself, it was stated by Sanders that her mother, Anne Boleyn, was Henry VIII.'s own
daughter; and that he intrigued, not only with Anne's mother, but with her sister. P.T. will
find these points, and others which are hardly suited for public discussion, noticed in the
article on ELIZABETH in Bayle's Dictionary.

CUDYN GWYN.

Church of St. Saviour, Canterbury (Vol. ii., p. 478.).--I would submit to Sir Henry Ellis,
that the church at Canterbury which is mentioned in the charter from which he quotes, is termed
Mater et Domina, not on account of its greater antiquity, but by reason of its superior dignity;
and that the church referred to is clearly the cathedral church. The charter is one of confirmation
of privileges: it proceeded upon the "admonition of the most pious Archbishop Liuingus," and
"upon consideration of the liberties of the monasteries situated within Kent." It granted that
the church of the Saviour (ecclesia Salvatoris), situated in Canterbury, the mother and lady
of all the churches in the kingdom of England, should be free, and that no one should have
any right therein save the archbishop and the monks there serving God. The whole tenor of the
charter, and more particularly the words last referred to, "archiepiscopum et monachos ibidem
deo famulantes," seem to me to indicate the cathedral church, and no other. If it be inquired,
How then came it to pass that the cathedral, which is dedicated to Christ, should be described
as ecclesia Salvatoris? some persons may answer, that this apparent blunder is an indication
that the charter is not genuine. But that is not my opinion. The charter is printed from the
register of the cathedral, and if it had been forged by the monks, they would scarcely have
made a mistake upon such a point as the dedication of their own church. Coming out of such
custody, the unusual designation, as we now esteem it, seems clear proof that the charter is
genuine. I would suggest, either that the cathedral, or a part of it, was really dedicated
to the Saviour; or that the words are to be understood not as indicating the church of St.
Saviour, but the church of the Saviour, that is, Christ.

JOHN BRUCE.

Pope Ganganelli (Vol. ii., p. 464.).--In reply to the inquiry of CEPHAS, I give you the following
anecdote, in the words of the Rev. Dr. Kirk, of Lichfield, who still survives (and long may
he yet survive!) to bear testimony to its correctness:--

    "Charles Plowden travelled with Mr. Middleton; and when at Rome, he
    called with Mr. Thorpe to see me at the English college. We walked
    together for some time in St. George's Hall, and he quite scandalised
    me with the manner in which he spoke of Ganganelli. There is no doubt
    that Mr. Plowden had a principal hand in the Life of Ganganelli,
    which was published in London in 1785. Father Thorpe supplied the
    materials (J.T. is subscribed to the letters printed), and Mr. Plowden
    arranged them. I brought a packet of letters from Mr. Thorpe to Mr. C.
    Plowden, and one or two other packets were brought from him to Mr.
    Plowden by other students. 'The contents were so scandalous,' said
    Bishop Milner in my hearing, at Oscott, 'that Mr. Weld, with whom Mr.
    C. Plowden lived, insisted on the work being suppressed.' The copies
    were all bought up, and I have never seen or heard of a copy since I
    saw it in Coghlan's shop in 1785. Mr. Cordell, of Newcastle, wrote some
    observations upon it. Mr. Conolly, S.J., told me at Oxford, October 17,
    1814, that he 'once saw in a corner of Mr. C. Plowden's room, a heap of
    papers, some torn, and put there apparently to be burnt. I took up one
    of them,' he said, 'which was torn in two.' It contained anecdotes and
    observations against Ganganelli."

It was doubtless from this collection that Mr. Keon was supplied with those papers, which he
published in Dolman's Magazine in 1846, concerning "The Preservation of the Society of Jesus
in the Empire of Russia."

M.A. TIERNEY.

Arundel.

Pope Ganganelli (Vol. ii., p. 464.).--The Rev. Charles Cordell, a priest of the Roman Catholic
Church, who was stationed at Newcastle-upon-Tyne about the date mentioned by your correspondent
CEPHAS (he was there in 1787), was the translator of the letters of Pope Clement XIV. (Ganganelli);
but as I have not the book, I do not know whether it contained also a life of that pontiff.
Mr. Cordell was editor of other works.

W.S.G.

Nicholas Ferrar's Digest (Vol. ii., p.446.).--One of the copies of the Gidding Digest of the
History of our Saviour's Life, inquired after by J.H.M. (a most beautiful book), is in the
library of the Marquis of Salisbury. I believe it to be the copy presented to Charles I.

W.H.C.

Ferrar, Nicholas.--The following extract from a very interesting paper on "Illustrated Books"
in the Quarterly Review, vol. lxxiv. p. 173, will aid J.H.M. in his researches after the curious
volumes arranged by the members of the Ferrar family:

    "King Charles's statues, pictures, jewels, and curiosities, were sold
    and dispersed by the regicide powers; from this fate, happily, the
    royal collection of manuscripts and books was preserved; neither was
    it, like the archiepiscopal library at Lambeth, doled out piecemeal to
    Hugh Peters and his brother fanatics. This good service was mainly
    owing to Bolstrode Whitelocke. When the British Museum was founded,
    King George II. presented to it the whole of the royal library; and
    Ferrar's Concordance, with another similarly illustrated compilation
    by him, is there preserved in safety. The Rev. Thomas Bowdler of
    Sydenham, the representative of the last baronet of the Cotton family,
    the founders of the Cottonian Library, possesses another of the Ferrar
    volumes. Of those which were presented by Ferrar to George Herbert and
    Dr. Jackson, no record remains."

JOHN I. DREDGE.

{13}

Cardinal Erskine (Vol. ii., p. 406.) flourished later than your
correspondent G.W. supposes. He was in communication with Mr. Pitt about
1799-1800. Query, was he then in England? This curious document was sold to John Wilks,
    Esq., M.P. on the 17th December, 1835."

Mr. Leigh Hunt, in his Book for a Corner, remarks upon this,--

    "The reader will observe that the words 'by the author,' in this
    extract, are not accompanied by marks of quotation. The fact, however,
    is stated as if he knew it for such, by the quoter of the document."

The difference mentioned by DR. RIMBAULT between the initials in the title-page and those appended
to the dedication, occurs also in Mr. Smith's edition. But the dedication to which the initials
R.P. are affixed, speaks of the book as the work of the writer in the most unmistakeable terms.
Was the S. in the place of the P. a typographical error, perpetuated by carelessness and oversight;
or a mystification of the author, adopted when the success of the book was uncertain, and continued
after the dedication had contradicted it, by that want of attention to minutiæ which was more
frequently manifest in former times than at present?

Mr. Leigh Hunt informs us that the Countess of Northumberland, to whom the dedication is made,
was the lady to whom Percy addressed his Reliques of Ancient Poetry. "She was a Wriothesley
descended of Shakspeare's Earl of Southampton, and appears to have been a very amiable woman."

Permit me to take this opportunity of saying, that there is a misprint in the poem by Barry
Cornwall (Vol. ii., p. 451.), by which the title of a poem from which a quotation is made,
appears as the name of a dramatis persona. "Paris" is the title of a poem by the Rev. Geo.
Croly, from which the "motto" is quoted.

G.J. DE WILDE.

