D.W.]

MONSIEUR DE CAMORS

By OCTAVE FEUILLET

With a Preface by MAXIME DU CAMP, of the French Academy

OCTAVE FEUILLET

OCTAVE FEUILLET'S works abound with rare qualities, forming a harmonious ensemble; they also
exhibit great observation and knowledge of humanity, and through all of them runs an incomparable
and distinctive charm.  He will always be considered the leader of the idealistic school in
the nineteenth century.  It is now fifteen years since his death, and the judgment of posterity
is that he had a great imagination, linked to great analytical power and insight; that his
style is neat, pure, and fine, and at the same time brilliant and concise.  He unites suppleness
with force, he combines grace with vigor.

Octave Feuillet was born at Saint-Lo (Manche), August 11, 1821, his father occupying the post
of Secretary-General of the Prefecture de la Manche.  Pupil at the Lycee Louis le Grand, he
received many prizes, and was entered for the law.  But he became early attracted to literature,
and like many of the writers at that period attached himself to the "romantic school."  He
collaborated with Alexander Dumas pere and with Paul Bocage.  It can not now be ascertained
what share Feuillet may have had in any of the countless tales of the elder Dumas.  Under his
own name he published the novels 'Onesta' and 'Alix', in 1846, his first romances. He then
commenced writing for the stage.  We mention 'Echec et Mat' (Odeon, 1846); 'Palma, ou la Nuit
du Vendredi-Saint' (Porte St.  Martin, 1847); 'La Vieillesse de Richelieu' (Theatre Francais,
1848); 'York' (Palais Royal, 1852).  Some of them are written in collaboration with Paul Bocage.
They are dramas of the Dumas type, conventional, not without cleverness, but making no lasting
mark.

Realizing this, Feuillet halted, pondered, abruptly changed front, and began to follow in the
footsteps of Alfred de Musset.  'La Grise' (1854), 'Le Village' (1856), 'Dalila' (1857), 'Le
Cheveu Blanc', and other plays obtained great success, partly in the Gymnase, partly in the
Comedie Francaise.  In these works Feuillet revealed himself as an analyst of feminine character,
as one who had spied out all their secrets, and could pour balm on all their wounds.  'Le Roman
d'un Jeune Homme Pauvre' (Vaudeville, 1858) is probably the best known of all his later dramas;
it was, of course, adapted for the stage from his romance, and is well known to the American
public through Lester Wallack and Pierrepont Edwards.  'Tentation' was produced in the year
1860, also well known in this country under the title 'Led Astray'; then followed 'Montjoye'
(1863), etc.  The influence of Alfred de Musset is henceforth less perceptible.  Feuillet now
became a follower of Dumas fils, especially so in 'La Belle au Bois Dormant' (Vaudeville, 1865);
'Le Cas de Conscience (Theatre Francais, 1867); 'Julie' (Theatre Francais 1869).  These met
with success, and are still in the repertoire of the Comedie Francaise.

As a romancer, Feuillet occupies a high place.  For thirty years he was
the representative of a noble and tender genre, and was preeminently the
favorite novelist of the brilliant society of the Second Empire.  Women
literally devoured him, and his feminine public has always remained
faithful to him.  He is the advocate of morality and of the aristocracy
of birth and feeling, though under this disguise he involves his heroes
and heroines in highly romantic complications, whose outcome is often for
a time in doubt.  Yet as the accredited painter of the Faubourg Saint-
Germain he contributed an essential element to the development of
realistic fiction.  No one has rendered so well as he the high-strung,
neuropathic women of the upper class, who neither understand themselves
nor are wholly comprehensible to others.  In 'Monsieur de Camors',
crowned by the Academy, he has yielded to the demands of a stricter
realism.  Especially after the fall of the Empire had removed a powerful
motive for gilding the vices of aristocratic society, he painted its hard
and selfish qualities as none of his contemporaries could have done.
Octave Feuillet was elected to the Academie Francaise in 1862 to succeed
Scribe.  He died December 29, 1890.
                                   MAXIME DU CAMP
                              de l'Acadamie Francaise.

MONSIEUR DE CAMORS

BOOK 1.

CHAPTER I

"THE WAGES OF SIN IS DEATH"

Near eleven o'clock, one evening in the month of May, a man about fifty years of age, well
formed, and of noble carriage, stepped from a coupe in the courtyard of a small hotel in the
Rue Barbet-de-Jouy.  He ascended, with the walk of a master, the steps leading to the entrance,
to the hall where several servants awaited him.  One of them followed him into an elegant study
on the first floor, which communicated with a handsome bedroom, separated from it by a curtained
arch.  The valet arranged the fire, raised the lamps in both rooms, and was about to retire,
when his master spoke:

"Has my son returned home?"

"No, Monsieur le Comte.  Monsieur is not ill?"

"Ill!  Why?"

"Because Monsieur le Comte is so pale."

"Ah! It is only a slight cold I have taken this evening on the banks of the lake."

"Will Monsieur require anything?"

"Nothing," replied the Count briefly, and the servant retired.  Left alone, his master approached
a cabinet curiously carved in the Italian style, and took from it a long flat ebony box.

This contained two pistols.  He loaded them with great care, adjusting the caps by pressing
them lightly to the nipple with his thumb.  That done, he lighted a cigar, and for half an
hour the muffled beat of his regular tread sounded on the carpet of the gallery.  He finished
his cigar, paused a moment in deep thought, and then entered the adjoining room, taking the
pistols with him.

This room, like the other, was furnished in a style of severe elegance, relieved by tasteful
ornament.  It showed some pictures by famous masters, statues, bronzes, and rare carvings in
ivory.  The Count threw a glance of singular interest round the interior of this chamber, which
was his own--on the familiar objects--on the sombre hangings--on the bed, prepared for sleep.
Then he turned toward a table, placed in a recess of the window, laid the pistols upon it,
and dropping his head in his hands, meditated deeply many minutes.  Suddenly he raised his
head, and wrote rapidly as follows:

     "TO MY SON:

     "Life wearies me, my son, and I shall relinquish it.  The true
     superiority of man over the inert or passive creatures that surround
     him, lies in his power to free himself, at will, from those,
     pernicious servitudes which are termed the laws of nature.  Man,
     if he will it, need not grow old: the lion must.  Reflect, my son,
     upon this text, for all human power lies in it.

     "Science asserts and demonstrates it.  Man, intelligent and free,
     is an animal wholly unpremeditated upon this planet.  Produced by
     unexpected combinations and haphazard transformations, in the midst
     of a general subordination of matter, he figures as a dissonance and
     a revolt!

     "Nature has engendered without having conceived him.  The result is
     as if a turkey-hen had unconsciously hatched the egg of an eagle.
     Terrified at the monster, she has sought to control it, and has
     overloaded it with instincts, commonly called duties, and police
     regulations known as religion.  Each one of these shackles broken,
     each one of these servitudes overthrown, marks a step toward the
     thorough emancipation of humanity.

     "I must say to you, however, that I die in the faith of my century,
     believing in matter uncreated, all-powerful, and eternal--the Nature
     of the ancients.  There have been in all ages philosophers who have
     had conceptions of the truth.  But ripe to-day, it has become the
     common property of all who are strong enough to stand it--for, in
     sooth, this latest religion of humanity is food fit only for the
     strong.  It carries sadness with it, for it isolates man; but it
     also involves grandeur, making man absolutely free, or, as it were,
     a very god.  It leaves him no actual duties except to himself, and
     it opens a superb field to one of brain and courage.

     "The masses still remain, and must ever remain, submissive under the
     yoke of old, dead religions, and under the tyranny of instincts.
     There will still be seen very much the same condition of things as
     at present in Paris; a society the brain of which is atheistic, and
     the heart religious.  And at bottom there will be no more belief in
     Christ than in Jupiter; nevertheless, churches will continue to be
     built mechanically.  There are no longer even Deists; for the old
     chimera of a personal, moral God-witness, sanction, and judge,--is
     virtually extinct; and yet hardly a word is said, or a line written,
     or a gesture made, in public or private life, which does not ever
     affirm that chimera.  This may have its uses perchance, but it is
     nevertheless despicable.  Slip forth from the common herd, my son,
     think for yourself, and write your own catechism upon a virgin page.

     "As for myself, my life has been a failure, because I was born many
     years too soon.  As yet the earth and the heavens were heaped up and
     cumbered with ruins, and people did not see.  Science, moreover, was
     relatively still in its infancy.  And, besides, I retained the
     prejudices and the repugnance to the doctrines of the new world that
     belonged to my name.  I was unable to comprehend that there was
     anything better to be done than childishly to pout at the conqueror;
     that is, I could not recognize that his weapons were good, and that
     I should seize and destroy him with them.  In short, for want of a
     definite principle of action I have drifted at random, my life
     without plan--I have been a mere trivial man of pleasure.

     "Your life shall be more complete, if you will only follow my
     advice.

     "What, indeed, may not a man of this age become if he have the good
     sense and energy to conform his life rigidly to his belief!

     "I merely state the question, you must solve it; I can leave you
     only some cursory ideas, which I am satisfied are just, and upon
     which you may meditate at your leisure.  Only for fools or the weak
     does materialism become a debasing dogma; assuredly, in its code
     there are none of those precepts of ordinary morals which our
     fathers entitled virtue; but I do find there a grand word which may
     well counterbalance many others, that is to say, Honor, self-esteem!
     Unquestionably a materialist may not be a saint; but he can be a
     gentleman, which is something.  You have happy gifts, my son, and I
     know of but one duty that you have in the world--that of developing
     those gifts to the utmost, and through them to enjoy life
     unsparingly.  Therefore, without scruple, use woman for your
     pleasure, man for your advancement; but under no circumstances do
     anything ignoble.

     "In order that ennui shall not drive you, like myself, prematurely
     from the world so soon as the season for pleasure shall have ended,
     you should leave the emotions of ambition and of public life for the
     gratification of your riper age.  Do not enter into any engagements
     with the reigning government, and reserve for yourself to hear its
     eulogium made by those who will have subverted it.  That is the
     French fashion.  Each generation must have its own prey.  You will
     soon feel the impulse of the coming generation.  Prepare yourself,
     from afar, to take the lead in it.

     "In politics, my son, you are not ignorant that we all take our
     principles from our temperament.  The bilious are demagogues, the
     sanguine, democrats, the nervous, aristocrats.  You are both
     sanguine and nervous, an excellent constitution, for it gives you a
     choice.  You may, for example, be an aristocrat in regard to
     yourself personally, and, at the same time, a democrat in relation
     to others; and in that you will not be exceptional.

     "Make yourself master of every question likely to interest your
     contemporaries, but do not become absorbed in any yourself.  In
     reality, all principles are indifferent--true or false according to
     the hour and circumstance.  Ideas are mere instruments with which
     you should learn to play seasonably, so as to sway men.  In that
     path, likewise, you will have associates.

     "Know, my son, that having attained my age, weary of all else, you
     will have need of strong sensations.  The sanguinary diversions of
     revolution will then be for you the same as a love-affair at twenty.

     "But I am fatigued, my son, and shall recapitulate.  To be loved by
     women, to be feared by men, to be as impassive and as imperturbable
     as a god before the tears of the one and the blood of the other, and
     to end in a whirlwind--such has been the lot in which I have failed,
     but which, nevertheless, I bequeath to you.  With your great
     faculties you, however, are capable of accomplishing it, unless
     indeed you should fail through some ingrained weakness of the heart
     that I have noticed in you, and which, doubtless, you have imbibed
     with your mother's milk.

     "So long as man shall be born of woman, there will be something
     faulty and incomplete in his character.  In fine, strive to relieve
     yourself from all thraldom, from all natural instincts, affections,
     and sympathies as from so many fetters upon your liberty, your
     strength.

     "Do not marry unless some superior interest shall impel you to do
     so.  In that event, have no children.

     "Have no intimate friends.  Caesar having grown old, had a friend.
     It was Brutus!

     "Contempt for men is the beginning of wisdom.

     "Change somewhat your style of fencing, it is altogether too open,
     my son.  Do not get angry.  Rarely laugh, and never weep.  Adieu.

                                             "CAMORS."

The feeble rays of dawn had passed through the slats of the blinds. The matin birds began their
song in the chestnut-tree near the window. M. de Camors raised his head and listened in an
absent mood to the sound which astonished him.  Seeing that it was daybreak, he folded in some
haste the pages he had just finished, pressed his seal upon the envelope, and addressed it,
"For the Comte Louis de Camors."  Then he rose.

M. de Camors was a great lover of art, and had carefully preserved a magnificent ivory carving
of the sixteenth century, which had belonged to his wife.  It was a Christ the pallid white
relieved by a medallion of dark velvet.

His eye, meeting this pale, sad image, was attracted to it for a moment with strange fascination.
Then he smiled bitterly, seized one of the pistols with a firm hand and pressed it to his temple.

A shot resounded through the house; the fall of a heavy body shook the floor-fragments of brains
strewed the carpet.  The Comte de Camors had plunged into eternity!

His last will was clenched in his hand.

To whom was this document addressed?  Upon what kind of soil will these seeds fall?

At this time Louis de Camors was twenty-seven years old.  His mother had died young.  It did
not appear that she had been particularly happy with her husband; and her son barely remembered
her as a young woman, pretty and pale, and frequently weeping, who used to sing him to sleep
in a low, sweet voice.  He had been brought up chiefly by his father's mistress, who was known
as the Vicomtesse d'Oilly, a widow, and a rather good sort of woman.  Her natural sensibility,
and the laxity of morals then reigning at Paris, permitted her to occupy herself at the same
time with the happiness of the father and the education of the son.  When the father deserted
her after a time, he left her the child, to comfort her somewhat by this mark of confidence
and affection.  She took him out three times a week; she dressed him and combed him; she fondled
him and took him with her to church, and made him play with a handsome Spaniard, who had been
for some time her secretary.  Besides, she neglected no opportunity of inculcating precepts
of sound morality.  Thus the child, being surprised at seeing her one evening press a kiss
upon the forehead of her secretary, cried out, with the blunt candor of his age:

"Why, Madame, do you kiss a gentleman who is not your husband?"

"Because, my dear," replied the Countess, "our good Lord commands us to be charitable and affectionate
to the poor, the infirm, and the exile; and Monsieur Perez is an exile."

Louis de Camors merited better care, for he was a generous-hearted child; and his comrades
of the college of Louis-le-Grand always remembered the warm-heartedness and natural grace which
made them forgive his successes during the week, and his varnished boots and lilac gloves on
Sunday. Toward the close of his college course, he became particularly attached to a poor bursar,
by name Lescande, who excelled in mathematics, but who was very ungraceful, awkwardly shy and
timid, with a painful sensitiveness to the peculiarities of his person.  He was nicknamed "Wolfhead,"
from the refractory nature of his hair; but the elegant Camors stopped the scoffers by protecting
the young man with his friendship.  Lescande felt this deeply, and adored his friend, to whom
he opened the inmost recesses of his heart, letting out some important secrets.

He loved a very young girl who was his cousin, but was as poor as himself.  Still it was a
providential thing for him that she was poor, otherwise he never should have dared to aspire
to her.  It was a sad occurrence that had first thrown Lescande with his cousin--the loss of
her father, who was chief of one of the Departments of State.

After his death she lived with her mother in very straitened circumstances; and Lescande, on
occasion of his last visit, found her with soiled cuffs.  Immediately after he received the
following note:

     "Pardon me, dear cousin!  Pardon my not wearing white cuffs.  But I
     must tell you that we can change our cuffs--my mother and I--only
     three times a week.  As to her, one would never discover it.  She is
     neat as a bird.  I also try to be; but, alas! when I practise the
     piano, my cuffs rub.  After this explanation, my good Theodore, I
     hope you will love me as before.
                                             "JULIETTE."

Lescande wept over this note.  Luckily he had his prospects as an architect; and Juliette had
promised to wait for him ten years, by which time he would either be dead, or living deliciously
in a humble house with his cousin.  He showed the note, and unfolded his plans to Camors. "This
is the only ambition I have, or which I can have," added Lescande. "You are different.  You
are born for great things."

"Listen, my old Lescande," replied Camors, who had just passed his rhetoric examination in
triumph.  "I do not know but that my destiny may be ordinary; but I am sure my heart can never
be.  There I feel transports--passions, which give me sometimes great joy, sometimes inexpressible
suffering.  I burn to discover a world--to save a nation-- to love a queen!  I understand nothing
but great ambitions and noble alliances, and as for sentimental love, it troubles me but little.
My activity pants for a nobler and a wider field!

"I intend to attach myself to one of the great social parties, political or religious, that
agitate the world at this era.  Which one I know not yet, for my opinions are not very fixed.
But as soon as I leave college I shall devote myself to seeking the truth.  And truth is easily
found. I shall read all the newspapers.

"Besides, Paris is an intellectual highway, so brilliantly lighted it is only necessary to
open one's eyes and have good faith and independence, to find the true road.

"And I am in excellent case for this, for though born a gentleman, I have no prejudices.  My
father, who is himself very enlightened and very liberal, leaves me free.  I have an uncle
who is a Republican; an aunt who is a Legitimist--and what is still more, a saint; and another
uncle who is a Conservative.  It is not vanity that leads me to speak of these things; but
only a desire to show you that, having a foot in all parties, I am quite willing to compare
them dispassionately and make a good choice.  Once master of the holy truth, you may be sure,
dear old Lescande, I shall serve it unto death--with my tongue, with my pen, and with my sword!"

Such sentiments as these, pronounced with sincere emotion and accompanied by a warm clasp of
the hand, drew tears from the old Lescande, otherwise called Wolfhead.

CHAPTER II

FRUIT FROM THE HOTBED OF PARIS

Early one morning, about eight years after these high resolves, Louis de Camors rode out from
the 'porte-cochere' of the small hotel he had occupied with his father.

Nothing could be gayer than Paris was that morning, at that charming golden hour of the day
when the world seems peopled only with good and generous spirits who love one another.  Paris
does not pique herself on her generosity; but she still takes to herself at this charming hour
an air of innocence, cheerfulness, and amiable cordiality.

The little carts with bells, that pass one another rapidly, make one believe the country is
covered with roses.  The cries of old Paris cut with their sharp notes the deep murmur of a
great city just awaking.

You see the jolly concierges sweeping the white footpaths; half-dressed merchants taking down
their shutters with great noise; and groups of ostlers, in Scotch caps, smoking and fraternizing
on the hotel steps.

You hear the questions of the sociable neighborhood; the news proper to awakening; speculations
on the weather bandied across from door to door, with much interest.

Young milliners, a little late, walk briskly toward town with elastic step, making now a short
pause before a shop just opened; again taking wing like a bee just scenting a flower.

Even the dead in this gay Paris morning seem to go gayly to the cemetery, with their jovial
coachmen grinning and nodding as they pass.

Superbly aloof from these agreeable impressions, Louis de Camors, a little pale, with half-closed
eyes and a cigar between his teeth, rode into the Rue de Bourgogne at a walk, broke into a
canter on the Champs Elysees, and galloped thence to the Bois.  After a brisk run, he returned
by chance through the Porte Maillot, then not nearly so thickly inhabited as it is to-day.
Already, however, a few pretty houses, with green lawns in front, peeped out from the bushes
of lilac and clematis. Before the green railings of one of these a gentleman played hoop with
a very young, blond-haired child.  His age belonged in that uncertain area which may range
from twenty-five to forty.  He wore a white cravat, spotless as snow; and two triangles of
short, thick beard, cut like the boxwood at Versailles, ornamented his cheeks.  If Camors saw
this personage he did not honor him with the slightest notice.  He was, notwithstanding, his
former comrade Lescande, who had been lost sight of for several years by his warmest college
friend.  Lescande, however, whose memory seemed better, felt his heart leap with joy at the
majestic appearance of the young cavalier who approached him.  He made a movement to rush forward;
a smile covered his good-natured face, but it ended in a grimace.  Evidently he had been forgotten.
Camors, now not more than a couple of feet from him, was passing on, and his handsome countenance
gave not the slightest sign of emotion.  Suddenly, without changing a single line of his face,
he drew rein, took the cigar from his lips, and said, in a tranquil voice:

"Hello!  You have no longer a wolf head!"

"Ha!  Then you know me?"  cried Lescande.

"Know you?  Why not?"

"I thought--I was afraid--on account of my beard--"

"Bah!  your beard does not change you--except that it becomes you. But what are you doing here?"

"Doing here!  Why, my dear friend, I am at home here.  Dismount, I pray you, and come into
my house."

"Well, why not?"  replied Camors, with the same voice and manner of supreme indifference; and,
throwing his bridle to the servant who followed him, he passed through the gardengate, led,
supported, caressed by the trembling hand of Lescande.

The garden was small, but beautifully tended and full of rare plants. At the end, a small villa,
in the Italian style, showed its graceful porch.

"Ah, that is pretty!"  exclaimed Camors, at last.

"And you recognize my plan, Number Three, do you not?"  asked Lescande, eagerly.

"Your plan Number Three?  Ah, yes, perfectly," replied Camors, absently. "And your pretty little
cousin--is she within?"

"She is there, my dear friend," answered Lescande, in a low voice--and he pointed to the closed
shutters of a large window of a balcony surmounting the veranda.  "She is there; and this is
our son."

Camors let his hand pass listlessly over the child's hair.  "The deuce!" he said; "but you
have not wasted time.  And you are happy, my good fellow?"

"So happy, my dear friend, that I am sometimes uneasy, for the good God is too kind to me.
It is true, though, I had to work very hard.  For instance, I passed two years in Spain--in
the mountains of that infernal country.  There I built a fairy palace for the Marquis of Buena-Vista,
a great nobleman, who had seen my plan at the Exhibition and was delighted with it.  This was
the beginning of my fortune; but you must not imagine that my profession alone has enriched
me so quickly.  I made some successful speculations--some unheard of chances in lands; and,
I beg you to believe, honestly, too.  Still, I am not a millionaire; but you know I had nothing,
and my wife less; now, my house paid for, we have ten thousand francs' income left.  It is
not a fortune for us, living in this style; but I still work and keep good courage, and my
Juliette is happy in her paradise!"

"She wears no more soiled cuffs, then?"  said Camors.

"I warrant she does not!  Indeed, she has a slight tendency to luxury-- like all women, you
know.  But I am delighted to see you remember so well our college follies.  I also, through
all my distractions, never forgot you a moment.  I even had a foolish idea of asking you to
my wedding, only I did not dare.  You are so brilliant, so petted, with your establishment
and your racers.  My wife knows you very well; in fact, we have talked of you a hundred thousand
times.  Since she patronizes the turf and subscribes for 'The Sport', she says to me, 'Your
friend's horse has won again'; and in our family circle we rejoice over your triumphs."

A flush tinged the cheek of Camors as he answered, quietly, "You are really too good."

They walked a moment in silence over the gravel path bordered by grass, before Lescande spoke
again.

"And yourself, dear friend, I hope that you also are happy."

"I--happy!"  Camors seemed a little astonished.  "My happiness is simple enough, but I believe
it is unclouded.  I rise in the morning, ride to the Bois, thence to the club, go to the Bois
again, and then back to the club.  If there is a first representation at any theatre, I wish
to see it.  Thus, last evening they gave a new piece which was really exquisite. There was
a song in it, beginning:

                        'He was a woodpecker,
                         A little woodpecker,
                         A young woodpecker--'

and the chorus imitated the cry of the woodpecker!  Well, it was charming, and the whole of
Paris will sing that song with delight for a year.  I also shall do like the whole of Paris,
and I shall be happy."

"Good heavens! my friend," laughed Lescande, "and that suffices you for happiness?"

"That and--the principles of 'eighty-nine," replied Camors, lighting a fresh cigar from the
old one.

Here their dialogue was broken by the fresh voice of a woman calling from the blinds of the
balcony--

"Is that you, Theodore?"

Camors raised his eyes and saw a white hand, resting on the slats of the blind, bathed in sunlight.

"That is my wife.  Conceal yourself!"  cried Lescande, briskly; and he pushed Camors behind
a clump of catalpas, as he turned to the balcony and lightly answered:

"Yes, my dear; do you wish anything?"

"Maxime is with you?"

"Yes, mother.  I am here," cried the child.  "It is a beautiful morning. Are you quite well?"

"I hardly know.  I have slept too long, I believe."  She opened the shutters, and, shading
her eyes from the glare with her hand, appeared on the balcony.

She was in the flower of youth, slight, supple, and graceful, and appeared, in her ample morning-gown
of blue cashmere, plumper and taller than she really was.  Bands of the same color interlaced,
in the Greek fashion, her chestnut hair--which nature, art, and the night had dishevelled--waved
and curled to admiration on her small head.

She rested her elbows on the railing, yawned, showing her white teeth, and looking at her husband,
asked:

"Why do you look so stupid?"

At the instant she observed Camors--whom the interest of the moment had withdrawn from his
concealment--gave a startled cry, gathered up her skirts, and retired within the room.

Since leaving college up to this hour, Louis de Camors had never formed any great opinion of
the Juliet who had taken Lescande as her Romeo.  He experienced a flash of agreeable surprise
on discovering that his friend was more happy in that respect than he had supposed.

"I am about to be scolded, my friend," said Lescande, with a hearty laugh, "and you also must
stay for your share.  You will stay and breakfast with us?"

Camors hesitated; then said, hastily, "No, no!  Impossible!  I have an engagement which I must
keep."

Notwithstanding Camors's unwillingness, Lescande detained him until he had extorted a promise
to come and dine with them--that is, with him, his wife, and his mother-in-law, Madame Mursois--on
the following Tuesday.  This acceptance left a cloud on the spirit of Camors until the appointed
day.  Besides abhorring family dinners, he objected to being reminded of the scene of the balcony.
The indiscreet kindness of Lescande both touched and irritated him; for he knew he should play
but a silly part near this pretty woman.  He felt sure she was a coquette, notwithstanding
which, the recollections of his youth and the character of her husband should make her sacred
to him.  So he was not in the most agreeable frame of mind when he stepped out of his dog-cart,
that Tuesday evening, before the little villa of the Avenue Maillot.

At his reception by Madame Lescande and her mother he took heart a little.  They appeared to
him what they were, two honest-hearted women, surrounded by luxury and elegance.  The mother--an
ex-beauty--had been left a widow when very young, and to this time had avoided any stain on
her character.  With them, innate delicacy held the place of those solid principles so little
tolerated by French society.  Like a few other women of society, Madame had the quality of
virtue just as ermine has the quality of whiteness.  Vice was not so repugnant to her as an
evil as it was as a blemish.  Her daughter had received from her those instincts of chastity
which are oftener than we imagine hidden under the appearance of pride.  But these amiable
women had one unfortunate caprice, not uncommon at this day among Parisians of their position.
Although rather clever, they bowed down, with the adoration of bourgeoises, before that aristocracy,
more or less pure, that paraded up and down the Champs Elysees, in the theatres, at the race-course,
and on the most frequented promenades, its frivolous affairs and rival vanities.

Virtuous themselves, they read with interest the daintiest bits of scandal and the most equivocal
adventures that took place among the elite.  It was their happiness and their glory to learn
the smallest details of the high life of Paris; to follow its feasts, speak in its slang, copy
its toilets, and read its favorite books.  So that if not the rose, they could at least be
near the rose and become impregnated with her colors and her perfumes.  Such apparent familiarity
heightened them singularly in their own estimation and in that of their associates.

Now, although Camors did not yet occupy that bright spot in the heaven of fashion which was
surely to be his one day, still he could here pass for a demigod, and as such inspire Madame
Lescande and her mother with a sentiment of most violent curiosity.  His early intimacy with
Lescande had always connected a peculiar interest with his name: and they knew the names of
his horses--most likely knew the names of his mistresses.

So it required all their natural tact to conceal from their guest the flutter of their nerves
caused by his sacred presence; but they did succeed, and so well that Camors was slightly piqued.
If not a coxcomb, he was at least young: he was accustomed to please: he knew the Princess
de Clam-Goritz had lately applied to him her learned definition of an agreeable man--"He is
charming, for one always feels in danger near him!"

Consequently, it seemed a little strange to him that the simple mother of the simple wife of
simple Lescande should be able to bear his radiance with such calmness; and this brought him
out of his premeditated reserve.

He took the trouble to be irresistible--not to Madame Lescande, to whom he was studiously respectful--but
to Madame Mursois.  The whole evening he scattered around the mother the social epigrams intended
to dazzle the daughter; Lescande meanwhile sitting with his mouth open, delighted with the
success of his old schoolfellow.

Next afternoon, Camors, returning from his ride in the Bois, by chance passed the Avenue Maillot.
Madame Lescande was embroidering on the balcony, by chance, and returned his salute over her
tapestry.  He remarked, too, that she saluted very gracefully, by a slight inclination of the
head, followed by a slight movement of her symmetrical, sloping shoulders.

When he called upon her two or three days after--as was only his duty-- Camors reflected on
a strong resolution he had made to keep very cool, and to expatiate to Madame Lescande only
on her husband's virtues.  This pious resolve had an unfortunate effect; for Madame, whose
virtue had been piqued, had also reflected; and while an obtrusive devotion had not failed
to frighten her, this course only reassured her.  So she gave up without restraint to the pleasure
of receiving in her boudoir one of the brightest stars from the heaven of her dreams.

It was now May, and at the races of La Marche--to take place the following Sunday--Camors was
to be one of the riders.  Madame Mursois and her daughter prevailed upon Lescande to take them,
while Camors completed their happiness by admitting them to the weighing-stand.  Further, when
they walked past the judge's stand, Madame Mursois, to whom he gave his arm, had the delight
of being escorted in public by a cavalier in an orange jacket and topboots.  Lescande and his
wife followed in the wake of the radiant mother-in-law, partaking of her ecstasy.

These agreeable relations continued for several weeks, without seeming to change their character.
One day Camors would seat himself by the lady, before the palace of the Exhibition, and initiate
her into the mysteries of all the fashionables who passed before them.  Another time he would
drop into their box at the opera, deign to remain there during an act or two, and correct their
as yet incomplete views of the morals of the ballet.  But in all these interviews he held toward
Madame Lescande the language and manner of a brother: perhaps because he secretly persisted
in his delicate resolve; perhaps because he was not ignorant that every road leads to Rome--and
one as surely as another.

Madame Lescande reassured herself more and more; and feeling it unnecessary to be on her guard,
as at first, thought she might permit herself a little levity.  No woman is flattered at being
loved only as a sister.

Camors, a little disquieted by the course things were taking, made some slight effort to divert
it.  But, although men in fencing wish to spare their adversaries, sometimes they find habit
too strong for them, and lunge home in spite of themselves.  Besides, he began to be really
interested in Madame Lescande--in her coquettish ways, at once artful and simple, provoking
and timid, suggestive and reticent--in short, charming.

The same evening that M. de Camors, the elder, returned to his home bent on suicide, his son,
passing up the Avenue Maillot, was stopped by Lescande on the threshold of his villa.

"My friend," said the latter, "as you are here you can do me a great favor.  A telegram calls
me suddenly to Melun--I must go on the instant. The ladies will be so lonely, pray stay and
dine with them!  I can't tell what the deuce ails my wife.  She has been weeping all day over
her tapestry; my mother-in-law has a headache.  Your presence will cheer them.  So stay, I
beg you."

Camors refused, hesitated, made objections, and consented.  He sent back his horse, and his
friend presented him to the ladies, whom the presence of the unexpected guest seemed to cheer
a little.  Lescande stepped into his carriage and departed, after receiving from his wife an
embrace more fervent than usual.

The dinner was gay.  In the atmosphere was that subtle suggestion of coming danger of which
both Camors and Madame Lescande felt the exhilarating influence.  Their excitement, as yet
innocent, employed itself in those lively sallies--those brilliant combats at the barriers
--that ever precede the more serious conflict.  About nine o'clock the headache of Madame Mursois--perhaps
owing to the cigar they had allowed Camors--became more violent.  She declared she could endure
it no longer, and must retire to her chamber.  Camors wished to withdraw, but his carriage
had not yet arrived and Madame Mursois insisted that he should wait for it.

"Let my daughter amuse you with a little music until then," she added.

Left alone with her guest, the younger lady seemed embarrassed.  "What shall I play for you?"
she asked, in a constrained voice, taking her seat at the piano.

"Oh! anything--play a waltz," answered Camors, absently.

The waltz finished, an awkward silence ensued.  To break it she arose hesitatingly; then clasping
her hands together exclaimed, "It seems to me there is a storm.  Do you not think so?"  She
approached the window, opened it, and stepped out on the balcony.  In a second Camors was at
her side.

The night was beautifully clear.  Before them stretched the sombre shadow of the wood, while
nearer trembling rays of moonlight slept upon the lawn.

How still all was!  Their trembling hands met and for a moment did not separate.

"Juliette!" whispered the young man, in a low, broken voice.  She shuddered, repelled the arm
that Camors passed round her, and hastily reentered the room.

"Leave me, I pray you!"  she cried, with an impetuous gesture of her hand, as she sank upon
the sofa, and buried her face in her hands.

Of course Camors did not obey.  He seated himself by her.

In a little while Juliette awoke from her trance; but she awoke a lost woman!

How bitter was that awakening!  She measured at a first glance the depth of the awful abyss
into which she had suddenly plunged.  Her husband, her mother, her infant, whirled like spectres
in the mad chaos of her brain.

Sensible of the anguish of an irreparable wrong, she rose, passed her hand vacantly across
her brow, and muttering, "Oh, God!  oh, God!" peered vainly into the dark for light--hope--refuge!
There was none!

Her tortured soul cast herself utterly on that of her lover.  She turned her swimming eyes
on him and said:

"How you must despise me!"

Camors, half kneeling on the carpet near her, kissed her hand indifferently and half raised
his shoulders in sign of denial.  "Is it not so?"  she repeated.  "Answer me, Louis."

His face wore a strange, cruel smile--"Do not insist on an answer, I pray you," he said.

"Then I am right?  You do despise me?"

Camors turned himself abruptly full toward her, looked straight in her face, and said, in a
cold, hard voice, "I do!"

To this cruel speech the poor child replied by a wild cry that seemed to rend her, while her
eyes dilated as if under the influence of strong poison.  Camors strode across the room, then
returned and stood by her as he said, in a quick, violent tone:

"You think I am brutal?  Perhaps I am, but that can matter little now. After the irreparable
wrong I have done you, there is one service--and only one which I can now render you.  I do
it now, and tell you the truth.  Understand me clearly; women who fall do not judge themselves
more harshly than their accomplices judge them.  For myself, what would you have me think of you?

"To his misfortune and my shame, I have known your husband since his boyhood.  There is not
a drop of blood in his veins that does not throb for you; there is not a thought of his day
nor a dream of his night that is not yours; your every comfort comes from his sacrifices--your
every joy from his exertion!  See what he is to you!

"You have only seen my name in the journals; you have seen me ride by your window; I have talked
a few times with you, and you yield to me in one moment the whole of his life with your own--the
whole of his happiness with your own.

"I tell you, woman, every man like me, who abuses your vanity and your weakness and afterward
tells you he esteems you--lies!  And if after all you still believe he loves you, you do yourself
fresh injury.  No: we soon learn to hate those irksome ties that become duties where we only
sought pleasures; and the first effort after they are formed is to shatter them.

"As for the rest: women like you are not made for unholy love like ours. Their charm is their
purity, and losing that, they lose everything.  But it is a blessing to them to encounter one
wretch, like myself, who cares to say--Forget me, forever!  Farewell!"

He left her, passed from the room with rapid strides, and, slamming the door behind him, disappeared.
Madame Lescande, who had listened, motionless, and pale as marble, remained in the same lifeless
attitude, her eyes fixed, her hands clenched--yearning from the depths of her heart that death
would summon her.  Suddenly a singular noise, seeming to come from the next room, struck her
ear.  It was only a convulsive sob, or violent and smothered laughter.  The wildest and most
terrible ideas crowded to the mind of the unhappy woman; the foremost of them, that her husband
had secretly returned, that he knew all--that his brain had given way, and that the laughter
was the gibbering of his madness.

Feeling her own brain begin to reel, she sprang from the sofa, and rushing to the door, threw
it open.  The next apartment was the dining- room, dimly lighted by a hanging lamp.  There
she saw Camors, crouched upon the floor, sobbing furiously and beating his forehead against
a chair which he strained in a convulsive embrace.  Her tongue refused its office; she could
find no word, but seating herself near him, gave way to her emotion, and wept silently.  He
dragged himself nearer, seized the hem of her dress and covered it with kisses; his breast
heaved tumultuously, his lips trembled and he gasped the almost inarticulate words, "Pardon!
Oh, pardon me!"

This was all.  Then he rose suddenly, rushed from the house, and the instant after she heard
the rolling of the wheels as his carriage whirled him away.

If there were no morals and no remorse, French people would perhaps be happier.  But unfortunately
it happens that a young woman, who believes in little, like Madame Lescande, and a young man
who believes in nothing, like M. de Camors, can not have the pleasures of an independent code
of morals without suffering cruelly afterward.

A thousand old prejudices, which they think long since buried, start up suddenly in their consciences;
and these revived scruples are nearly fatal to them.

Camors rushed toward Paris at the greatest speed of his thoroughbred, Fitz-Aymon, awakening
along the route, by his elegance and style, sentiments of envy which would have changed to
pity were the wounds of the heart visible.  Bitter weariness, disgust of life and disgust for
himself, were no new sensations to this young man; but he never had experienced them in such
poignant intensity as at this cursed hour, when flying from the dishonored hearth of the friend
of his boyhood. No action of his life had ever thrown such a flood of light on the depths of
his infamy in doing such gross outrage to the friend of his purer days, to the dear confidant
of the generous thoughts and proud aspirations of his youth.  He knew he had trampled all these
under foot. Like Macbeth, he had not only murdered one asleep, but had murdered sleep itself.

His reflections became insupportable.  He thought successively of becoming a monk, of enlisting
as a soldier, and of getting drunk--ere he reached the corner of the Rue Royale and the Boulevard.
Chance favored his last design, for as he alighted in front of his club, he found himself face
to face with a pale young man, who smiled as he extended his hand.  Camors recognized the Prince
d'Errol.

"The deuce!  You here, my Prince!  I thought you in Cairo."

"I arrived only this morning."

"Ah, then you are better?--Your chest?"

"So--so."

"Bah! you look perfectly well.  And isn't Cairo a strange place?"

"Rather; but I really believe Providence has sent you to me."

"You really think so, my Prince?  But why?"

"Because--pshaw!  I'll tell you by-and-bye; but first I want to hear all about your quarrel."

"What quarrel?"

"Your duel for Sarah."

"That is to say, against Sarah!"

"Well, tell me all that passed; I heard of it only vaguely while abroad."

"Well, I only strove to do a good action, and, according to custom, I was punished for it.
I heard it said that that little imbecile La Brede borrowed money from his little sister to
lavish it upon that Sarah. This was so unnatural that you may believe it first disgusted, and
then irritated me.  One day at the club I could not resist saying, 'You are an ass, La Bride,
to ruin yourself--worse than that, to ruin your sister, for the sake of a snail, as little
sympathetic as Sarah, a girl who always has a cold in her head, and who has already deceived
you.' 'Deceived me!' cried La Brede, waving his long arms.  'Deceived me! and with whom?'--'With
me.'  As he knew I never lied, he panted for my life.  Luckily my life is a tough one."

"You put him in bed for three months, I hear."

"Almost as long as that, yes.  And now, my friend, do me a service.  I am a bear, a savage,
a ghost!  Assist me to return to life.  Let us go and sup with some sprightly people whose
virtue is extraordinary."

"Agreed!  That is recommended by my physician."

"From Cairo?  Nothing could be better, my Prince."

Half an hour later Louis de Camors, the Prince d'Errol, and a half-dozen guests of both sexes,
took possession of an apartment, the closed doors of which we must respect.

Next morning, at gray dawn, the party was about to disperse; and at the moment a ragpicker,
with a gray beard, was wandering up and down before the restaurant, raking with his hook in
the refuse that awaited the public sweepers.  In closing his purse, with an unsteady hand,
Camors let fall a shining louis d'or, which rolled into the mud on the sidewalk. The ragpicker
looked up with a timid smile.

"Ah!  Monsieur," he said, "what falls into the trench should belong to the soldier."

"Pick it up with your teeth, then," answered Camors, laughing, "and it is yours."

The man hesitated, flushed under his sunburned cheeks, and threw a look of deadly hatred upon
the laughing group round him.  Then he knelt, buried his chest in the mire, and sprang up next
moment with the coin clenched between his sharp white teeth.  The spectators applauded.  The
chiffonnier smiled a dark smile, and turned away.

"Hello, my friend!"  cried Camors, touching his arm, "would you like to earn five Louis?  If
so, give me a knock-down blow.  That will give you pleasure and do me good."

The man turned, looked him steadily in the eye, then suddenly dealt him such a blow in the
face that he reeled against the opposite wall.  The young men standing by made a movement to
fall upon the graybeard.

"Let no one harm him!"  cried Camors.  "Here, my man, are your hundred francs."

"Keep them," replied the other, "I am paid;" and walked away.

"Bravo, Belisarius!"  laughed Camors.  "Faith, gentlemen, I do not know whether you agree with
me, but I am really charmed with this little episode.  I must go dream upon it.  By-bye, young
ladies!  Good-day, Prince!"

An early cab was passing, he jumped in, and was driven rapidly to his hotel, on the Rue Babet-de-Jouy.

The door of the courtyard was open, but being still under the influence of the wine he had
drunk, he failed to notice a confused group of servants and neighbors standing before the stable-doors.
Upon seeing him, these people became suddenly silent, and exchanged looks of sympathy and compassion.
Camors occupied the second floor of the hotel; and ascending the stairs, found himself suddenly
facing his father's valet. The man was very pale, and held a sealed paper, which he extended
with a trembling hand.

"What is it, Joseph?"  asked Camors.

"A letter which--which Monsieur le Comte wrote for you before he left."

"Before he left! my father is gone, then?  But--where--how?  What, the devil! why do you weep?"

Unable to speak, the servant handed him the paper.  Camors seized it and tore it open.

"Good God!  there is blood!  what is this!"  He read the first words-- "My son, life is a burden
to me.  I leave it--" and fell fainting to the floor.

The poor lad loved his father, notwithstanding the past.

They carried him to his chamber.

CHAPTER III

DEBRIS FROM THE REVOLUTION

De Camors, on leaving college had entered upon life with a heart swelling with the virtues
of youth--confidence, enthusiasm, sympathy.  The horrible neglect of his early education had
not corrupted in his veins those germs of weakness which, as his father declared, his mother's
milk had deposited there; for that father, by shutting him up in a college to get rid of him
for twelve years, had rendered him the greatest service in his power.

Those classic prisons surely do good.  The healthy discipline of the school; the daily contact
of young, fresh hearts; the long familiarity with the best works, powerful intellects, and
great souls of the ancients--all these perhaps may not inspire a very rigid morality, but they
do inspire a certain sentimental ideal of life and of duty which has its value.

The vague heroism which Camors first conceived he brought away with him. He demanded nothing,
as you may remember, but the practical formula for the time and country in which he was destined
to live.  He found, doubtless, that the task he set himself was more difficult than he had
imagined; that the truth to which he would devote himself--but which he must first draw from
the bottom of its well--did not stand upon many compliments.  But he failed no preparation
to serve her valiantly as a man might, as soon as she answered his appeal.  He had the advantage
of several years of opposing to the excitements of his age and of an opulent life the austere
meditations of the poor student.

During that period of ardent, laborious youth, he faithfully shut himself up in libraries,
attended public lectures, and gave himself a solid foundation of learning, which sometimes
awakened surprise when discovered under the elegant frivolity of the gay turfman.  But while
arming himself for the battle of life, he lost, little by little, what was more essential than
the best weapons-true courage.

In proportion as he followed Truth day by day, she flew before and eluded him, taking, like
an unpleasant vision, the form of the thousand-headed Chimera.

About the middle of the last century, Paris was so covered with political and religious ruins,
that the most piercing vision could scarcely distinguish the outlines of the fresh structures
of the future. One could, see that everything was overthrown; but one could not see any power
that was to raise the ruins.  Over the confused wrecks and remains of the Past, the powerful
intellectual life of the Present-Progress--the collision of ideas--the flame of French wit,
criticism and the sciences-- threw a brilliant light, which, like the sun of earlier ages,
illuminated the chaos without making it productive.  The phenomena of Life and of Death were
commingled in one huge fermentation, in which everything decomposed and whence nothing seemed
to spring up again.

At no period of history, perhaps, has Truth been less simple, more enveloped in complications;
for it seemed that all essential notions of humanity had been fused in a great furnace, and
none had come out whole.

The spectacle is grand; but it troubles profoundly all souls--or at least those that interest
and curiosity do not suffice to fill; which is to say, nearly all.  To disengage from this
bubbling chaos one pure religious moral, one positive social idea, one fixed political creed,
were an enterprise worthy of the most sincere.  This should not be beyond the strength of a
man of good intentions; and Louis de Camors might have accomplished the task had he been aided
by better instruction and guidance.

It is the common misfortune of those just entering life to find in it less than their ideal.
But in this respect Camors was born under a particularly unfortunate star, for he found in
his surroundings--in his own family even--only the worst side of human nature; and, in some
respects, of those very opinions to which he was tempted to adhere.

The Camors were originally from Brittany, where they had held, in the eighteenth century, large
possessions, particularly some extensive forests, which still bear their name.  The grandfather
of Louis, the Comte Herve de Camors, had, on his return from the emigration, bought back a
small part of the hereditary demesne.  There he established himself in the old-fashioned style,
and nourished until his death incurable prejudices against the French Revolution and against
Louis XVIII.

Count Herve had four children, two boys and two girls, and, feeling it his duty to protest
against the levelling influences of the Civil Code, he established during his life, by a legal
subterfuge, a sort of entail in favor of his eldest son, Charles-Henri, to the prejudice of
Robert- Sosthene, Eleanore-Jeanne and Louise-Elizabeth, his other heirs. Eleanore-Jeanne and
Louise-Elizabeth accepted with apparent willingness the act that benefited their brother at
their expense--notwithstanding which they never forgave him.  But Robert-Sosthene, who, in
his position as representative of the younger branch, affected Liberal leanings and was besides
loaded with debt, rebelled against the paternal procedure. He burned his visiting-cards, ornamented
with the family crest and his name "Chevalier Lange d'Ardennes"--and had others printed, simply
"Dardennes, junior (du Morbihan)."

Of these he sent a specimen to his father, and from that hour became a declared Republican.

There are people who attach themselves to a party by their virtues; others, again, by their
vices.  No recognized political party exists which does not contain some true principle; which
does not respond to some legitimate aspiration of human society.  At the same time, there is
not one which can not serve as a pretext, as a refuge, and as a hope, for the basest passions
of our nature.

The most advanced portion of the Liberal party of France is composed of generous spirits, ardent
and absolute, who torture a really elevated ideal; that of a society of manhood, constituted
with a sort of philosophic perfection; her own mistress each day and each hour; delegating
few of her powers, and yielding none; living, not without laws, but without rulers; and, in
short, developing her activity, her well-being, her genius, with that fulness of justice, of
independence, and of dignity, which republicanism alone gives to all and to each one.

Every other system appears to them to preserve some of the slaveries and iniquities of former
ages; and it also appears open to the suspicion of generating diverse interests--and often
hostile ones--between the governors and the governed.  They claim for all that political system
which, without doubt, holds humanity in the most esteem; and however one may despise the practical
working of their theory, the grandeur of its principles can not be despised.

They are in reality a proud race, great-hearted and high-spirited.  They have had in their
age their heroes and their martyrs; but they have had, on the other hand, their hypocrites,
their adventurers, and their radicals--their greatest enemies.

Young Dardennes, to obtain grace for the equivocal origin of his convictions, placed himself
in the front rank of these last.

Until he left college Louis de Camors never knew his uncle, who had remained on bad terms with
his father; but he entertained for him, in secret; an enthusiastic admiration, attributing
to him all the virtues of that principle of which he seemed the exponent.

The Republic of '48 soon died: his uncle was among the vanquished; and this, to the young man,
had but an additional attraction.  Without his father's knowledge, he went to see him, as if
on a pilgrimage to a holy shrine; and he was well received.

He found his uncle exasperated--not so much against his enemies as against his own party, to
which he attributed all the disasters of the cause.

"They never can make revolutions with gloves on," he said in a solemn, dogmatic tone.  "The
men of 'ninety-three did not wear them.  You can not make an omelette without first breaking
the eggs.

"The pioneers of the future should march on, axe in hand!

"The chrysalis of the people is not hatched upon roses!

"Liberty is a goddess who demands great holocausts.  Had they made a Reign of Terror in 'forty-eight,
they would now be masters!"

These high-flown maxims astonished Louis de Camors.  In his youthful simplicity he had an infinite
respect for the men who had governed his country in her darkest hour; not more that they had
given up power as poor as when they assumed it, than that they left it with their hands unstained
with blood: To this praise--which will be accorded them in history, which redresses many contemporary
injustices--he added a reproach which he could not reconcile with the strange regrets of his
uncle.  He reproached them with not having more boldly separated the New Republic, in its management
and minor details, from the memories of the old one.  Far from agreeing with his uncle that
a revival of the horrors of 'ninety-three would have assured the triumph of the New Republic,
he believed it had sunk under the bloody shadow of its predecessor.  He believed that, owing
to this boasted Terror, France had been for centuries the only country in which the dangers
of liberty outweighed its benefits.

It is useless to dwell longer on the relations of Louis de Camors with his uncle Dardennes.
It is enough that he was doubtful and discouraged, and made the error of holding the cause
responsible for the violence of its lesser apostles, and that he adopted the fatal error, too
common in France at that period, of confounding progress with discord, liberty with license,
and revolution with terrorism!

The natural result of irritation and disenchantment on this ardent spirit was to swing it rapidly
around to the opposite pole of opinion.  After all, Camors argued, his birth, his name, his
family ties all pointed out his true course, which was to combat the cruel and despotic doctrines
which he believed he detected under these democratic theories.  Another thing in the habitual
language of his uncle also shocked and repelled him--the profession of an absolute atheism.
He had within him, in default of a formal creed, a fund of general belief and respect for holy
things--that kind of religious sensibility which was shocked by impious cynicism.  Further
he could not comprehend then, or ever afterward, how principles alone, without faith in some
higher sanction, could sustain themselves by their own strength in the human conscience.

God--or no principles!  This was the dilemma from which no German philosophy could rescue him.

This reaction in his mind drew him closer to those other branches of his family which he had
hitherto neglected.  His two aunts, living at Paris, had been compelled, in consequence of
their small fortunes, to make some sacrifices to enter into the blessed state of matrimony.
The elder, Eleanore-Jeanne, had married, during her father's life, the Comte de la Roche-Jugan--a
man long past fifty, but still well worthy of being loved. Nevertheless, his wife did not love
him.  Their views on many essential points differed widely.  M. de la Roche-Jugan was one of
those who had served the Government of the Restoration with an unshaken but hopeless devotion.
In his youth he had been attached to the person and to the ministry of the Duc de Richelieu;
and he had preserved the memory of that illustrious man--of the elevated moderation of his
sentiments--of the warmth of his patriotism and of his constancy.  He saw the pitfalls ahead,
pointed them out to his prince--displeased him by so doing, but still followed his fortunes.
Once more retired to private life with but small means, he guarded his political principles
rather like a religion than a hope.  His hopes, his vivacity, his love of right--all these
he turned toward God.

His piety, as enlightened as profound, ranked him among the choicest spirits who then endeavored
to reconcile the national faith of the past with the inexorable liberty of thought of the present.
Like his colaborers in this work, he experienced only a mortal sadness under which he sank.
True, his wife contributed no little to hasten his end by the intemperance of her zeal and
the acrimony of her bigotry.

She had little heart and great pride, and made her God subserve her passions, as Dardennes
made liberty subserve his malice.

No sooner had she become a widow than she purified her salons. Thenceforth figured there only
parishioners more orthodox than their bishops, French priests who denied Bossuet; consequently
she believed that religion was saved in France.  Louis de Camors, admitted to this choice circle
by title both of relative and convert, found there the devotion of Louis XI and the charity
of Catherine de Medicis; and he there lost very soon the little faith that remained to him.

He asked himself sadly whether there was no middle ground between Terror and Inquisition; whether
in this world one must be a fanatic or nothing. He sought a middle course, possessing the force
and cohesion of a party; but he sought in vain.  It seemed to him that the whole world of politics
and religion rushed to extremes; and that what was not extreme was inert and indifferent--dragging
out, day by day, an existence without faith and without principle.

Thus at least appeared to him those whom the sad changes of his life showed him as types of
modern politics.

His younger aunt, Louise-Elizabeth, who enjoyed to the full all the pleasures of modern life,
had already profited by her father's death to make a rich misalliance.  She married the Baron
Tonnelier, whose father, although the son of a miller, had shown ability and honesty enough
to fill high positions under the First Empire.

The Baron Tonnelier had a large fortune, increasing every day by successful speculation.  In
his youth he had been a good horseman, a Voltairian, and a Liberal.

In time--though he remained a Voltairian--he renounced horsemanship, and Liberalism.  Although
he was a simple deputy, he had a twinge of democracy now and then; but after he was invested
with the peerage, he felt sure from that moment that the human species had no more progress
to make.

The French Revolution was ended; its giddiest height attained.  No longer could any one walk,
talk, write, or rise.  That perplexed him.  Had he been sincere, he would have avowed that
he could not comprehend that there could be storms, or thunder-clouds in the heavens--that
the world was not perfectly happy and tranquil, while he himself was so.  When his nephew was
old enough to comprehend him, Baron Tonnelier was no longer peer of France; but being one who
does himself no hurt--and sometimes much good by a fall, he filled a high office under the
new government. He endeavored to discharge its duties conscientiously, as he had those of the
preceding reign.

He spoke with peculiar ease of suppressing this or that journal--such an orator, such a book;
of suppressing everything, in short, except himself. In his view, France had been in the wrong
road since 1789, and he sought to lead her back from that fatal date.

Nevertheless, he never spoke of returning, in his proper person, to his grandfather's mill;
which, to say the least, was inconsistent.  Had Liberty been mother to this old gentleman,
and had he met her in a clump of woods, he would have strangled her.  We regret to add that
he had the habit of terming "old duffers" such ministers as he suspected of liberal views,
and especially such as were in favor of popular education.  A more hurtful counsellor never
approached a throne; but luckily, while near it in office, he was far from it in influence.

He was still a charming man, gallant and fresh--more gallant, however, than fresh.  Consequently
his habits were not too good, and he haunted the greenroom of the opera.  He had two daughters,
recently married, before whom he repeated the most piquant witticisms of Voltaire, and the
most improper stories of Tallemant de Reaux; and consequently both promised to afford the scandalmongers
a series of racy anecdotes, as their mother had before them.

While Louis de Camors was learning rapidly, by the association and example of the collateral
branches of his family, to defy equally all principles and all convictions, his terrible father
finished the task.

Worldling to the last extreme, depraved to his very core; past-master in the art of Parisian
high life; an unbridled egotist, thinking himself superior to everything because he abased
everything to himself; and, finally, flattering himself for despising all duties, which he
had all his life prided himself on dispensing with--such was his father.  But for all this,
he was the pride of his circle, with a pleasing presence and an indefinable charm of manner.

The father and son saw little of each other.  M. de Camors was too proud to entangle his son
in his own debaucheries; but the course of every-day life sometimes brought them together at
meal-time.  He would then listen with cool mockery to the enthusiastic or despondent speeches
of the youth.  He never deigned to argue seriously, but responded in a few bitter words, that
fell like drops of sleet on the few sparks still glowing in the son's heart.

Becoming gradually discouraged, the latter lost all taste for work, and gave himself up, more
and more, to the idle pleasures of his position. Abandoning himself wholly to these, he threw
into them all the seductions of his person, all the generosity of his character--but at the
same time a sadness always gloomy, sometimes desperate.

The bitter malice he displayed, however, did not prevent his being loved by women and renowned
among men.  And the latter imitated him.

He aided materially in founding a charming school of youth without smiles.  His air of ennui
and lassitude, which with him at least had the excuse of a serious foundation, was servilely
copied by the youth around him, who never knew any greater distress than an overloaded stomach,
but whom it pleased, nevertheless, to appear faded in their flower and contemptuous of human
nature.

We have seen Camors in this phase of his existence.  But in reality nothing was more foreign
to him than the mask of careless disdain that the young man assumed.  Upon falling into the
common ditch, he, perhaps, had one advantage over his fellows: he did not make his bed with
base resignation; he tried persistently to raise himself from it by a violent struggle, only
to be hurled upon it once more.

Strong souls do not sleep easily: indifference weighs them down.

They demand a mission--a motive for action--and faith.

Louis de Camors was yet to find his.

CHAPTER IV

A NEW ACTRESS IN A NOVEL ROLE

Louis de Camor's father had not I told him all in that last letter.

Instead of leaving him a fortune, he left him only embarrassments, for he was three fourths
ruined.  The disorder of his affairs had begun a long time before, and it was to repair them
that he had married; a process that had not proved successful.  A large inheritance on which
he had relied as coming to his wife went elsewhere--to endow a charity hospital. The Comte
de Camors began a suit to recover it before the tribunal of the Council of State, but compromised
it for an annuity of thirty thousand francs.  This stopped at his death.  He enjoyed, besides,
several fat sinecures, which his name, his social rank, and his personal address secured him
from some of the great insurance companies.  But these resources did not survive him; he only
rented the house he had occupied; and the young Comte de Camors found himself suddenly reduced
to the provision of his mother's dowry--a bare pittance to a man of his habits and rank.

His father had often assured him he could leave him nothing, so the son was accustomed to look
forward to this situation.  Therefore, when he realized it, he was neither surprised nor revolted
by the improvident egotism of which he was the victim.  His reverence for his father continued
unabated, and he did not read with the less respect or confidence the singular missive which
figures at the beginning of this story.  The moral theories which this letter advanced were
not new to him.  They were a part of the very atmosphere around him; he had often revolved
them in his feverish brain; yet, never before had they appeared to him in the condensed form
of a dogma, with the clear precision of a practical code; nor as now, with the authorization
of such a voice and of such an example.

One incident gave powerful aid in confirming the impression of these last pages on his mind.
Eight days after his father's death, he was reclining on the lounge in his smoking-room, his
face dark as night and as his thoughts, when a servant entered and handed him a card.  He took
it listlessly, and read" Lescande, architect."  Two red spots rose to his pale cheeks--"I do
not see any one," he said.

"So I told this gentleman," replied the servant, "but he insists in such an extraordinary manner--"

"In an extraordinary manner?"

"Yes, sir; as if he had something very serious to communicate."

"Something serious--aha!  Then let him in."  Camors rose and paced the chamber, a smile of
bitter mockery wreathing his lips.  "And must I now kill him?"  he muttered between his teeth.

Lescande entered, and his first act dissipated the apprehension his conduct had caused.  He
rushed to the young Count and seized him by both hands, while Camors remarked that his face
was troubled and his lips trembled.  "Sit down and be calm," he said.

"My friend," said the other, after a pause, "I come late to see you, for which I crave pardon;
but--I am myself so miserable!  See, I am in mourning!"

Camors felt a chill run to his very marrow.  "In mourning! and why?"  he asked, mechanically.

"Juliette is dead!"  sobbed Lescande, and covered his eyes with his great hands.

"Great God!"  cried Camors in a hollow voice.  He listened a moment to Lescande's bitter sobs,
then made a movement to take his hand, but dared not do it.  "Great God! is it possible?" 
he repeated.

"It was so sudden!"  sobbed Lescande, brokenly.  "It seems like a dream-- a frightful dream!
You know the last time you visited us she was not well.  You remember I told you she had wept
all day.  Poor child!  The morning of my return she was seized with congestion--of the lungs--of
the brain--I don't know!--but she is dead!  And so good!--so gentle, so loving! to the last
moment!  Oh, my friend!  my friend!  A few moments before she died, she called me to her side.
'Oh, I love you so!  I love you so!' she said.  'I never loved any but you--you only!  Pardon
me!-- oh, pardon me!'  Pardon her, poor child!  My God, for what?  for dying? --for she never
gave me a moment's grief before in this world.  Oh, God of mercy!"

"I beseech you, my friend--"

"Yes, yes, I do wrong.  You also have your griefs.

"But we are all selfish, you know.  However, it was not of that that I came to speak.  Tell
me--I know not whether a report I hear is correct. Pardon me if I mistake, for you know I never
would dream of offending you; but they say that you have been left in very bad circumstances.
If this is indeed so, my friend--"

"It is not," interrupted Camors, abruptly.

"Well, if it were--I do not intend keeping my little house.  Why should I, now?  My little
son can wait while I work for him.  Then, after selling my house, I shall have two hundred
thousand francs.  Half of this is yours--return it when you can!"

"I thank you, my unselfish friend," replied Camors, much moved, "but I need nothing.  My affairs
are disordered, it is true; but I shall still remain richer than you."

"Yes, but with your tastes--"

"Well?"

"At all events, you know where to find me.  I may count upon you--may I not?"

"You may."

"Adieu, my friend!  I can do you no good now; but I shall see you again --shall I not?"

"Yes--another time."

Lescande departed, and the young Count remained immovable, with his features convulsed and
his eyes fixed on vacancy.

This moment decided his whole future.

Sometimes a man feels a sudden, unaccountable impulse to smother in himself all human love
and sympathy.

In the presence of this unhappy man, so unworthily treated, so broken- spirited, so confiding,
Camors--if there be any truth in old spiritual laws--should have seen himself guilty of an
atrocious act, which should have condemned him to a remorse almost unbearable.

But if it were true that the human herd was but the product of material forces in nature, producing,
haphazard, strong beings and weak ones-- lambs and lions--he had played only the lion's part
in destroying his companion.  He said to himself, with his father's letter beneath his eyes,
that this was the fact; and the reflection calmed him.

The more he thought, that day and the next, in depth of the retreat in which he had buried
himself, the more was he persuaded that this doctrine was that very truth which he had sought,
and which his father had bequeathed to him as the whole rule of his life.  His cold and barren
heart opened with a voluptuous pleasure under this new flame that filled and warmed it.

From this moment he possessed a faith--a principle of action--a plan of life--all that he needed;
and was no longer oppressed by doubts, agitation, and remorse.  This doctrine, if not the most
elevated, was at least above the level of the most of mankind.  It satisfied his pride and
justified his scorn.

To preserve his self-esteem, it was only necessary for him to preserve his honor, to do nothing
low, as his father had said; and he determined never to do anything which, in his eyes, partook
of that character. Moreover, were there not men he himself had met thoroughly steeped in materialism,
who were yet regarded as the most honorable men of their day?

Perhaps he might have asked himself whether this incontestable fact might not, in part, have
been attributed rather to the individual than to the doctrine; and whether men's beliefs did
not always influence their actions.  However that might have been, from the date of this crisis
Louis de Camors made his father's will the rule of his life.

To develop in all their strength the physical and intellectual gifts which he possessed; to
make of himself the polished type of the civilization of the times; to charm women and control
men; to revel in all the joys of intellect, of the senses, and of rank; to subdue as servile
instincts all natural sentiments; to scorn, as chimeras and hypocrisies, all vulgar beliefs;
to love nothing, fear nothing, respect nothing, save honor--such, in fine, were the duties
which he recognized, and the rights which he arrogated to himself.

It was with these redoubtable weapons, and strengthened by a keen intelligence and vigorous
will, that he would return to the world--his brow calm and grave, his eye caressing while unyielding,
a smile upon his lips, as men had known him.

From this moment there was no cloud either upon his mind or upon his face, which wore the aspect
of perpetual youth.  He determined, above all, not to retrench, but to preserve, despite the
narrowness of his present fortune, those habits of elegant luxury in which he still might indulge
for several years, by the expenditure of his principal.

Both pride and policy gave him this council in an equal degree.  He was not ignorant that the
world is as cold toward the needy as it is warm to those not needing its countenance.  Had
he been thus ignorant, the attitude of his family, just after the death of his father, would
have opened his eyes to the fact.

His aunt de la Roche-Jugan and his uncle Tonnelier manifested toward him the cold circumspection
of people who suspected they were dealing with a ruined man.  They had even, for greater security,
left Paris, and neglected to notify the young Count in what retreat they had chosen to hide
their grief.  Nevertheless he was soon to learn it, for while he was busied in settling his
father's affairs and organizing his own projects of fortune and ambition, one fine morning
in August he met with a lively surprise.

He counted among his relatives one of the richest landed proprietors of France, General the
Marquis de Campvallon d'Armignes, celebrated for his fearful outbursts in the Corps Legislatif.
He had a voice of thunder, and when he rolled out, "Bah!  Enough!  Stop this order of the day!"
the senate trembled, and the government commissioners bounced on their chairs.  Yet he was
the best fellow in the world, although he had killed two fellow-creatures in duels--but then
he had his reasons for that.

Camors knew him but slightly, paid him the necessary respect that politeness demanded toward
a relative; met him sometimes at the club, over a game of whist, and that was all.

Two years before, the General had lost a nephew, the direct heir to his name and fortune. 
Consequently he was hunted by an eager pack of cousins and relatives; and Madame de la Roche-Jugan
and the Baroness Tonnelier gave tongue in their foremost rank.

Camors was indifferent, and had, since that event, been particularly reserved in his intercourse
with the General.  Therefore he was considerably astonished when he received the following letter:

     "DEAR KINSMAN:

     "Your two aunts and their families are with me in the country.
     When it is agreeable to you to join them, I shall always feel happy
     to give a cordial greeting to the son of an old friend and
     companion-in-arms.

     "I presented myself at your house before leaving Paris, but you were
     not visible.

     "Believe me, I comprehend your grief: that you have experienced an
     irreparable loss, in which I sympathize with you most sincerely.

     "Receive, my dear kinsman, the best wishes of
               GENERAL, THE MARQUIS DE CAMPVALLON D'ARMIGNES.

     "CHATEAU DE CAMPVALLON, Voie de l'ouest.

     "P.S.--It is probable, my young cousin, that I may have something of
     interest to communicate to you!"

This last sentence, and the exclamation mark that followed it, failed not to shake slightly
the impassive calm that Camors was at that moment cultivating.  He could not help seeing, as
in a mirror, under the veil of the mysterious postscript, the reflection of seven hundred thousand
francs of ground-rent which made the splendid income of the General. He recalled that his father,
who had served some time in Africa, had been attached to the staff of M. de Campvallon as aide-de-camp,
and that he had besides rendered him a great service of a different nature.

Notwithstanding that he felt the absurdity of these dreams, and wished to keep his heart free
from them, he left the next day for Campvallon. After enjoying for seven or eight hours all
the comforts and luxuries the Western line is reputed to afford its guests, Camors arrived
in the evening at the station, where the General's carriage awaited him.  The seignorial pile
of the Chateau Campvallon soon appeared to him on a height, of which the sides were covered
with magnificent woods, sloping down nearly to the plain, there spreading out widely.

It was almost the dinner-hour; and the young man, after arranging his toilet, immediately descended
to the drawing-room, where his presence seemed to throw a wet blanket over the assembled circle.
To make up for this, the General gave him the warmest welcome; only--as he had a short memory
or little imagination--he found nothing better to say than to repeat the expressions of his
letter, while squeezing his hand almost to the point of fracture.

"The son of my old friend and companion-in-arms," he cried; and the words rang out in such
a sonorous voice they seemed to impress even himself-- for it was noticeable that after a remark,
the General always seemed astonished, as if startled by the words that came out of his mouth--and
that seemed suddenly to expand the compass of his ideas and the depth of his sentiments.

To complete his portrait: he was of medium size, square, and stout; panting when he ascended
stairs, or even walking on level ground; a face massive and broad as a mask, and reminding
one of those fabled beings who blew fire from their nostrils; a huge moustache, white and grizzly;
small gray eyes, always fixed, like those of a doll, but still terrible.  He marched toward
a man slowly, imposingly, with eyes fixed, as if beginning a duel to the death, and demanded
of him imperatively--the time of day!

Camors well knew this innocent weakness of his host, but, notwithstanding, was its dupe for
one instant during the evening.

They had left the dining-table, and he was standing carelessly in the alcove of a window, holding
a cup of coffee, when the General approached him from the extreme end of the room with a severe
yet confidential expression, which seemed to preface an announcement of the greatest importance.

The postscript rose before him.  He felt he was to have an immediate explanation.

The General approached, seized him by the buttonhole, and withdrawing him from the depth of
the recess, looked into his eyes as if he wished to penetrate his very soul.  Suddenly he spoke,
in his thunderous voice. He said:

"What do you take in the morning, young man?"

"Tea, General."

"Aha!  Then give your orders to Pierre--just as if you were at home;" and, turning on his heel
and joining the ladies, he left Camors to digest his little comedy as he might.

Eight days passed.  Twice the General made his guest the object of his formidable advance.
The first time, having put him out of countenance, he contented himself with exclaiming:

"Well, young man!"  and turned on his heel.

The next time he bore down upon Camors, he said not a word, and retired in silence.

Evidently the General had not the slightest recollection of the postscript.  Camors tried to
be contented, but would continually ask himself why he had come to Campvallon, in the midst
of his family, of whom he was not overfond, and in the depths of the country, which he execrated.
Luckily, the castle boasted a library well stocked with works on civil and international law,
jurisprudence, and political economy. He took advantage of it; and, resuming the thread of
those serious studies which had been broken off during his period of hopelessness, plunged
into those recondite themes that pleased his active intelligence and his awakened ambition.
Thus he waited patiently until politeness would permit him to bring to an explanation the former
friend and companion-in-arms of his father.  In the morning he rode on horseback; gave a lesson
in fencing to his cousin Sigismund, the son of Madame de la Roche-Jugan; then shut himself
up in the library until the evening, which he passed at bezique with the General.  Meantime
he viewed with the eye of a philosopher the strife of the covetous relatives who hovered around
their rich prey.

Madame de la Roche-Jugan had invented an original way of making herself agreeable to the General,
which was to persuade him he had disease of the heart.  She continually felt his pulse with
her plump hand, sometimes reassuring him, and at others inspiring him with a salutary terror,
although he denied it.

"Good heavens!  my dear cousin!"  he would exclaim, "let me alone.  I know I am mortal like
everybody else.  What of that?  But I see your aim- it is to convert me!  Ta-ta!"

She not only wished to convert him, but to marry him, and bury him besides.

She based her hopes in this respect chiefly on her son Sigismund; knowing that the General
bitterly regretted having no one to inherit his name. He had but to marry Madame de la Roche-Jugan
and adopt her son to banish this care.  Without a single allusion to this fact, the Countess
failed not to turn the thoughts of the General toward it with all the tact of an accomplished
intrigante, with all the ardor of a mother, and with all the piety of an unctuous devotee.

Her sister, the Baroness Tonnelier, bitterly confessed her own disadvantage.  She was not a
widow.  And she had no son.  But she had two daughters, both of them graceful, very elegant
and sparkling.  One was Madame Bacquiere, the wife of a broker; the other, Madame Van-Cuyp,
wife of a young Hollander, doing business at Paris.

Both interpreted life and marriage gayly; both floated from one year into another dancing,
riding, hunting, coquetting, and singing recklessly the most risque songs of the minor theatres.
Formerly, Camors, in his pensive mood, had taken an aversion to these little examples of modern
feminine frivolity.  Since he had changed his views of life he did them more justice.  He said,
calmly:

"They are pretty little animals that follow their instincts."

Mesdames Bacquiere and Van-Cuyp, instigated by their mother, applied themselves assiduously
to making the General feel all the sacred joys that cluster round the domestic hearth.  They
enlivened his household, exercised his horses, killed his game, and tortured his piano.  They
seemed to think that the General, once accustomed to their sweetness and animation, could not
do without it, and that their society would become indispensable to him.  They mingled, too,
with their adroit manoeuvres, familiar and delicate attentions, likely to touch an old man.
They sat on his knees like children, played gently with his moustache, and arranged in the
latest style the military knot of his cravat.

Madame de la Roche-Jugan never ceased to deplore confidentially to the General the unfortunate
education of her nieces; while the Baroness, on her side, lost no opportunity of holding up
in bold relief the emptiness, impertinence, and sulkiness of young Count Sigismund.

In the midst of these honorable conflicts one person, who took no part in them, attracted the
greatest share of Camors's interest; first for her beauty and afterward for her qualities.
This was an orphan of excellent family, but very poor, of whom Madame de la Roche-Jugan and
Madame Tonnelier had taken joint charge.  Mademoiselle Charlotte de Luc d'Estrelles passed
six months of each year with the Countess and six with the Baroness.  She was twenty-five years
of age, tall and blonde, with deep-set eyes under the shadow of sweeping, black lashes.  Thick
masses of hair framed her sad but splendid brow; and she was badly, or rather poorly dressed,
never condescending to wear the cast-off clothes of her relatives, but preferring gowns of
simplest material made by her own hands.  These draperies gave her the appearance of an antique
statue.

Her Tonnelier cousins nicknamed her "the goddess."  They hated her; she despised them.  The
name they gave her, however, was marvellously suitable.

When she walked, you would have imagined she had descended from a pedestal; the pose of her
head was like that of the Greek Venus; her delicate, dilating nostrils seemed carved by a cunning
chisel from transparent ivory.  She had a startled, wild air, such as one sees in pictures
of huntress nymphs.  She used a naturally fine voice with great effect; and had already cultivated,
so far as she could, a taste for art.

She was naturally so taciturn one was compelled to guess her thoughts; and long since Camors
had reflected as to what was passing in that self- centred soul.  Inspired by his innate generosity,
as well as his secret admiration, he took pleasure in heaping upon this poor cousin the attentions
he might have paid a queen; but she always seemed as indifferent to them as she was to the
opposite course of her involuntary benefactress.  Her position at Campvallon was very odd.
After Camors's arrival, she was more taciturn than ever; absorbed, estranged, as if meditating
some deep design, she would suddenly raise the long lashes of her blue eyes, dart a rapid glance
here and there, and finally fix it on Camors, who would feel himself tremble under it.

One afternoon, when he was seated in the library, he heard a gentle tap at the door, and Mademoiselle
entered, looking very pale.  Somewhat astonished, he rose and saluted her.

"I wish to speak with you, cousin," she said.  The accent was pure and grave, but slightly
touched with evident emotion.  Camors stared at her, showed her to a divan, and took a chair
facing her.

"You know very little of me, cousin," she continued, "but I am frank and courageous.  I will
come at once to the object that brings me here.  Is it true that you are ruined?"

"Why do you ask, Mademoiselle?"

"You always have been very good to me--you only.  I am very grateful to you; and I also--"
She stopped, dropped her eyes, and a bright flush suffused her cheeks.  Then she bent her head,
smiling like one who has regained courage under difficulty.  "Well, then," she resumed, "I
am ready to devote my life to you.  You will deem me very romantic, but I have wrought out
of our united poverty a very charming picture, I believe.  I am sure I should make an excellent
wife for the husband I loved.  If you must leave France, as they tell me you must, I will follow
you--I will be your brave and faithful helpmate.  Pardon me, one word more, Monsieur de Camors.
My proposition would be immodest if it concealed any afterthought.  It conceals none.  I am
poor.  I have but fifteen hundred francs' income.  If you are richer than I, consider I have
said nothing; for nothing in the world would then induce me to marry you!"

She paused; and with a manner of mingled yearning, candor, and anguish, fixed on him her large
eyes full of fire.

There was a solemn pause.  Between these strange natures, both high and noble, a terrible destiny
seemed pending at this moment, and both felt it.

At length Camors responded in a grave, calm voice: "It is impossible, Mademoiselle, that you
can appreciate the trial to which you expose me; but I have searched my heart, and I there
find nothing worthy of you. Do me the justice to believe that my decision is based neither
upon your fortune nor upon my own: but I am resolved never to marry."  She sighed deeply, and
rose.  "Adieu, cousin," she said.

"I beg--I pray you to remain one moment," cried the young man, reseating her with gentle force
upon the sofa.  He walked half across the room to repress his agitation; then leaning on a
table near the young girl, said:

"Mademoiselle Charlotte, you are unhappy; are you not?"

"A little, perhaps," she answered.

"I do not mean at this moment, but always?"

"Always!"

"Aunt de la Roche-Jugan treats you harshly?"

"Undoubtedly; she dreads that I may entrap her son.  Good heavens!"

"The little Tonneliers are jealous of you, and Uncle Tonnelier torments you?"

"Basely!"  she said; and two tears swam on her eyelashes, then glistened like diamonds on her
cheek.

"And what do you believe of the religion of our aunt?"

"What would you have me believe of religion that bestows no virtue-- restrains no vice?"

"Then you are a non-believer?"

"One may believe in God and the Gospel without believing in the religion of our aunt."

"But she will drive you into a convent.  Why, then, do you not enter one?"

"I love life," the girl said.

He looked at her silently a moment, then continued "Yes, you love life-- the sunlight, the
thoughts, the arts, the luxuries--everything that is beautiful, like yourself.  Then, Mademoiselle
Charlotte, all these are in your hands; why do you not grasp them?"

"How?"  she queried, surprised and somewhat startled.

"If you have, as I believe you have, as much strength of soul as intelligence and beauty, you
can escape at once and forever the miserable servitude fate has imposed upon you.  Richly endowed
as you are, you might become to-morrow a great artiste, independent, feted, rich, adored --the
mistress of Paris and of the world!"

"And yours also?--No!"  said this strange girl.

"Pardon, Mademoiselle Charlotte.  I did not suspect you of any improper idea, when you offered
to share my uncertain fortunes.  Render me, I pray you, the same justice at this moment.  My
moral principles are very lax, it is true, but I am as proud as yourself.  I never shall reach
my aim by any subterfuge.  No; strive to study art.  I find you beautiful and seductive, but
I am governed by sentiments superior to personal interests.  I was profoundly touched by your
sympathetic leaning toward me, and have sought to testify my gratitude by friendly counsel.
Since, however, you now suspect me of striving to corrupt you for my own ends, I am silent,
Mademoiselle, and permit you to depart."

"Pray proceed, Monsieur de Camors."

"You will then listen to me with confidence?"

"I will do so."

"Well, then, Mademoiselle, you have seen little of the world, but you have seen enough to judge
and to be certain of the value of its esteem. The world!  That is your family and mine: Monsieur
and Madame Tonnelier, Monsieur and Madame de la Roche-Jugan, and the little Sigismund!"

"Well, then, Mademoiselle Charlotte, the day that you become a great artiste, rich, triumphant,
idolized, wealthy--drinking, in deep draughts, all the joys of life--that day Uncle Tonnelier
will invoke outraged morals, our aunt will swoon with prudery in the arms of her old lovers,
and Madame de la Roche-Jugan will groan and turn her yellow eyes to heaven!  But what will
all that matter to you?"

"Then, Monsieur, you advise me to lead an immoral life."

"By no manner of means.  I only urge you, in defiance of public opinion, to become an actress,
as the only sure road to independence, fame, and fortune.  And besides, there is no law preventing
an actress marrying and being 'honorable,' as the world understands the word.  You have heard
of more than one example of this."

"Without mother, family, or protector, it would be an extraordinary thing for me to do!  I
can not fail to see that sooner or later I should be a lost girl."

Camors remained silent.  "Why do you not answer?"  she asked.

"Heavens!  Mademoiselle, because this is so delicate a subject, and our ideas are so different
about it.  I can not change mine; I must leave you yours.  As for me, I am a very pagan."

"How?  Are good and bad indifferent to you?"

"No; but to me it seems bad to fear the opinion of people one despises, to practise what one
does not believe, and to yield before prejudices and phantoms of which one knows the unreality.
It is bad to be a slave or a hypocrite, as are three fourths of the world.  Evil is ugliness,
ignorance, folly, and baseness.  Good is beauty, talent, ability, and courage!  That is all."

"And God?"  the girl cried.  He did not reply.  She looked fixedly at him a moment without
catching the eyes he kept turned from her.  Her head drooped heavily; then raising it suddenly,
she said: "There are sentiments men can not understand.  In my bitter hours I have often dreamed
of this free life you now advise; but I have always recoiled before one thought--only one."

"And that?"

"Perhaps the sentiment is not peculiar to me--perhaps it is excessive pride, but I have a great
regard for myself--my person is sacred to me. Should I come to believe in nothing, like you--and
I am far from that yet, thank God!--I should even then remain honest and true--faithful to
one love, simply from pride.  I should prefer," she added, in a voice deep and sustained, but
somewhat strained, "I should prefer to desecrate an altar rather than myself!"

Saying these words, she rose, made a haughty movement of the head in sign of an adieu, and
left the room.

CHAPTER V

THE COUNT LOSES A LADY AND FINDS A MISSION

Camors sat for some time plunged in thought.

He was astonished at the depths he had discovered in her character; he was displeased with
himself without well knowing why; and, above all, he was much struck by his cousin.

However, as he had but a slight opinion of the sincerity of women, he persuaded himself that
Mademoiselle de Luc d'Estrelles, when she came to offer him her heart and hand, nevertheless
knew he was not altogether a despicable match for her.  He said to himself that a few years
back he might have been duped by her apparent sincerity, and congratulated himself on not having
fallen into this attractive snare--on not having listened to the first promptings of credulity
and sincere emotion.

He might have spared himself these compliments.  Mademoiselle de Luc d'Estrelles, as he was
soon to discover, had been in that perfectly frank, generous, and disinterested state of mind
in which women sometimes are.

Only, would it happen to him to find her so in the future?  That was doubtful, thanks to M.
de Camors.  It often happens that by despising men too much, we degrade them; in suspecting
women too much, we lose them.

About an hour passed; there was another rap at the library door.  Camors felt a slight palpitation
and a secret wish that it should prove Mademoiselle Charlotte.

It was the General who entered.  He advanced with measured stride, puffed like some sea-monster,
and seized Camors by the lapel of his coat.  Then he said, impressively:

"Well, young gentleman!"

"Well, General."

"What are you doing in here?"

"Oh, I am at work."

"At work?  Um!  Sit down there--sit down, sit down!"  He threw himself on the sofa where Mademoiselle
had been, which rather changed the perspective for Camors.

"Well, well!"  he repeated, after a long pause.

"But what then, General?"

"What then?  The deuce!  Why, have you not noticed that I have been for some days extraordinarily
agitated?"

"No, General, I have not noticed it."

"You are not very observing!  I am extraordinarily agitated--enough to fatigue the eyes.  So
agitated, upon my word of honor, that there are moments when I am tempted to believe your aunt
is right: that I have disease of the heart!"

"Bah, General!  My aunt is dreaming; you have the pulse of an infant."

"You believe so, really?  I do not fear death; but it is always annoying to think of it.  But
I am too much agitated--it is necessary to put a stop to it.  You understand?"

"Perfectly; but how can it concern me?"

"Concern you?  You are about to hear.  You are my cousin, are you not?"

"Truly, General, I have that honor."

"But very distant, eh?  I have thirty-six cousins as near as you, and-- the devil!  To speak
plainly, I owe you nothing."

"And I have never demanded payment even of that, General."

"Ah, I know that!  Well, you are my cousin, very far removed!  But you are more than that.
Your father saved my life in the Atlas.  He has related it all to you--No?  Well, that does
not astonish me; for he was no braggart, that father of yours; he was a man!  Had he not quitted
the army, a brilliant career was before him.  People talk a great deal of Pelissier, of Canrobert,
of MacMahon, and of others.  I say nothing against them; they are good men doubtless--at least
I hear so; but your father would have eclipsed them all had he taken the trouble.  But he didn't
take the trouble!

"Well, for the story: We were crossing a gorge of the Atlas; we were in retreat; I had lost
my command; I was following as a volunteer.  It is useless to weary you with details; we were
in retreat; a shower of stones and bullets poured upon us, as if from the moon.  Our column
was slightly disordered; I was in the rearguard--whack!  my horse was down, and I under him!

We were in a narrow gorge with sloping sides some fifteen feet high; five dirty guerillas slid
down the sides and fell upon me and on the beast-- forty devils!  I can see them now!  Just
here the gorge took a sudden turn, so no one could see my trouble; or no one wished to see
it, which comes to the same thing.

"I have told you things were in much disorder; and I beg you to remember that with a dead horse
and five live Arabs on top of me, I was not very comfortable.  I was suffocating; in fact,
I was devilish far from comfortable.

"Just then your father ran to my assistance, like the noble fellow he was!  He drew me from
under my horse; he fell upon the Arabs.  When I was up, I aided him a little--but that is nothing
to the point--I never shall forget him!"

There was a pause, when the General added:

"Let us understand each other, and speak plainly.  Would it be very repugnant to your feelings
to have seven hundred thousand francs a year, and to be called, after me, Marquis de Campvallon
d'Armignes?  Come, speak up, and give me an answer."

The young Count reddened slightly.

"My name is Camors," he said, gently.

"What!  You would not wish me to adopt you?  You refuse to become the heir of my name and of
my fortune?"

"Yes, General."

"Do you not wish time to reflect upon it?"

"No, General.  I am sincerely grateful for your goodness; your generous intentions toward me
touch me deeply, but in a question of honor I never reflect or hesitate."

The General puffed fiercely, like a locomotive blowing off steam.  Then he rose and took two
or three turns up and down the gallery, shuffling his feet, his chest heaving.  Then he returned
and reseated himself.

"What are your plans for the future?"  he asked, abruptly.

"I shall try, in the first place, General, to repair my fortune, which is much shattered. 
I am not so great a stranger to business as people suppose, and my father's connections and
my own will give me a footing in some great financial or industrial enterprise.  Once there,
I shall succeed by force of will and steady work.  Besides, I shall fit myself for public life,
and aspire, when circumstances permit me, to become a deputy."

"Well, well, a man must do something.  Idleness is the parent of all vices.  See; like yourself,
I am fond of the horse--a noble animal. I approve of racing; it improves the breed of horses,
and aids in mounting our cavalry efficiently.  But sport should be an amusement, not a profession.
Hem!  so you aspire to become a deputy?"

"Assuredly."

"Then I can help you in that, at least.  When you are ready I will send in my resignation,
and recommend to my brave and faithful constituents that you take my place.  Will that suit you?"

"Admirably, General; and I am truly grateful.  But why should you resign?"

"Why?  Well, to be useful to you in the first place; in the second, I am sick of it.  I shall
not be sorry to give personally a little lesson to the government, which I trust will profit
by it.  You know me--I am no Jacobin; at first I thought that would succeed.  But when I see
what is going on!"

"What is going on, General?"

"When I see a Tonnelier a great dignitary!  It makes me long for the pen of Tacitus, on my
word.  When I was retired in 'forty-eight, under a mean and cruel injustice they did me, I
had not reached the age of exemption. I was still capable of good and loyal service; but probably
I could have waited until an amendment.  I found it at least in the confidence of my brave
and faithful constituents.  But, my young friend, one tires of everything.  The Assemblies
at the Luxembourg--I mean the Palace of the Bourbons--fatigue me.  In short, whatever regret
I may feel at parting from my honorable colleagues, and from my faithful constituents, I shall
abdicate my functions whenever you are ready and willing to accept them. Have you not some
property in this district?"

"Yes, General, a little property which belonged to my mother; a small manor, with a little
land round it, called Reuilly."

"Reuilly!  Not two steps from Des Rameures!  Certainly--certainly!  Well, that is one foot
in the stirrup."

"But then there is one difficulty; I am obliged to sell it."

"The devil!  And why?"

"It is all that is left to me, and it only brings me eleven thousand francs a year; and to
embark in business I need capital--a beginning. I prefer not to borrow."

The General rose, and once more his military tramp shook the gallery. Then he threw himself
back on the sofa.

"You must not sell that property!  I owe you nothing, 'tis true, but I have an affection for
you.  You refuse to be my adopted son.  Well, I regret this, and must have recourse to other
projects to aid you.  I warn you I shall try other projects.  You must not sell your lands
if you wish to become a deputy, for the country people--especially those of Des Rameures--will
not hear of it.  Meantime you will need funds.  Permit me to offer you three hundred thousand
francs.  You may return them when you can, without interest, and if you never return them you
will confer a very great favor upon me."

"But in truth, General--"

"Come, come!  Accept it as from a relative--from a friend--from your father's friend--on any
ground you please, so you accept.  If not, you will wound me seriously."

Camors rose, took the General's hand, and pressing it with emotion, said, briefly:

"I accept, sir.  I thank you!"

The General sprang up at these words like a furious lion, his moustache bristling, his nostrils
dilating, his chest heaving.  Staring at the young Count with real ferocity, he suddenly drew
him to his breast and embraced him with great fervor.  Then he strode to the door with his
usual solemnity, and quickly brushing a tear from his cheek, left the room.

The General was a good man; but, like many good people, he had not been happy.  You might smile
at his oddities: you never could reproach him with vices.

He was a small man, but he had a great soul.  Timid at heart, especially with women, he was
delicate, passionate, and chaste.  He had loved but little, and never had been loved at all.
He declared that he had retired from all friendship with women, because of a wrong that he
had suffered. At forty years of age he had married the daughter of a poor colonel who had been
killed by the enemy.  Not long after, his wife had deceived him with one of his aides-de-camp.

The treachery was revealed to him by a rival, who played on this occasion the infamous role
of Iago.  Campvallon laid aside his starred epaulettes, and in two successive duels, still
remembered in Africa, killed on two successive days the guilty one and his betrayer.  His wife
died shortly after, and he was left more lonely than ever.  He was not the man to console himself
with venal love; a gross remark made him blush; the corps de ballet inspired him with terror.
He did not dare to avow it, but the dream of his old age, with his fierce moustache and his
grim countenance, was the devoted love of some young girl, at whose feet he might pour out,
without shame, without distrust even, all the tenderness of his simple and heroic heart.

On the evening of the day which had been marked for Camors by these two interesting episodes,
Mademoiselle de Luc d'Estrelles did not come down to dinner, but sent word she had a headache.
This message was received with a general murmur, and with some sharp remarks from Madame de
la Roche-Jugan, which implied Mademoiselle was not in a position which justified her in having
a headache.  The dinner, however, was not less gay than usual, thanks to Mesdames Bacquiere
and Van-Cuyp, and to their husbands, who had arrived from Paris to pass Sunday with them.

To celebrate this happy meeting, they drank very freely of champagne, talked slang, and imitated
actors, causing much amusement to the servants.  Returning to the drawing-room, these innocent
young things thought it very funny to take their husbands' hats, put their feet in them, and,
thus shod, to run a steeplechase across the room.  Meantime Madame de la Roche-Jagan felt the
General's pulse frequently, and found it variable.

Next morning at breakfast all the General's guests assembled, except Mademoiselle d'Estrelles,
whose headache apparently was no better.  They remarked also the absence of the General, who
was the embodiment of politeness and punctuality.  A sense of uneasiness was beginning to creep
over all, when suddenly the door opened and the General appeared leading Mademoiselle d'Estrelles
by the hand.

The young girl's eyes were red; her face was very pale.  The General's face was scarlet.  He
advanced a few steps, like an actor about to address his audience; cast fierce glances on all
sides of him, and cleared his throat with a sound that echoed like the bass notes of a grand
piano.  Then he spoke in a voice of thunder:

"My dear guests and friends, permit me to present to you the Marquise de Campvallon d'Armignes!"

An iceberg at the North Pole is not colder than was the General's salon at this announcement.

He held the young lady by the hand, and retaining his position in the centre of the room, launched
out fierce glances.  Then his eyes began to wander and roll convulsively in their sockets,
as if he was himself astonished at the effect his announcement had produced.

Camors was the first to come to the rescue, and taking his hand, said: "Accept, my dear General,
my congratulations.  I am extremely happy, and rejoice at your good fortune; the more so, as
I feel the lady is so well worthy of you."  Then, bowing to Mademoiselle d'Estrelles with a
grave grace, he pressed her hand, and turning away, was struck dumb at seeing Madame de la
Roche-Jugan in the arms of the General.  She passed from his into those of Mademoiselle d'Estrelles,
who feared at first, from the violence of the caresses, that there was a secret design to strangle
her.

"General," said Madame de la Roche-Jugan in a plaintive voice, "you remember I always recommended
her to you.  I always spoke well of her. She is my daughter--my second child.  Sigismund, embrace
your sister! You permit it, General?  Ah, we never know how much we love these children until
we lose them!  I always spoke well of her; did I not--Ge-- General?"  And here Madame de la
Roche-Jugan burst into tears.

The General, who began to entertain a high opinion of the Countess's heart, declared that Mademoiselle
d'Estrelles would find in him a friend and father.  After which flattering assurance, Madame
de la Roche-Jugan seated herself in a solitary corner, behind a curtain, whence they heard
sobs and moans issue for a whole hour.  She could not even breakfast; happiness had taken away
her appetite.

The ice once broken, all tried to make themselves agreeable.  The Tonneliers did not behave,
however, with the same warmth as the tender Countess, and it was easy to see that Mesdames
Bacquiere and VanCuyp could not picture to themselves, without envy, the shower of gold and
diamonds about to fall into the lap of their cousin.  Messrs.  Bacquiere and Van-Cuyp were
naturally the first sufferers, and their charming wives made them understand, at intervals
during the day, that they thoroughly despised them.  It was a bitter Sunday for those poor
fellows.  The Tonnelier family also felt that little more was to be done there, and left the
next morning with a very cold adieu.

The conduct of the Countess was more noble.  She declared she would wait upon her dearly beloved
Charlotte from the altar to the very threshold of the nuptial chamber; that she would arrange
her trousseau, and that the marriage should take place from her house.

"Deuce take me, my dear Countess!"  cried the General, "I must declare one thing--you astonish
me.  I was unjust, cruelly unjust, toward you. I reproach myself, on my faith!  I believed
you worldly, interested, not open-hearted.  But you are none of these; you are an excellent
woman-- a heart of gold--a noble soul!  My dear friend, you have found the best way to convert
me.  I have always believed the religion of honor was sufficient for a man--eh, Camors?  But
I am not an unbeliever, my dear Countess, and, on my sacred word, when I see a perfect creature
like you, I desire to believe everything she believes, if only to be pleasant to her!"

When Camors, who was not quite so innocent, asked himself what was the secret of his aunt's
politic conduct, but little effort was necessary to understand it.

Madame de la Roche-Jugan, who had finally convinced herself that the General had an aneurism,
flattered herself that the cares of matrimony would hasten the doom of her old friend.  In
any event, he was past seventy years of age.  But Charlotte was young, and so also was Sigismund.
Sigismund could become tender; if necessary, could quietly court the young Marquise until the
day when he could marry her, with all her appurtenances, over the mausoleum of the General.
It was for this that Madame de la Roche-Jugan, crushed for a moment under the unexpected blow
that ruined her hopes, had modified her tactics and drawn her batteries, so to speak, under
cover of the enemy.  This was what she was contriving while she was weeping behind the curtain.

Camors's personal feelings at the announcement of this marriage were not of the most agreeable
description.  First, he was obliged to acknowledge that he had unjustly judged Mademoiselle
d'Estrelles, and that at the moment of his accusing her of speculating on his small fortune,
she was offering to sacrifice for him the annual seven hundred thousand francs of the General.

He felt his vanity injured, that he had not had the best part of this affair.  Besides, he
felt obliged to stifle from this moment the secret passion with which the beautiful and singular
girl had inspired him. Wife or widow of the General, it was clear that Mademoiselle d'Estrelles
had forever escaped him.  To seduce the wife of this good old man from whom he accepted such
favors, or even to marry her, widowed and rich, after refusing her when poor, were equal unworthiness
and baseness that honor forbade in the same degree and with the same rigor as if this honor,
which he made the only law of his life, were not a mockery and an empty word.

Camors, however, did not fail to comprehend the position in this light, and he resigned himself
to it.

During the four or five days he remained at Campvallon his conduct was perfect.  The delicate
and reserved attentions with which he surrounded Mademoiselle d'Estrelles were tinged with
a melancholy that showed her at the same time his gratitude, his respect, and his regrets.

M. de Campvallon had not less reason to congratulate himself on the conduct of the young Count.
He entered into the folly of his host with affectionate grace.  He spoke to him little of the
beauty of his fiancee: much of her high moral qualities; and let him see his most flattering
confidence in the future of this union.

On the eve of his departure Camors was summoned into the General's study. Handing his young
relative a check for three hundred thousand francs, the General said:

"My dear young friend, I ought to tell you, for the peace of your conscience, that I have informed
Mademoiselle d'Estrelles of this little service I render you.  She has a great deal of love
and affection for you, my dear young friend; be sure of that.

"She therefore received my communication with sincere pleasure.  I also informed her that I
did not intend taking any receipt for this sum, and that no reclamation of it should be made
at any time, on any account.

"Now, my dear Camors, do me one favor.  To tell you my inmost thought, I shall be most happy
to see you carry into execution your project of laudable ambition.  My own new position, my
age, my tastes, and those I perceive in the Marquise, claim all my leisure--all my liberty
of action. Consequently, I desire as soon as possible to present you to my generous and faithful
constituents, as well for the Corps Legislatif as for the General Council.  You had better
make your preliminary arrangements as soon as possible.  Why should you defer it?  You are
very well cultivated--very capable.  Well, let us go ahead--let us begin at once. What do you say?"

"I should prefer, General, to be more mature; but it would be both folly and ingratitude in
me not to accede to your kind wish.  What shall I do first?"

"Well, my young friend, instead of leaving tomorrow for Paris, you must go to your estate at
Reuilly: go there and conquer Des Rameures."

"And who are the Des Rameures, General?"

"You do not know the Des Rameures?  The deuce!  no; you can not know them!  That is unfortunate,
too.

"Des Rameures is a clever fellow, a very clever fellow, and all-powerful in his neighborhood.
He is an original, as you will see; and with him lives his niece, a charming woman.  I tell
you, my boy, you must please them, for Des Rameures is the master of the county.  He protects
me, or else, upon my honor, I should be stopped on the road!"

"But, General, what shall I do to please this Des Rameures?"

"You will see him.  He is, as I tell you, a great oddity.  He has not been in Paris since 1825;
he has a horror of Paris and Parisians.  Very well, it only needs a little tact to flatter
his views on that point.  We always need a little tact in this world, young man."

"But his niece, General?"

"Ah, the deuce!  You must please the niece also.  He adores her, and she manages him completely,
although he grumbles a little sometimes."

"And what sort of woman is she?"

"Oh, a respectable woman--a perfectly respectable woman.  A widow; somewhat a devotee, but
very well informed.  A woman of great merit."

"But what course must I take to please this lady?"

"What course?  By my faith, young man, you ask a great many questions. I never yet learned
to please a woman.  I am green as a goose with them always.  It is a thing I can not understand;
but as for you, my young comrade, you have little need to be instructed in that matter.  You
can't fail to please her; you have only to make yourself agreeable.  But you will know how
to do it--you will conduct yourself like an angel, I am sure."

"Captivate Des Rameures and his niece--this is your advice!"

Early next morning Camors left the Chateau de Campvallon, armed with these imperfect instructions;
and, further, with a letter from the General to Des Rameures.

He went in a hired carriage to his own domain of Reuilly, which lay ten leagues off.  While
making this transit he reflected that the path of ambition was not one of roses; and that it
was hard for him, at the outset of his enterprise, to by compelled to encounter two faces likely
to be as disquieting as those of Des Rameures and his niece.

CHAPTER VI

THE OLD DOMAIN OF REUILLY

The domain of Reuilly consisted of two farms and of a house of some pretension, inhabited formerly
by the maternal family of M. de Camors. He had never before seen this property when he reached
it on the evening of a beautiful summer day.  A long and gloomy avenue of elms, interlacing
their thick branches, led to the dwelling-house, which was quite unequal to the imposing approach
to it; for it was but an inferior construction of the past century, ornamented simply by a
gable and a bull's-eye, but flanked by a lordly dovecote.

It derived a certain air of dignity from two small terraces, one above the other, in front
of it, while the triple flight of steps was supported by balusters of granite.  Two animals,
which had once, perhaps, resembled lions, were placed one upon each side of the balustrade
at the platform of the highest terrace; and they had been staring there for more than a hundred
and fifty years.  Behind the house stretched the garden; and in its midst, mounted on a stone
arch, stood a dismal sun-dial with hearts and spades painted between its figures; while the
trees around it were trimmed into the shapes of confessionals and chess-pawns.  To the right,
a labyrinth of young trees, similarly clipped in the fashion of the time, led by a thousand
devious turns to a mysterious valley, where one heard continually a low, sad murmur.  This
proceeded from a nymph in terra- cotta, from whose urn dripped, day and night, a thin rill
of water into a small fishpond, bordered by grand old poplars, whose shadows threw upon its
surface, even at mid-day, the blackness of Acheron.

Camors's first reflection at viewing this prospect was an exceedingly painful one; and the
second was even more so.

At another time he would doubtless have taken an interest in searching through these souvenirs
of the past for traces of an infant nurtured there, who had a mother, and who had perhaps loved
these old relics.  But his system did not admit of sentiment, so he crushed the ideas that
crowded to his mind, and, after a rapid glance around him, called for his dinner.

The old steward and his wife--who for thirty years had been the sole inhabitants of Reuilly--had
been informed of his coming.  They had spent the day in cleaning and airing the house; an operation
which added to the discomfort they sought to remove, and irritated the old residents of the
walls, while it disturbed the sleep of hoary spiders in their dusty webs. A mixed odor of the
cellar, of the sepulchre, and of an old coach, struck Camors when he penetrated into the principal
room, where his dinner was to be served.

Taking up one or two flickering candles, the like of which he had never seen before, Camors
proceeded to inspect the quaint portraits of his ancestors, who seemed to stare at him in great
surprise from their cracked canvases.  They were a dilapidated set of old nobles, one having
lost a nose, another an arm, others again sections of their faces.  One of them--a chevalier
of St. Louis--had received a bayonet thrust through the centre in the riotous times of the
Revolution; but he still smiled at Camors, and sniffed at a flower, despite the daylight shining
through him.

Camors finished his inspection, thinking to himself they were a highly respectable set of ancestors,
but not worth fifteen francs apiece.  The housekeeper had passed half the previous night in
slaughtering various dwellers in the poultry-yard; and the results of the sacrifice now successively
appeared, swimming in butter.  Happily, however, the fatherly kindness of the General had despatched
a hamper of provisions from Campvallon, and a few slices of pate, accompanied by sundry glasses
of Chateau-Yquem helped the Count to combat the dreary sadness with which his change of residence,
solitude, the night, and the smoke of his candles, all conspired to oppress him.

Regaining his usual good spirits, which had deserted him for a moment, he tried to draw out
the old steward, who was waiting on him.  He strove to glean from him some information of the
Des Rameures; but the old servant, like every Norman peasant, held it as a tenet of faith that
he who gave a plain answer to any question was a dishonored man.  With all possible respect
he let Camors understand plainly that he was not to be deceived by his affected ignorance into
any belief that M. le Comte did not know a great deal better than he who and what M. des Rameures
was--where he lived, and what he did; that M. le Comte was his master, and as such was entitled
to his respect, but that he was nevertheless a Parisian, and-- as M. des Rameures said--all
Parisians were jesters.

Camors, who had taken an oath never to get angry, kept it now; drew from the General's old
cognac a fresh supply of patience, lighted a cigar, and left the room.

For a few moments he leaned over the balustrade of the terrace and looked around.  The night,
clear and beautiful, enveloped in its shadowy veil the widestretching fields, and a solemn
stillness, strange to Parisian ears, reigned around him, broken only at intervals by the distant
bay of a hound, rising suddenly, and dying into peace again.  His eyes becoming accustomed
to the darkness, Camors descended the terrace stairs and passed into the old avenue, which
was darker and more solemn than a cathedral-aisle at midnight, and thence into an open road
into which it led by chance.

Strictly speaking, Camors had never, until now, been out of Paris; for wherever he had previously
gone, he had carried its bustle, worldly and artificial life, play, and the races with him;
and the watering-places and the seaside had never shown him true country, or provincial life.
It gave him a sensation for the first time; but the sensation was an odious one.

As he advanced up this silent road, without houses or lights, it seemed to him he was wandering
amid the desolation of some lunar region.  This part of Normandy recalled to him the least
cultivated parts of Brittany. It was rustic and savage, with its dense shrubbery, tufted grass,
dark valleys, and rough roads.

Some dreamers love this sweet but severe nature, even at night; they love the very things that
grated most upon the pampered senses of Camors, who strode on in deep disgust, flattering himself,
however, that he should soon reach the Boulevard de Madeleine.  But he found, instead, peasants'
huts scattered along the side of the road, their low, mossy roofs seeming to spring from the
rich soil like an enormous fungus growth.  Two or three of the dwellers in these huts were
taking the fresh evening air on their thresholds, and Camors could distinguish through the
gloom their heavy figures and limbs, roughened by coarse toil in the fields, as they stood
mute, motionless, and ruminating in the darkness like tired beasts.

Camors, like all men possessed by a dominant idea, had, ever since he adopted the religion
of his father as his rule of life, taken the pains to analyze every impression and every thought.
He now said to himself, that between these countrymen and a refined man like himself there
was doubtless a greater difference than between them and their beasts of burden; and this reflection
was as balm to the scornful aristocracy that was the cornerstone of his theory.  Wandering
on to an eminence, his discouraged eye swept but a fresh horizon of apple-trees and heads of
barley, and he was about to turn back when a strange sound suddenly arrested his steps.  It
was a concert of voice and instruments, which in this lost solitude seemed to him like a dream,
or a miracle.  The music was good-even excellent.  He recognized a prelude of Bach, arranged
by Gounod.  Robinson Crusoe, on discovering the footprint in the sand, was not more astonished
than Camors at finding in this desert so lively a symptom of civilization.

Filled with curiosity, and led by the melody he heard, he descended cautiously the little hill,
like a king's son in search of the enchanted princess.  The palace he found in the middle of
the path, in the shape of the high back wall of a dwelling, fronting on another road.  One
of the upper windows on this side, however, was open; a bright light streamed from it, and
thence he doubted not the sweet sounds came.

To an accompaniment of the piano and stringed instruments rose a fresh, flexible woman's voice,
chanting the mystic words of the master with such expression and power as would have given
even him delight.  Camors, himself a musician, was capable of appreciating the masterly execution
of the piece; and was so much struck by it that he felt an irresistible desire to see the performers,
especially the singer.  With this impulse he climbed the little hedge bordering the road, placed
himself on the top, and found himself several feet above the level of the lighted window. 
He did not hesitate to use his skill as a gymnast to raise himself to one of the branches of
an old oak stretching across the lawn; but during the ascent he could not disguise from himself
that his was scarcely a dignified position for the future deputy of the district.  He almost
laughed aloud at the idea of being surprised in this position by the terrible Des Rameures,
or his niece.

He established himself on a large, leafy branch, directly in front of the interesting window;
and notwithstanding that he was at a respectful distance, his glance could readily penetrate
into the chamber where the concert was taking place.  A dozen persons, as he judged, were there
assembled; several women, of different ages, were seated at a table working; a young man appeared
to be drawing; while other persons lounged on comfortable seats around the room.  Around the
piano was a group which chiefly attracted the attention of the young Count.  At the instrument
was seated a grave young girl of about twelve years; immediately behind her stood an old man,
remarkable for his great height, his head bald, with a crown of white hair, and his bushy black
eyebrows.  He played the violin with priestly dignity.  Seated near him was a man of about
fifty, in the dress of an ecclesiastic, and wearing a huge pair of silver-rimmed spectacles,
who played the violincello with great apparent gusto.

Between them stood the singer.  She was a pale brunette, slight and graceful, and apparently
not more than twenty-five years of age.  The somewhat severe oval of her face was relieved
by a pair of bright black eyes that seemed to grow larger as she sang.  One hand rested gently
on the shoulder of the girl at the piano, and with this she seemed to keep time, pressing gently
on the shoulder of the performer to stimulate her zeal.  And that hand was delicious!

A hymn by Palestrina had succeeded the Bach prelude.  It was a quartette, to which two new
voices lent their aid.  The old priest laid aside his violoncello, stood up, took off his spectacles,
and his deep bass completed the full measure of the melody.

After the quartette followed a few moments of general conversation, during which--after embracing
the child pianist, who immediately left the room--the songstress walked to the window.  She
leaned out as if to breathe the fresh air, and her profile was sharply relieved against the
bright light behind her, in which the others formed a group around the priest, who once more
donned his spectacles, and drew from his pocket a paper that appeared to be a manuscript.

The lady leaned from the window, gently fanning herself, as she looked now at the sky, now
at the dark landscape.  Camors imagined he could distinguish her gentle breathing above the
sound of the fan; and leaning eagerly forward for a better view, he caused the leaves to rustle
slightly.  She started at the sound, then remained immovable, and the fixed position of her
head showed that her gaze was fastened upon the oak in which he was concealed.

He felt the awkwardness of his position, but could not judge whether or not he was visible
to her; but, under the danger of her fixed regard, he passed the most painful moments of his life.

She turned into the room and said, in a calm voice, a few words which brought three or four
of her friends to the window; and among them Camors recognized the old man with the violin.

The moment was a trying one.  He could do nothing but lie still in his leafy retreat--silent
and immovable as a statue.  The conduct of those at the window went far to reassure him, for
their eyes wandered over the gloom with evident uncertainty, convincing him that his presence
was only suspected, not discovered.  But they exchanged animated observations, to which the
hidden Count lent an attentive ear.  Suddenly a strong voice-- which he recognized as belonging
to him of the violin-rose over them all in the pleasing order: "Loose the dog!"

This was sufficient for Camors.  He was not a coward; he would not have budged an inch before
an enraged tiger; but he would have travelled a hundred miles on foot to avoid the shadow of
ridicule.  Profiting by the warning and a moment when he seemed unobserved, he slid from the
tree, jumped into the next field, and entered the wood at a point somewhat farther down than
the spot where he had scaled the hedge.  This done, he resumed his walk with the assured tread
of a man who had a right to be there.  He had gone but a few steps, when he heard behind him
the wild barking of the dog, which proved his retreat had been opportune.

Some of the peasants he had noticed as he passed before, were still standing at their doors.
Stopping before one of them he asked:

"My friend, to whom does that large house below there, facing the other road, belong?  and
whence comes that music?"

"You probably know that as well as I," replied the man, stolidly.

"Had I known, I should hardly have asked you," said Camors.

The peasant did not deign further reply.  His wife stood near him; and Camors had remarked
that in all classes of society women have more wit and goodhumor than their husbands.  Therefore
he turned to her and said:

"You see, my good woman, I am a stranger here.  To whom does that house belong?  Probably to
Monsieur des Rameures?"

"No, no," replied the woman, "Monsieur des Rameures lives much farther on."

"Ah!  Then who lives here?"

"Why, Monsieur de Tecle, of course!"

"Ah, Monsieur de Tecle!  But tell me, he does not live alone?  There is a lady who sings--his
wife?--his sister?  Who is she?"

"Ah, that is his daughter-in-law, Madame de Tecle Madame Elise, who--"

"Ah!  thank you, thank you, my good woman!  You have children?  Buy them sabots with this,"
and drop ping a gold piece in the lap of the obliging peasant, Camors walked rapidly away.
Returning home the road seemed less gloomy and far shorter than when he came.  As he strode
on, humming the Bach prelude, the moon rose, the country looked more beautiful, and, in short,
when he perceived, at the end of its gloomy avenue, his chateau bathed in the white light,
he found the spectacle rather enjoyable than otherwise.  And when he had once more ensconced
himself in the maternal domicile, and inhaled the odor of damp paper and mouldy trees that
constituted its atmosphere, he found great consolation in the reflection that there existed
not very far away from him a young woman who possessed a charming face, a delicious voice,
and a pretty name.

Next morning, after plunging into a cold bath, to the profound astonishment of the old steward
and his wife, the Comte de Camors went to inspect his farms.  He found the buildings very similar
in construction to the dams of beavers, though far less comfortable; but he was amazed to hear
his farmers arguing, in their patois, on the various modes of culture and crops, like men who
were no strangers to all modern improvements in agriculture.  The name of Des Rameures frequently
occurred in the conversation as confirmation of their own theories, or experiments.  M. des
Rameures gave preference to this manure, to this machine for winnowing; this breed of animals
was introduced by him.  M. des Rameures did this, M. des Rameures did that, and the farmers
did like him, and found it to their advantage.  Camors found the General had not exaggerated
the local importance of this personage, and that it was most essential to conciliate him. 
Resolving therefore to call on him during the day, he went to breakfast.

This duty toward himself fulfilled, the young Count lounged on the terrace, as he had the evening
before, and smoked his cigar.  Though it was near midday, it was doubtful to him whether the
solitude and silence appeared less complete and oppressive than on the preceding night.  A
hushed cackling of fowls, the drowsy hum of bees, and the muffled chime of a distant bell--these
were all the sounds to be heard.

Camors lounged on the terrace, dreaming of his club, of the noisy Paris crowd, of the rumbling
omnibuses, of the playbill of the little kiosk, of the scent of heated asphalt--and the memory
of the least of these enchantments brought infinite peace to his soul.  The inhabitant of Paris
has one great blessing, which he does not take into account until he suffers from its loss--one
great half of his existence is filled up without the least trouble to himself.  The all-potent
vitality which ceaselessly envelops him takes away from him in a vast degree the exertion of
amusing himself.  The roar of the city, rising like a great bass around him, fills up the gaps
in his thoughts, and never leaves that disagreeable sensation--a void.

There is no Parisian who is not happy in the belief that he makes all the noise he hears, writes
all the books he reads, edits all the journals on which he breakfasts, writes all the vaudevilles
on which he sups, and invents all the 'bon mots' he repeats.

But this flattering allusion vanishes the moment chance takes him a mile away from the Rue
Vivienne.  The proof confounds him, for he is bored terribly, and becomes sick of himself.
Perhaps his secret soul, weakened and unnerved, may even be assailed by the suspicion that
he is a feeble human creature after all!  But no!  He returns to Paris; the collective electricity
again inspires him; he rebounds; he recovers; he is busy, keen to discern, active, and recognizes
once more, to his intense satisfaction, that he is after all one of the elect of God's creatures--
momentarily degraded, it may be, by contact with the inferior beings who people the departments.

Camors had within himself more resources than most men to conquer the blue-devils; but in these
early hours of his experience in country life, deprived of his club, his horses, and his cook,
banished from all his old haunts and habits, he began to feel terribly the weight of time.
He, therefore, experienced a delicious sensation when suddenly he heard that regular beat of
hoofs upon the road which to his trained ear announced the approach of several riding-horses.
The next moment he saw advancing up his shaded avenue two ladies on horseback, followed by
a groom with a black cockade.

Though quite amazed at this charming spectacle, Camors remembered his duty as a gentleman and
descended the steps of the terrace.  But the two ladies, at sight of him, appeared as surprised
as himself, suddenly drew rein and conferred hastily.  Then, recovering, they continued their
way, traversed the lower court below the terraces, and disappeared in the direction of the lake.

As they passed the lower balustrade Camors bowed low, and they returned his salutation by a
slight inclination; but he was quite sure, in spite of the veils that floated from their riding-hats,
that he recognized the black-eyed singer and the young pianist.  After a moment he called to
his old steward

"Monsieur Leonard," he said, "is this a public way?"

"It certainly is not a public way, Monsieur le Comte," replied Leonard.

"Then what do these ladies mean by using this road?"

"Bless me, Monsieur le Comte, it is so long since any of the owners have been at Reuilly! 
These ladies mean no harm by passing through your woods; and sometimes they even stop at the
chateau while my wife gives them fresh milk.  Shall I tell them that this displeases Monsieur
le Comte?"

"My good Leonard, why the deuce do you suppose it displeases me?  I only asked for information.
And now who are the ladies?"

"Oh!  Monsieur, they are quite respectable ladies; Madame de Tecle, and her daughter, Mademoiselle
Marie."

"So?  And the husband of Madame, Monsieur de Tecle, never rides out with them?"

"Heavens!  no, Monsieur.  He never rides with them."  And the old steward smiled a dry smile.
"He has been among the dead men for a long time, as Monsieur le Comte well knows."

"Granting that I know it, Monsieur Leonard, I wish it understood these ladies are not to be
interfered with.  You comprehend?"

Leonard seemed pleased that he was not to be the bearer of any disagreeable message; and Camors,
suddenly conceiving that his stay at Reuilly might be prolonged for some time, reentered the
chateau and examined the different rooms, arranging with the steward the best plan of making
the house habitable.  The little town of I------, but two leagues distant, afforded all the
means, and M. Leonard proposed going there at once to confer with the architect.

CHAPTER VII

ELISE DE TECLE

Meantime Camors directed his steps toward the residence of M. des Rameures, of which he at
last obtained correct information.  He took the same road as the preceding evening, passed
the monastic-looking building that held Madame de Tecle, glanced at the old oak that had served
him for an observatory, and about a mile farther on he discovered the small house with towers
that he sought.

It could only be compared to those imaginary edifices of which we have all read in childhood's
happy days in taking text, under an attractive picture: "The castle of M. de Valmont was agreeably
situated at the summit of a pretty hill."  It had a really picturesque surrounding of fields
sloping away, green as emerald, dotted here and there with great bouquets of trees, or cut
by walks adorned with huge roses or white bridges thrown over rivulets.  Cattle and sheep were
resting here and there, which might have figured at the Opera Comique, so shining were the
skins of the cows and so white the wool of the sheep.  Camors swung open the gate, took the
first road he saw, and reached the top of the hill amid trees and flowers.  An old servant
slept on a bench before the door, smiling in his dreams.

Camors waked him, inquired for the master of the house, and was ushered into a vestibule. 
Thence he entered a charming apartment, where a young lady in a short skirt and round hat was
arranging bouquets in Chinese vases.

She turned at the noise of the opening door, and Camors saw--Madame de Tecle!

As he saluted her with an air of astonishment and doubt, she looked fixedly at him with her
large eyes.  He spoke first, with more of hesitation than usual.

"Pardon me, Madame, but I inquired for Monsieur des Rameures."

"He is at the farm, but will soon return.  Be kind enough to wait."

She pointed to a chair, and seated herself, pushing away with her foot the branches that strewed
the floor.

"But, Madame, in the absence of Monsieur des Rameures may I have the honor of speaking with
his niece?"

The shadow of a smile flitted over Madame de Tecle's brown but charming face.  "His niece?"
she said: "I am his niece."

"You I Pardon me, Madame, but I thought--they said--I expected to find an elderly--a--person--that
is, a respectable" he hesitated, then added simply" and I find I am in error."

Madame de Tecle seemed completely unmoved by this compliment.

"Will you be kind enough, Monsieur," she said, "to let me know whom I have the honor of receiving?"

"I am Monsieur de Camors."

"Ah!  Then I have excuses also to make.  It was probably you whom we saw this morning.  We
have been very rude--my daughter and I--but we were ignorant of your arrival; and Reuilly has
been so long deserted."

"I sincerely hope, Madame, that your daughter and yourself will make no change in your rides."

Madame de Tecle replied by a movement of the hand that implied certainly she appreciated the
offer, and certainly she should not accept it.  Then there was a pause long enough to embarrass
Camors, during which his eye fell upon the piano, and his lips almost formed the original remark--
"You are a musician, Madame."  Suddenly recollecting his tree, however, he feared to betray
himself by the allusion, and was silent.

"You come from Paris, Monsieur de Camors?"  Madame de Tecle at length asked.

"No, Madame, I have been passing several weeks with my kinsman, General de Campvallon, who
has also the honor, I believe, to be a friend of yours; and who has requested me to call upon you."

"We are delighted that you have done so; and what an excellent man the General is!"

"Excellent indeed, Madame."  There was another pause.

"If you do not object to a short walk in the sun," said Madame de Tecle at length, "let us
walk to meet my uncle.  We are almost sure to meet him."  Camors bowed.  Madame de Tecle rose
and rang the bell: "Ask Mademoiselle Marie," she said to the servant, "to be kind enough to
put on her hat and join us."

A moment after, Mademoiselle Marie entered, cast on the stranger the steady, frank look of
an inquisitive child, bowed slightly to him, and they all left the room by a door opening on
the lawn.

Madame de Tecle, while responding courteously to the graceful speeches of Camors, walked on
with a light and rapid step, her fairy-like little shoes leaving their impression on the smooth
fine sand of the path.

She walked with indescribable, unconscious grace; with that supple, elastic undulation which
would have been coquettish had it not been undeniably natural.  Reaching the wall that enclosed
the right side of the park, she opened a wicket that led into a narrow path through a large
field of ripe corn.  She passed into this path, followed in single file by Mademoiselle Marie
and by Camors.  Until now the child had been very quiet, but the rich golden corn-tassels,
entangled with bright daisies, red poppies, and hollyhocks, and the humming concert of myriads
of flies- blue, yellow, and reddishbrownwhich sported amid the sweets, excited her beyond self-control.
Stopping here and there to pluck a flower, she would turn and cry, "Pardon, Monsieur;" until,
at length, on an apple- tree growing near the path she descried on a low branch a green apple,
no larger than her finger.  This temptation proved irresistible, and with one spring into the
midst of the corn, she essayed to reach the prize, if Providence would permit.  Madame de Tecle,
however, would not permit. She seemed much displeased, and said, sharply:

"Marie, my child!  In the midst of the corn!  Are you crazy!"

The child returned promptly to the path, but unable to conquer her wish for the apple, turned
an imploring eye to Camors and said, softly: "Pardon, Monsieur, but that apple would make my
bouquet complete."

Camors had only to reach up, stretch out his hand, and detach the branch from the tree.

"A thousand thanks!"  cried the child, and adding this crowning glory to her bouquet, she placed
the whole inside the ribbon around her hat and walked on with an air of proud satisfaction.

As they approached the fence running across the end of the field, Madame de Tecle suddenly
said: "My uncle, Monsieur;" and Camors, raising his head, saw a very tall man looking at them
over the fence and shading his eyes with his hand.  His robust limbs were clad in gaiters of
yellow leather with steel buttons, and he wore a loose coat of maroon velvet and a soft felt
hat.  Camors immediately recognized the white hair and heavy black eyebrows as the same he
had seen bending over the violin the night before.

"Uncle," said Madame de Tecle, introducing the young Count by a wave of the hand: "This is
Monsieur de Camors."

"Monsieur de Camors," repeated the old man, in a deep and sonorous voice, "you are most welcome;"
and opening the gate he gave his guest a soft, brown hand, as he continued: "I knew your mother
intimately, and am charmed to have her son under my roof.  Your mother was a most amiable person,
Monsieur, and certainly merited--" The old man hesitated, and finished his sentence by a sonorous
"Hem!"  that resounded and rumbled in his chest as if in the vault of a church.

Then he took the letter Camors handed to him, held it a long distance from his eyes, and began
reading it.  The General had told the Count it would be impolite to break suddenly to M. des
Rameures the plan they had concocted.  The latter, therefore, found the note only a very warm
introduction of Camors.  The postscript gave him the announcement of the marriage.

"The devil!"  he cried.  "Did you know this, Elise?  Campvallon is to be married!"

All women, widows, matrons, or maids, are deeply interested in matters pertaining to marriage.

"What, uncle!  The General!  Can it be?  Are you sure?"

"Um--rather.  He writes the news himself.  Do you know the lady, Monsieur le Comte?"

"Mademoiselle de Luc d'Estrelles is my cousin," Camors replied.

"Ah!  That is right; and she is of a certain age?"

"She is about twenty-five."

M. des Rameures received this intelligence with one of the resonant coughs peculiar to him.

"May I ask, without indiscretion, whether she is endowed with a pleasing person?"

"She is exceedingly beautiful," was the reply.

"Hem!  So much the better.  It seems to me the General is a little old for her: but every one
is the best judge of his own affairs: Hem!  the best judge of his own affairs.  Elise, my dear,
whenever you are ready we will follow you.  Pardon me, Monsieur le Comte, for receiving you
in this rustic attire, but I am a laborer.  Agricola--a mere herdsman--'custos gregis', as
the poet says.  Walk before me, Monsieur le Comte, I beg you. Marie, child, respect my corn!

"And can we hope, Monsieur de Camors, that you have the happy idea of quitting the great Babylon
to install yourself among your rural possessions?  It will be a good example, Monsieur--an
excellent example! For unhappily today more than ever we can say with the poet:

                            'Non ullus aratro

               Dignus honos; squalent abductis arva colonis,
               Et--et--'

"And, by gracious!  I've forgotten the rest--poor memory!  Ah, young sir, never grow old-never
grow old!"

               "'Et curvae rigidum falces conflantur in ensem,"'

said Camors, continuing the broken quotation.

"Ah!  you quote Virgil.  You read the classics.  I am charmed, really charmed.  That is not
the characteristic of our rising generation, for modern youth has an idea it is bad taste to
quote the ancients.  But that is not my idea, young sir--not in the least.  Our fathers quoted
freely because they were familiar with them.  And Virgil is my poet.  Not that I approve of
all his theories of cultivation.  With all the respect I accord him, there is a great deal
to be said on that point; and his plan of breeding in particular will never do--never do! 
Still, he is delicious, eh?  Very well, Monsieur Camors, now you see my little domain --'mea
paupera regna'--the retreat of the sage.  Here I live, and live happily, like an old shepherd
in the golden age--loved by my neighbors, which is not easy; and venerating the gods, which
is perhaps easier.  Ah, young sir, as you read Virgil, you will excuse me once more.

"Nymphasque sorores!"  finished Camors, smiling and moving his head slightly in the direction
of Madame de Tecle and her daughter, who preceded them.

"Quite to the point.  That is pure truth!"  cried M. des Rameures, gayly. "Did you hear that,
niece?"

"Yes, uncle."

"And did you understand it, niece?"

"No, uncle."

"I do not believe you, my dear!  I do not believe you!"  The old man laughed heartily.  "Do
not believe her, Monsieur de Camors; women have the faculty of understanding compliments in
every language."

This conversation brought them to the chateau, where they sat down on a bench before the drawing-room
windows to enjoy the view.

Camors praised judiciously the well-kept park, accepted an invitation to dinner the next week,
and then discreetly retired, flattering himself that his introduction had made a favorable
impression upon M. des Rameures, but regretting his apparent want of progress with the fairy-
footed niece.

He was in error.

"This youth," said M. des Rameures, when he was left alone with Madame de Tecle, "has some
touch of the ancients, which is something; but he still resembles his father, who was vicious
as sin itself.  His eyes and his smile recall some traits of his admirable mother; but positively,
my dear Elise, he is the portrait of his father, whose manners and whose principles they say
he has inherited."

"Who says so, uncle?"

"Current rumor, niece."

"Current rumor, my dear uncle, is often mistaken, and always exaggerates. For my part, I like
the young man, who seems thoroughly refined and at his ease."

"Bah!  I suppose because he compared you to a nymph in the fable."

"If he compared me to a nymph in the fable he was wrong; but he never addressed to me a word
in French that was not in good taste.  Before we condemn him, uncle, let us see for ourselves.
It is a habit you have always recommended to me, you know."

"You can not deny, niece," said the old man with irritation, "that he exhales the most decided
and disagreeable odor of Paris!  He is too polite--too studied!  Not a shadow of enthusiasm--no
fire of youth! He never laughs as I should wish to see a man of his age laugh; a young man
should roar to split his waistband!"

"What!  you would see him merry so soon after losing his father in such a tragic manner, and
he himself nearly ruined!  Why, uncle, what can you mean?"

"Well, well, perhaps you are right.  I retract all I have said against him.  If he be half
ruined I will offer him my advice--and my purse if he need it--for the sake of the memory of
his mother, whom you resemble. Ah, 'tis thus we end all our disputes, naughty child!  I grumble;
I am passionate; I act like a Tartar.  Then you speak with your good sense and sweetness, my
darling, and the tiger becomes a lamb.  All unhappy beings whom you approach in the same way
submit to your subtle charm.  And that is the reason why my old friend, La Fontaine, said of you:

              'Sur differentes fleurs l'abeille se repose,
               Et fait du miel de toute chose!'"

CHAPTER VIII

A DISH OF POLITICS

Elise de Tecle was thirty years of age, but appeared much younger.  At seventeen she had married,
under peculiar conditions, her cousin Roland de Tecle.  She had been left an orphan at an early
age and educated by her mother's brother, M. des Rameures.  Roland lived very near her Everything
brought them together--the wishes of the family, compatibility of fortune, their relations
as neighbors, and a personal sympathy.  They were both charming; they were destined for each
other from infancy, and the time fixed for their marriage was the nineteenth birthday of Elise.
In anticipation of this happy event the.  Comte de Tecle rebuilt almost entirely one wing of
his castle for the exclusive use of the young pair. Roland was continually present, superintending
and urging on the work with all the ardor of a lover.

One morning loud and alarming cries from the new wing roused all the inhabitants of the castle;
the Count burned to the spot, and found his son stunned and bleeding in the arms of one of
the workmen.  He had fallen from a high scaffolding to the pavement.  For several months the
unfortunate young man hovered between life and death; but in the paroxysms of fever he never
ceased calling for his cousin--his betrothed; and they were obliged to admit the young girl
to his bedside.  Slowly he recovered, but was ever after disfigured and lame; and the first
time they allowed him to look in a glass he had a fainting-fit that proved almost fatal.

But he was a youth of high principle and true courage.  On recovering from his swoon he wept
a flood of bitter tears, which would not, however, wash the scars from his disfigured face.
He prayed long and earnestly; then shut himself up with his father.  Each wrote a letter, the
one to M. des Rameures, the other to Elise.  M. des Rameures and his niece were then in Germany.
The excitement and fatigue consequent upon nursing her cousin had so broken her health that
the physicians urged a trial of the baths of Ems.  There she received these letters; they released
her from her engagement and gave her absolute liberty.

Roland and his father implored her not to return in haste; explained that their intention was
to leave the country in a few weeks' time and establish themselves at Paris; and added that
they expected no answer, and that their resolution--impelled by simple justice to her--was
irrevocable.

Their wishes were complied with.  No answer came.

Roland, his sacrifice once made, seemed calm and resigned; but he fell into a sort of languor,
which made fearful progress and hinted at a speedy and fatal termination, for which in fact
he seemed to long.  One evening they had taken him to the lime-tree terrace at the foot of
the garden.  He gazed with absent eye on the tints with which the setting sun purpled the glades
of the wood, while his father paced the terrace with long strides-smiling as he passed him
and hastily brushing away a tear as he turned his back.

Suddenly Elise de Tecle appeared before them, like an angel dropped from heaven.  She knelt
before the crippled youth, kissed his hand, and, brightening him with the rays of her beautiful
eyes, told him she never had loved him half so well before.  He felt she spoke truly; he accepted
her devotion, and they were married soon after.

Madame de Tecle was happy--but she alone was so.  Her husband, notwithstanding the tenderness
with which she treated him-- notwithstanding the happiness which he could not fail to read
in her tranquil glance--notwithstanding the birth of a daughter--seemed never to console himself.
Even with her he was always possessed by a cold constraint; some secret sorrow consumed him,
of which they found the key only on the day of his death.

"My darling," he then said to his young wife--"my darling, may God reward you for your infinite
goodness!  Pardon me, if I never have told you how entirely I love you.  With a face like mine,
how could I speak of love to one like you!  But my poor heart has been brimming over with it
all the while.  Oh, Elise!  how I have suffered when I thought of what I was before--how much
more worthy of you!  But we shall be reunited, dearest-- shall we not?--where I shall be as
perfect as you, and where I may tell you how much I adore you!  Do not weep for me, my own
Elise!  I am happy now, for the first time, for I have dared to open my heart to you.  Dying
men do not fear ridicule.  Farewell, Elise--darling-wife!  I love you!" These tender words
were his last.

After her husband's death, Madame de Tecle lived with her father-in-law, but passed much of
her time with her uncle.  She busied herself with the greatest solicitude in the education
of her daughter, and kept house for both the old men, by both of whom she was equally idolized.

From the lips of the priest at Reuilly, whom he called on next day, Camors learned some of
these details, while the old man practiced the violoncello with his heavy spectacles on his
nose.  Despite his fixed resolution of preserving universal scorn, Camors could not resist
a vague feeling of respect for Madame de Tecle; but it did not entirely eradicate the impure
sentiment he was disposed to dedicate to her.  Fully determined to make her, if not his victim,
at least his ally, he felt that this enterprise was one of unusual difficulty.  But he was
energetic, and did not object to difficulties--especially when they took such charming shape
as in the present instance.

His meditations on this theme occupied him agreeably the rest of that week, during which time
he overlooked his workmen and conferred with his architect.  Besides, his horses, his books,
his domestics, and his journals arrived successively to dispel ennui.  Therefore he looked
remarkably well when he jumped out of his dog-cart the ensuing Monday in front of M. des Rameures's
door under the eyes of Madame de Tecle.  As the latter gently stroked with her white hand the
black and smoking shoulder of the thoroughbred Fitz-Aymon, Camors was for the first time presented
to the Comte de Tecle, a quiet, sad, and taciturn old gentleman.  The cure, the subprefect
of the district and his wife, the tax-collector, the family physician, and the tutor completed,
as the journals say, the list of the guests.

During dinner Camors, secretly excited by the immediate vicinity of Madame de Tecle, essayed
to triumph over that hostility that the presence of a stranger invariably excites in the midst
of intimacies which it disturbs.  His calm superiority asserted itself so mildly it was pardoned
for its grace.  Without a gayety unbecoming his mourning, he nevertheless made such lively
sallies and such amusing jokes about his first mishaps at Reuilly as to break up the stiffness
of the party.  He conversed pleasantly with each one in turn, and, seeming to take the deepest
interest in his affairs, put him at once at his ease.

He skilfully gave M. des Rameures the opportunity for several happy quotations; spoke naturally
to him of artificial pastures, and artificially of natural pastures; of breeding and of non-breeding
cows; of Dishley sheep--and of a hundred other matters he had that morning crammed from an
old encyclopaedia and a county almanac.

To Madame de Tecle directly he spoke little, but he did not speak one word during the dinner
that was not meant for her; and his manner to women was so caressing, yet so chivalric, as
to persuade them, even while pouring out their wine, that he was ready to die for them.  The
dear charmers thought him a good, simple fellow, while he was the exact reverse.

On leaving the table they went out of doors to enjoy the starlight evening, and M. des Rameures--whose
natural hospitality was somewhat heightened by a goblet of his own excellent wine--said to Camors:

"My dear Count, you eat honestly, you talk admirably, you drink like a man.  On my word, I
am disposed to regard you as perfection--as a paragon of neighbors--if in addition to all the
rest you add the crowning one. Do you love music?"

"Passionately!"  answered Camors, with effusion.

"Passionately?  Bravo!  That is the way one should love everything that is worth loving.  I
am delighted, for we make here a troupe of fanatical melomaniacs, as you will presently perceive.
As for myself, I scrape wildly on the violin, as a simple country amateur--'Orpheus in silvis'.
Do not imagine, however, Monsieur le Comte, that we let the worship of this sweet art absorb
all our faculties--all our time-certainly not. When you take part in our little reunions, which
of course you will do, you will find we disdain no pursuit worthy of thinking beings.  We pass
from music to literature--to science--even to philosophy; but we do this --I pray you to believe--without
pedantry and without leaving the tone of familiar converse.  Sometimes we read verses, but
we never make them; we love the ancients and do not fear the moderns: we only fear those who
would lower the mind and debase the heart.  We love the past while we render justice to the
present; and flatter ourselves at not seeing many things that to you appear beautiful, useful,
and true.

"Such are we, my young friend.  We call ourselves the 'Colony of Enthusiasts,' but our malicious
neighbors call us the 'Hotel de Rambouillet.'  Envy, you know, is a plant that does not flourish
in the country; but here, by way of exception, we have a few jealous people-- rather bad for
them, but of no consequence to us.

"We are an odd set, with the most opposite opinions.  For me, I am a Legitimist; then there
is Durocher, my physician and friend, who is a rabid Republican; Hedouin, the tutor, is a parliamentarian;
while Monsieur our sub-prefect is a devotee to the government, as it is his duty to be.  Our
cure is a little Roman--I am Gallican--'et sic ceteris'. Very well--we all agree wonderfully
for two reasons: first, because we are sincere, which is a very rare thing; and then because
all opinions contain at bottom some truth, and because, with some slight mutual concessions,
all really honest people come very near having the same opinions.

"Such, my dear Count, are the views that hold in my drawing-room, or rather in the drawing-room
of my niece; for if you would see the divinity who makes all our happiness--look at her!  It
is in deference to her good taste, her good sense, and her moderation, that each of us avoids
that violence and that passion which warps the best intentions.  In one word, to speak truly,
it is love that makes our common tie and our mutual protection.  We are all in love with my
niece--myself first, of course; next Durocher, for thirty years; then the subprefect and all
the rest of them.

"You, too, Cure!  you know that you are in love with Elise, in all honor and all good faith,
as we all are, and as Monsieur de Camors shall soon be, if he is not so already--eh, Monsieur
le Comte?"

Camors protested, with a sinister smile, that he felt very much inclined to fulfil the prophecy
of his host; and they reentered the dining-room to find the circle increased by the arrival
of several visitors.  Some of these rode, others came on foot from the country-seats around.

M. des Rameures soon seized his violin; while he tuned it, little Marie seated herself at the
piano, and her mother, coming behind her, rested her hand lightly on her shoulder, as if to
beat the measure.

"The music will be nothing new to you," Camors's host said to him.  "It is simply Schubert's
Serenade, which we have arranged, or deranged, after our own fancy; of which you shall judge.
My niece sings, and the curate and I--'Arcades ambo'--respond successively--he on the bass-viol
and I on my Stradivarius.  Come, my dear Cure, let us begin--'incipe, Mopse, prior."

In spite of the masterly execution of the old gentleman and of the delicate science of the
cure, it was Madame de Tecle who appeared to Camors the most remarkable of the three virtuosi.
The calm repose of her features, and the gentle dignity of her attitude, contrasting with the
passionate swell of her voice, he found most attractive.

In his turn he seated himself at the piano, and played a difficult accompaniment with real
taste; and having a good tenor voice, and a thorough knowledge of its powers, he exerted them
so effectually as to produce a profound sensation.  During the rest of the evening he kept
much in the background in order to observe the company, and was much astonished thereby.  The
tone of this little society, as much removed from vulgar gossip as from affected pedantry,
was truly elevated.  There was nothing to remind him of a porter's lodge, as in most provincial
salons; or of the greenroom of a theatre, as in many salons of Paris; nor yet, as he had feared,
of a lecture-room.

There were five or six women--some pretty, all well bred--who, in adopting the habit of thinking,
had not lost the habit of laughing, nor the desire to please.  But they all seemed subject
to the same charm; and that charm was sovereign.  Madame de Tecle, half hidden on her sofa,
and seemingly busied with her embroidery, animated all by a glance, softened all by a word.
The glance was inspiring; the word always appropriate. Her decision on all points they regarded
as final--as that of a judge who sentences, or of a woman who is beloved.

No verses were read that evening, and Camors was not bored.  In the intervals of the music,
the conversation touched on the new comedy by Augier; the last work of Madame Sand; the latest
poem of Tennyson; or the news from America.

"My dear Mopsus," M. des Rameures said to the cure, "you were about to read us your sermon
on superstition last Thursday, when you were interrupted by that joker who climbed the tree
in order to hear you better.  Now is the time to recompense us.  Take this seat and we will
all listen to you."

The worthy cure took the seat, unfolded his manuscript, and began his discourse, which we shall
not here report: profiting by the example of our friend Sterne, not to mingle the sacred with
the profane.

The sermon met with general approval, though some persons, M. des Rameures among them, thought
it above the comprehension of the humble class for whom it was intended.  M. de Tecle, however,
backed by republican Durocher, insisted that the intelligence of the people was underrated;
that they were frequently debased by those who pretended to speak only up to their level--and
the passages in dispute were retained.

How they passed from the sermon on superstition to the approaching marriage of the General,
I can not say; but it was only natural after all, for the whole country, for twenty miles around,
was ringing with it. This theme excited Camors's attention at once, especially when the sub-
prefect intimated with much reserve that the General, busied with his new surroundings, would
probably resign his office as deputy.

"But that would be embarrassing," exclaimed Des Rameures.  "Who the deuce would replace him?
I give you warning, Monsieur Prefect, if you intend imposing on us some Parisian with a flower
in his buttonhole, I shall pack him back to his club--him, his flower, and his buttonhole!
You may set that down for a sure thing--"

"Dear uncle!"  said Madame de Tecle, indicating Camors with a glance.

"I understand you, Elise," laughingly rejoined M. des Rameures, "but I must beg Monsieur de
Camors to believe that I do not in any case intend to offend him.  I shall also beg him to
tolerate the monomania of an old man, and some freedom of language with regard to the only
subject which makes him lose his sang froid."

"And what is that subject, Monsieur?"  said Camors, with his habitual captivating grace of manner.

"That subject, Monsieur, is the arrogant supremacy assumed by Paris over all the rest of France.
I have not put my foot in the place since 1825, in order to testify the abhorrence with which
it inspires me.  You are an educated, sensible young man, and, I trust, a good Frenchman. 
Very well! Is it right, I ask, that Paris shall every morning send out to us our ideas ready-made,
and that all France shall become a mere humble, servile faubourg to the capital?  Do me the
favor, I pray you, Monsieur, to answer that?"

"There is doubtless, my dear sir," replied Camors, "some excess in this extreme centralization
of France; but all civilized countries must have their capitals, and a head is just as necessary
to a nation as to an individual."

"Taking your own image, Monsieur, I shall turn it against you.  Yes, doubtless a head is as
necessary to a nation as to an individual; if, however, the head becomes monstrous and deformed,
the seat of intelligence will be turned into that of idiocy, and in place of a man of intellect,
you have a hydrocephalus.  Pray give heed to what Monsieur the Sub-prefect, may say in answer
to what I shall ask him.  Now, my dear Sub-prefect, be frank.  If tomorrow, the deputation
of this district should become vacant, can you find within its broad limits, or indeed within
the district, a man likely to fill all functions, good and bad?"

"Upon my word," answered the official, "if you continue to refuse the office, I really know
of no one else fit for it."

"I shall persist all my life, Monsieur, for at my age assuredly I shall not expose myself to
the buffoonery of your Parisian jesters."

"Very well!  In that event you will be obliged to take some stranger-- perhaps, even one of
those Parisian jesters."

"You have heard him, Monsieur de Camors," said M. des Rameures, with exultation.  "This district
numbers six hundred thousand souls, and yet does not contain within it the material for one
deputy.  There is no other civilized country, I submit, in which we can find a similar instance
so scandalous.  For the people of France this shame is reserved exclusively, and it is your
Paris that has brought it upon us.  Paris, absorbing all the blood, life, thought, and action
of the country, has left a mere geographical skeleton in place of a nation!  These are the
benefits of your centralization, since you have pronounced that word, which is quite as barbarous
as the thing itself."

"But pardon me, uncle," said Madame de Tecle, quietly plying her needle, "I know nothing of
these matters, but it seems to me that I have heard you say this centralization was the work
of the Revolution and of the First Consul.  Why, therefore, do you call Monsieur de Camors
to account for it?  That certainly does not seem to me just."

"Nor does it seem so to me," said Camors, bowing to Madame de Tecle.

"Nor to me either," rejoined M. des Rameures, smiling.

"However, Madame," resumed Camors, "I may to some extent be held responsible in this matter,
for though, as you justly suggest, I have not brought about this centralization, yet I confess
I strongly approve the course of those who did."

"Bravo!  So much the better, Monsieur.  I like that.  One should have his own positive opinions,
and defend them."

"Monsieur," said Camors, "I shall make an exception in your honor, for when I dine out, and
especially when I dine well, I always have the same opinion with my host; but I respect you
too highly not to dare to differ with you.  Well, then, I think the revolutionary Assembly,
and subsequently the First Consul, were happily inspired in imposing a vigorous centralized
political administration upon France.  I believe, indeed, that it was indispensable at the
time, in order to mold and harden our social body in its new form, to adjust it in its position,
and fix it firmly under the new laws--that is, to establish and maintain this powerful French
unity which has become our national peculiarity, our genius and our strength."

"You speak rightly, sir," exclaimed Durocher.

"Parbleu I unquestionably you are right," warmly rejoined M. des Rameures.  "Yes, that is quite
true.  The excessive centralization of which I complain has had its hour of utility, nay, even
of necessity, I will admit; but, Monsieur, in what human institution do you pretend to implant
the absolute, the eternal?  Feudalism, also, my dear sir, was a benefit and a progress in its
day, but that which was a benefit yesterday may it not become an evil to-morrow--a danger?
That which is progress to-day, may it not one hundred years hence have become mere routine,
and a downright trammel?  Is not that the history of the world?  And if you wish to know, Monsieur,
by what sign we may recognize the fact that a social or political system has attained its end,
I will tell you: it is when it is manifest only in its inconveniences and abuses.  Then the
machine has finished its work, and should be replaced.  Indeed, I declare that French centralization
has reached its critical term, that fatal point at which, after protecting, it oppresses; at
which, after vivifying, it paralyzes; at which, having saved France, it crushes her."

"Dear uncle, you are carried away by your subject," said Madame de Tecle.

"Yes, Elise, I am carried away, I admit, but I am right.  Everything justifies me--the past
and the present, I am sure; and so will the future, I fear.  Did I say the past?  Be assured,
Monsieur de Camors, I am not a narrow-minded admirer of the past.  Though a Legitimist from
personal affections, I am a downright Liberal in principles.  You know that, Durocher?  Well,
then, in short, formerly between the Alps, the Rhine, and the Pyrenees, was a great country
which lived, thought, and acted, not exclusively through its capital, but for itself.  It had
a head, assuredly; but it had also a heart, muscles, nerves, and veins with blood in them,
and yet the head lost nothing by that.  There was then a France, Monsieur.  The province had
an existence, subordinate doubtless, but real, active, and independent.  Each government, each
office, each parliamentary centre was a living intellectual focus.  The great provincial institutions
and local liberties exercised the intellect on all sides, tempered the character, and developed
men.  And now note well, Durocher!  If France had been centralized formerly as to-day, your
dear Revolution never would have occurred--do you understand?  Never!  because there would
have been no men to make it.  For may I not ask, whence came that prodigious concourse of intelligences
all fully armed, and with heroic hearts, which the great social movement of '78 suddenly brought
upon the scene?  Please recall to mind the most illustrious men of that era--lawyers, orators,
soldiers.  How many were from Paris?  All came from the provinces, the fruitful womb of France!
But to-day we have simply need of a deputy, peaceful times; and yet, out of six hundred thousand
souls, as we have seen, we can not find one suitable man.  Why is this the case, gentlemen?
Because upon the soil of uncentralized France men grew, while only functionaries germinate
in the soil of centralized France."

"God bless you, Monsieur!"  said the Sub-prefect, with a smile.

"Pardon me, my dear Sub-prefect, but you, too, should understand that I really plead your cause
as well as my own, when I claim for the provinces, and for all the functions of provincial
life, more independence, dignity, and grandeur.  In the state to which these functions are
reduced at present, the administration and the judiciary are equally stripped of power, prestige,
and patronage.  You smile, Monsieur, but no longer, as formerly, are they the centres of life,
of emulation, and of light, civic schools and manly gymnasiums; they have become merely simple,
passive clockwork; and that is the case with the rest, Monsieur de Camors.  Our municipal institutions
are a mere farce, our provincial assemblies only a name, our local liberties naught! Consequently,
we have not now a man for a deputy.  But why should we complain?  Does not Paris undertake
to live, to think for us?  Does she not deign to cast to us, as of yore the Roman Senate cast
to the suburban plebeians, our food for the day-bread and vaudevilles--'panem et circenses'.
Yes, Monsieur, let us turn from the past to the present-- to France of to-day!  A nation of
forty millions of people who await each morning from Paris the signal to know whether it is
day or night, or whether, indeed, they shall laugh or weep!  A great people, once the noblest,
the cleverest in the world, repeating the same day, at the same hour, in all the salons, and
at all the crossways in the empire, the same imbecile gabble engendered the evening before
in the mire of the boulevards.  I tell you?  Monsieur, it is humiliating that all Europe, once
jealous of us, should now shrug her shoulders in our faces.-- Besides, it is fatal even for
Paris, which, permit me to add, drunk with prosperity in its haughty isolation and self-fetishism,
not a little resembles the Chinese Empire-a focus of warmed-over, corrupt, and frivolous civilization!
As for the future, my dear sir, may God preserve me from despair, since it concerns my country!
This age has already seen great things, great marvels, in fact; for I beg you to remember I
am by no means an enemy to my time.  I approve the Revolution, liberty, equality, the press,
railways, and the telegraph; and as I often say to Monsieur le Cure, every cause that would
live must accommodate itself cheerfully to the progress of its epoch, and study how to serve
itself by it.  Every cause that is in antagonism with its age commits suicide. Indeed, Monsieur,
I trust this century will see one more great event, the end of this Parisian tyranny, and the
resuscitation of provincial life; for I must repeat, my dear sir, that your centralization,
which was once an excellent remedy, is a detestable regimen!  It is a horrible instrument of
oppression and tyranny, ready-made for all hands, suitable for every despotism, and under it
France stifles and wastes away.  You must agree with me yourself, Durocher; in this sense the
Revolution overshot its mark, and placed in jeopardy even its purposes; for you, who love liberty,
and do not wish it merely for yourself alone, as some of your friends do, but for all the world,
surely you can not admire centralization, which proscribes liberty as manifestly as night obscures
the day.  As for my part, gentlemen, there are two things which I love equally--liberty and
France.  Well, then, as I believe in God, do I believe that both must perish in the throes
of some convulsive catastrophe if all the life of the nation shall continue to be concentrated
in the brain, and the great reform for which I call is not made: if a vast system of local
franchise, if provincial institutions, largely independent and conformable to the modern spirit,
are not soon established to yield fresh blood for our exhausted veins, and to fertilize our
impoverished soil.  Undoubtedly the work will be difficult and complicated; it will demand
a firm resolute hand, but the hand that may accomplish it will have achieved the most patriotic
work of the century.  Tell that to your sovereign, Monsieur Sub-prefect; say to him that if
he do that, there is one old French heart that will bless him. Tell him, also, that he will
encounter much passion, much derision, much danger, peradventure; but that he will have a commensurate
recompense when he shall see France, like Lazarus, delivered from its swathings and its shroud,
rise again, sound and whole, to salute him!"

These last words the old gentleman had pronounced with fire, emotion, and extraordinary dignity;
and the silence and respect with which he had been listened to were prolonged after he had
ceased to speak.  This appeared to embarrass him, but taking the arm of Camors he said, with
a smile, "'Semel insanivimus omnes.'  My dear sir, every one has his madness.  I trust that
mine has not offended you.  Well, then, prove it to me by accompanying me on the piano in this
song of the sixteenth century."

Camors complied with his usual good taste; and the song of the sixteenth century terminated
the evening's entertainment; but the young Count, before leaving, found the means of causing
Madame de Tecle the most profound astonishment.  He asked her, in a low voice, and with peculiar
emphasis, whether she would be kind enough, at her leisure, to grant him the honor of a moment's
private conversation.

Madame de Tecle opened still wider those large eyes of hers, blushed slightly, and replied
that she would be at home the next afternoon at four o'clock.

