Transcriber's note

All apparent printer's errors have been retained.

In this version the superscript is indicated by ^.

  THE GALAXY.

  A MAGAZINE OF ENTERTAINING READING.

  VOL. XXIII.

  JANUARY, 1877, TO JUNE, 1877.

  NEW YORK: Sheldon & Company,

  1877.

   Entered, according to Act of Congress, in the year 1877, by
                      SHELDON & COMPANY,
   in the Office of the Librarian of Congress, at Washington, D. C.

   Typography of CHURCHWELL & TEALL.   Electrotyped by SMITH & MCDOUGAL.

INDEX TO VOLUME XXIII.

                                                                   PAGE.

   Administration of Abraham Lincoln    Gideon Welles           5, 149

   Almanacs, Some Old                   Charles Wyllys Elliott      24

   Alnaschar. 1876                      Bret Harte                 217

   Alfred de Musset                     Henry James, Jr.           790

   Applied Science                      Charles Barnard        79, 160

   Art's Limitations                    Margaret J. Preston        159

   Assja                                Ivan Tourguéneff           368

   Aut Diabolus aut Nihil                                            218

   Ballad of Constance                  William Winter             109

   Balzac, Letters of                   Henry James, Jr.           183

   Battalion, The                       J. W. De Forest            817

   Beer                                 S. G. Young                 62

   Beethoven, To                        Sidney Lanier              394

   Cigarettes                                                        471

   Cleopatra's Soliloquy                Mary Bayard Clarke         506

   Climbing Rose, The                                                596

   Cossacks, An Evening Party with the  David Ker                  406

   Dead Star, The                       John James Piatt           660

   Dead Vashti, A                       Louise Stockton            428

   Defeated                             Mary L. Ritter             354

   Dramatic Canons, The                 Frederick Whittaker   396, 508

   DRIFT-WOOD                           Philip Quilibet       125, 265,
                                                                411, 553,
                                                                 695, 842

         The Twelve-Month Sermon; Ribbons and Coronets at Market Rates; The
    Spinning of Literature; Growth of American Taste for Art; The Wills
    of the Triumvirate; The Duel and the Newspapers; The Industry of
    Interviewers; Talk about Novels; Primogeniture and Public Bequests;
    The Times and the Customs; Victor Hugo; Evolutionary Hints for
    Novelists; The Travellers; Swindlers and Dupes; Pegasus in Harness.

   Eastern Question, The                A. H. Guernsey             359

   English Peerage, The                 E. C. Grenville Murray     293

   English Traits                       Richard Grant White        520

   English Women                        Richard Grant White        675

   Executive Patronage and Civil
   Service Reform                       J. L. M. Curry             826

   Fascinations of Angling, The         George Dawson              818

   Fallen Among Thieves                                              809

   Great Seal of the United States      John D. Champlin, Jr.      691

   Hard Times                           Charles Wyllys Elliott     474

   Head of Hercules, The                James M. Floyd              52

   Heartbreak Cameo                     Lizzie W. Champney         111

   Home of My Heart                     F. W. Bourdillon           543

   Influences                           Charles Carroll            124

   Juliet on the Balcony                Howard Glyndon              42

   Lassie's Complaint, The              James Kennedy              367

   Libraries, Public in the United
     States                             John A. Church             639

   Life Insurance                                               686, 803

   LITERATURE, CURRENT                                          137, 279,
                                                                425, 567,
                                                                 708, 855

   Love's Messengers                    Mary Ainge De Vere           51

   Love's Requiem                       William Winter              182

   Lucille's Letter                                                    23

   Madcap Violet. Chapters XLIV. to
     End                                William Black                30

   Margary, The Murder of               Walter A. Burlingame        175

   Miss Misanthrope. Chapters I. to
     XX.                                Justin McCarthy       244, 302,
                                                                450, 597,
                                                                746

   Miss Tinsel                          Henry Sedley               337

   Mohegan-Hudson                       James Manning Winchell     637

   Monsieur Delille                     T. S. Fay                  119

   National Bank Notes, How Redeemed    Frank W. Lautz             647

   NEBULÆ                               By The Editor        144, 288,
                                                                431, 576,
                                                                 720, 864

   Normandy and Pyrenees                Henry James, Jr.             95

   On Being Born Away from Home         Titus Munson Coan           533

   Our Rural Divinity                   John Burroughs               43

   Philter, The                         Mary B. Dodge               242

   Portrait D'une Jeune Femme
     Inconnue                           M. E. W. S.                 336

   Progressive Baby, A                  S. F. Hopkins           81, 727

   Punished, The                        Ella Wheeler                789

   Pythia, The Modern                   S. B. Luce                  209

   Renunciation                         Kate Hillard                358

   Reflected Light                      Mary Ainge De Vere          802

   Romance                              J. W. De Forest              61

   Roman Picture, A                     Mary Lowe Dickinson         674

   Saint Lambert's Coal                 Margaret J. Preston         519

   SCIENTIFIC MISCELLANY                Prof. John A.
                                          Church               129, 269,
                                                                415, 558,
                                                                 699, 846

       Complications of the Channel Tunnel; A Town of Dwarfs; Whooping
    Cough; British Association Notes; An English Crop; Influence of
    White Colors; An Involved Accident; An Old Aqueduct System;
    Galvanism Cannot Restore Exhausted Vitality; Curious Optical
    Experiments; Ice Machines; American Antiquities; Protection from
    Lightning; Steam Machinery and Privateering; Man and Animals; The
    Limbs of Whales; Our Educational Standing; Surface Markings; The
    Oldest Stone Tools; Origin of the Spanish People; The English
    Meteorite; The Boomerang; A Western Lava Field; The Principle of
    Cephalization; Curiosities of the Herring Fishery; Natural Gas in
    Furnaces; South Carolina Phosphates; Rare Metals from Old Coins; A
    French Mountain Weather Station; Migration of the Lemming; New
    Discovery of Neolithic Remains; October Weather; French National
    Antiquities; The Force of Crystallization; Frozen Nitro-Glycerine;
    English Great Guns; Ear Trumpets for Pilots; Hot Water in Dressing
    Ores; Ocean Echoes; The Delicacy of Chemists' Balances; Government
    Control of the Dead; Microscopic Life; The Sources of Potable Water;
    Theory of the Radiometer; Tempered Glass in The Household; The New
    York Aquarium; The Cruelty of Hunting; The Gorilla in Confinement;
    Instruction Shops In Boston; Moon Madness; The Argument against
    Vaccination; The Telephone; Damages by an Insect; The Summer
    Scientific Schools; An Intelligent Quarantine; The "Grasshopper
    Commission"; Surveying Plans for the Season; The Causes of Violent
    Death; A New Induction Coil; French Property Owners; Trigonometrical
    Survey of New York; The Use of Air in Ore Dressing; Polar
    Colonization; The Survey in California; A German Savant among the
    Sioux; Ballooning for Air Currents; The Greatest of Rifles; Vienna
    Bread; Modern Loss in Warfare; A New Treasury Rule; A Hygienic
    School; Microscopic Comparison of Blood Corpuscles; The Summer
    Scientific Schools; The Wages Value of Steam Power; The Negro's
    Color; Scientific Items.

   Shakespeare, On Reading              Richard Grant White    70, 233

   Shall Punishment Punish?             Chauncey Hickox            355

   Sister St. Luke                      Constance Fenimore
                                          Woolson                   489

   Sounding Brass                       Lizzie W. Champney         671

   South, The, Her Condition and Needs  Hon. J. L. M. Curry        544

   Story of a Lion                      Albert Rhodes              196

   Spring                               H. R. H.                   841

   Spring Longing                       Emma Lazarus               725

   Theatres of London                   Henry James, Jr.           661

   Three Periods of Modern Music        Richard Grant White        832

   Théâtre Français, The                Henry James, Jr.           437

   Tried and True                       Sylvester Baxter           470

   Two Worlds, The                      Ellice Hopkins             488

   Unknown Persons                      Mary Murdoch Mason         657

   "Uniformed Militia" Service, The     C. H. M.                   776

   Walt Whitman, To                     Joaquin Miller              29

   Woman's Gifts, A                     Mary Ainge De Vere         208

   Wordsworth's Corrections             Titus Munson Coan          322

   Yosemite Hermit, The                 Clara G. Dolliver          782

THE GALAXY.

VOL. XXIII.--JANUARY, 1877.--No. 1.

ADMINISTRATION OF ABRAHAM LINCOLN.

The political differences which have generated parties in this country date back to an early
period. They existed under the old confederation, were perceptible in the formation of the
Constitution and establishment of "a more perfect union." Differences on fundamental principles
of government led to the organization of parties which, under various names, after the adoption
of the Federal Constitution, divided the people and influenced and often controlled national
and State elections. Neither of the parties, however, has always strictly adhered or been true
to its professed principles. Each has, under the pressure of circumstances and to secure temporary
ascendancy in the Federal or State governments, departed from the landmarks and traditions
which gave it its distinctive character. The Centralists, a name which more significantly than
any other expresses the character, principles, and tendency of those who favor centralization
of power in a supreme head that shall exercise paternal control over States and people, have
under various names constituted one party. On the other hand, the Statists, under different
names, have from the first been jealous of central supremacy. They believe in local self-government,
support the States in all their reserved and ungranted rights, insist on a strict construction
of the Constitution and the limitation of Federal authority to the powers specifically delegated
in that instrument.

The broad and deep line of demarcation between these parties has not always been acknowledged.
Innovation and change have sometimes modified and disturbed this line; but after a period the
distinctive boundary has reappeared and antagonized the people. During the administration of
Mr. Monroe, known as the "era of good feeling," national party lines were almost totally obliterated,
and local and personal controversies took their place. National questions were revived, however,
and contested with extreme violence during several succeeding administrations. Thirty years
later, when the issues of bank, tariff, internal improvements, and an independent treasury
were disposed of, there was as complete a break up of parties as in the days of Monroe. It
was not, however, in an "era of good feeling" that this later dislocation of parties took place;
but an attempt was made in 1850 by leading politicians belonging to different organizations
to unite the people by a compromise or an arrangement as unnatural as it was insincere--party
lines if not obliterated were, as the authors intended, in a measure broken down. This compromise,
as it was called, was a sacrifice of honest principles, and instead of allaying disputes, was
followed by a terrific storm of contention and violence transcending thing the country had
ever experienced, and ended in a civil war.

The time has not yet arrived for a calm and dispassionate review of the acts and actors of
that period and the events of the immediately succeeding years; but the incidents that took
place and the experience so dearly purchased should not be perverted, misunderstood, or wholly
forgotten.

The compromises of 1850, instead of adjusting differences and making the people of one mind
on political questions, actually caused in their practical results the alienation of life-long
party friends, led to new associations among old opponents, and created organizations that
partook more of a sectional character than of honest constitutional differences on fundamental
questions relative to the powers and authority of the Government, such as had previously divided
the people. The facility with which old political opponents came together in the compromise
measures of 1850, and abandoned principles and doctrines for which they had battled through
their whole lives, begot popular distrust. Confidence in the sincerity of the men who so readily
made sacrifices of principles was forfeited or greatly impaired. The Whig party dwindled under
it, and as an organization shortly went out of existence. A large portion of its members, disgusted
with what they considered the insincerity if not faithlessness of their leaders, yet unwilling
to attach themselves to the Democratic party, which had coalesced in the movement, gathered
together in a secret organization, styling themselves "Know Nothings." Democrats in some quarters,
scarcely less dissatisfied with the compromises, joined the Know Nothing order, and in one
or two annual elections this strange combination, without avowed principles or purpose, save
that of the defeat and overthrow of politicians, who were once their trusted favorites, was
successful. In this demoralized condition of affairs, the Democrats by the accession of Whigs
in the Southern States obtained possession of the Government and maintained their ascendancy
through the Pierce administration; and, in a contest quite as much sectional as political,
elected Buchanan in 1856.

But these were the expiring days of the old Democratic organization, which, under the amalgamating
process of the compromise measures, became shattered and mixed, especially in the Southern
States, with former Whigs, and was to a great extent thereafter sectionalized. The different
opposing political elements united against it and organized and established the Republican
party, which triumphed in the election of Lincoln in 1860. The administration which followed
and was inaugurated in 1861 differed in essential particulars from either of the preceding
political organizations. Men of opposing principles--Centralists, who like Hamilton and patriots
of that class were for a strong imperial national government, with supervising and controlling
authority over the States, on one hand, and Statists on the other, who, like Jefferson, adhered
to State individuality and favored a league or federation of States, a national republic of
limited and clearly defined powers, with a strict observance of all the reserved right of the
local commonwealths--were brought together in the elections of 1860. It has been represented
and recorded as grave history that the Republican party was an abolition party. Such was not
the fact, although the small and utterly powerless faction which, under the lead of William
Lloyd Garrison and others, had for years made aggressive war on slavery, was one of the elements
which united with Whigs and Democrats in the election of Mr. Lincoln. Nor was that result a
Whig triumph, though a large portion of the Whigs in the free States, after the compromises
of 1850, from natural antagonism to the Democrats, entered into the Republican organization.
While it is true that a large majority of the Whigs of the North relinquished their old organization
and became Republicans, it is no less true that throughout the slave States, and in many of
the free States, the members of the Whig party to a considerable extent supported Bell or Breckenridge.
But Democrats dissatisfied with the measures of the Pierce and Buchanan administrations, in
much larger numbers than is generally conceded, took early and efficient part in the Republican
organizations--some on account of the repeal of the Missouri compromise, but a much larger
number in consequence of the efforts of the central Government at Washington, by what was considered
by them an abuse of civil trust, and by military interference, to overpower the settlers in
Kansas, denying them the right of self-government, and an attempt arbitrarily and surreptitiously
to impose upon the inhabitants against their will a fraudulent Constitution. It was this large
contribution of free-thinking and independent Democrats, who had the courage to throw off party
allegiance and discipline in behalf of the principles of free government on which our republican
system is founded, the right of the people to self-government, and, consequently, the right
to form and establish their own constitution without dictation or interference from the central
government so long as they violated no provision of the organic law, that gave tone, form,
and ascendancy to the Republican party in every free State.

Persistent efforts have been made to establish as historical truths the representations that
the civil war had its origin in a scheme or purpose to abolish slavery in the States where
it existed, and that the election of Abraham Lincoln was an abolition triumph--a premeditated,
aggressive, sectional war upon the South; whereas the reverse is the fact--the Republican party
in its inception was a strictly constitutional party, that defended the rights of the people,
the rights of the States, and the rights of the Federal Government, which were assailed by
a sectional combination that was not satisfied with the Constitution as it was, but proposed
to exact new guarantees from the nation for the protection of what they called "Southern rights"--rights
unknown to the Constitution. The misrepresentations that the Republicans were aggressive and
aimed to change the organic law have not been without their influence, temporarily at least,
in prejudicing and warping the public mind. It is true that the slavery question was most injudiciously
and unwisely brought into the party controversies of the country; but it was done by the slaveholders
or their political representatives in Congress after the failure of the nullifiers to obtain
ascendancy in the Government on the subject of free trade and resistance to the revenue laws.

John C. Calhoun, a man of undoubted talents, but of unappeasable ambition, had at an early
period of his life, while Secretary of War, and still a young man, aspired to the office of
President. By his ability and patriotic course during the war of 1812, and subsequently by
a brilliant career as a member of Mr. Monroe's Cabinet, he had acquired fame and a certain
degree of popularity which favored his pretensions, particularly with young men and army officers.
Schemes and projects of national aggrandizement by internal improvements, protection to home
industries, large military expenditures, and measures of a centralizing tendency which were
popular in that era of no parties, gave him éclat as Secretary of War. Flattered by his attentions
and by his shining qualities, military men became his enthusiastic supporters, and received
encouragement from him in return. It was the first attempt to elect so young a man to be Chief
Magistrate, and was more personal than political in its character. In the memorable contest
for the successorship to President Monroe, Mr. Calhoun at one time seemed to be a formidable
candidate; but his popularity being personal was evanescent, and failed to enlist the considerate
and reflecting. Even his military hopes were soon eclipsed by General Jackson, whose bold achievements
and successes in the Indian and British wars captivated the popular mind. Jackson had also,
as a representative and Senator in Congress, Judge of the Supreme Court of Tennessee, and Governor
of Florida, great civil experience. Mr. Calhoun was, however, in the political struggle that
took place in 1824, elected to the second office of the republic, while in the strife, confusion,
and break up of parties no one of the competing candidates for President received a majority
of the electoral votes. He and his supporters submitted to, it may be said acquiesced in, the
result then and also in 1828, when General Jackson was elected President and Mr. Calhoun was
reëlected to the office of Vice-President. This acquiescence, however, was reluctant; but with
an expectation that he would in 1833, at the close of General Jackson's term, be the successor
of the distinguished military chieftain.

But the arrangements of calculating politicians often end in disappointments. Such was the
misfortune of Mr. Calhoun. His ambitious and apparently well contrived plans had most of them
an abortive and hapless termination. Observation and experience convinced him, after leaving
Mr. Monroe's Cabinet, that the educated and reflective Statists or State rights men of the
country, and especially of the South, would never sanction or be reconciled to the exercise
of power by the Federal Government to protect the manufacturing interests of New England, or
to construct roads and canals in the West, at the expense of the National Treasury. These were,
however, favorite measures of a class of politicians of the period who had special interests
to subserve, and who carried with them the consolidationists, or advocates of a strong and
magnificent central government. The tariff, internal improvements, and kindred subjects became
classified and known in the party politics of that day as the "American system"--a system of
high taxes and large expenditures by the Federal Government--without specific constitutional
authority for either. Parties were arrayed on opposite sides of this system, which, besides
the political principles involved, soon partook of a sectional character. High and oppressive
duties on importations, it was claimed, were imposed to foster certain industries in the North
to the injury of the South.

Henry Clay, a politician and statesman of wonderful magnetic power, was the eloquent champion
of the "American system," and enlisted in his favor the large manufacturing interest in the
North and the friends of internal improvement in the West. These measures were made national
issues, and Mr. Clay, Speaker of the House of Representatives, appropriated them to his personal
advancement, and was their recognized leading advocate. Mr. Calhoun could not be second to
his Western rival, but abandoned the policy of protection, internal improvements, and great
national undertakings, and allied himself to the commercial and plantation interests, which
opposed the system, expecting to identify himself with and to receive the support of the Statists.
But the strict constructionists of Virginia, Georgia, and other States of the old Jefferson
school distrusted him and withheld their confidence and support.

South Carolina, erratic, brilliant, and impulsive, had never fully harmonized with the politicians
of Virginia in their political doctrines, but had been inclined to ridicule the rigid and non-progressive
principles of her statesmen, who, always cautious, were now slow to receive into fellowship
and to commit themselves to the new convert who sought their support. They slighted him, and
rejected his nullification remedies. Instead of following the Palmetto State in her fanatical
party schemes on the alleged issue of free trade, and supporting her "favorite son" in his
theories, they sustained General Jackson, whose Union sentiments they approved, and who, to
the disgust of Calhoun, became a candidate for reëlection in 1832 and received the votes of
almost the whole South.

In this crisis, when the heated partisans of South Carolina in their zeal for free trade and
State rights had made a step in advance of the more staid and reflecting Statists, and undertook
to abrogate and nullify the laws of the Federal Government legally enacted, they found themselves
unsupported and in difficulty, and naturally turned to their acknowledged leader for guidance.
To contest the Federal Government, and pioneer the way for his associates to resist and overthrow
the Administration, Mr. Calhoun resigned the office of Vice-President and accepted that of
Senator, where his active mind, fertile in resources, could, and as he and they believed would
extricate them. There was, however, at the head of the Government in that day a stern, patriotic,
and uncompromising Chief Magistrate, who would listen to no mere temporizing expedients when
the stability of the Union was involved, and who, while recognizing and maintaining the rights
of the States, never forgot the rights that belonged to the Federal Government. In his extremity,
when confronting this inflexible President, Mr. Calhoun hastened to make friends with his old
opponents, Clay, Webster, and the protectionists, the advocates of the "American system," the
authors and champions of the very policy which had been made the pretext or justification for
nullification and resistance to Federal law and the Federal authority. This coalition of hostile
factions combined in a scheme, or compromise, where each sacrificed principles to oppose the
administration of Jackson. It was an insincere and unrighteous coalition which soon fell asunder.

In the mean time, while nullification was hopelessly prostrate, and before the coalition was
complete, the prolific mind of the aspiring Carolinian devised a new plan and a new system
of tactics which it was expected would sectionalize and unite the South. This new device was
a defence of slavery--a subject in which the entire South was interested--against the impudent
demands of the abolitionists. Not until the nullifiers were defeated, and had failed to draw
the South into their nullification plan, was slavery agitation introduced into Congress and
made a sectional party question with aggressive demands for national protection. The abolitionists
were few in numbers, and of little account in American politics. Some benevolent Quakers and
uneasy fanatics, who neither comprehended the structure of our Federal system nor cared for
the Constitution, had annually for forty years petitioned Congress to give freedom to the slaves.
But the statesmen of neither party listened to these unconstitutional appeals until the defeated
nullifiers professed great apprehension in regard to them, and introduced the subject as a
disturbance, and made it a sensational sectional issue in Congress and the elections.

From the first agitation of the subject as a party question, slavery in all its phases was
made sectional and aggressive by the South. Beginning with a denial of the right to petition
for the abolition of slavery, and with demands for new and more exacting national laws for
the arrest and rendition of fugitives, the new sectional party test was followed by other measures;
such as the unconditional admission of Texas, the extension of slavery into all the free territory
acquired from Mexico, the repeal of the Missouri compromise, a denial to the people of Kansas
of the right to frame their own constitution, and other incidental and irritating questions
that were not legitimately within the scope of Federal authority. Fierce contentions prevailed
for years, sometimes more violent than at others.

In 1850 a budget of compromises, which has already been alluded to, involving a surrender of
principles and an enactment of laws that were unwarranted by the Constitution, and offensive
in other respects, had been patched up by old Congressional party leaders, ostensibly to reconcile
conflicting views and interests, but which were superficial remedies for a cancerous disease,
and intended more to glorify the authors than to promote the country's welfare. Both of the
great parties were committed by the managers to these compromises, but the effect upon each
was different. The Whigs, tired of constant defeat, hoped for a change by the compromises that
would give them recognition and power; but instead of these they found themselves dwarfed and
weakened, while the Democrats, who yielded sound principles to conciliate their Southern allies,
were for a time numerically strengthened in that section by accessions from the Whigs. Old
party lines became broken, and in the Presidential contest of 1852 the Democratic candidate,
General Pierce, a young and showy, but not profound man, was elected by an overwhelming majority
over the veteran General Scott, who was the candidate of the Whigs. From this date the Whig
organization dwindled and had but a fragmentary existence. Thenceforward, until the overthrow
of the Democratic party, the Government at Washington tended to centralization. Fidelity to
party, and adherence to organization with little regard for principle, were its political tests
in the free States. Sectional sentiments to sustain Southern aggressions, under the name of
"Southern rights," were inculcated, violent language, and acts that were scarcely less so,
prevailed through the South and found apologists and defenders at the North. Presidents Pierce
and Buchanan, literally "northern men with southern principles," were submissive to these sectional
aggressions, acquiesced in the repeal of the Missouri compromise, the extension and nationalizing
of slavery, hitherto a State institution, and also to the schemes to prevent the establishment
of a free constitution by the people of Kansas. The mass of voters opposed to the policy of
these administrations, and who constituted the Republican party, were not entirely in accord
on fundamental principles and views of government, but had been brought into united action
from the course of events which followed the Mexican war, the acquisition of territory, and
the unfortunate compromises of 1850. The sectional strife, for the alleged reason of Lincoln's
election and Republican success, which eventuated in hostilities in 1861, and the tremendous
conflict that succeeded and shook the foundation of the Government during the ensuing four
years, threatening the national existence, absorbed all minor questions of a purely political
party character, and made the Cabinet of Mr. Lincoln, though its members entertained organic
differences, a unit. There were occasions when the antecedent opinions and convictions of the
members elicited discussion in regard to the powers, limitations, and attributes of government;
but in the midst of war disagreeing political opinions as well as the laws themselves were
silenced. Each and all felt the necessity of harmonious and efficient action to preserve the Union.

This was especially the case during the first two years of the war of secession. Not only the
President's constitutional advisers, but the Republican members of Congress, embracing many
captious, factious, and theoretical controversialists, acted in harmony and concert. Murmurs
were heard among its friends, and dissatisfaction felt that the Administration was not sufficiently
energetic or arbitrary, and because it did not immediately suppress the rebellion. A long period
of peace which the country had enjoyed rendered the malcontents incapable of judging of the
necessities of preparation for war. "On to Richmond" became the cry of the impatient and restless
before the armies mustered into service were organized. The violent and impassioned appeals
of excited and mischievous speakers and writers created discontent and clamor that could not
always be appeased or successfully resisted. Not content with honest if not always intelligent
criticism of the Government, some editors, papers, writers, and speakers, at an early period
and indeed throughout the war, condemned the policy pursued, assumed to direct the management
of affairs, and advanced crude and absurd notions of the manner in which the Government should
be administered and military operations conducted. For a period after the rout at Bull Run,
which seemed a rebuke to these inconsiderate partisans, there was a temporary lull of complaints
and apparent acquiescence by Republicans in the measures of administration.

Military differences and army jealousies existed from the beginning, which were aggravated
and stimulated by partisan friends and opponents of the rival officers, and by dissent from
the policy pursued in the conduct of military affairs to which many took exception.

General Scott was the military oracle of the Administration in the first days of the war. His
ability and great experience entitled him to regard and deference on all questions relating
to military operations. No one appreciated his qualities more than the President, unless it
was General Scott himself, who with great self-esteem was nevertheless not unconscious that
his age and infirmities had impaired his physical energies, and in some respects unfitted him
to be the active military commander. It was his misfortune that he prided himself more if possible
on his civil and political knowledge and his administrative ability than on his military skill
and capacity. As a politician his opinions were often chimerical, unstable, and of little moment;
but his military knowledge and experience were valuable. With headquarters at Washington, and
for thirty years consulted and trusted by successive administrations of different parties in
important emergencies, internal and external, and at one time the selected candidate of one
of the great political parties for President, he had reason to feel that he was an important
personage in the republic; also that he was competent, and that it was a duty for him to participate
in political matters, and to advise in civil affairs when there were threatened dangers. But
while he was sagacious to detect the premonitory symptoms of disturbance, and always ready
to obey and execute military orders, he was in political and civil matters often weak, irresolute,
and infirm of purpose. He had in the autumn of 1860 warned President Buchanan of danger to
be apprehended from the secession movement, and wisely suggested measures to preserve peace;
but he soon distrusted and abandoned his own suggestions. Without much knowledge of Mr. Lincoln,
and believing erroneously, as did many others, that Mr. Seward was to be the controlling mind
in the new administration, he early put himself in communication with that gentleman. The two
agreed upon the policy of surrendering or yielding to the States in secession the fortresses
within their respective limits. It has been said, and circumstances indicate that there was
also an understanding by Mr. Seward with certain secession leaders, that the forts, particularly
Sumter, if not attacked, should not be reinforced. Of the plans of Mr. Seward and General Scott,
and the understanding which either of them had with the secessionists, President Lincoln was
not informed; but, while he had a sense of duty and a policy of his own, he attentively and
quietly listened to each and to all others entitled to give their opinions.

The reports of Major Anderson and the defence of Sumter being military operations, the President,
pursuant to Mr. Seward's advice, referred to General Scott, and it was supposed by those gentlemen
that the President acquiesced in their conclusions. Nor were they alone in that supposition,
for the President, while cautiously feeling his way, sounding the minds of others, and gathering
information from every quarter, wisely kept his own counsel and delayed announcing his determination
until the last moment. He was accused of being culpably slow, when he was wisely deliberate.

When his decision to reinforce Sumter was finally made known, the Secretary of State and the
General-in-Chief were surprised, embarrassed, and greatly disappointed; for it was an utter
negation and defeat of the policy which they had prescribed. The General, like a good soldier,
quietly and submissively acquiesced; but Mr. Seward, a man of expedients and some conceit,
was unwilling and unprepared to surrender the first place in the Administration, and virtually
publish the fact by an Executive mandate which upset his promised and preferred arrangements.
It was then that he became aware of two things: first, that neither himself nor General Scott,
nor both combined, were infallible with the Administration; and second, that the President,
with all his suavity and genial nature, had a mind of his own, and the resolution and self-reliance
to form, and the firmness and independence to execute a purpose. They had each overestimated
the influence of the other with the President, and underestimated his capacity, will, and self-reliance.
When the Secretary became convinced that he could not alter the President's determination,
he conformed to circumstances, immediately changed his tactics, and after notifying the authorities
at Charleston that the garrison in Sumter was to be supplied, he took prompt but secret measures
to defeat the expedition by detaching the flagship, and sending her, with the supplies and
reinforcements that had been prepared and intended for Sumter, to Fort Pickens. In doing this
he consulted neither the War nor Navy Departments, to which the service belonged; but discarding
both, and also the General-in-Chief, his preceding special confidant, and with whom he had
until then acted in concert, he took to his counsel younger military officers, secretly advised
with them and withdrew them from their legitimate and assigned duties. The discourtesy and
the irregularity of the proceeding, when it became known, shocked General Scott. His pride
was touched. He felt the slight, but he was too good an officer, too subordinate, and too well
disciplined, to complain. The secret military expedition undertaken by the Secretary of State
without the knowledge of the proper departments and of himself, was so irregular, such evidence
of improper administration, that he became alarmed. He felt keenly the course of Mr. Seward
in not consulting him, and in substituting one of his staff as military adviser for the Secretary
of State; but he was more concerned for the Government and country.

A native of Virginia, and imbued with the political doctrines there prevalent, but unflinching
in patriotism and devotion to the Union and the flag, General Scott hesitated how to act--objected
to the hostile invasion of any State by the national troops, but advised that the rebellious
section should be blockaded by sea and land. He thought that surrounded by the army and navy
the insurgents would be cut off from the outer world, and when exhausted from non-intercourse
and the entire prostration of trade and commerce they would return to duty; the "anaconda principle"
of exhausting them he believed would be effectual without invading the territory of States.
When the mayor of Baltimore and a committee of secessionists waited upon the President on the
20th of April to protest against the passage of troops through that city to the national capital,
he, in deference to the local government, advised the President to yield to the metropolitan
demand, and himself drew up an Executive order to that effect. The seizure of Harper's Ferry
and Norfolk and the threatened attack upon Washington greatly disturbed him, but not so much
as the wild cry of the ardent and impulsive which soon followed of "on to Richmond" with an
undisciplined army.

Sensible of his inability to take the field, he acquiesced in the selection if he did not propose
after the disaster at Bull Run, that General McClellan should be called to Washington to organize
the broken and demoralized Army of the Potomac. A thorough reorganization was promptly and
effectually accomplished by that officer. In a few days order, precision, and discipline prevailed--the
troops were massed and a large army was encamped in and about the national capital. But it
was soon evident to the members of the Administration that there was not perfect accord between
the two Generals. The cause and extent of disagreement were not immediately understood.

At a Cabinet meeting which took place in September at the headquarters of the General-in-Chief
by reason of his physical infirmities, a brief discussion occurred which developed coolness
if not dissatisfaction. An inquiry was made by the President as to the exact number of troops
then in and about Washington. General McClellan did not immediately respond--said he had brought
no reports or papers with him. General Scott said he had not himself recently received any
reports. Secretary Seward took from his pocket some memoranda, stating the number that had
been mustered in a few days previous, and then went on to mention additional regiments which
had arrived several successive days since, making an aggregate, I think, of about ninety-three
thousand men. The General immediately became grave.

When the subject matter for which the Cabinet and war officers had been convened was disposed
of, some of the gentlemen left, and General McClellan was about retiring, when General Scott
requested him to remain, and he also desired the President and the rest of us to listen to
some inquiries and remarks which he wished to make. He was very deliberate, but evidently very
much aggrieved. Addressing General McClellan, he said:

"You are perhaps aware, General McClellan, that you were brought to these headquarters by my
advice and by my orders after consulting with the President. I know you to be intelligent and
to be possessed of some excellent military qualities; and after our late disaster it appeared
to me that you were a proper person to organize and take active command of this army. I brought
you here for that purpose. Many things have been, as I expected they would be, well done; but
in some respects I have been disappointed. You do not seem to be aware of your true position;
and it was for this reason I desired that the President and these gentlemen should hear what
I have to say. You are here upon my staff to obey my orders, and should daily report to me.
This you have failed to do, and you appear to labor under the mistake of supposing that you
and not I are General-in-Chief and in command of the armies. I more than you am responsible
for military operations; but since you came here I have been in no condition to give directions
or to advise the President because my chief of staff has neglected to make reports to me. I
cannot answer simple inquiries which the President or any member of the Cabinet makes as to
the number of troops here; they must go to the State department and not come to military headquarters
for that information."

Mr. Seward here interposed to say that the statement he had made was from facts which he had
himself collected from day to day as the troops arrived. "Do I understand," asked General Scott,
"that the regiments report as they come here to the Honorable Secretary of State?"

"No, no," said Mr. Cameron, who wished to arrest or soften a painful interview. "General McClellan
is not to blame; it is Seward's work. He is constantly meddling with what is none of his business,
and (alluding to the Pickens expedition) makes mischief in the war and navy departments by
his interference."

There was in the manner more than in the words a playful sarcasm which Seward felt and the
President evidently enjoyed. General McClellan stood by the open door with one hand raised
and holding it, a good deal embarrassed. He said he had intended no discourtesy to General
Scott, but he had been so incessantly occupied in organizing and placing the army, receiving
and mustering in the recruits as they arrived, and attending to what was absolutely indispensable,
that it might seem he omitted some matters of duty, but he should extremely regret if it was
supposed he had been guilty of any disrespect.

"You are too intelligent and too good a disciplinarian not to know your duties and the proprieties
of military intercourse," said General Scott; "but seem to have misapprehended your right position.
I, you must understand, am General-in-Chief. You are my chief of staff. When I brought you
here you had my confidence and friendship. I do not say that you have yet entirely lost my
confidence. Good day, General McClellan."

A few weeks later General Scott was on his own application placed upon the retired list, and
General McClellan became his successor. Disaffection on the part of any of the officers, if
any existed, did not immediately show itself; the army and people witnessed with pride the
prompt and wonderful reorganization that had taken place, and for a time exulted in the promised
efficiency and capabilities of the "young Napoleon." But the autumn passed away in grand reviews
and showy parades, where the young General appeared with a numerous staff composed of wealthy
young gentlemen, inexperienced, untrained, and unacquainted with military duty, who as well
as foreign princes had volunteered their services. Parades and reviews were not useless, and
the committal of wealthy and influential citizens who were placed upon his staff had its advantages;
but as time wore on and no blow was struck or any decisive movement attempted, complaints became
numerous and envy and jealousy found opportunity to be heard.

The expectation that the rebellion would be suppressed in ninety days, and that an undisciplined
force of seventy-five thousand men or even five times that number would march to Richmond,
clear the banks of the Mississippi, capture New Orleans, and overwhelm the whole South, had
given way to more reasonable and rational views before Congress convened at the regular session
in December. Still the slow progress that was made by the Union armies, and the immense war
expenditures, to which our country was then unaccustomed, caused uneasiness with the people,
and furnished food and excitement for the factions in Congress.

The anti-slavery feeling was increasing, but efforts to effect emancipation were not controlling
sentiments of the Administration or of a majority of Congress at the commencement or during
the first year of Mr. Lincoln's term, although such are the representations of party writers,
and to some extent of the historians of the period. Nor did the Administration, as is often
asserted and by many believed, commence hostilities and make aggressive war on the slave States
or their institutions; but when war began and a national garrison in a national fortress was
attacked, it did not fail to put forth its power and energies to suppress the rebellion and
maintain the integrity of the Union. Military delays and tardy movements were nevertheless
charged to the imbecility of the Government. It is not to be denied that a portion of the most
active supporters of the President in and out of Congress and in the armies had in view ulterior
purposes than that of suppressing the insurrection. Some were determined to avail themselves
of the opportunity to abolish slavery, others to extinguish the claim of reserved sovereignty
to the States, and a portion were favorable to both of these extremes and to the consolidation
of power in the central Government; but a larger number than either and perhaps more than all
combined were for maintaining the Constitution and Union unimpaired.

The President, while opposed to all innovating schemes, had the happy faculty of so far harmonizing
and reconciling his differing friends as to keep them united in resisting the secession movement.

Abraham Lincoln was in many respects a remarkable man, never while living fully understood
or appreciated. An uncultured child of the frontiers, with no educational advantages, isolated
in youth in his wilderness home, with few associates and without family traditions, he knew
not his own lineage and connections. Nor was this singular in the then condition of unsettled
frontier life. His grandfather, with Daniel Boone, left the settled part of Virginia, crossed
the Alleghany mountains, penetrated the "dark and bloody ground," and took up his residence
in the wilds of Kentucky near the close of the Revolutionary war. There was little intercourse
with each other in the new and scattered settlements destitute of roads and with no mail facilities
for communication with relatives, friends, and the civilized world east of the mountains. Abraham
Lincoln, the grandfather of the President, was a nephew of Daniel Boone, and partook of the
spirit of his brave and subsequently famous relative. But his residence in his secluded home
was brief. He was killed by the Indians when his son Thomas, the father of President Lincoln,
was only six years old. Four years later the fatherless boy lost his mother. Left an orphan,
this neglected child, without kith or kindred for whom he cared or who cared for him, led a
careless, thriftless life, became a wandering pioneer, emigrated from Kentucky when the President
was but seven years old, took up his residence for several years in the remote solitudes of
Indiana, and drifted at a later day to Illinois. This vagrant life, by a shiftless father,
and without a mother or female relative to keep alive and impress upon him the pedigree and
traditions of his family, left the President without definite knowledge of his origin and that
of his fathers. The deprivation he keenly felt. I heard him say on more than one occasion that
when he laid down his official life he would endeavor to trace out his genealogy and family
history. He had a vague impression that his family had emigrated from England to Pennsylvania
and thence to Virginia; but, as he remarked in my presence to Mr. Ashmun of Massachusetts,
and afterward to Governor Andrew, there was not, he thought, any immediate connection with
the families of the same name in Massachusetts, though there was reason to suppose they had
a common ancestry.

Having entered upon this subject, and already said more than was anticipated at the commencment,
the opportunity is fitting to introduce extracts from a statement made by himself and to accompany
it with other facts which have come into my possession since his death--facts of which he had
no knowledge.

In addition to the foregoing I may add that among my acquaintance in central Pennsylvania were
several sisters whose maiden name was Winters. Two of these sisters were wives of Judges of
the Supreme Court of Pennsylvania. Another sister was the wife of William Potter, a member
of Congress of some note from that State and son of General Potter of the Revolution. These
sisters were the great aunts of President Lincoln, and I subjoin an obituary notice of the
younger sister, Mrs. Potter, who died in 1875, at the advanced age of eighty-four. There are
some incidents not immediately connected with the subject that might be omitted, but I think
it best to present the obituary in full:

     Died, in Bellefonte, at the residence of Edward C. Humes, on Sunday
     morning, the 30th of May A. D. 1875, Mrs. Lucy Potter, relict of
     Hon. William W. Potter, deceased, aged eighty-four years, nine
     months, and two days.

     Mrs. Potter was a member of a large and rather remarkable family;
     her father having been born in 1728, married in 1747, died in 1794;
     children to the number of nineteen being born to him, the eldest in
     1748, the youngest in 1790--their birth extending over a period of
     forty-two years. William Winters, the father of the deceased, came
     from Berks county to Northumberland, now Lycoming county, in the
     year 1778, having purchased the farm lately known as the Judge
     Grier farm, near what was called Newberry, but now within the
     corporate limits of the city of Williamsport. Mr. Winters was twice
     married. His first wife was Ann Boone, a sister of Colonel Daniel
     Boone, famous in the early annals of Kentucky. His marriage took
     place in the year 1747 in the then province of Virginia. By this
     union there were issue eleven children, four males and seven
     females. His eldest daughter, Hannah, married in Rockingham county,
     Virginia, Abraham Lincoln, the grandfather of President Lincoln.
     Shortly before his death, Lincoln, who was killed by the Indians,
     visited his father-in-law at what is now Williamsport, and John
     Winters, his brother-in-law, returned with him to Kentucky, whither
     Mr. Lincoln had removed after his marriage; John being deputed to
     look after some lands taken by Colonel Daniel Boone and his father.

     They travelled on foot from the farm, by a route leading by where
     Bellefonte now is, the Indian path "leading from Bald Eagle to
     Frankstown."

     John Winters visited his sister, Mrs. Potter, in 1843, and
     wandering to the hill upon which the Academy is situated, a
     messenger was sent for him, his friends thinking he had lost
     himself; but he was only looking for the path he and Lincoln had
     trod sixty years before, and pointed out with his finger the course
     from Spring creek, along Buffalo run, to where it crosses the "Long
     Limestone Valley," as the route they had travelled.

     Upon the death of Mr. Winters's first wife, in 1771, he again, in
     1774, married. His second wife was Ellen Campbell, who bore him
     eight children, three males and five females, of which latter the
     subject of this notice was the youngest.

     The father of Mrs. Potter died in 1794, and in 1795 Mrs. Ellen
     Winters, his widow, was licensed by the courts of Lycoming county
     to keep a "house of entertainment" where Williamsport now is--where
     she lived and reared her own children as well as several of her
     step children.

     Here all her daughters married, Mary becoming the wife of Charles
     Huston, who for a number of years adorned the bench of the Supreme
     Court of this State; Ellen, the wife of Thomas Burnside, who was a
     member of Congress, Judge of the Court of Common Pleas, and finally
     a Justice of the Supreme Court; Sarah, the wife of Benjamin Harris,
     whose daughter, Miss Ellen Harris, resides on Spring street in this
     borough; Elizabeth, the wife of Thomas Alexander, a carpenter and
     builder, who erected one of the first dwellings in Williamsport, at
     the corner of what are now Pine and Third streets in that city, and
     many of whose descendants are still living in Lycoming county;
     Lucy, the wife of William W. Potter, a leading politician in this
     county, who died on the 15th day of October, 1888, while a member
     of our national Congress.

     Mrs. Potter continued with her mother's family in Lycoming county,
     frequently visiting her two sisters, Mrs. Huston and Mrs. Burnside,
     who resided in Bellefonte, where, in 1815, she was united in
     marriage, by Rev. James Linn, with William W. Potter, a young and
     rising lawyer, and son of General James Potter, one of the early
     settlers of the county. Here, with her husband until his death, and
     then, upon the marriage of her niece, Miss Lucy Alexander, with Mr.
     Edward C. Humes, she made her home, living continuously in this
     town since her marriage, and having survived her husband for the
     long period of thirty-seven years, being that length of time a
     widow.

The biographers of President Lincoln have none of them given these facts because they did not
know them, nor was the President himself aware of them. Of their authenticity so far as the
relationship of Mr. Lincoln with the family of Winters is concerned, I have no doubt. His ancestry
in this country, paternal and maternal--Lincoln, Boone, and Winters--is to be traced to the
county of Berks, Pennsylvania.

A roving child of the forest, where there were not even village schools, Abraham Lincoln had
little early culture, but his vigorous native intellect sought information wherever it could
be obtained with limited means and opportunities, and overcame almost insuperable obstacles.
His quick perception and powers of observation and reflection, and his retentive memory were
remarkable; his judgment was good, his mental grasp and comprehension equal to any emergency,
his intentions were always honest, and his skill and tact, with a determination to always maintain
the right, begot confidence and made him successful and great. Party opponents imputed his
success under difficulties that seemed insurmountable to craft and cunning; but while not deficient
in shrewdness, his success was the result not of deceptive measures or wily intrigue, but of
wisdom and fidelity with an intuitive sagacity that seldom erred as to measures to be adopted,
or the course to be pursued. It may be said of him, that he possessed inherently a master mind,
and was innately a leader of men. He listened, as I have often remarked, patiently to the advice
and opinions of others, though he might differ from them; treated unintentional errors with
lenity, was forbearing, and kind to mistaken subordinates, but ever true to his own convictions.
He gathered information and knowledge whenever and wherever he had opportunity, but quietly
put aside assumption and intrusive attempt to unduly influence and control him.

Like all his Cabinet, with the exception of Mr. Blair, who had been educated at West Point,
he was without military pretension when he entered upon his executive duties and encountered
at the very threshold a civil war which had been long maturing, was deeply seated, and in its
progress was almost unprecedented in magnitude. Neither he nor any of his advisers had personal,
official, practical experience in administering the civil service of the Federal Government.
The commencement of hostilities, before they had time to become familiar with their duties,
imposed upon each and all labors and cares beyond those of any of their predecessors. To these
were added the conduct of military operations as novel as they were responsible. Unprepared
as the country was for the sudden and formidable insurrection, the Administration was not less
so, yet it was compelled at once to meet it, make preparations, call out immense armies, and
select officers to organize and command them.

These commanders were most of them educated military officers, but possessed of limited experience.
Their lives had been passed on a peace establishment, and they were consequently without practical
knowledge. Many of these, as well as such officers as were selected from civil life, seemed
bewildered by their sudden preferment, and appeared to labor under the impression that they
were clothed not only with military but civil authority. Some in the higher grades imagined
that in addition to leading armies and fighting battles, they had plenary power to administer
the Government and prescribe the policy to be pursued in their respective departments. Much
difficulty and no small embarrassment was caused by their mistaken assumptions and acts, in
the early part of the war.

J. C. Fremont, the western explorer, a political candidate for the Presidency in 1856, and
made a major general by President Lincoln at the beginning of the rebellion in 1861, was assigned
to the command of the western department. He evidently considered himself clothed with proconsular
powers; that he was a representative of the Government in a civil capacity as well as military
commander, and soon after establishing his headquarters at St. Louis assumed authority over
the slavery question which the President could neither recognize nor permit. General Hunter,
at Port Royal, and General Phelps, in the Gulf, each laboring under the same error, took upon
themselves to issue extraordinary manifestoes that conflicted with the Constitution and laws,
on the subject of slavery, which the President was compelled to disavow. The subject, if to
be acted upon, was administrative and belonged to the Government and civil authorities--not
to military commanders. But there was a feeling in Congress and the country which sympathized
with the radical generals in these anti-slavery decrees, rather than with the law, and the
Executive in maintaining it. The Secretary of War, under whom these generals acted, not inattentive
to current opinion, also took an extraordinary position, and in his annual report enunciated
a policy in regard to the slavery question, without the assent of the President and without
even consulting him. Mr. Lincoln promptly directed the assuming portion of the report, which
had already been printed, to be cancelled; but the proceeding embarrassed the Administration
and contributed to the retirement of Mr. Cameron from the Cabinet. These differences in the
army, in the Administration, and among the Republicans in Congress, extended to the people.
A radical faction opposed to the legal, cautious, and considerate policy of the President began
to crystallize and assume shape and form, which, while it did not openly oppose the President,
sowed the seeds of discontent against his policy and the general management of public affairs.

The military operations of the period are not here detailed or alluded to, except incidentally
when narrating the action of the Administration in directing army movements and shaping the
policy of the Government. Nearly one-third of the States were, during the Presidency of Mr.
Lincoln, unrepresented in the national councils, and in open rebellion. A belt of border States,
extending from the Delaware to the Rocky mountains, which, though represented in Congress,
had a divided population, was distrustful of the President. Yielding the Administration a qualified
support, and opposed to the Government in almost all its measures, was an old organized and
disciplined party in all the free States, which seemed to consider its obligations to party
paramount to duty to the country. This last, if it did not boldly participate with the rebels,
was an auxiliary, and as a party, hostile to the Administration, and opposed to nearly every
measure for suppressing the insurrection.

There were among the friends of the Administration, and especially during its last two years,
radical differences, which in the first stages of the war were undeveloped. The mild and persuasive
temper of the President, his generous and tolerant disposition, and his kind and moderate forbearance
toward the rebels, whom he invited and would persuade to return to their allegiance and their
duty, did not correspond with the schemes and designs of the extreme and violent leaders of
the Republican party. They had other objects than reconstruction to attain, were implacable
and revengeful, and some with ulterior radical views thought the opportunity favorable to effect
a change of administration.

These had for years fomented division, encouraged strife, and were as ultra and as unreasonable
in their demands and exactions as the secessionists. Some had welcomed war with grim satisfaction,
and were for prosecuting it unrelentingly with fire and sword to the annihilation of the rights,
and the absolute subversion of the Southern States and subjection of the Southern people. There
was in their ranks unreasoning fanaticism, and ferocity that partook of barbarism, with a mixture
of political intrigue fatal to our Federal system. These men, dissatisfied with President Lincoln,
accused him of temporizing, of imbecility, and of sympathy with the rebels because he would
not confiscate their whole property, and hang or punish them as pirates or traitors. These
radical Republicans, as they were proud to call themselves, occupied, like all extreme men
in high party and revolutionary times, the front rank of their party, and, though really a
minority, gave tone and character to the Republican organization. Fired with avenging zeal,
and often successful in their extreme views, though to some extent checked and modified by
the President, they were presuming, and flattered themselves they could, if unsuccessful with
Mr. Lincoln, effect a change in the administration of the Government in 1864 by electing a
President who would conform to their ultra demands. Secret meetings and whispered consultations
were held for that purpose, and for a time aspiring and calculating politicians gave them encouragement;
but it soon became evident that the conservative sentiment of the Republicans and the country
was with Mr. Lincoln, and that the confidence of the people in his patriotism and integrity
was such as could not be shaken. Nevertheless, a small band of the radicals held out and would
not assent to his benignant policy. These malcontents undertook to create a distinct political
organization which, if possessed of power, would make a more fierce and unrelenting war on
the rebels, break down their local institutions, overturn their State governments, subjugate
the whites, elevate the blacks, and give not only freedom to the slaves, but by national decree
override the States, and give suffrage to the whole colored race. These extreme and rancorous
notions found no favor with Mr. Lincoln, who, though nominally a Whig in the past, had respect
for the Constitution, loved the Federal Union, and had a sacred regard for the rights of the
States, which the Whigs as a party did not entertain. War two years after secession commenced
brought emancipation, but emancipation did not dissolve the Union, consolidate the Government,
or clothe it with absolute power; nor did it impair the authority and rights which the States
had reserved. Emancipation was a necessary, not a revolutionary measure, forced upon the Administration
by the secessionists themselves, who insisted that slavery which was local and sectional should
be made national.

The war was, in fact, defensive on the part of the Government against a sectional insurrection
which had seized the fortresses and public property of the nation; a war for the maintenance
of the Union, not for its dissolution; a war for the preservation of individual, State, and
Federal rights; good administration would permit neither to be sacrificed nor one to encroach
on the other. The necessary exercise of extraordinary war powers to suppress the Rebellion
had given encouragement and strength to the centralists who advocated the consolidation and
concentration of authority in the general Government in peace as well as war, and national
supervision over the States and people. Neither the radical enthusiasts nor the designing centralists
admitted or subscribed to the doctrine that political power emanated from the people; but it
was the theory of both that the authority exercised by the States was by grant derived from
the parental or general Government. It was their theory that the Government created the States,
not that the States and people created the Government. Some of them had acquiesced in certain
principles which were embodied in the fundamental law called the Constitution; but the Constitution
was in their view the child of necessity, a mere crude attempt of the theorists of 1776, who
made successful resistance against British authority, to limit the power of the new central
Government which was substituted for that of the crown. For a period after the Revolution it
was admitted that feeble limitations on central authority had been observed, though it was
maintained that those limitations had been obstructions to our advancing prosperity, the cause
of continual controversy, and had gradually from time to time been dispensed with, broken down,
or made to yield to our growing necessities. The civil war had made innovations--a sweep, in
fact, of many constitutional barriers--and radical consolidationists like Thaddeus Stevens
and Henry Winter Davis felt that the opportunity to fortify central authority and establish
its supremacy should be improved.

These were the ideas and principles of leading consolidationists and radicals in Congress who
were politicians of ability, had studied the science of government, and were from conviction
opponents of reserved rights and State sovereignty and of a mere confederation or Federal Union,
based on the political equality and reserved sovereignty of the States, but insisted that the
central Government should penetrate further and act directly on the people. Few of these had
given much study or thought to fundamental principles, the character and structure of our Federal
system, or the Constitution itself. Most of them, under the pressure of schemers and enthusiasts,
were willing to assume and ready to exercise any power deemed expedient, regardless of the
organic law. Almost unrestrained legislation to carry on the war induced a spirit of indifference
to constitutional restraint, and brought about an assumption by some, a belief by others, that
Congress was omnipotent; that it was the embodiment of the national will, and that the other
departments of the Government as well as the States were subordinate and subject to central
Congressional control. Absolute power, the centralists assumed and their fanatical associates
seemed to suppose, was vested in the legislative body of the country, and its decrees, arbitrary
and despotic, often originating in and carried first by a small vote in party caucus, were
in all cases claimed to be decisive, and to be obeyed by the Executive, the judiciary, and
the people, regardless of the Constitution. Parliamentary discussions were not permitted, or
of little avail. The acts of caucus were despotic, mandatory, and decisive. The several propositions
and plans of President Lincoln to reëstablish the Union, and induce the seceding States to
resume their places and be represented in Congress, were received with disfavor by the radical
leaders, who, without open assault, set in motion an undercurrent against nearly every Executive
proposition as the weak and impotent offspring of a well meaning and well intentioned, but
not very competent and intelligent mind. It was the difference between President Lincoln and
the radical leaders in Congress on the question of reconciliation, the restoration of the States,
and the reëstablishment of the Union on the original constitutional basis, which more than
even his genial and tolerant feelings toward the rebels led to political intrigue among Republican
members of Congress for the nomination of new candidates, and opposition to Mr. Lincoln's reëlection
in 1864. At one period this intrigue seemed formidable, and some professed friends lent it
their countenance, if they did not actually participate in it, who ultimately disavowed any
connection with the proceeding.

Singular ideas were entertained and began to be developed in propositions of an extraordinary
character, relative to the powers and the construction of the Government, which were presented
to Congress, even in the first year of the war. Theoretical schemes from cultivated intellects,
as well as crude notions from less intellectual but extreme men, found expression in resolutions
and plans, many of which were absurd and most of them impracticable and illegal. Foremost and
prominent among them were a series of studied and elaborate resolutions prepared by Charles
Sumner, and submitted to the Senate on the 11th of February, 1862. Although presented at that
early day, they were the germ of the reconstruction policy adopted at a later period. In this
plan or project for the treatment of the insurrectionary States and the people who resided
in them, the Massachusetts Senator manifested little regard for the fundamental law or for
State or individual rights. The high position which this Senator held in the Republican party
and in Congress and the country, his cultured mind and scholarly attainments, his ardent if
not always discreet zeal and efforts to free the slaves and endow the whole colored race, whether
capable or otherwise, with all the rights and privileges, socially and politically, of the
educated and refined white population whom they had previously served, his readiness and avowed
intention to overthrow the local State governments and the social system where slavery existed,
to subjugate the whites and elevate the blacks, will justify a special notice; for it was one
of the first, if not the very first of the radical schemes officially presented to change the
character of the Government and the previously existing distinctions between the races. His
theory or plan may be taken as the pioneer of the many wild and visionary projects of the central
and abolition force, that took shape and form not only during the war, but after hostilities
ceased and the rebels were subdued.

Mr. Sumner introduced his scheme with a preamble which declared, among other things, that the
"extensive territory" of the South had been "usurped by pretended governments and organizations";
that "the Constitution, which is the supreme law of the land, cannot be displaced in its rightful
operation within this territory, but must ever continue the supreme law thereof, notwithstanding
the doings of any pretended governments acting singly or in confederation in order to put an
end to its supremacy." Therefore:

     Resolved, 1st.

     2d. That any combination of men assuming to act in the place of
     such State, attempting to ensnare or coerce the inhabitants thereof
     into a confederation hostile to the Union, is rebellious,
     treasonable, and destitute of all moral authority; and that such
     combination is a usurpation incapable of any constitutional
     existence and utterly lawless, so that everything dependent upon it
     is without constitutional or legal support.

     3d. That the termination of a State under the Constitution
     necessarily causes the termination of those peculiar local
     institutions which, having no origin in the Constitution, or in
     those natural rights which exist Independent of the Constitution,
     are upheld by the sole and exclusive authority of the State.

     ... Congress will assume complete jurisdiction of such vacated
     territory where such unconstitutional and illegal things have been
     attempted, and will proceed to establish therein republican forms
     of government under the Constitution.

The administration of Mr. Buchanan had laid down as a rule of government that a State could
not be coerced. The whole country not in rebellion had declared there should be no secession,
division, or destruction of the Federal Union, but here was the most conspicuous leader of
the Republican party in the Senate proposing a scheme to punish a State, to annihilate and
destroy its government, to territorialize it, to exclude or expel it from the Union, to make
no discrimination in its exclusions and denunciations between the loyal and disloyal inhabitants,
but to punish alike, without trial or conviction, the just and the unjust. There were, though
he was unwilling to admit it, and was perhaps unaware of it, vindictive feelings, venom, and
revenge in his resolutions and in his whole treatment of the States and the white people of
the South. From the time that he had been stricken down by the bludgeon of Brooks in the Senate,
Mr. Sumner waged unrelenting war on the whites in the Southern States, and seemed to suppose
it was his special mission--he certainly made it the great object of his life--to elevate the
negro race--to give them at least equal rights and privileges with the educated and refined
class--and did not conceal his intention and expectation to bring them in as auxiliaries to
the Republican party, and thereby give it permanent ascendancy. All this was done in the name
of humanity, and with apparent self-convinced sincerity. He was unwilling to acknowledge that
he was governed or influenced by personal resentments in his revolutionary plans to degrade
the intelligent white and exalt the ignorant black population by tearing down the constitutional
edifice. In frequent interviews which I held with him then and at later periods, when he found
it impossible to hold his positions under the Constitution, he claimed that he occupied higher
ground, and that his authority for these violent measures was the Declaration of Independence,
which declared all men were born equal, etc. Mr. Sumner was an idealist--neither a constitutionalist
nor a practical statesman. He could pull down, but he could not construct--could declare what
he considered humane, right, and proper, and act upon it regardless of constitutional compromises
or conventional regulations which were the framework of the Government. No man connected with
the Administration, or in either branch of Congress, was more thoroughly acquainted with our
treaties, so familiar with the traditions of the Government, or better informed on international
law than Charles Sumner; but on almost all other Governmental questions he was impulsive and
unreliable, and when his feelings were enlisted, imperious, dogmatical, and often unjust.

Why innocent persons who were loyal to the Government and the Union should be disfranchised
and proscribed because their neighbors and fellow citizens had engaged in a conspiracy, he
could not explain or defend. By what authority whole communities and States should be deprived
of the local governments which their fathers had framed, under which they were born, and with
the provisions and traditions of which they were familiar, was never told.

His propositions found no favor with the Administration, nor were they supported at the beginning
by any considerable number even of the extremists in Congress. It required much training by
the centralizing leaders for years and all the tyranny of caucus machinery after the death
of Mr. Lincoln to carry them into effect by a series of reconstruction measures that were revolutionary
in their character, and which to a certain extent unsettled the principles on which the Government
was founded.

But the counsel and example of the distinguished Senator from Massachusetts were not without
their influence. Resolutions by radical Republicans and counter resolutions, chiefly by Democrats,
relative to the powers and limitations of the Federal Government and the status of States,
followed in quick succession. On the 11th of June, the subject having been agitated and discussed
for four months, Mr. Dixon, a Republican Senator from Connecticut, whose views coincided in
the main with those of Mr. Lincoln and the Administration, submitted, after consultation and
advisement, the following:

     Resolved, That all acts or ordinances of secession, alleged to
     have been adopted by any legislature or convention of the people of
     any State, are as to the Federal Union absolutely null and void;
     and that while such acts may and do subject the individual actors
     therein to forfeitures and penalties, they do not, in any degree,
     affect the relations of the State wherein they purport to have been
     adopted to the Government of the United States, but are as to such
     Government acts of rebellion, insurrection, and hostility on the
     part of the individuals engaged therein, or giving assent thereto;
     and that such States are, notwithstanding such acts or ordinances,
     members of the Federal Union, and as such are subject to all the
     obligations and duties imposed upon them by the Constitution of the
     United States; and the loyal citizens of such States are entitled
     to all the rights and privileges thereby guaranteed or conferred.

The resolution of Dixon traversed the policy of Sumner and was the Executive view of the questions
that were agitated in Congress as to the effect of the rebellion and the condition of the States
in insurrection. The Administration did not admit that rebellion dissolved the Union or destroyed
its federative character; nor did it adopt or assent to the novel theory that the States and
the whole people residing in them had forfeited all sovereignty and all reserved State and
individual rights, because a portion of the inhabitants had rebelled; nor did it admit that
the usurpation of a portion of any community could bring condemnation and punishment on all.
The usurpations and acts of the rebels were considered not legal acts, but nullities.

                                        GIDEON WELLES.

LUCILLE'S LETTER.

   Out of the dreary distance and the dark
   I stretch forth praying palms--yet not to pray;
   Hands fold themselves for heaven, while mine, alas!
         Are sundered--held your way.

   Brief moments have been ours, yet bright as brief;
   Oh! how I live them over, one by one,
   Now that the endless days, bereft of you,
         Creep slowly, sadly on.

   Garnered in memory, those bewildering hours,
   A golden harvest of enchantment yield;
   Here, like a pale, reluctant Ruth, I glean
         A cold and barren field--

   Barren without a shelter: and the hedge
   Is made of thorns and brambles. If I fain
   Would lean beyond the barrier, do you see
         The wounding and the stain?

   Did God make us to mock us, on the earth?
   Why did he fuse our spirits by His word,
   Then set His awful Angel in our path,
         His Angel with the sword?

   Why, when I contrite kneel confessing all,
   And seek with tears the way to be forgiven--
   Why do your pleading eyes look sadly down
         Between my face and heaven?

   Why does my blood thrill at your fancied touch--
   Stop and leap up at your ideal caress?
   Ah, God! to feel that dear warm mouth on mine
         In lingering tenderness!

   To lie at perfect peace upon your heart,
   Your arms close folded round me firm and fast,
   My cheek to yours--oh, vision dear as vain!
         That would be home at last.

   Leon, you are my curse, my blessing too,
   My hell, my heaven, my storm that wrecks to save:
   Life daunts me, and the shadows lengthen out
         Beyond the grave.

                                        MARY L. RITTER.

SOME OLD ALMANACKS.

Do you know, gentle reader, what an interesting, valuable, and useful book an "Almanack" once
was? You are gorged with books, and newspapers lie about thick as leaves in Vallambrosa. Do
you ever buy an Almanac for five cents? I trow not. Therefore you do not know how much careful
calculation, skill, and knowledge are to be had for that small piece of money.

Therefore you cannot sit down in the evening and pore over its mystic signs. Indeed, I fear
you do not know what a zodiac is, or what the meaning of "Cancer the Crab" and "Gemini the
Twins" may be. It is more than likely you will reply, "Oh, yes; if the Crab had a Cancer, he
would cry Gemini to the Twins"--and in that light and flippant way you will try to hide your
brutal ignorance, if a male, your shallow understanding, if a female.

Now I have just had a sort of musty satisfaction in looking over some old Almanacs, which dated
as far back as 1727. They seem to have been the property of somebody whose letters were W.
S. His almanacs were so prized that he had interleaved them, and then he recorded his profound
observations. He thus had learned, what I fear you have not, that the moon had many mysterious
influences besides making the tides rise and fall, if it does. It seems, if we can believe
"A Native of New England," who made B. Greene's Almanack for 1731, that the "Moon has dominion
over man's body," and that when she gets into "Cancer the Crab" you must expect every sort
of bedevilment in your breast and stomach. When she gets into "Gemini," the same in your arms
and shoulders. When she is in "Scorpio" your bowels and belly are in danger, and so on all
through your body; so that we might well enough wish the moon were wholly abolished; for the
little wishy-washy light she gives to lovers and thieves is not at all a balance for such fearful
threatenings.

Who was the "Native of New England" is a secret, and well it is, for in 1727 he graced his
title-page with this poem:

              ----Man--that Noble Creature,
   Scanted of time, and stinted by Weak Nature,
   That in foretimes saw jubilees of years,
   As by our Ancient History appears;
   Nay, which is more, even Silly Women then,
   Liv'd longer time than our grave Graybeard Men.

"Graced," did I say? May we not put a dis before it? "Silly Women!" "Noble Creature!" Did the
Native mean that woman then was silly and man then noble? Well for him is it that our "Mrs.
Ward Howes" and "Mrs. Lillie Blakes" cannot make rhymes upon his name; well for him that he
went his way holding his mantle before his face.

But he himself did not hold himself lightly. He knew all about Apogé and Perigé (we now spell
them Apogée and Perigée). But does the Radical Club itself know anything at all about Apogée
and Perigée? He knew when some "fine moderate weather" would come, when "winds enough for several"
would blow, when "bad weather for hoop petticoats" would be; and that was on the 29th and 30th
of January, 1727. Fearful weather, we may believe; but he, the Native, knew. But alas for us!
On the 2d, he puts it down as "sloppy and raw cold." Now it so chances that W. S. has kept
his MS. notes against this day, and he has it "Very fine and pleasant," and the next day, "Dry
and dusty." Lamentable indeed for the Native! But he is not to be shaken for all that; he prognosticates
through all the year just as if all was to come exactly right. One would like to know what
W. S. thought of his prognosticator, and if he kept on studying and believing just the same
as if all had come right. I do not doubt he did.

And now we come to some positive statements about Eclipses, and learn what we may depend on
in that quarter.

The Native goes on to say, "As to the effects, they chiefly affect those Men that live by their
Ingenuity; I mean Painters, Poets, Mercurialists, &c." What is a mercurialist? Does he mean
the worshippers of Mercury, thieves, and that sort? "But"--and mark the cautious tone here--"but
whether it forbodes good or ill to them I shall not now determine; only advise them to prepare
for the worst!" Pretty good advice in all times of eclipse; and in these days even when there
is no eclipse. Mark his modesty: "I do not pretend to Infallibility in my Conjectures, yet
(as I said last year) they many times come out too True to make a jest of." Then he goes on:
"I have read of a story which Thaurus is said to relate of Andreas Vesalius, a great Astrologer
who lived in the reign of Henry the VIII.; to wit, that he told Maximilian the Day and Hour
of his Death, who, giving credit thereto, ordered a great feast to be made, inviting his Friends,
sat and Eat [ate?] with them; and afterwards, having distributed his Treasures among them,
took leave of them and Dyed at the time predicted." Most kind of this Maximilian, for it must
have secured a good patronage to the astrologers.

"Yet it does not from hence follow that a certain rule may be laid down"--a very fine astrologer,
you perceive, may fail--"whereby exactly to discover the Divine appointments. But there are
many concurring Causes of Mundane Accidents of which Humanity must be content to remain Ignorant,
and (as a wise Author affirms) No Index can be found or formed whereby to give us any certain
Diary or Destiny saving that of our dear-bought Experience." But how can we learn about our
own dying by experience--which is what we die to know about? He continues: "And here I cannot
but take notice of our Negro-mancers, who, under pretence of knowledge in the Motions of the
Heavens, take upon them to Fore tell the Appointments of Fate with respect to particular Persons,
and thereby betray the Ignorant part of the World Inevitably into the Worship of the Devil.
But if the Wholesome Laws of the Province were duly executed on such Negro-mancers, I could
venture to Fore tell what would soon be their Fortune; You may Read it at large in this Province,
New Law Book, page 117.

   "Marblehead, Sept. 28, 1726.

   "N. Bowen."

Ah, friend Bowen was too alarmingly near the Salem witch times when Minister Parris and Judge
Hawthorne had come so nigh putting the Devil to rout by hanging an old woman or two and squeezing
poor Giles Cory to death. He knew what the Law could do to those wicked negro-mancers if they
went about predicting things in a wicked way. And what a bore it might become to have a negro-mancer
foretelling in a rash and miscellaneous way one's death and bringing it to pass too some fine
and inconvenient day! Who would not hang a negro-mancer like that?

But suppose they should go on and squeeze the life out of such mild negromancers as N. Bowen,
Esq., too. What then?

In 1729 we get an Almanac made by a student with a name--Nathaniel Ames, junior, student in
Physick and Astronomy. He does not apply his intellect to such great speculations as Bowen
grappled with, but runs easily into poetry of the true Homeric stamp. Listen:

January--

   The Earth is white like NEPTUNE's foamy face,
   When his proud Waves the hardy Rocks embrace.

February--

   Boreas's chilly breath attacks our Nature,
   And turns the Presbyterian to a Quaker.

What wicked waggery is here hidden, who can tell? One thing is sure, that Februarys ought to
be abolished by the General Court if such is true; for a Quaker then was an abominable thing.

March--

   Phoebus and Mars conjoined do both agree,
   This month shall Warm (nay, more than usual) be.

We pray that our Almanac makers will conjoin Phoebus and Mars in all our Marches hereafter,
so that we too may "Warm (more than usual) be." How melodious that line!

April gives a sweet strain, possibly premature--

   The Birds, like Orphans, now all things invite
   To come and have Melodious, sweet delight.

Like Orphans! Why? Should Orpheus come in there, or are orphans children of Orpheus? We are
perplexed. The words sound alike.

   May like a Virgin quickly yields her Charms,
   To the Embrace of Winter's Icy Arms.

It is not easy to see how that can be. Does he mean that winter had come back and given May
a late frost? And then Virgins do not, so far as I know, yield to the Embrace of Winter's Icy
Arms. Do they? I ask persons of experience.

June comes upon us heavily--

   SOL's scorching Ray puts Blood in Fermentation,
   And is stark raught to acts of Procreation.

That has a terrible sound. What does he mean?

July--

   The Moon (this Month), that pale-faced Queen of Night,
   Will be disrobed of all her borrowed light.

No month for lover's madness, this. Not a lover can steal forth by the light of the moon, or
do any foolish thing this month, thanks be to God!

August--

   The Earth and Sky Resound with Thunder Loud,
   And Oblique streams flash from the dusky Cloud.

That first line demands many capital letters, and what a fine word Oblique is in the second.

September says--

   The burthened earth abounds with various fruit,
   Which doth the Epicurean's Palate Suit.

It is to be hoped these wicked Epicureans got no more than their share, and that church members
were not converted to the heathen philosophy by such baits.

October--

   The Tyrant Mars old Saturn now opposes,
   Which stirs up Feuds and may make bloody Noses.

October then was the fighter's month. This begins nobly, but ends waggishly.

November--

   Now what remains to Comfort up our lives,
   But Cordial Liquor and kind, loving Wives?

"Comfort up," that is good. But the Cordial Liquor is doubtful; and then are there no girls
in the sweet bloom of maidenhood left to Comfort up our lives? Sad indeed!

December closes up--

   The Chrystal streams, congealed to Icy Glass,
   Become fit roads for Travellers to pass.

Excellent for the travellers.

But now in the column of "Mutations of Weather," we find this":

       "Christmas is nigh;
   The bare name of it
     to Rich or Poor
       will be no profit."

We are startled. Does he mean to speak ill of Christmas--to stab it? We look again. No--it
is that Christmas without roast Turkeys and Mince pies will be very bad. The "bare name"--that
is what he will none of. But on the contrary the real thing he will have, with Roasts and bakes,
and--possibly--Cordial Liquor to "Comfort up" the day. What a good word that "Comfort up" is.
We thank Nathaniel for it.

Now in the volume for 1730 are other interesting items, and the seer and poet seems to be our
old friend, Nathan Bowen. He inclines somewhat to poetry also, for he thus sings:

   Saturn in Thirty Years his Ring Compleats,
   Which Swiftest Jupiter in Twelve repeats;
   Mars Three and Twenty Months revolving spends,
   The Earth in Twelve her Annual Journey Ends.
   Venus thy Race in twice Four Months is run,
   For his Mercurius Three demands. The Moon
   Her Revolution finishes in One.
   If all at Once are Mov'd, and by one Spring,
   Why so Unequal in their Annual Ring?"

Here again the sensitive soul, anxiously pondering, asks, Are students of astronomy prone to
infidelity, and does this last question mean to convey the faintest shadow of a doubt? If not,
why that "Why"?

We gladly pass on to another topic, hoping that Nathan was not damned for skepticism.

"N. B.--The paper Mill mentioned in last year's almanack (at Milton) has begun to go. Any person
that will bring Rags to D. Henchman & T. Hancock, shall have from 2d. to 6d. a pound according
to their goodness."

"Begun to go." I like that word. "Commenced operations," "started in business": how new and
poor those great three-syllabled words seem! "Begun to go"--that is good.

In 1731 he tells us:

     "Ready money is now
        the best of Wares."
   "Some gain & some loose."

Dear, dear, how bad! Almost, not quite so miserable, as to-day--all lose now.

Then he informs us officially what salutes are to be fired at Castle William, as follows:

   March 1  Queen's Berthday                           21 guns.

   May 29   Restoration of K. Ch. II.                  17   "

   June 11  K. George II. accession                    21   "

   Oct. 11  K. G. II. coronation                       33   "

   Oct. 30  K. G. II. Berthday                         27   "

   Nov.  5  Powder Plot                                17   "

   Jan. 19  Prince of W. Berthday                      21   "
   Speak: wilt thou AVORICE or PLEASURE Chuse
   To be thy Lord? Take One & One Refuse.--Perseus.

We begin to fear indeed that Nathan is little better than one of those wicked Epicureans himself.
Avorice or Pleasure. Take one? Must we indeed? Pleasure? It looks as if Nathan was a very naughty
man.

Things have evidently not gone quite smoothly with N. Bowen this last year, for, in his "Kind
Reader" of 1733, he says: "Having last year finished Twelve of my Annual Papers [he means Almanacks],
I proposed to lay down my pen and leave the Drudgery of Calculation to those who have more
leisure and a Clearer Brain than I can pretend to. Indeed, the Contempt with which a writer
of Almanacks is looked on and the Danger he is in of being accounted a Conjurer"--a negro-mancer--"should
seem sufficient to deter a man from publishing anything of this kind. But when I consider that
all this is the effect of Ignorance, and, therefore, not worth my Notice or Resentment, and
that the most judicious and learned part of the World have always highly valued and esteemed
such Undertakings as what are not only great and noble in themselves; but as they are of absolute
necessity in the Business and Affairs of Life, I am induced to appear again in the World, and
hope this will meet with the same kind acceptance with my former."

With me he meets with the same kind acceptance, for I believe in the Nobility of the Almanac;
and it is certain that every man should believe in the Nobility of his work whatever it is--then
he is sure of one ardent Admirer. It is sad to think that some carping critic had been riling
the sweet soul of Nathan in the year 1732. It is all over now. Let us hope he is not damned
for his Epicureanism, but is reaping his crop of praise in a better climate than Marblehead.
He gives us more poetry in 1733, and a clear account of why Leap years are necessary, which
I do not repeat here, the popular belief being that they were invented in order that maidens
might if they wished make love to swains, which belief I would do nothing to shake.

In the next year we have quite a learned discourse about the Julian Æra, Epochs, Olympiads,
etc., from which I can only venture to take the following concise and valuable and accurate
statement of this astronomer:

"JESUS CHRIST the SAVIOUR of the World was Incarnate in the 4,713 year of the Julian Period;
the 3,949 of the Creation, the 4th of the 194th Olympiad, and the 753 Currant Year of the Roman
Foundation."

Persons having any doubts as to the time of our blessed Saviour's appearance had better cut
this out and keep it carefully for future reference and for the confusion of "skepticks."

Let us not leave these interesting vestiges of an earlier creation without a few words as to
W. S. He, as I have said, was the purchaser and owner of these sacred books. His almanacs were
carefully interleaved and evidently were intended to be not only a record of the wisdom of
the "Students in Physick and Astronomy," but also of events in the lives of devout owners.
We find W. S. begins with fervor and fidelity to record daily interesting facts such as, in
February:

"Fine, somewhat cold.

"Very pleasant.

"A storm of snow.

"More snow, but clears away windy.

"A very fine day.

"Idem, but windy."

Aha! here, then, we have a man who knew Latin in the Year of our Lord 1727. "Idem"--that is
such a good word that he uses it often, and it has a good sound, too. Through January, February,
March he attends daily to this high duty, and tells us how it was:

"A bright morning, but a dull day.

"Windy.

"Cool."

On the 27th, "Much rain, a violent storm, snow'd up."

In April things change. His interest flags. He does not write down his record every day. Has
W. S. grown lazy? Is it too warm for assiduous tasks, or has a new element come into his life?
Let us see. He begins April:

"1. A clearer day.

"2. Set my clock forward 20 m.

"3. Lethfield arrived from London."

The clock--that, I believe, was the great event, and that it came from London. What may it
have been? Clearly one of those tall, stately pieces with the moon and the sun showing their
faces on the silver dial, the fine mahogany case worthy to uphold all. Where is that clock
now? Who can tell? From this time forth this was the object of interest, for in nearly all
the months we have this record, "Set my clock." He grows terribly indifferent to the weather.
A clock then was a wonderful thing, and it is a wonderful thing now. Think of it. How these
little wheels and springs are so contrived that they tick the seconds and the minutes and the
hours day and night, so that Father Time might himself set his watch by some of them. But then
it was a rarer and a more interesting thing than now. We can easily fancy the neighbors gathering
to see the fine clock standing in its place in the hall, telling its monotonous tale all the
nights and days.

But another interesting record now comes in. This, too, is an event--in May:

"17. I bottled cyder."

And then in October again:

"20. Cyder come."

Cyder is not a thing to be despised even by a man who knows Latin. But is not cyder an important
thing to everybody? They had neither tea nor coffee then, and man likes to drink. We may know,
too, that in those days every good woman made a few bottles of currant wine, made also her
rose cakes to sweeten her drawers, gathered and dried lavender to make lavender-water, also
sage and hoarhound, "good for sickness." Alas! that people might be sick even in those "Good
old Times," we know, and we find that in January, 1727, W. S. puts down carefully this:

"A Recipe for y^e cure of Sciatica pains--viz.:

"Take 2 ounces of flowered brimstone, four ounces of Molasses. Mix y^m together, and take a
spoonfull morning and evening, and if y^t do not effect a cure, take another spoonfull at noon
also." You continue until you get well, or--something!

Why endure sciatica pains after this? We make no charge for this valuable knowledge.

But in June we find it put down:

"Mr. Davenport Chosen Tutor And confirmed by y^e overseers."

Here we have a clue to the Latin.

And in August is another entry:

"Governor Burnett, upon an invitation, came to visit y^e Coll: besides---- y^e Civil Officers
in Cambridge w^th some others, together with y^e Masters of Art in College, were invited to
dine w^th him. There was an Oration in y^e hall by Sir Clark, some of y^e neighboring Clergie
were present, & about sixty persons in all had a handsome dinner in y^e Library."

Here was an event to be recorded. But was W. S. present? We remain in the dark.

Entries now become more and more uncommon. We learn little more of the clock or of the cyder;
and we are at a loss to explain the reason why. But lo! we have it! In November there is but
one entry, on the

"21. I was married."

There is the gospel, without note or comment. To whom? We ask in vain. "I was married," and
that is all. But is not that enough? No more records about clocks and cyder! What need of those
things? Very few entries are made in this year, and these are records of the thermometer. Evidently
a new one had come from London. But in October is a short and significant record:

"19. Bille was born at 5 a clock morning."

It was inevitable--cause and effect--a striking example--most philosophic! Had he black eyes
or blue? Was he like his father or his mother? Was he little or big? Did he weigh eight pounds
or ten? Did he live to be a man? None of these things are recorded, and we shall never know.
After this supreme event few entries appear in the diary through the years. Life has become
engrossing, important. Let us hope it was sufficing and not full of failure and trouble; let
us enjoy the pleasure of believing so, as we well may. The clock, the cyder, the thermometer,
the little Bille: what more important matters had he or have we to record? We part with the
three, the four faint shadows, Nathaniel, Nathan, W. S., and little Bille, with a mild regret,
hoping we may meet them, and especially "little Bille," on the other side. Till then farewell.

                                        CHARLES WYLLYS ELLIOTT.

TO WALT WHITMAN.

   O Titan soul, ascend your starry steep
   On golden stair to gods and storied men!
   Ascend! nor care where thy traducers creep.
   For what may well be said of prophets when
   A world that's wicked comes to call them good?
   Ascend and sing! As kings of thought who stood
   On stormy heights and held far lights to men,
   Stand thou and shout above the tumbled roar,
   Lest brave ships drive and break against the shore.

   What though thy sounding song be roughly set?
   Parnassus' self is rough! Give thou the thought,
   The golden ore, the gems that few forget;
   In time the tinsel jewel will be wrought....
   Stand thou alone and fixed as destiny;
   An imaged god that lifts above all hate,
   Stand thou serene and satisfied with fate.
   Stand thou as stands that lightning-riven tree
   That lords the cloven clouds of gray Yosemite.

   Yea, lone, sad soul, thy heights must be thy home.
   Thou sweetest lover! love shall climb to thee,
   Like incense curling some cathedral dome
   From many distant vales. Yet thou shalt be,
   O grand, sweet singer, to the end alone.
   But murmur not. The moon, the mighty spheres,
   Spin on alone through all the soundless years;
   Alone man comes on earth; he lives alone;
   Alone he turns to front the dark Unknown.

   Then range thine upper world, nor stoop to wars.
   Walk thou the heights as walked the old Greeks when
   They talked to austere gods, nor turned to men.
   Teach thou the order of the singing stars.
   Behold, in mad disorder these are set,
   And yet they sing in ceaseless harmonies.
   They spill as jewels spilt through space. They fret
   The souls of men who measure melodies
   As they would measure slimy deeps of seas.

   Take comfort, O uncommon soul. Yet pray
   Lest ye grow proud in such exalted worth.
   Let no man reckon he excels. I say
   The laws of compensation compass earth,
   And no man gains without some equal loss:
   Each ladder round of fame becomes a rod,
   And he who lives must die upon a cross.
   The stars are far, but flowers bless the sod,
   And he who has the least of man has most of God.

                                        JOAQUIN MILLER.

MADCAP VIOLET.

BY WILLIAM BLACK.

CHAPTER XLIV.

JOY AND FEAR.

Was this man mad, that he, an invalid, propped up in his chair, and scarcely able to move a
wine-glass out of his way, should play pranks with the whole created order of things, tossing
about solar systems as if they were no more than juggler's balls, and making universal systems
of philosophy jump through hoops as if he were a lion tamer in a den? These poor women did
not know where to catch him. Violet used to say that he was like a prism, taking the ordinary
daylight of life and splitting it up into a thousand gay and glancing colors. That was all
very well as a spectacular exhibition; but how when he was apparently instructing them in some
serious matter? Was it fair to these tender creatures who had so lovingly nursed him, that
he should assume the airs of a teacher, and gravely lead out his trusting disciples into the
desert places of the earth, when his only object was to get them into a bog and then suddenly
reveal himself as a will-o'-the-wisp, laughing at them with a fiendish joy?

What, for example, was all this nonsense about the land question--about the impossibility of
settling it in England so long as the superstitious regard for land existed in the English
mind? They were quite ready to believe him. They deprecated that superstition most sincerely.
They could not understand why a moneyed Englishman's first impulse was to go and buy land;
they could give no reason for the delusion existing in the bosom of every Englishman that he,
if no one else, could make money out of the occupation of a farm that had ruined a dozen men
in succession. All this was very well; but what were they to make of his sudden turning round
and defending that superstition as the most beautiful sentiment in human nature? It was, according
to him, the sublimest manifestation of filial love--the instinct of affection for the great
mother of us all. And then the flowers became our small sisters and brothers; and the dumb
look of appeal in a horse's eye, and the singing of a thrush at the break of day--these were
but portions of the inarticulate language now no longer known to us. What was any human being
to make of this rambling nonsense?

It all came of the dress coat, and of his childish vanity in his white wristbands. It was the
first occasion on which he had ceremoniously dressed for dinner; and Violet had come over;
and he was as proud of his high and stiff collar, and of his white necktie, as if they had
been the ribbon and star of a royal order. And then they were all going off the next morning--Miss
North included--to a strange little place on the other side of the Isle of Wight; and he had
gone "clean daft" with the delight of expectation. There was nothing sacred from his mischievous
fancy. He would have made fun of a bishop. In fact he did; for, happening to talk of inarticulate
language, he described having seen "the other day," in Buckingham Palace road, a bishop who
was looking at some china in a shop window; and he went on to declare how a young person driving
a perambulator, and too earnestly occupied with a sentry on the other side of the road, incontinently
drove that perambulator right on to the carefully swathed toes of the bishop; and then he devoted
himself to analyzing the awful language which he saw on the afflicted man's face.

"But, uncle," said Amy Warrener, with the delightful freshness of fifteen, "how could you see
anybody in Buckingham Palace road the other day, when you haven't been out of the house for
months?"

"How?" said he, not a whit abashed. "How could I see him? I don't know, but I tell you I did
see him. With my eyes, of course."

He lost his temper, however, after all.

"To-morrow," he was saying, "I bid good-by to my doctor. I bear him no malice; may he long
be spared from having to meet in the next world the people he sent there before him! But look
here, Violet--to-morrow evening we shall be free--and we shall celebrate our freedom, and our
first glimpse of a seashore, in Scotch whiskey--in hot Scotch whiskey--in Scotch whiskey with
the boilingest of boiling water, just caught at the proper point of cooling. You don't know
that point; I will teach you; it is perfection. Don't you know that we have just caught the
cooling point of the earth--just that point in its transition from being a molten mass to its
becoming a chilled and played out stone that admits of our living----"

"But, uncle," said Amy, "I thought the earth used to be far colder than it is now. Remember
the glacial period," added this profound student of physics.

This was too much.

"Dear, dear me!" he exclaimed. "Am I to be brought up at every second by a pert schoolgirl
when I am expounding the mysteries of life? What have your twopenny-halfpenny science primers
to do with the grand secret of toddy? I tell you we must catch it at the cooling point; and
then, Violet--for you are a respectful and attentive student--if the evening is fine, and the
air warm, and the windows open and looking out to the south--do you think the doctor could
object to that one first, faint trial of a cigarette, just to make us think we are up again
in the August nights--off Isle Ornsay--with Aleck up at the bow singing that hideous and melancholy
song of his, and the Sea Pyot slowly creeping along by the black islands?"

She did not answer at all; but for a brief moment her lip trembled. Amid all this merriment
she had sat with a troubled face, and with a sore and heavy heart. She had seen in it but a
pathetic bravado. He would drink Scotch whiskey--he would once more light a cigarette--merely
to assure her that he was getting thoroughly well again; his laughter, his jokes, his wild
sallies were all meant, and she knew it, to give her strength of heart and cheerfulness. She
sat and listened, with her eyes cast down. When she heard him talk lightly and playfully of
all that he meant to do, her heart throbbed, and she dared not lift her eyes to his face, lest
they should suddenly reveal to him that awful conflict within of wild, and piteous, and agonizing
doubt.

Then that reference to their wanderings in the northern seas--he did not know how she trembled
as he spoke. She could never even think of that strange time she had spent up there, and of
the terrible things that had come of it, without a shudder. If she could have cut it out of
her life and memory altogether, that would have been well; but how could she forget the agony
of that awful farewell; the sense of utter loneliness with which she saw the shores recede;
the conviction then borne in upon her--and never wholly eradicated from her mind--that some
mysterious doom had overtaken her, from which there was no escape. The influence of that time,
and of the time that succeeded it, still dwelt upon her, and overshadowed her with its gloom.
She had almost lost the instinct of hope. She never doubted, when they carried young Dowse
into that silent room, but that he would die: was it not her province to bring misery to all
who were associated with her? And she had got so reconciled to this notion that she did not
argue the matter with herself; she had, for example, no sense of bitterness in contrasting
this apparent "destiny" of hers with the most deeply-rooted feeling in her heart; namely, a
perfectly honest readiness to give up her own life if only that could secure the happiness
of those she loved. She did not even feel injured because this was impossible. Things were
so; and she accepted them.

But sometimes, in the darkness of her room, in the silence of the night-time, when her heart
seemed to be literally breaking with its conflict of anxious love and returning despair, some
wild notion of propitiation--doubtless derived from ancient legends--would flash across her
mind; and she would cry in her agony, "If one must be taken, let it be me! The world cares
for him. What am I?" If she could only go out into the open place of the city, and bare her
bosom to the knife of the priest, and call on the people to see how she had saved the life
of her beloved--surely that would be to die happy. What she had done, now that she came to
look back over it, seemed but too poor an expression of her great love and admiration. What
mattered it that a girl should give up her friends and her home? Her life--her very life--that
was what she desired, when these wild fancies possessed her, to surrender freely, if only she
could know that she was rescuing him from the awful portals that her despairing dread saw open
before him, and was giving him back--as she bade him a last farewell--to health, and joy, and
the comfort of many friends.

With other wrestlings in spirit, far more eager and real than these mere fancies derived from
myths, it is not within the province of the present writer to deal; they are not for the house-tops
or the market-places. But it may be said that in all directions the gloomy influences of that
past time pursued her; wherever she went she was haunted by a morbid fear that all her resolute
will could not shake off. Where, for example, could she go for sweeter consolation, for more
cheering solace than to the simple and reassuring services of the church? But before she entered,
eager to hear words of hope and strengthening, there was the graveyard to pass through, with
the misery of generations recorded on its melancholy stones.

CHAPTER XLV.

"OH, GENTLE WIND THAT BLOWETH SOUTH."

But if this girl, partly through her great yearning love, and partly through the overshadowing
of her past sufferings, was haunted by a mysterious dread, that was not the prevailing feeling
within this small household which was now pulling itself together for a flight to the south.
Even she caught something of the brisk and cheerful spirit awakened by all the bustle of departure;
and when her father, who had come to London Bridge station to see the whole of them off, noticed
the businesslike fashion in which she ordered everybody about, so that the invalid should have
his smallest comforts attended to, he could not help saying, with a laugh--

"Well, Violet, this is better than starting for America all by yourself, isn't it? But I don't
think you would have been much put out by that either."

A smart young man came up, and was for entering the carriage.

"I beg your pardon," said she, respectfully but firmly. "This carriage is reserved."

The young man looked at both windows.

"I don't see that it is," he retorted coolly.

He took hold of the handle of the door, when she immediately rose and stood before him, an
awful politeness and decorum on her face, but the fire of Brünhilde the warrior maiden in her eyes.

"You will please call the guard before coming in here. The carriage is reserved."

At this moment her father came forward--not a little inclined to laugh.

"I beg your pardon, sir, but the carriage is really reserved. There was a written paper put
up--it has fallen down, I suppose--there it is."

So the smart young man went away; but was it fair, after this notable victory, that they should
all begin to make fun of her fierce and majestic bearing, and that the very person for whose
sake she had confronted the enemy should begin to make ridiculous rhymes about her, such as these:

   "Then out spake Violet Northimus--
   Of Euston Square was she--
   'Lo, I will stand at thy right hand,
   And guard the door with thee!'"

Violet Northimus did not reply. She wore the modesty of a victor. She was ready at any moment
to meet six hundred such as he; and she was not to be put out, after the discomfiture of her
enemy, by a joke.

Then they slowly rolled and grated out of the station, and by-and-by the swinging pace increased,
and they were out in the clearer light and the fresher air, with a windy April sky showing
flashes of blue from time to time. They went down through a succession of thoroughly English
looking landscapes--quiet valleys with red-tiled cottages in them, bare heights green with
the young corn, long stretches of brown and almost leafless woods, with the rough banks outside
all starred with the pale, clear primrose. There was one in that carriage who had had no lack
of flowers that spring--flowers brought by many a kindly hand to brighten the look of the sick
room; but surely it was something more wonderful to see the flowers themselves, growing here
in this actual and outside world which had been to him for many a weary week but a dimly imagined
dreamland. There were primroses under the hedges, primroses along the high banks, primroses
shining pale and clear within the leafless woods, among the russet leaves of the previous autumn.
And then the life and motion of the sky, the southwesterly winds, the black and lowering clouds
suddenly followed by a wild and dazzling gleam of sunlight, the grays and purples flying on
and leaving behind them a welcome expanse of shining April blue.

The day was certainly squally enough, and might turn to showers; but the gusts of wind that
blew through the carriage were singularly sweet and mild; and again and again Mr. Drummond,
who had been raised by all this new life and light into the very highest spirits, declared
with much solemnity that he could already detect the smell of the salt sea air. They had their
quarrels of course. It pleased a certain young lady to treat the south coast of England with
much supercilious contempt. You would have imagined from her talk that there was something
criminal in one's living even within twenty miles of the bleak downs, the shabby precipices,
and the muddy sea which, according to her, were the only recognizable features of our southern
shores. She would not admit indeed that there was any sea at all there; there was only churned
chalk. Was it fair to say, even under the exasperation of continual goading, that the Isle
of Wight was only a trumpery toy shop; that its "scenery" was fitly adorned with bazaars for
the sale of sham jewelry; that its amusements were on a par with those of Rosherville gardens;
that its rocks were made of mud and its sea of powdered lime?

"By heavens," exclaimed her antagonist, "I will stand this no longer. I will call upon Neptune
to raise such a storm in the Solent as shall convince you that there is quite enough sea surrounding
that pearl of islands, that paradise, that world's wonder we are going to visit."

"Yes, I have no doubt," said she with sweet sarcasm, "that if you stirred the Solent with a
teaspoon, you would frighten the yachtsmen there out of their wits."

"Oh, Violet," cried another young lady, "you know you were dreadfully frightened that night
in Tobermory bay, when the equinoctial gales caught us, and the men were tramping overhead
all night long."

"I should be more frightened down here," was the retort, "because if we were driven ashore
I should be choked first and drowned afterward. Fancy going out of the world with a taste of
chalk in your mouth."

"Well, at this moment the fierce discussion was stopped by the arrival of the train at Portsmouth;
but here a very singular incident occurred. Violet was the first to step out on to the platform.

"You have a tramway car that goes down to the pier, have you not?" she asked of the guard.

"Ain't going to-day, miss," was the answer. "Boats can't come in to Southsea--the sea is very
high. You'll have to go to Portsea, miss."

Now, what was this man's amazement on seeing this young lady suddenly burst out laughing as
she turned and looked into the carriage.

"Did you hear that?" she cried. "The Solent is raging! They can't come near Southsea! Don't
you think, Mrs. Warrener, that it will be very dangerous to go to Portsea?"

"I'll tell you what it is," said Mrs. Warrener with a malicious smile, "if a certain young
lady I know were to be ill in crossing, she would be a good deal more civil to her native country
when she reached the other side."

But in good truth, when they got down to Portsea there was a pretty stiff breeze blowing; and
the walk out on the long pier was not a little trying to an invalid who had but lately recovered
the use of his limbs. The small steamer, too, was tossing about considerably at her moorings;
and Violet pretended to be greatly alarmed because she did not see half-a-dozen lifeboats on
board. Then the word was given; the cables thrown off; and presently the tiny steamer was running
out to the windy and gray-green sea, the waves of which not unfrequently sent a shower of spray
across her decks. The small party of voyagers crouched behind the funnel, and were well out
of the water's way.

"Look there now," cried Mr. Drummond, suddenly pointing to a large bird that was flying by,
high up in the air, about a quarter of a mile off--"do you see that? Do you know what that
is? That is a wild goose, a gray lag, that has been driven in by bad weather; now can you say
we have no waves, and winds, and sea in the south?"

Miss Violet was not daunted.

"Perhaps it is a goose," she said coolly. "I never saw but one flying--- you remember you shot
it. What farm-yard has this one left?"

"Oh, for shame, Violet," Mrs. Warrener called out, "to rake up old stories!"

She was punished for it. The insulted sportsman was casting about for the cruelest retort he
could think of, when, as it happened, Miss Violet bethought her of looking round the corner
of the boiler to see whether they were getting near Ryde; and at the same moment it also happened
that a heavy wave, striking the bows of the steamer, sent a heap of water whirling down between
the paddle-box and the funnel, which caught the young lady on the face with a crack like a
whip. As to the shout of laughter which then greeted her, that small party of folks had heard
nothing like it for many a day. There was salt water dripping from her hair; salt water in
her eyes; salt water running down her tingling and laughing cheeks; and she richly deserved
to be asked, as she was immediately asked, whether the Solent was compounded of water and marl
or water and chalk, and which brand she preferred.

Was it the balmy southern air that tempered the vehemence of these wanderers as they made their
way across the island, and getting into a carriage at Ventnor, proceeded to drive along the
Undercliff? There was a great quiet prevailing along these southern shores. They drove by underneath
the tall and crumbling precipices, with wood pigeons suddenly shooting out from the clefts,
and jackdaws wheeling about far up in the blue. They passed by sheltered woods, bestarred with
anemones and primroses, and showing here and there the purple of the as yet half-opened hyacinth;
they passed by lush meadows, all ablaze with the golden yellow of the celandine and the purple
of the ground ivy; they passed by the broken, picturesque banks where the tender blue of the
speedwell was visible from time to time, with the white glimmer of the starwort. And then all
this time they had on their left a gleaming and wind-driven sea, full of motion, and light,
and color, and showing the hurrying shadows of the flying clouds.

At last far away, secluded and quiet, they came to a quaint little inn, placed high over the
sea, and surrounded by sheltering woods and hedges. The sun lay warm on the smooth green lawn
in front, where the daisies grew. There were dark shadows--almost black shadows--along the
encircling hedge and under the cedars; but these only showed the more brilliantly the silver
lighting of the restless, whirling, wind-swept sea beyond. It was a picturesque little house,
with its long veranda half-smothered in ivy and rose bushes now in bud; with its tangled garden
about, green with young hawthorn and sweetened by the perfume of the lilacs; with its patches
of uncut grass, where the yellow cowslips drooped. There was an air of dreamy repose about
the place; even that whirling and silvery gray sea produced no sound; here the winds were stilled,
and the black shadows of the trees on that smooth green lawn only moved with the imperceptible
moving of the sun.

Violet went up stairs and into her room alone; she threw open the small casements, and stood
there looking out with a somewhat vague and distant look. There was no mischief now in those
dark and tender eyes; there was rather an anxious and wistful questioning. And her heart seemed
to go out from her to implore these gentle winds, and the soft colors of the sea, and the dreamy
stillness of the woods, that now they should, if ever that was possible to them, bring all
their sweet and curative influences to bear on him who had come among them. Now, if ever! Surely
the favorable skies would heed, and the secret healing of the woods would hear, and the bountiful
life-giving sea winds would bestir to her prayer! Surely it was not too late!

CHAPTER XLVI.

HOPE'S WINGS.

The long journey had taxed his returning strength to the utmost, and for the remainder of that
day he looked worn and fatigued; but on the next morning he was in the best of spirits, and
nothing would do but that they should at once set out on their explorations.

"Why not rest here?" said Violet. They were sitting in the shade of their morning room, the
French windows wide open, the pillars and roof of the veranda outside framing in a picture
of glowing sunlight and green vegetation, with glimpses of the silvery, white sea beyond. "Why
not rest here?" she said; "what is the use of driving about to see bare downs, and little holes
in the mud that they call chasms, and waterfalls that are turned on from the kitchen of the
hotel above? That is what they consider scenery in the Isle of Wight; and then, before you
can see it, you must buy a glass brooch or a china doll."

The fact is, he did not himself particularly care about these excursions, but he was afraid
of the place becoming tiresome and monotonous to one whom he would insist on regarding as a
visitor. She on the other hand affected a profound contempt for the sufficiently pleasant places
about the Isle of Wight for the very purpose of inducing him to rest in the still seclusion
of this retreat they had chosen. But here was the carriage at the door.

"Violet," said Amy Warrener, as they were leisurely driving along the quiet ways, under the
crumbling gray cliffs, where the jackdaws were flying, "where shall we go for a climb? Don't
you think we might come upon another Mount Glorioso?"

"No," said the girl rather absently; "I don't think we shall see another Mount Glorioso soon
again."

"Not this autumn?" cried Mr. Drummond cheerfully; "not this summer?--for why should we wait
for the autumn! Violet, I have the most serious projects with regard to the whole of us. It
is high time that I set about recognizing the ends of existence; that is to say, before I die
I must have a house in Bayswater and two thousand a year. All nice novels end that way. Now,
in order that we shall all reach this earthly paradise, what is to be done? I have two projects.
A publisher--the first wise man of his race--I will write an epitaph for him quite different
from my universal epitaph--this shrewd and crafty person, determined to rescue at least one
mute, inglorious Milton from neglect, has written to me. There! He has read my article on 'The
Astronomical Theory with regard to the Early Religions'; he has perceived the profound wisdom,
the research, the illuminating genius of that work--by the way, I don't think I ever fully
explained to you my notions on that subject?"

"Oh, no, please don't," said Violet meekly. "What does the publisher say?"

"Do you see the mean, practical, commercial spirit of these women?" he said, apparently addressing
himself. "It is only the money they think of. They don't want to be instructed!"

"I know the article well enough," said Violet blushing hotly. "I read it--I--I saw it advertised,
and bought the review, when I hadn't much money to spend on such things."

"Did you, Violet?" said he, forgetting for a moment his nonsense. Then he continued: "The publisher
thinks that with some padding of a general and attractive nature, the subject might be made
into a book. Why, therefore, should not our fortune be made at once, and the gates of Bayswater
thrown open to the Peri? I do believe I could make an interesting book. I will throw in a lot
of Irish anecdotes. I wonder if I could have it illustrated with pictures of 'Charles I. in
Prison,' the 'Dying Infant,' 'The Sailor's Adieu,' and some such popular things!"

"I think," said Violet humbly, "we might go on to the other project."

"Ah," said he thoughtfully, "that requires time and silence first. I must have the inspiration
of the mountains before I can resolve it. Do you know what it is?"

"Not yet."

"It is the utilizing of a great natural force. That is what all science is trying to do now;
and here is one of the mightiest forces in nature of which nothing is made, unless it be that
a few barges get floated up and down our rivers. Do you see? The great mass of tidal force,
absolutely irresistible in its strength, punctual as the clock itself, always to be calculated
on--why should this great natural engine remain unused?"

"But then, uncle," said a certain young lady, "if you made the tide drive machinery at one
time of the day, you would have to turn the house round to let it drive it again as it was
going back."

"Child, child!" said the inventor peevishly, "why do you tack on these petty details to my
grand conception? It is the idea I want to sell; other people can use it. Now, will the government
grant me a patent?"

"Certainly," said Violet.

"What royalty on all work executed by utilizing the tidal currents?"

"A million per cent."

"How much will that bring in?"

"Three millions a minute!"

"Ah," said he, sinking back with a sigh, "we have then reached the goal at last. Bayswater,
we approach you. Shall the brougham be bottle-green or coffee-colored?"

"A brougham!" cried Violet; "no--a barge of white and gold, with crimson satin sails, and oars
of bronze, towed by a company of snow-white swans----"

"Or mergansers"----

"And floating through the canals of claret which we shall set flowing in the streets. Then
the Lord Mayor and the corporation will come to meet you, and you will get the freedom of the
city presented in a gold snuff-box. As for Buckingham Palace--well, a baronetcy would be a
nice thing."

"A baronetcy! Three millions a year and only a baronet! By the monuments of Westminster Abbey,
I will become a duke and an archbishop rolled into one, and have the right of sending fifteen
people a day to be beheaded at the tower."

"Oh, not that, uncle!"

"And why not?"

"Because there wouldn't be any publishers at the end of the year."

"And here we are at Black Gang Chine!"

Violet would not go down. She positively refused to go down. She called the place Black Gang
Sham, and hoped they were pouring enough water down the kitchen pipe of the hotel to make a
foaming cataract. But she begged Mrs. Warrener and Amy, who had not seen the place, to go down,
while she remained in the carriage with Mr. Drummond. So these two disappeared into the bazaar.

"You are not really going to Scotland, are you?" she said simply, her head cast down.

"I have been thinking of it," he answered. "Why not?"

"The air here is very sweet and soft," she said in a hesitating way. "Of course, I know, the
climate on the west coast of Scotland is very mild, and you would get the mountain air as well
as the sea air. But don't you think the storms, the gales that blow in the spring----"

"Oh," said he cheerfully, "I shall never be pulled together till I get up to the north--I know
that. I may have to remain here till I get stronger, but by-and-by I hope we shall all go up
to Scotland together, and that long before the shooting begins."

"I--I am afraid," said she, "that I shall not be of the party."

"You? Not you?" he cried. "You are not going to leave us, Violet, just after we have found you?"

He took her hand, but she still averted her eyes.

"I half promised," she said, "to spend some time with Mr. and Mrs. Dowse. They are very lonely.
They think they have a claim on me, and they have been very kind."

"You are not going to Mr. and Mrs. Dowse, Violet," said he promptly. "I pity the poor people,
but we have a prior claim on you, and we mean to insist on it. What, just after all this grief
of separation, you would go away from us again? No, no! I tell you, Violet, we shall never
find you your real self until you have been braced up by the sea breezes. I mean the real sea
breezes. You want a scamper among the heather--I can see that; for I have been watching you
of late, and you are not up to the right mark. The sooner we all go the better. Do you understand
that?"

He had been talking lightly and cheerfully, not caring who overheard. She, on the other hand,
was anxious and embarrassed, not daring to utter what was on her mind. At last she said:

"Will you get down for a minute or two, and walk along the road? It is very sheltered here,
and the sun is warm."

He did so, and she took his arm, and they walked away apart in the sunlight and silence. When
they had gone some distance she stopped and said in a low and earnest voice:

"Don't you know why I cannot go to the Highlands with you? It would kill me. How could I go
back to all those places?"

"I understand that well enough, Violet," said he gently, "but don't you think you ought to
go for the very purpose of conquering that feeling? There is nothing in that part of the country
to inspire you with dread. You would see it all again in its accustomed light."

She shook her head.

"Very well, then," said he, for he was determined not to let these gloomy impressions of the
girl overcome him. "If not there, somewhere else. We are not tied to Castle Bandbox. There
is plenty of space about the West Highlands or about the Central Highlands, for the matter
of that. Shall we try to get some lodging in an inn or farmhouse about the Moor of Rannoch?
Or will you try the islands--Jura, or Islay, or Mull?"

She did not answer. She seemed to be in a dream.

"Shall I tell you, Violet," he continued, gravely and gently, "why I want you to come with
us? I am anxious that you and I should be together as long--as long as that is possible. One
never knows what may happen, and lately--well, we need not speak of it; but I don't wish us
to be parted, Violet."

She burst into a violent fit of crying and sobbing. She had been struggling bravely to repress
this gathering emotion; but his direct reference to the very thought that was overshadowing
her mind was too much for her. And along with this wild grief came as keen remorse, for was
this the conduct required of an attendant upon an invalid?

"You must forgive me," she sobbed. "I don't know what it is--I have been very nervous of late--and--and-----"

"There is nothing to cry about, Violet," said he gently. "What is to be, is to be. You have
not lost your old courage! Only let us be together while we can."

"Oh, my love, my love!" she suddenly cried, taking his hand in both of hers, and looking up
to him with her piteous, tear-dimmed eyes; "we will always be together! What is it that you
say?--what is it that you mean? Not that you are going away without me? I have courage for
anything but that. It does not matter what comes, only that I must go with you--we two together!"

"Hush, hush, Violet," said he soothingly, for he saw that the girl was really beside herself
with grief and apprehension. "Come, this is not like the brave Violet of old. I thought there
was nothing in all the world you were afraid to face. Look up, now."

She released his hand, and a strange expression came over her face. That wild outburst had
been an involuntary confession; now a great fear and shame filled her heart that she should
have been betrayed into it, and in a despairing, pathetic fashion she tried to explain away
her words.

"We shall be together, shall we not?" she said, with an affected cheerfulness, though she was
still crying gently. "It does not matter what part of the Highlands you go to--I will go with
you. I must write and explain to Mrs. Dowse. It would be a pity that we should separate so
soon, after that long time, would it not? And then the brisk air of the hills, and of the yachting,
will be better for you than the hot summer here, won't it? And I am sure you will get very
well there; that is just the place for you to get strong; and when the time for the shooting
comes, we shall all go out, as we used to do, to see you missing every bird that gets up."

She tried to smile, but did not succeed very well.

"And really it does not matter to me so very much what part we go to, for, as you say, one
ought to conquer these feelings, and if you prefer Castle Bandbox, I will go there too--that
is, I shall be very proud to go if I am not in the way. And you know I am the only one who
can make cartridges for you."

"I don't think I shall trouble the cartridges very much," said he, glad to think she was becoming
more cheerful.

"Indeed," she continued, "I don't know what would have become of your gun if I had not looked
after it, for you only half cleaned it, and old Peter would not touch it, and the way the sea
air rusted the barrels was quite remarkable. Will you have No. 3 or No. 4 shot this year for
the sea birds?"

"Well," he answered gravely, "you see we shall have no yacht this year, and probably no chances
of wild duck at all; and it would scarcely be worth while to make cartridges merely to fire
away at these harmless and useless sea pyots and things of that sort."

"Oh, but my papa could easily get us a yacht," she said promptly; "he would be delighted--I
know he would be delighted. And I have been told you can get a small yacht for about £40 a
month, crew and everything included, and what is that? Indeed, I think it is quite necessary
you should have a yacht."

"Forty pounds," said he. "I think we could manage that. But then we should deduct something
from the wages of the crew on the strength of our taking our own cook with us. Do you remember
that cook? She had a wonderful trick of making apricot jam puddings; how the dickens she managed
to get so much jam crammed in I never could make out. She was just about as good at that as
at making cartridges. Did you ever hear of that cook?"

By this time they had walked gently back to the carriage, and now Mrs. Warrener and her daughter
made their appearance. The elder woman noticed something strange about Violet's expression,
but she did not speak of it, for surely the girl was happy enough? She was, indeed, quite merry.
She told Mrs. Warrener she was ready to go with them to the Highlands whenever they chose.
She proposed that this time they should go up the Caledonian canal, and go down by Loch Maree,
and then go out and visit the western isles. She said the sooner they went the better; they
would get all the beautiful summer of the north; it was only the autumn tourists who complained
of the rain of the Highlands.

"But we had little rain last autumn," said Mrs. Warrener.

"Oh, very little indeed," said Violet, quite brightly; "we had charming weather all through.
I never enjoyed myself anywhere so much. I think the sooner your brother gets up to the Highlands,
the better it will do him a world of good."

CHAPTER XLVII.

DU SCHMERZENSREICHE!

So the long, silent, sunlit days passed, and it seemed to the three patient watchers that the
object of their care was slowly recovering health and strength. But if they were all willing
and eager to wait on him, it was Violet who was his constant companion and friend, his devoted
attendant, his humble scholar. Sometimes when Mrs. Warrener's heart grew sore within her to
think of the wrong that had been wrought in the past, the tender little woman tried to solace
herself somewhat by regarding these two as they now sat together--he the whimsical, affectionate
master, she the meek pupil and disciple, forgetting all the proud dignity of her maidenhood,
her fire, and audacity, and independence, in the humility and self-surrender of her love. Surely,
she thought, this time was making up for much of the past. And if all went well now, what had
they to look forward to but a still closer companionship in which the proud, and loyal, and
fearless girl would become the tender and obedient wife? There was no jealousy in the nature
of this woman. She would have laughed with joy if she could have heard their marriage bells.

And Violet, too, when the sun lay warm on the daisies and cowslips, when the sweet winds blew
the scent of the lilacs about, and when her master and teacher grew strong enough to walk with
her along the quiet woodland ways--how could she fail to pick up some measure of cheerfulness
and hope? It almost seemed as if she had dropped into a new world; and it was a beautiful world,
full of tenderness, and laughter, and sunshine. Henceforth there was to be no more George Miller
to bother her; he had gone clean out of existence as far as she was concerned; there was no
more skirmishing with Lady North; even the poor Dowses, with their piteous loneliness and solemn
house, were almost forgotten. Here was her whole world. And when she noticed the increasing
distances that he walked, and the brighter look of his face, and the growing courage and carelessness
of his habits--then indeed the world became a beautiful world to her, and she was almost inclined
to fall in love with those whirling and gleaming southern seas.

It was in the black night-time, when all the household but herself were asleep, that she paid
the penalty of these transient joys. Haunted by the one terrible fear, she could gain no rest;
it was in vain that she tried to reason with herself; her imagination was like some hideous
fiend continually whispering to her ear. Then she had no friend with whom to share those terrible
doubts; she dared not mention them to any human soul. Why should she disturb the gentle confidence
of his sister and her daughter? She could not make them miserable merely to lift from her own
mind a portion of its anxiety. She could only lie awake, night after night, and rack her brain
with a thousand gloomy forebodings. She recalled certain phrases he had used in moments of
pathetic confidence. She recalled the quick look of pain with which he sometimes paused in
the middle of his speech, the almost involuntary raising the hand to the region of the heart,
the passing pallor of the face. Had they seen none of those things? Had they no wild, despairing
thoughts about him? Was it possible they could go peacefully to sleep with this dread thing
hanging over them, with a chance of awaking to a day of bitter anguish and wild, heart-broken
farewell? This cruel anxiety, kept all to herself, was killing the girl. She grew restless
and feverish; sometimes she sat up half the night at the window listening to the moaning of
the dark sea outside; she became languid during the day, pale, and distraite. But it was not
to last long.

One evening these two were together in the small parlor, he lying down, she sitting near him
with a book in her hand. The French windows were open; they could hear Mrs. Warrener and her
daughter talking in the garden. And, strangely enough, the sick man's thoughts were once more
turned to the far Highlands, and to their life among the hills, and the pleasant merry-making
on board the Sea Pyot.

"The air of this place does not agree with you at all, Violet," he was saying. "You are not
looking nearly so well as you did when we came down. You are the only one who has not benefited
by the change. Now that won't do; we cannot have a succession of invalids--a Greek frieze of
patients, all carrying phials of medicine. We must get off to the Highlands at once. What do
you say--a fortnight hence?"

She knelt down beside him, and took his hand, and said in a low voice--

"Do not be angry with me--it is very unreasonable, I know--but I have a strange dread of the
Highlands. I have dreamed so often lately of being up there--and of being swept away on a dark
sea--in the middle of the night."

She shuddered. He put his hand gently on her head.

"There is no wonder you should dream of that," he said with a smile. "That is only part of
the story which you made us all believe. But we have got a brighter finish for it now. You
have not been overwhelmed in that dark flood yet----"

He paused.

"Violet! My love!" he suddenly cried.

He let go her hand, and made a wild grasp at his left breast; his face grew white with pain.
What made her instinctively throw her arms round him, with terror in her eyes?

"Violet! What is this? Kiss me!"

It was but one second after that that a piercing shriek rang through the place. The girl had
sprung up like a deer shot through the heart; her eyes dilated, her face wild and pale. Mrs.
Warrener came running in; but paused, and almost retreated in fear from the awful spectacle
before her; for the girl still held the dead man's hand, and she was laughing merrily. The
dark sea she had dreaded had overtaken her at last.

       *       *       *       *       *

But one more scene--months afterward. It is the breakfast room in Lady North's house in Euston
Square; and Anatolia is sitting there alone. The door opens, and a tall young girl, dressed
in a white morning costume, comes silently in; there is a strange and piteous look of trouble
in her dark eyes. Anatolia goes over to her, and takes her hand very tenderly, and leads her
to the easy-chair she had herself just quitted.

"There is not any letter yet?" she asks, having looked all round the table with a sad and wearied
air.

"No, dear, not yet," says Anatolia, who, unlovely though she may be, has a sympathetic heart;
and her lip trembles as she speaks. "You must be patient, Violet."

"It is another morning gone, and there is no letter, and I cannot understand it," says the
girl, apparently to herself, and then she begins to cry silently, while her half-sister goes
to her, and puts her arm around her neck, and tries to soothe her.

Lady North comes into the room. Some changes have happened within these few months; it is "Mother"
and "My child" now between the enemies of yore. And as she bids Violet good morning, and gently
kisses her, the girl renews her complaint.

"Mother, why do they keep back his letter? I know he must have written to me long ago; and
I cannot go to him until I get the letter! and he will wonder why I am not coming. Morning
after morning I listen for the postman--I can hear him in the street from house to house--and
they all get their letters, but I don't get this one that is worth all the world to me. And
I never neglected anything that he said; and I was always very obedient to him; and he will
wonder now that I don't go to him, and perhaps he will think that I am among my other friends
now and have forgotten---- No, he will not think that. I have not forgotten."

"My child, you must not vex yourself," says Lady North with all the tenderness of which she
is capable--and Anatolia is bitterly crying all the while. "It will be all right. And you must
not look sad to-day; for you know Mrs. Warrener and your friend Amy are coming to see you."

She does not seem to pay much heed.

"Shall we go for the flowers to-day?" she asks, with her dark wet eyes raised for the first time.

"My darling, this is not the day we go for the flowers; that is to-morrow."

"And what is the use of it?" she says, letting her head sink sadly again. "Every time I go
over to Nunhead I listen all by myself--and I know he is not there at all. The flowers look
pretty, because his name is over them. But he is not there at all--he is far away--and he was
to send me a message--and every day I wait for it--and they keep the letter back. Mother, are
all my dresses ready?"

"Yes, Violet."

"You are quite sure!"

"They are all ready, Violet. Don't trouble about that."

"It is the white satin one he will like the best; and he will be pleased that I am not in black
like the others. Mother, Mrs. Warrener and Amy surely cannot mean to come to the wedding in black."

"Surely not, Violet. But come, dear, to your breakfast."

She took her place quite calmly and humbly; but her mind was still wandering toward that picture.

"I hope they will strew the church-yard with flowers as we pass through it--not for me, but
for him; for he will be pleased with that; and there is more than all that is in the Prayer-book
that I will promise to be to him, when we two are kneeling together. You are quite sure everything
is ready?"

"Everything, my darling."

"And you think the message from him will come soon now?"

"I think it will come soon now, Violet," was the answer, given with trembling lips.

                            THE END.

       *       *       *       *       *

And now to you--you whose names are written in these blurred pages, some portion of whose lives
I have tried to trace with a wandering and uncertain pen--I stretch out a hand of farewell.
Yet not quite of farewell, perhaps: for amid all the shapes and phantoms of this world of mystery,
where the shadows we meet can tell us neither whence they came nor whither they go, surely
you have for me a no less substantial existence that may have its chances in the time to come.
To me you are more real than most I know: what wonder then if I were to meet you on the threshold
of the great unknown, you all shining with a new light on your face? Trembling, I stretch out
my hands to you, for your silence is awful, and there is sadness in your eyes; but the day
may come when you will speak, and I shall hear--and understand.

JULIET ON THE BALCONY.

   O lips that are so lonely
     For want of his caress;
   O heart that art too faithful
     To ever love him less;
   O eyes that find no sweetness
     For hunger of his face;
   O hands that long to feel him,
     Always, in every place!

   My spirit leans and listens,
     But only hears his name,
   And thought to thought leaps onward
     As flame leaps unto flame;
   And all kin to each other
     As any brood of flowers,
   Or these sweet winds of night, love,
     That fan the fainting hours!

   My spirit leans and listens,
     My heart stands up and cries,
   And only one sweet vision
     Comes ever to my eyes.
   So near and yet so far, love,
     So dear, yet out of reach,
   So like some distant star, love,
     Unnamed in human speech!

   My spirit leans and listens,
     My heart goes out to him,
   Through all the long night watches,
     Until the dawning dim;
   My spirit leans and listens,
     What if, across the night,
   His strong heart send a message
     To flood me with delight?

                                        HOWARD GLYNDON. Juno never forgave me the execution of that rash and cruel
resolve.
It had evidently scattered and bewildered what little wit she had.

                                        JOHN BURROUGHS.

LOVE'S MESSENGERS.

   Who will tell him? Who will teach him?
   Have you voices, merry birds?
   Then be voice for me, and reach him
   With a thousand pleading words.
   Sing my secret, east and west,
   Till his answer be confessed!

   Roses, when you see him coming,
   Light of heart and strong of limb,
   Make your lover-bees stop humming;
   Turn your blushes round to him--
   Blush, dear flowers, that he may learn,
   How a woman's heart can burn!

   Wind--oh, wind--you happy rover!
   Oh that I were half as free--
   Leave your honey-bells and clover,
   Go and seek my love for me.
   Find, kiss, clasp him, make him know
   It is I who love him so!

                                        MARY AINGE DE VERE.

THE HEAD OF HERCULES.

One of the most curious cases that ever came under my notice in a long course of criminal practice
was not brought into any court, and, as I believe, has never been published until now. The
details of the affair came under my personal cognizance in the following manner:

In 1858 I went down into the Shenandoah valley to spend my summer vacation among the innumerable
Pages, Marshalls, and Cookes who all hailed me as cousin, by right of traditional intermarriages
generations back. My first visit was to the house of McCormack Beardsley, a kinsman and school-fellow
whom I had not seen since we parted at the university twenty years before.

We were both gray-haired old fellows now, but I had grown thin and sharp in the courts of Baltimore
and Washington, while he had lived quietly on his plantation, more fat and jovial and genial
with every year.

Beardsley possessed large means then, and maintained the unlimited hospitality usual among
large Virginia planters before the war. The house was crowded during my stay with my old friends
from the valley and southern countries. His daughter, too, was not only a beauty, but a favorite
among the young people, and brought many attractive, well-bred girls about her, and young men
who were not so attractive or well bred. Lack of occupation and a definite career had reduced
the sons of too many Virginia families at that time to cards and horses as their sole pursuits;
the war, while it left them penniless, was in one sense their salvation.

One evening, sitting on the verandah with Beardsley, smoking, and looking in the open windows
of the parlor, I noticed a woman who sat a little apart, and who, as I fancied, was avoided
by the younger girls. In a Virginia country party there are always two or three unmarried women,
past their first youth, with merry blue eyes, brown hair, and delicate features--women "with
a history," but who are none the less good dancers, riders, and able to put all their cleverness
into the making of a pie or a match for their cousins. This woman was blue-eyed and brown-haired,
but she had none of the neat, wide-awake self-possession of her class. She had a more childish
expression, and spoke with a more timid uncertainty, than even Lotty Beardsley, who was still
in the schoolroom. I called my host's attention to her and asked who she was.

"It is the daughter of my cousin, General George Waring. You remember him surely--of the Henrico
branch of Warings?"

"Certainly. But he had only one child--Louisa; and I remember receiving an invitation to her
wedding years ago."

"Yes. This is Louisa. The wedding never took place. It's an odd story," he said, after a pause,
"and the truth is, Floyd, I brought the girl here while you were with us in the hope that you,
with your legal acumen, could solve the mystery that surrounds her. I'll give the facts to
you to-morrow--it's impossible to do it now. But tell me, in the mean time, how she impresses
you, looking at her as a lawyer would at a client, or a--a prisoner on trial. Do you observe
anything peculiar in her face or manner?"

"I observed a very peculiar manner in all those about her--an effort at cordiality in which
they did not succeed; a certain constraint in look and tone while speaking to her. I even saw
it in yourself just now as soon as you mentioned her name."

"You did? I'm sorry for that--exceedingly sorry!" anxiously. "I believe in Louisa Waring's
innocence as I do in that of my own child; and if I thought she was hurt or neglected in this
house---- But there's a cloud on the girl, Floyd--that's a fact. It don't amount even to suspicion.
If it did, one could argue it down. But----Well, what do you make of her--her face now?"

"It is not an especially clever face, nor one that indicates power of any kind; not the face
of a woman who of her own will would be the heroine of any remarkable story. I should judge
her to have been a few years ago one of the sensible, light-hearted, sweet-tempered girls of
whom there are so many in Virginia; a nice housekeeper, and one who would have made a tender
wife and mother."

"Well, well? Nothing more?"

"Yes. She has not matured into womanhood as such girls do. She looks as if her growth in every-day
experiences had stopped years ago; that while her body grew older her mind had halted, immature,
incomplete. A great grief might have had that effect, or the absorption of all her faculties
by one sudden, mastering idea."

"You are a little too metaphysical for me," said Beardsley. "Poor Lou isn't shrewd by any means,
and always gives me the feeling that she needs care and protection more than most women, if
that is what you mean."

"There is a singular expression in her face at times," I resumed.

"Ah! Now you have it!" he muttered.

"Sitting there in your parlor, where there is certainly nothing to dread, she has glanced behind
and about her again and again, as though she heard a sound that frightened her. I observe,
too, that when any man speaks to her she fixes on him a keen, suspicious look. She does not
have it with women. It passes quickly, but it is there. It is precisely the expression of an
insane person, or a guilty one dreading arrest."

"You are a close observer, Floyd. I told my wife that we could not do better than submit the
whole case to your judgment. We are all Lou's friends in the neighborhood; but we cannot look
at the matter with your legal experience and unprejudiced eyes. Come, let us go into supper now."

The next morning I was summoned to Beardsley's "study" (so called probably from the total absence
of either book or newspaper), and found himself and his wife awaiting me, and also a Doctor
Scheffer, whom I had previously noticed among the guests--a gaunt, hectic young man, apparently
on the high road to death, the victim of an incurable consumption.

"I asked William Scheffer to meet us here," said Mr. Beardsley, "as Louisa Waring was an inmate
of his father's house at the time of the occurrence. She and William were children and playmates
together. I believe I am right, William. You knew all the circumstances of that terrible night?"

The young man's heavy face changed painfully. "Yes; as much as was known to any one but Louisa,
and--the guilty man, whoever he was. But why are you dragging out that wretched affair?" turning
angrily on Mrs. Beardsley. "Surely any friend of Miss Waring's would try to bury the past for her!"

"No," said the lady calmly. "It has been buried quite too long, in my opinion; for she has
carried her burden for six years. It is time now that we should try to lift it for her. You
are sitting in a draught, William. Sit on this sofa."

Scheffer, coughing frightfully, and complaining with all the testiness of a long-humored invalid,
was disposed of at last, and Beardsley began:

"The story is briefly this. Louisa, before her father's death, was engaged to be married to
Colonel Paul Merrick (Merricks of Clarke county, you know). The wedding was postponed for a
year when General Waring died, and Louisa went to her uncle's--your father, William--to live
during that time. When the year was over, every preparation was made for the marriage: invitations
were sent to all the kinsfolk on both sides (and that included three or four counties on a
rough guess), and we--the immediate family--were assembled at Major Scheffer's preparing for
the grand event, when----" Beardsley became now excessively hot and flurried, and getting up,
thumped heavily up and down the room.

"After all, there is nothing to tell. Why should we bring in a famous lawyer to sit in judgment
on her as if the girl were a criminal? She only did, Floyd, what women have done since the
beginning--changed her mind without reason. Paul Merrick was as clever and lovable a young
fellow as you would find in the State, and Louisa was faithful to him--she's faithful to him
yet; but on the night before the wedding she refused to marry him, and has persisted in the
refusal ever since, without assigning a cause."

"Is that all of the story?" I asked.

Beardsley was silent.

"No," said his wife gently; "that is not all. I thought McCormack's courage would fail before
he gave you the facts. I shall try and tell you----"

"Only the facts, if you please, without any inferences or opinions of others."

The old lady paused for a moment, and then began: "A couple of days before the wedding we went
over to Major Scheffer's to help prepare for it. You know we have no restaurateurs nor confectioners
to depend upon, and such occasions are busy seasons. The gentlemen played whist, rode about
the plantation, or tried the Major's wines, while indoors we, all of us--married ladies and
girls and a dozen old aunties--were at work with cakes, creams, and pastry. I recollect I took
over our cook, Prue, because Lou fancied nobody could make such wine jelly as hers. Then Lou's
trousseau was a very rich one, and she wanted to try on all of her pretty dresses, that we
might see how----"

"My dear!" interrupted Mr. Beardsley, "this really appears irrelevant to the matter----"

"Not at all. I wish Mr. Floyd to gain an idea of Louisa's temper and mood at that time. The
truth is, she was passionately fond of her lover, and very happy that her marriage was so near;
and being a modest little thing, she hid her feeling under an incessant, merry chatter about
dresses and jellies. Don't you agree with me, William?"

The sick man turned on the sofa with a laugh, which looked ghastly enough on his haggard face.
"I submit, Aunt Sophie, that it is hardly fair to call me in as a witness in this case. I waited
on Lou for two or three years, Mr. Floyd, and she threw me over for Merrick. It is not likely
that I was an unprejudiced observer of her moods just then."

"Nonsense, William. I knew that was but the idlest flirtation between you, or I should not
have brought you here now," said his aunt. "Well, Mr. Floyd, the preparations all were completed
on the afternoon before the wedding. Some of the young people had gathered in the library--Paul
Merrick and his sisters and--you were there, William?"

"Yes, I was there."

"And they persuaded Lou to put on her wedding dress and veil to give them a glimpse of the
bride. I think it was Paul who wished it. He was a hot, eager young fellow, and he was impatient
to taste his happiness by anticipation. It was a dull, gusty afternoon in October. I remember
the contrast she made to the gray, cold day as she came in, shy and blushing, and her eyes
sparkling, in her haze of white, and stood in front of the window. She was so lovely and pure
that we were all silent. It seemed as if she belonged then to her lover alone, and none of
us had a right to utter a word. He went up to her, but no one heard what he said, and then
took her by the hand and led her reverently to the door. Presently I met her coming out of
her chamber in a cloak and hat. Her maid Abby was inside, folding the white dress and veil.
'I am going down to Aunty Huldah's,' Lou said to me. 'I promised her to come again before I
was married and tell her the arrangements all over once more.' Huldah was an old colored woman,
Lou's nurse, who lived down on the creek bank and had long been bedridden. I remember that
I said to Louisa that the walk would be long and lonely, and told her to call Paul to accompany
her. She hesitated a moment, and then turned to the door, saying Huldah would probably be in
one of her most funereal moods, and that she would not have Paul troubled on the eve of his
wedding day. She started, running and looking back with a laugh, down the hill." Mrs. Beardsley
faltered and stopped.

"Go on," said Dr. Scheffer. "The incidents which follow are all that really affect Louisa's
guilt or innocence."

"Go on, mother," said Beardsley hastily. "Louisa's innocence is not called in question. Remember
that. Tell everything you know without scruple."

The old lady began again in a lower voice: "We expected an arrival that afternoon--Houston
Simms, a distant kinsman of Major Scheffer's. He was from Kentucky--a large owner of blooded
stock--and was on his way home from New York, where his horses had just won the prizes at the
fall races. He had promised to stop for the wedding, and the carriage had been sent to the
station to meet him. The station, as you know, is five miles up the road. By some mistake the
carriage was late, and Houston started, with his valise in his hand, to walk to the house,
making a short cut through the woods. When the carriage came back empty, and the driver told
this to us, some of the young men started down to meet the old gentleman. It was then about
four o'clock, and growing dark rapidly. The wind, I recollect, blew sharply, and a cold rain
set in. I came out on the long porch, and walked up and down, feeling uneasy and annoyed at
Louisa's prolonged absence. Colonel Merrick, who had been looking for her all through the house,
had just learned from me where she had gone, and was starting with umbrellas to meet her, when
she came suddenly up to us, crossing the ploughed field, not from the direction of Huldah's
cabin, but from the road. We both hurried toward her; but when she caught sight of Colonel
Merrick she stopped short, putting out her hands with a look of terror and misery quite indescribable.
'Take me away from him! Oh, for God's sake!' she cried. I saw she had suffered some great shock,
and taking her in my arms, led her in, motioning him to keep back. She was so weak as to fall,
but did not faint, nor lose consciousness for a single moment. All night she lay, her eyes
wandering from side to side as in momentary expectancy of the appearance of some one. No anodyne
had any effect upon her--every nerve seemed strained to its utmost tension. But she did not
speak a word except at the sound of Colonel Merrick's voice or step, when she would beg piteously
that he should be kept away from her. Toward morning she fell into a kind of stupor, and when
she awoke appeared to be calmer. She beckoned to me, and asked that her uncle Scheffer and
Judge Grove, her other guardian, should be sent for. She received them standing, apparently
quite grave and composed. She asked that several other persons should be called in, desiring,
she said, to have as many witnesses as possible to what she was about to make known. 'You all
know,' she said, 'that to-morrow was to have been my wedding day. I wish you now to bear witness
that I refuse to-day or at any future time to marry Paul Merrick, and that no argument or persuasion
will induce me to do so. And I wish,' raising her hand, to keep silence--'I wish to say publicly
that it is no fault or ill doing of Colonel Merrick's that has driven me to this resolve. I
say this as in the sight of Almighty God.' Nobody argued, or scarcely, indeed, spoke to her.
Every one saw that she was physically a very ill woman; and it was commonly believed that she
had received some sudden shock which had unhinged her mind. An hour afterward the searching
party came in (for the young men, not finding Houston Simms, had gone out again to search for
him). They had found his dead body concealed in the woods by Mill's spring. You know the place.
There was a pistol shot through the head, and a leathern pocketbook, which had apparently contained
money, was found empty a few feet away. That was the end of it all, Mr. Floyd."

"You mean that Simms's murderer was never found?"

"Never," said Beardsley, "though detectives were brought down from Richmond and set on the
track. Their theory--a plausible one enough too--was that Simms had been followed from New
York by men who knew the large sum he earned from the races, and that they had robbed and murdered
him, and readily escaped through the swamps."

"It never was my belief," said Dr. Scheffer, "that he was murdered at all. It was hinted that
he had stopped in a gambling house in New York, and there lost whatever sum he had won at the
races; and that rather than meet his family in debt and penniless, he blew out his brains in
the first lonely place to which he came. That explanation was plain enough."

"What was the end of the story so far as Miss Waring was concerned?" I asked.

"Unfortunately, it never has had an end," said Mrs. Beardsley. "The mystery remains. She was
ill afterward; indeed, it was years before she regained her bodily strength as before. But
her mind had never been unhinged, as Paul Merrick thought. He waited patiently, thinking that
some day her reason would return, and she would come back to him. But Louisa Waring was perfectly
sane even in the midst of her agony on that night. From that day until now she has never by
word or look given any clue by which the reason of her refusal to marry him could be discovered.
Of course the murder and her strange conduct produced a great excitement in this quiet neighborhood.
But you can imagine all that. I simply have given you the facts which bear on the case."

"The first suspicion, I suppose, rested on Merrick?" I said.

"Yes. The natural explanation of her conduct was that she had witnessed an encounter in the
woods between Simms and her lover, in which the old man was killed. Fortunately, however, Paul
Merrick had not left the house once during the afternoon until he went out with me to meet her."

"And then Miss Waring was selected as the guilty party?"

No one answered for a moment. Young Scheffer lay with his arm over his face, which had grown
so worn and haggard as the story was told that I doubted whether his affection for the girl
had been the slight matter which he chose to represent it.

"No," said Beardsley; "she never was openly accused, nor even subjected to any public interrogation.
She came to the house in the opposite direction from the spot where the murder took place.
And there was no rational proof that she had any cognizance of it. But there were not wanting
busybodies to suggest that she had met Simms in the woods, and at some proffered insult from
him had fired the fatal shot."

His wife's fair old face flushed. "How can you repeat such absurdity, McCormack?" she said.
"Louisa Waring was as likely to go about armed as--as I!" knitting vehemently at a woollen
stocking she had held idly until now.

"I know it was absurd, my dear. But you know as well as I that though it was but the mere breath
of suspicion, it has always clung to the girl and set her apart as it were from other women."

"What effect did that report have on Merrick?" I asked.

"The effect it would have on any man deserving the name," said Beardsley. "If he loved her
passionately before, she has been, I believe, doubly dear to him since. But she has never allowed
him to meet her since that night."

"You think her feeling is unchanged for him?"

"I have no doubt of it," Mrs. Beardsley said. "There is nothing in Lou's nature out of which
you could make a heroine of tragedy. After the first shock of that night was over she was just
the commonplace little body she was before, and could not help showing how fond she was of
her old lover. But she quietly refused to ever see him again."

"Merrick went abroad three years ago," interposed her husband. "I'll let you into a secret,
Floyd. I've determined there shall be an end of this folly. I have heard from him that he will
be at home next week, and is as firm as ever in his resolve to marry Miss Waring. I brought
her here so that she could not avoid meeting him. Now if you, Floyd, could only manage--could
look into this matter before the meeting, and set it to rights, clear the poor child of this
wretched suspicion that hangs about her? Well, now you know why I have told you the story."

"You have certainly a sublime faith in Mr. Floyd's skill," said Scheffer with a disagreeable
laugh. "I wish him success." He rose with difficulty, and wrapping his shawl about him, went
feebly out of the room.

"William is soured through his long illness," Beardsley hastened to say apologetically. "And
he cared more for Lou than I supposed. We were wrong to bring him in this morning"; and he
hurried out to help him up the stairs. Mrs. Beardsley laid down her knitting, and glanced cautiously
about her. I saw that the vital point of her testimony had been omitted until now.

"I think it but right to tell you--nobody has ever heard it before"--coming close to me, her
old face quite pale. "When I undressed Louisa that night her shoes and stockings were stained,
and a long reddish hair clung to her sleeve. She had trodden over the bloody ground and handled
the murdered man."

Every professional man will understand me when I say I was glad to hear this. Hitherto the
girl's whim and the murder appeared to me two events connected only by the accident of occurrence
on the same day. Now there was but one mystery to solve.

Whatever success I have had in my practice has been due to my habit of boldly basing my theories
upon the known character of the parties implicated, and not upon more palpable accidental circumstances.
Left to myself now, I speedily resolved this case into a few suppositions, positive to me as
facts. The girl had been present at the murder. She was not naturally reticent: was instead
an exceptionally confiding, credulous woman. Her motive for silence, therefore, must have been
a force brought to bear on her at the time of the murder stronger than her love for Merrick,
and which was still existing and active. Her refusal to meet her lover I readily interpreted
to be a fear of her own weakness--dread lest she should betray this secret to him. Might not
her refusal to marry him be caused by the same fear? some crushing disgrace or misery which
threatened her through the murder, and which she feared to bring upon her husband? The motive
I had guessed to be strong as her love: what if it were her love? Having stepped from surmise
to surmise so far, I paused to strengthen my position by the facts. There were but two ways
in which this murder could have prevented her marriage--through Merrick's guilt or her own.
His innocence was proven; hers I did not doubt after I had again carefully studied her face.
Concealed guilt leaves its secret signature upon the mouth and eye in lines never to be mistaken
by a man who has once learned to read them.

Were there but these two ways? There was a third, more probable than either--fear. At the first
presentation of this key to the riddle the whole case mapped itself out before me. The murderer
had sealed her lips by some threat. He was still living, and she was in daily expectation of
meeting him. She had never seen his face, but had reason to believe him of her own class. (This
supposition I based on her quick, terrified inspection of every man's face who approached her.)
Now what threat could have been strong enough to keep a weak girl silent for years, and to
separate her from her lover on their wedding day? I knew women well enough to say, none against
herself; the threat I believed hung over Merrick's head, and would be fulfilled if she betrayed
the secret or married him, which, with a weak, loving woman, was equivalent, as any man would
know, to betrayal.

I cannot attempt to make the breaks in this reasoning solid ground for my readers; it was solid
ground for me.

The next morning Beardsley met me on leaving the breakfast table. He held a letter open in
his hand, and looked annoyed and anxious.

"Here's a note from Merrick. He sailed a week sooner than he expected--has left New York, and
will be here to-night. If I had only put the case in your hands earlier! I had a hope that
you could clear the little girl. But it's too late. She'll take flight as soon as she hears
he is coming. Scheffer says it's a miserable, bloody muddle, and that I was wrong to stir it up."

"I do not agree with Dr. Scheffer," I said quietly. "I am going now to the library. In half
an hour send Miss Waring to me."

"You have not yet been presented to her?"

"So much the better. I wish her to regard me as a lawyer simply. State to her as formally as
you choose who I am, and that I desire to see her on business."

I seated myself in the library; placed pen and ink, and some legal-looking documents, selected
at random, before me. Red tape and the formal pomp of law constitute half its force with women
and men of Louisa's calibre. I had hardly arranged myself and my materials when the door slowly
opened, and she entered. She was alarmed, yet wary. To see a naturally hearty, merry little
body subjected for years to this nervous strain, with a tragic idea forced into a brain meant
to be busied only with dress, cookery, or babies, appeared to me a pitiful thing.

"Miss Waring?" reducing the ordinary courtesies to a curt, grave nod. "Be seated, if you please."
I turned over my papers slowly, and then looked up at her. I had, I saw, none of the common
feminine shrewdness to deal with; need expect no subtle devices of concealment; no clever doublings;
nothing but the sheer obstinacy which is an unintellectual woman's one resource. I would ignore
it and her--boldly assume full possession of the ground at the first word.

"My errand to this house, Miss Waring, is in part the investigation of a murder in 1854, of
which you were the sole witness--that of Houston Simms----"

I stopped. The change in her face appalled me. She had evidently not expected so direct an
attack. In fact, Beardsley told me afterward that it was the first time the subject had been
broached to her in plain words. However, she made no reply, and I proceeded in the same formal
tone:

"I shall place before you the facts which are in my possession, and require your assent to
such as are within your knowledge. On the afternoon of Tuesday, October 5, 1854, Houston Simms
left the Pine Valley station, carrying a valise containing a large sum of money. You----"

She had been sitting on the other side of the table, looking steadily at me. She rose now.
She wore a blue morning dress, with lace ruffles and other little fooleries in which women
delight, and I remember being shocked with the strange contrast between this frippery and the
speechless dread and misery of her face. She gained control of her voice with difficulty.

"Who has said that I was a witness of the murder?" she gasped. "I always explained that I was
in another part of the wood. I went to aunty Huldah----"

"Pray do not interrupt me, Miss Waring. I am aware that you were the witness--the sole witness--in
this matter." (She did not contradict me. I was right in my first guess--she had been alone
with the murderer.) "On returning from your nurse's cabin you left the direct path and followed
the sound of angry voices to the gorge by Mill's spring----"

"I did not go to play the spy. He lied when he said that," she cried feebly. "I heard the steps,
and thought Colonel Merrick had come to search for me."

"That matters nothing. You saw the deed done. The old man was killed, and then robbed, in your
sight"--I came toward her, and lowered my voice to a stern, judicial whisper, while the poor
girl shrank back as though I were law itself uttering judgment upon her. If she had known what
stagy guesswork it all was! "When you were discovered, the murderer would have shot you to
insure your silence."

"I wish he had! It was Thad who would have done that. The white man's way was more cruel--oh,
God knows it was more cruel!"

(There were two then.) I was very sorry for the girl, but I had a keen pleasure in the slow
unfolding of the secret, just as I suppose the physician takes delight in the study of a new
disease, even if it kills the patient.

"Yes," I said with emphasis. "I believe that it would have been less suffering for you, Miss
Waring, to have died then than to have lived, forced as you were to renounce your lover, and
to carry about with you the dread of the threat made by those men."

"I have not said there was a threat made. I have betrayed nothing." She had seated herself
some time before by the table. There was a large bronze inkstand before her, and as she listened
she arranged a half dozen pens evenly on the rest. The words she heard and spoke mattered more
to her than life or death; her features were livid as those of a corpse, yet her hands went
on with their mechanical work--one pen did not project a hair's breadth beyond the other. We
lawyers know how common such puerile, commonplace actions are in the supreme moments of life,
and how seldom men wring their hands, or use tragic gesture, or indeed words.

"No, you have betrayed nothing," I said calmly. "Your self-control has been remarkable, even
when we remember that you believed your confession would be followed by speedy vengeance, not
on your head, but Colonel Merrick's."

She looked up not able to speak for a minute. "You--you know all?"

"Not all, but enough to assure you that your time of suffering is over. You can speak freely,
unharmed."

Her head dropped on the table. She was crying, and, I think, praying.

"You saw Houston Simms killed by two men, one of whom, the negro Thad, you knew. The white
man's face was covered. You did not recognize him. But he knew you, and the surest way to compel
you to silence. I wish you now to state to me all the details of this man's appearance, voice,
and manner, to show me any letters which you have received from him since" (a random guess,
which I saw hit the mark)--"in short, every circumstance which you can recall about him."

She did not reply.

"My dear Miss Waring, you need have no fear on Colonel Merrick's account. The law has taken
this matter out of your hands. Colonel Merrick is protected by the law."

"Oh! I did not understand," meekly.

To be brief, she told me the whole story. When she reached the spring she had found the old
man bleeding and still breathing. He died in her arms. The men, who had gone back into the
laurel to open the valise, came back upon her. The negro was a desperate character, well known
in the county. He had died two years later. The other man was masked and thoroughly disguised.
He had stopped the negro when he would have killed her, and after a few minutes' consultation
had whispered to him the terms upon which she was allowed to escape.

"You did not hear the white man's voice?"

"Not once."

"Bring me the letters you have received from him."

She brought two miserably spelled and written scrawls on soiled bits of paper. It was the writing
of an educated man, poorly disguised. He threatened to meet her speedily, warned her that he
had spies constantly about her.

"That is all the evidence you can give me?"

"All." She rose to go. I held the door open for her, when she hesitated.

"There was something more--a mere trifle."

"Yes. But most likely the one thing that I want."

"I returned to the spring again and again for months afterward. People thought I was mad. I
may have been; but I found there one day a bit of reddish glass with a curious mark on it."

"You have it here?"

She brought it to me. It was a fragment of engraved sardonyx, apparently part of a seal; the
upper part of a head was cut upon it; the short hairs curving forward on the low forehead showed
that the head was that of Hercules.

Some old recollection rose in my brain, beginning, as I may say, to gnaw uncertainly. I went
to my room for a few minutes to collect myself, and then sought Beardsley.

He was pacing up and down the walk to the stables, agitated as though he had been the murderer.

"Well, Floyd, well! What chance is there? What have you discovered?"

"Everything. One moment. I have a question or two to ask you. About ten years ago you commissioned
me to buy for you in New York a seal--an intaglio of great value--a head of Hercules, as I
remember. What did you do with it?"

"Gave it to Job Scheffer, William's father. Will has it now, though I think it is broken."

"Very well. What have Dr. Scheffer's habits been, by the way? Was he as fond of turning the
cards as the other young fellows?"

"Oh, yes, poor boy! There was a rumor some years ago that he was frightfully involved in Baltimore--that
it would ruin the old man, in fact, to clear off his debts of honor. But it died out. I suppose
William found some way of straightening them out."

"Probably. Where is Dr. Scheffer now? I have a message for him."

"In his room. But this matter of Louisa Waring----"

"Presently. Have patience."

I went up to the young man's room. After all, the poor wretch was dying, and to compel him
to blast his own honorable name seemed but brutal cruelty. I had to remember the poor girl's
wasted face and hopeless eyes before I could summon courage to open the door after I had knocked.
I think he expected me, and knew all that I had to say. A man in health would soon have known
that I was acting on surmise, and defied me to the proof. Scheffer, I fancied, had been creeping
through life for years with death in two shapes pursuing him, step by step. He yielded, cowed
submissive at the first touch, and only pleaded feebly for mercy.

The negro had been his body servant--knew his desperate straits, and dragged him into the crime.
Then, he had loved Louisa: he was maddened by her approaching marriage. The scheme of ensuring
her silence and driving Merrick away was the inspiration of a moment, and had succeeded. He
only asked for mercy. His time was short. He could not live beyond a few weeks. I would not
bring him to the gallows.

I was merciful, and I think was right to be so. His deposition was taken before his uncle,
Mr. Beardsley, who was a magistrate, and two other men of position and weight in the community.
It was to be kept secret until after his death, and then made public. He was removed at once
to his father's house.

On Colonel Merrick's arrival that evening, this deposition was formally read to him. I do not
think it impressed him very much. He was resolved to marry Miss Waring in spite of every obstacle.

"But I never would have married you unless the truth had been discovered--never," she said
to him that evening as they stood near me in the drawing-room. Her cheeks were warm, and her
dark eyes full of tender light. I thought her a very lovely woman.

"Then I owe you to Mr. Floyd after all?" he said, looking down at her fondly.

"Oh, I suppose so," with a shrug. "But he is a very disagreeable person! Cast-iron, you know.
I am so thankful you are not a lawyer, Paul."

                                        JAMES M. FLOYD.

ROMANCE.

   I would I were mighty, victorious,
     A monarch of steel and of gold--
   I would I were one of the glorious
     Divinities hallowed of old--
   A god of the ancient sweet fashion
     Who mingled with women and men,
   A deity human in passion,
     Transhuman in strength and in ken.

   For then I could render the pleasure
     I win from the sight of your face;
   For then I could utter my treasure
     Of homage and thanks for your grace;
   I could dower, illumine, and gladden,
     Could rescue from perils and tears,
   And my speech could vibrate and madden
     With eloquence worthy your ears.

   You meet me: you smile and speak kindly;
     One minute I marvel and gaze,
   Idolatrous, worshipping blindly,
     Yet mindful of decorous ways.
   You pass; and the glory is ended,
     Though lustres and sconces may glow:
   The goddess who made the scene splendid
     Has vanished; and darkly I go.

   You know not how swiftly you mounted
     The throne in the depths of my eyes;
   You care not how meekly I counted
     Those moments for pearls of the skies;
   Or, knowing it, all is forgotten
     The moment I pass from your sight--
   Consigned to the fancies begotten
     Of chaos and slumber and night.

   But I--I remember your glances,
     Your carelessest gesture and word,
   And out of them fashion romances
     Man never yet uttered nor heard;
   Romances too splendid for mortals,
     Too sweet for a planet of dole;
   Romances which open the portals
     Of Eden, and welcome my soul.

                                        J. W. DEFOREST.

BEER.

Poets, in every age since the time of Anacreon, have sung odes in praise of wine. The greatest
bards of every clime have sought inspiration in its sparkling depths. But the poet, even German,
is yet unborn, who, moved by sweet memories of the nectar of his fatherland, shall chant in
rhyme the virtues of his national drink. Yet though its merit has inspired neither of the sister
graces, poetry and song, to strike the lyre in its honor, it has had, none the less, an important
mission to perform. To its plebeian sister beer, as a healthful beverage, wine must yield the
palm. As a common drink, suited to human nature's daily need, it has never been surpassed.
If it has nerved no hand to deeds of daring, or struck the scintillating sparks of genius from
the human brain, it has added immensely to the health, long life, and happiness of many nations,
and is destined to still greater triumphs, as life becomes studied more from a hygienic standpoint.

Beer is believed to have been invented by the Egyptians, and is of almost universal use; the
zone of the cereals being more extended than that of the grape. Greek writers before Christ
mention a drink composed of barley, under the name of zythos. This beverage was not unknown
to the Romans, and we find it first mentioned by the historian Tacitus. By the nations of the
West it was regarded as a nourishing drink for poor people. They prepared it from honey and
wheat. Among the ancient Germans and Scandinavians, however, beer was in former times the national
beverage, and was prepared from barley, wheat, or oats, with the addition of oak bark, and
later of hops.

The ancients put bitter herbs in beer, and the present use of hops is in imitation. Modern
beer was born at the time of Charlemagne, an epoch at which hops were first cultivated. The
earliest writing in which one finds mention of hops as an aroma to beer is in a parchment of
St. Hildegarde, abbess of the convent of St. Rupert, at Bingen on the Rhine. The art of fabricating
beer remained for a long time a privilege of convents. The priests drank Pater's beer, while
the lighter or convent beer was used by the laity. Although beer has been manufactured of all
the cereals, barley only can be called its true and legitimate father.

Bavaria and Franconia were already in the fourteenth century celebrated for their excellent
beer, and the German cities, of which each one soon had its own brewery, vied with their predecessors.
In the fifteenth and sixteenth centuries the Upper and Lower Saxony breweries became well known.
The Braunschweiger, Einbeker, Göttinger, Bremer, and Hamburger beer, as well as the breweries
of the cities of Würzen, Zwickau, Torgau, Merseburg, and Goslar, were far and wide celebrated.
Bavarian beer has long made the tour of the world. Bock beer from Bavaria and from the Erzgebirge
is exported to Java and China.

German lager beer, as a healthy and lightly stimulating beverage, is welcome in both hot and
cold countries. It is liked as well by the Russians and Scandinavians as by the inhabitants
of the tropics. It is brewed by Germans in all parts of the globe--in Valenciennes, Antwerp,
Madrid, Constantinople, and even in Australia, Chili, and Brazil.

The English commenced later than the Germans to make beer. In 1524, however, they not only
brewed beer, but used hops in its fabrication.

The Greek and Latin races, which drank wine, had but little taste for beer, which divided them
from the Germanic races as a sharp boundary. Beer and wine seem to have had an influence in
forming the temperament of these widely differing races. While wine excites the nervous system,
beer tranquillizes and calms it. The action of a particular kind of daily drink, used for centuries,
must in this respect have been more or less potent. Hence, perhaps, the Teuton's phlegm and
the Gaul's excitability.

There may be said to be three principal types of beer--the Bavarian, Belgian, and English.
The Bavarian is obtained by the infusion or decoction of sprouted barley; then by the fermentation
of deposit, in tubs painted internally with resin. The varieties most appreciated are the Bock
and Salvator beers. The beers of Belgium have the special character of being prepared by spontaneous
fermentation, and the process is therefore slow. The principal varieties are the Lambick, the
Faro, the March beer, and the Uytzd. In the English beer the must is prepared by simple infusion
and the fermentation is superficial. On account of its great alcoholic richness it is easily
conserved. The ale, the porter, and the stout are the chief varieties of English beer, which
differ among themselves only by the diverse proportion of their ingredients and the different
degrees of torrefaction of the barley, rendering it more or less brown. In France only the
superficial method of fermentation is employed. In a litre of Strasburg beer one finds 5 1-4
grammes of albumen, 45 grammes of alcohol, and .091 of salts. The ordinary Bavarian beer contains
three per cent. of alcohol and six and a half per cent. of nourishing extracts. The beers the
most sticky to the touch are the heaviest in volume and the most nutritious. It is historical
that in very olden days the Munich city fathers tried the goodness of the beer by pouring it
out on a bench and then sitting down in their leather inexpressibles, and approved of it only
when they remained glued to the seat.

In Nuremberg there is a school of brewers, where one may learn all the mysteries of beer brewing.
Certain breweries, however, pretend to possess secrets pertaining to the art known exclusively
to them. For example, one family near Leipsic is said to have possessed for a century the secret
which chemistry has tried in vain to discover, of making the famous Gose beer.

"Good beer," says Dr. Paolo Mantegazza, a celebrated Italian writer on medicine, "is certainly
one of the most healthy of alcoholic drinks. The bitter tonic, the richness of the alimentary
principle which it contains, and its digestibility make it a real liquid food, which, for many
temperaments, is medicine. The English beer, which is stronger in spirit than some wines, never
produces on the stomach that union of irritating phenomena vulgarly called heat, and for this
reason beer is often tolerated by the most weak and irritable persons, and can be drunk with
advantage in grave diseases."[A] Laveran, a French physician, counsels it for consumptives,
and for nervous thin people in the most diverse climates.

In the intoxication by beer there is always more or less stupidity. Beer is by no means favorable
to l'esprit. It is doubtful if it has ever inspired the great poets or the profound thinkers
who make Germany, in science, the leading country in Europe. Reich, Voigt, and many great writers
have launched their anathemas against it. As a stimulant beer is less potent than wine or tea
and coffee. The forces of soldiers have never been sustained on a fatiguing march, nor can
they be incited to a battle, by plentiful libations of beer. During the late French-Prussian
war nearly every provision train which left Bavaria carried supplies of beer to the Bavarian
troops. It was found very favorable for the convalescent soldiers in the hospitals, but inferior
to coffee or wine as a stimulant on the eve of battle.

The old chroniclers of Bavaria relate this curious tale of the origin of the celebrated bock
beer. There was one day in olden times at the table of the Duke of Bavaria, as guest, a Brunswick
nobleman. Now there had long prevailed at the court the custom of presenting to noble guests,
after the meal, a beaker of the Bavarian barley juice, not without a warning as to its strength.
The Brunswicker received the usual cup, emptied it at a draught, and pronounced it excellent.
"But," he continued, "such barley juice as we brew at home in Brunswick is equalled by no other.
Our Mumme is the king of beers, so that the bravest drinker cannot take two beakers of it without
sinking under the table." The duke listened with displeasure to the haughty words of the knight,
for he was not a little proud of the brewings of his country, and commanded his cup-bearer,
with a meaning look, to challenge him.

"By your leave, Sir Knight," replied the page, "what you say is not quite true. If it pleases
you and my lord Duke, I should like to lay a wager with you."

The duke nodded assent, and the knight, smiling scornfully, challenged the cup-bearer to pledge
him.

"Your Brunswick Mumme," continued the page, "may pass as a refreshing drink; but with our beer
you cannot compare it, for the best of our brewings is unknown to you. In case, however, you
please again to make your appearance at the hospitable court of my gracious lord, I will promise
you a beaker of beer which cannot be equalled in any other country of united Christendom. I
will drink the greatest bumper that can be found in our court of your Mumme at one draught,
if you can take of our beer, even slowly, three beakers. He who a half hour afterward can stand
on one leg and thread a needle shall win the wager, and receive from the other a mighty cask
of Tokayer Rebensafte."

This speech received loud applause, and the Brunswicker laughingly accepted the challenge.

After the knight had departed the duke tapped the page on the shoulder and said, "Take care
that thou dost not repent thy word, and that the Brunswicker does not win the wager."

The first morning in May the Brunswicker rode into the castle and was welcomed by the duke.
All eyes were turned on the cup-bearer, who shortly afterward appeared with a suite of pages
carrying on a bier two little casks, one bearing the Bavarian arms and the other those of Brunswick.
The right to give to the contents of the former a particular name was reserved to the duke.
The page produced likewise a monstrous silver bumper and three beakers of the ordinary size.
It was long before the bumper was filled to the rim, and then it required two men to raise
it to the table. In the mean time another page placed the three beakers before the knight,
who could not suppress a sarcastic laugh at the huge bumper which the page, taking in his strong
arms, placed to his lips. As the knight emptied the last beaker the cup-bearer turned down
the bumper. Two needles and a bundle of silk lay on the table. It wanted a few moments of the
half hour, and the Brunswicker ran toward the garden for fresh air. Hardly arrived in the court,
a peculiar swimming of the head seized him, so that he fell to the ground. A servant saw him
from the window, and hastened out, followed by the court, with the duke in advance. There lay
the Brunswicker, and tried in vain to rise.

"By all the saints, Herr Ritter, what has thrown you in the sand?" inquired the duke sympathetically.

"The bock, the bock" (the goat, the goat), murmured the knight with a heavy tongue.

A burst of sarcastic laughter echoed in the courtyard. In the mean time the page stood on one
foot, and without swaying threaded the needle.

"The bock, the bock," repeated the duke smiling. "Our beer is no longer without a name. It
shall be called bock, that one may take care."

The bock season lasts about six weeks, from May into June. Just before it commences a transparency
of a goat, drinking from a tall, slender glass, is placed as a sign before certain beer locals,
called in Munich dialect bock stalls, not because goats are kept there, but because wonderful
beer, called bock, is dispensed.

He who has not lived in Bavaria can have no idea of what importance beer is in Bavarian life.
There are in Munich Germans who exist only for beer, and there have been pointed out to me
old gentlemen who have frequented daily the same local for twenty-five or thirty years, and
even occupied the same seat, and pounded the same table, by way of enforcing their views, in
discussing the politics of the day. They are called Stammgäste (literally stock guests), and
are much honored in their respective locals.

The greatest personages do not disdain the meanest locals, provided the beer is good and to
their taste. Naked pine tables do not disgust them, nor the hardest benches. Often on the table
skins of radishes, crusts of bread, cigar stumps, tobacco ashes, herring heads, and cheese
rinds form a fragrant mélange. The inheritors of this precious legacy push it away without
undue irritability. Radishes are carried about by old women called radi-weibers, who do a thriving
business besides in nuts and herrings. One cannot find in any other country of the world radishes
of such size, tenderness, and flavor--a brown variety inherited by the happy Müncheners with
their breweries. Nowhere else does cutting and salting them rank as an art. To prepare one
scientifically they pare it carefully, slit it in three slices nearly to the end, place salt
on the top, and draw the finger over it, as if it were a pack of cards. The salt falls between
the slices, and when they are pressed together becomes absorbed.

In a German Bier Local are represented all classes of society. Beer is the great leveller of
social distinctions. The foaming glass of King Gambrinus unites all Germans of all states,
climates, and professions in a closer brotherhood than the sceptre of the Hohenzollerns, and
links that portion of the Teutonic race over which the stars and stripes throws its protecting
folds to the dear fatherland.

Fine wines are a perquisite of money. The fortunate aristocrat and the house of Israel, which
everywhere waxes fat on the needs of travellers, may sip their champagne, their Lachrymæ Christi,
and their Hockheimer, while less favored humanity contents itself with sour vin ordinaire;
but beer is the same for all, and in some breweries each one must search for a glass, rinse
it, and present himself in his turn at the shank window, to which there is no royal road. "La
bière," which a great writer calls "ce vin de la réforme," is essentially a democratic drink.
It became popular at a time when a fatal blow had been struck at class privileges and priestly
exclusiveness.

Manfully does a true-hearted Bavarian stand by his brewery, in ill as well as good report.
If the beer turns out badly, he does not find it a sufficient reason to desert his local for
some other, but rather remains with touching devotion, and anticipates the approaching end
of the old beer and the advent of new, with implicit trust and confidence in the future. Some
years ago the Bavarian post and railway conductors distinguished themselves by the mournful
zeal with which they notified to the passengers the nearing of the frontier. At each station
they were sorrowfully communicative.

"The last Bairischer[B] but four, gentlemen! Gentlemen, there are only two more real Bairischers!
Gentlemen," with tears in the voice, "the last Bairischer."

The passengers rushed to the buffet and drank.

Even now, with that curious affection with which every Bavarian's heart turns to his Mecca
of beer, the salutation to a stranger is, "Are you going to Munich? Da werden sie gutes Bier
trinken."[C]

"You came from Munich! Ach! da haben sie gutes Bier getrunken."[D]

Even in Beerland there are different kinds of beer, like the federal union, one in many and
many in one. Between them are sometimes irreconcilable differences, as for example, between
the white and Actiens beer of Berlin. The former is made of wheat, and is exclusively a summer
beverage, and a glass of it is fondly termed a "kleine Weisse" (a little white one), perhaps
in irony, for it is served in excentric mammoth tumblers, which require both hands to lift.

Then there is the Vienna beer, the antipodes of the Bavarian. The latter must be drunk soon
after it is made, while the former must lie many months in the cellar before it is ready for
use. In Austria, that forcible union of States of clashing interests and nationalities, which
is not a nation, but only a government reposing on bayonets, the population is divided between
the partisans of King Gambrinus and those of Bacchus.

As little as an artist could maintain that he was familiar with the works of the great masters
when he had not visited Italy, so little could a beer drinker assert that he had seen beer
rightly drunk when he had not been in Munich. All over the world beer is regarded as a refreshment,
but in Munich it is the elixir of life, the fabled fountain of youth and happiness. It is looked
upon as nourishment by the lower classes, who drink for dinner two masses[E] of it, with soup
and black bread. For the price of the beer they could procure a good portion of meat, but they
universally maintain that they are best nourished with beer and bread.

The Bavarian drinks to satisfy his "thirst, that beautiful German gift of God." If he is healthy,
he drinks because it keeps his life juices in their normal state; if he is sick and in pain,
because it is a soothing and harmless narcotic; if he is hungry, because beer is nourishment;
if he has already eaten, because beer promotes digestion; if he is warm, because it is cooling
and refreshing; if he is cold, because it warms him; if he is fatigued, because it is a tonic
and sovereign strength renewer; if he is angry, because beer soothes him and gives him time
to consider; if he needs courage, because beer is precisely the right stimulant. Where the
Americans fly to their bitters "to tone up the system and enliven the secretions," the Germans
resort to beer; and many are of opinion that frequent trips to the bock stalls in the spring
are more healing than a visit to Carlsbad or Baden Baden, where one drinks disgusting water.
In all circumstances and all moods they drink and are comforted.

The Jews believed that the sacred waves of the Jordan were powerful to wash away all human
suffering, either of the soul or body. Faith was necessary to this pious healing. To the Münchener
beer is the river of health. His faith in it dates from his earliest infancy, and he resorts
to its beneficent influence at least seven times a day, and drinks his last Krügl with apparently
the same relish as the first. The quantity which Germans drink is something incredible. Bavarian
students usually take from five to seven masses per day. (At the German Jesuit seminary in
Prague the novices are allowed daily seven, the clericos ten, and the priests twelve pints
of beer.)

Beer is considered good not only for men, but for women, for girls and boys, and even unweaned
infants.

"Mein Krügl" the Münchener speaks of as of his natural and human rights. He was born with a
right to his beer, and his Krügl, as "man is born with a right to life, liberty, and the pursuit
of happiness," and equally with these the State must look after this right. The krügls, or
beer mugs, of each brewery are inspected by the police, to see if the measure is correct, and
if the ware has no poisonous lead in its composition. The royal K is stamped on them by the
King's authority. The police also examine the contents of the beer with the same zeal as the
water or the condition of the sewers.

The Germans as a nation are patient of wrong and peace-loving, but the rumor of a tax on beer
raises a frightful commotion, and a riot is often the consequence. As well tax air, water,
and fire as beer, the fifth element.

In an ancient neighborhood of Munich, behind the post, and best entered from Maximilian street,
is a little square remarkable for its ugliness. All the houses are old, and one feels upon
entering it as if one had suddenly walked back into the middle ages. On the east side stands
a time-gray, low, irregular building, resembling in architecture, or by its want of it, nothing
of the present age. This is the royal Hof Brauerei. After 10 A. M. a constant stream of thirsty
souls flows along the streets and narrow alleys leading toward its dismal-looking portals.
Its beer is celebrated as being the finest in the world, and is the standard by which all other
beers are judged. It is the poetry of beer; it is to all other brewings what Shakespeare is
to the drama; what the Coliseum is to other antiquities. None of the beer is exported or sold;
it is all drunk on the spot, and when it gives out no other brewery can supply a drop comparable
with it. The Parisians, who have heaped every luxury, from the poles to the tropics, in their
capital of the world, have not enough money in the Bank of France to purchase a cask of it.
It is said that Maximilian II. resolved that the best beer in the world should be made at the
royal brewery in Munich. It has never been expected that it would yield any revenue, but merely
pay its expenses. It is now under the protection of the present King, and the ingredients are
inspected by an officer of the royal household.

For its dirt, its darkness, and its utter want of service, the Hof Brauerei is unequalled in
the world, and nowhere else can be found such a mixed society. Entering the low-vaulted room,
each one looks anxiously about for an empty mug. These are of gray stone, containing a mass,
the price of which is seven and a half kreutzers. Spying one, he hastens to secure it from
other competitors. The first who reaches it carries it off in triumph to the spring in the
anteroom, rinses it, and presents himself behind a queue of predecessors at the shank window,
where several pairs of hands are occupied all day long in filling mugs from the great casks
within. This accomplished, he returns to the guest room and searches for a seat. If found,
it is certainly not luxurious--a wooden bench of pine, stained by time and continual use to
a dark dirt color, behind an ancient table. The walls and ceiling are grim with age, and the
atmosphere hazy with smoke. The scene baffles description. All classes of society are represented.
Side by side with the noble or learned professor, one sees the poorest artisan and the common
soldier. Here and there the picturesque face of an artist is in close proximity to a peasant,
and through the smoky atmosphere one catches the gleam of the scarlet or sky-blue cap of a
German student, or the glitter of an epaulette. The Catholic of the most ultramontane stamp
is there, as well as the Jew, the Protestant, and the freethinker. Here stands a pilgrim from
far America, armed with a Bädeker, and there an Englishman with the inevitable Murray under
his arm, too amazed or disdainful to search for a mass. Remarkable also are the steady habitués
of the place, with Albert Dürer-like features which look as if hastily hewn out of ancient
wood with two or three blows of a hatchet, or with smoke-dried physiognomies having a tint
like that of a meerschaum pipe, acquired by years of exposure to the thick atmosphere of smoky
breweries. They are there morning, noon, and night, year in and year out. Some talk over the
news of the day, but most sit in silence. Not a few make a meal with bread and radishes, or
a sausage brought from the nearest pork shop.

In Munich a singular and ancient custom prevails. If by chance the cover of a mug is left up,
any individual who chooses may seize it, and drink the contents. At the Hof Brauerei I once
saw a newly arrived Englishman, carrying the usual red guidebook, quit the room for an instant,
leaving uncovered his just acquired mass of beer. There came along a seedy-looking old gentleman,
evidently a Stammgast. A gleam of satisfaction stole over his wooden features as he espied
the open mug. Pausing a moment, he lifted it to his lips and slowly drank the contents. Setting
it down empty, with a face mildly radiating satisfaction, he went his way. Presently the owner
of the beer returned, took his seat, and lifted the mass, without looking, to his lips. With
intense astonishment he put it down again, appeared not to believe the evidence of his senses,
applied his glass to his eye, looked with anxiety into his mug, and became satisfied of its
emptiness. At his neighbors he cast a quick glance of indignant suspicion--the look of a Briton
whose rights were invaded. No one even looked up; apparently the occasion was too common to
excite attention. Gradually his face regained its composure. He procured a new supply, and
as the wonderful barley juice disappeared became again calm and happy. Miraculous mixture!
Who would not, under thy benign influence, forget all rancor and bitterness, even though his
deadliest enemy sat opposite?

In the Haupt und Residenz Stadt München, as Munich is always called in official documents,
many of the breweries bear the names of orders of monks, because there the friars in olden
days made particularly good beer. The breweries borrowed from them the receipt and the name.
Hence the brewery to the Augustiner, to the Dominikaner, to the Franciskaner, and the Salvator.

New beer is in all cities of America and Europe a simple fact. In Munich it is an important
public and private family event, concerning each house as well as the entire city.

The opening of the Salvator brewery in the suburbs of Munich, for its brief season of a month
in the spring, assumes for the inhabitants the importance of a long anticipated holiday. Thither
an eager crowd of townspeople make pilgrimage. I was present on one of these auspicious occasions,
and found a joyous multitude of more than two thousand persons, filling to overflowing the
capacious building gayly trimmed with evergreens interspersed with the national colors. A band
discoursed excellent music, that necessary element, without which no German scene is complete.
The waiters, more than usually adroit in supplying the wants of the crowd, carried in their
hands fourteen glasses at a time with professional dexterity. The peculiar delicacy of the
occasion, aside from the beer, seemed to be cheese, plentifully sprinkled with black pepper.

Late in the evening the people became more excited and sympathetic, and then it was proposed
to sing "Herr Fisher," a popular German song of the people. A verse was sung by a few voices
as a solo; then followed a mighty chorus from all the persons present. Each one raised the
cover of his beer mug at the commencement, and let it fall with a clang at the close of the
chorus, with startling effect.

In Munich one-half of the inhabitants appear to be engaged in the fabrication of beer and the
entire population in drinking it. It impresses one as being the only industry there. The enormous
brewery wagons, drawn by five Norman horses, are ever to be seen. On the trains going from
the city there is ordinarily a beer car painted in festive white. It bears an inscription,
that none may mistake its contents, and perhaps that the peasants may bless it as it passes.
It is looked upon with as much reverence as if it bore the ark of the covenant.

All over Germany, among the most ordinary of birthday or holiday presents are the elegantly
painted porcelain tops for beer glasses. The works of great masters may be found copied in
exquisite style for this purpose, as well as illustrations suited to uncultivated tastes. To
these pictures there are appropriate mottoes, and often a verse adapted to the comprehension
of the most uneducated peasant. A favorite among the Bavarians, judging from the frequency
with which it is met with in all parts of Bavaria, represents a peasant in a balcony waving
her kerchief to her lover, departing in a little skiff, on an intensely blue sea. Beneath,
in patois, is the doggerel:

   Beautifully blue is the sea,
   But my heart aches in me,
   And my heart will never recover
   Till returns my peasant lover.

Equally a favorite is the following:

   A rifle to shoot,
   And a fighting ring to hit,
   And a maiden to kiss,
   Must a lively boy have.

The rings to which the rhyme refers are of huge size, of silver, with a sharp-edged square
of the same metal. They are heirlooms among the peasants, and are worn on the middle finger.
It is the custom in a quarrel to hit one's adversary with the Stozzring on the cheek, which
it tears open.

In Germany many of the great breweries have summer gardens in the suburbs of the cities. In
Berlin there are magnificent Biergärten, where the two most necessary elements of German existence,
beer and music, are united. I need only refer to the Hof Jäger, with its flowers, fountains,
miniature lake, and open-air theatre, where popular comedies are performed. Three times per
week there is an afternoon concert by one or two regiment bands. Thither the Germans conduct
their families. In the winter there are concert rooms in the cities, where "music is married,"
not "to immortal verse," but to beer; and these classical concerts are patronized by people
of high respectability.

Beer is peculiarly suited to the American temperament, too nervous and sensitive. It is certain
that the human race always has, and probably always will, resort to beverages more or less
stimulating. The preaching of moralists and the efforts of legislators will not exclude them
permanently from our use. It is not in the use but in the abuse of these that the difficulty
lies. Neither tea nor coffee answers for all temperaments and all occasions as nervous aliments.
The extraordinary and increasing diffusion of liquors is one of the social ulcers of modern
society, particularly in America. It is unfortunately true that the use of strong alcoholics
is increasing every day, to the great detriment of public health and morals. Taken merely to
kill time, they often end by killing the individual.

One of the great advantages of beer, too much forgotten even by physicians, is that it reverses
the influence of alcohol, by which it loses its irritating properties on the mucous membrane
of the stomach. The celebrated Dr. Bock (late professor of pathological anatomy in the university
at Leipsic) says, "Beer exercises on the digestion, on the circulation, on the nerves, and
above all on the whole system, a beneficial effect."[F]

It would be well if Americans would adopt it instead of the innumerable harmful beverages which
ruin the health and poison the peace of society.

                                        S. G. YOUNG.

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote A: "Quadri della Natura Umana."]

[Footnote B: The local term in Bavaria for a glass of beer.]

[Footnote C: There you will drink good beer.]

[Footnote D: There you drank good beer.]

[Footnote E: A mass equals fifteen-sixteenths of a quart.]

[Footnote F: "Buch vom gesunden und kranken Menschen" (9th edition).]

ON READING SHAKESPEARE.

PLAYS OF THE THIRD PERIOD.

We have followed Shakespeare's course of dramatic production down to the time when he began
to embody in the work by which he earned his bread and made his fortune the results of an intuitive
knowledge of human nature and a profound reflection upon it never surpassed, if ever equalled,
and which, even if possessed, have never been united in any other man with a power of expression
so grand, so direct, so strong, and so subtle. "Twelfth Night," "Henry V.," and "As You Like
It" mark the close of his second period, which ended with the sixteenth century. His third
period opens with "Hamlet," which was written about the year 1600. But here I will say that
the division of his work into periods, and the assignment of his plays to certain years, is
only inferential and approximative. We are able to determine with an approach to certainty
about what time most of his plays were written; but we cannot fix their date exactly. Nor is
it of very great importance that we should do so. There are some people who can fret themselves
and others as to whether a play was written in 1600 or in 1601, as there are others who deem
the question whether its author was born on the 23d of April in one year, and died on the same
day of the same month in another, one of great importance. I cannot so regard it. A few days
in the date of a man's birth or death, a few months in the production of a play--these are
matters surely of very little moment. What is important to the student and lover of Shakespeare
is the order of the production of his works; and this, fortunately, is determinable with a
sufficient approach to accuracy to enable us to know about at what age he was engaged upon
them, and what changes in his style and in his views of life they indicate.

In the first ten years of the seventeenth century, between his thirty-seventh and forty-seventh
year, he produced "Hamlet," "Measure for Measure," his part of "Pericles," "All's Well that
Ends Well," "King Lear," "Macbeth," "Julius Cæsar," "Antony and Cleopatra," "Troilus and Cressida,"
"Cymbeline," "Coriolanus," and "Othello." These, with other works, were the fruit of his mind
in its full maturity and vigor. Think of it a moment! what a period it was! As my eye lights
upon the back of the eleventh volume of my own edition and the eighth of the Cambridge edition,
and I read "HAMLET, KING LEAR, OTHELLO," I am moved with a sense of admiration and wonder which,
if I allow it to continue, becomes almost oppressive; and I also take pleasure in the result
of a convenience of arrangement that brought into one volume these three marvellous works--the
three greatest productions of man's imagination, each wholly unlike the others in spirit and
in motive.

Although they were not written one after the other, but with an interval of about five years
between them, it would be well to read them consecutively and in the order above named, which
is that in which they happen to be printed in the first collected edition (1623) of Shakespeare's
plays. They were written--"Hamlet" in 1600-2, "King Lear" in 1605, and "Othello" about 1610,
its date being much more uncertain than that of either of the others. The thoughtful reader
who, having followed the course previously marked out, now comes to the study of these tragedies,
is prepared to apprehend them justly, not only in their own greatness, but in their relative
position as the product of their author's mind in its perfected and disciplined maturity--as
the splendid triple crown of Shakespeare's genius. No other dramatist, no other poet, has given
the world anything that can for a moment be taken into consideration as equal to these tragedies;
and Shakespeare himself left us nothing equal to any one of them, taken as a whole and in detail;
although there are some parts of other late plays--"Macbeth," "Antony and Cleopatra," "Troilus
and Cressida," and "The Tempest"--which, in their grandeur of imagination and splendor of language,
bear the stamp of this great period.

And yet such was the merely stage-providing nature of Shakespeare's work, that even "Hamlet,"
produced at the very height of his reputation, is, like the Second and Third Parts of "King
Henry VI.," which came from his 'prentice hand, connected in some way, we do not know exactly
what, with a drama by an elder contemporary upon the same subject. There are traces in contemporary
satirical literature of a "Hamlet" which had been performed as early as 1589, or possibly two
years earlier. It is remarkable that in the first edition of Shakespeare's "Hamlet" (1603)
Polonius is called Corambis, and Reynaldo, Montano; in which latter names we may safely assume
that we have relics of the old play; and, although I am sure that in this edition of 1603 we
have merely a mutilated and patched-up version, surreptitiously obtained, and printed in headlong
haste, of the perfected play (in which opinion I differ from some English scholars, whose learning
and judgment I respect, but to whom I would hold myself ready to prove, under forfeit, to their
satisfaction the correctness of my view); there are also in this mutilated 1603 edition passages
which not only are manifestly not what Shakespeare wrote, but not even a mutilated form of
what he wrote. They are probably taken from the older play to supply the place of passages
of the new play which could not be obtained in time for the hasty publication of this pirated
edition of Shakespeare's tragedy. Remark, here, in this hasty and surreptitious edition, evidence
of the great impression suddenly made by Shakespeare's "Hamlet." On its production it became
at once so popular that a piratical publisher was at the trouble and expense of getting as
much of the original as he could by unfair means, and vamping this up with inferior and older
matter to meet the popular demand for reading copies. There is evidence of a like success of
"King Lear." Since the time when these plays were produced there has been, we are called upon
to believe, a great elevation of general intelligence, and there surely has been a great diffusion
of knowledge; and yet it may be safely remarked that "Saratoga" and "Pique" and "The Golden
Age," which ran their hundred nights and more, are not quite equal to "Hamlet" or to "King
Lear," which, even with all their success, did not run anything like a hundred nights; and
we may as safely believe that if "Hamlet" or "King Lear" were produced for the first time this
winter in New York or in London, there would not be such a great and sudden demand for copies
that extraordinary means would be taken by publishers to supply it. This superiority of the
general public taste in dramatic literature during the Elizabethan era is one of the remarkable
phenomena in literary history; and it is one that remains unaccounted for, and is, I think,
altogether inexplicable, except upon the assumption that theatres nowadays rely for their support
upon a public of low intellectual grade, and a taste for gross luxury and material splendor.

In reading "Hamlet" there is little opportunity of comparing it instructively with any of its
predecessors. Its principal personage is entirely unlike any other created by Shakespeare.
The play is all Hamlet: the other personages are mere occasions for his presence and means
of his development. But Polonius is something the same kind of man as old Capulet in "Romeo
and Juliet;" and although there were opportunities enough for the noble Veronese father to
utter sententiously the knowledge of the world which he had gained by living in it, see how
comparatively meagre and superficial his "wise saws" are compared with the counsel that Polonius
gives to his son and to his daughter, and to the King and Queen; although Polonius, with all
his sagacity, is garrulous and a bore; in Hamlet's words, a tedious old fool. As to Hamlet's
character, Shakespeare did not mean it to be altogether admirable or otherwise, but simply
to be Hamlet--a perfectly natural and not very uncommon man, although he expresses natural
and not uncommon feelings with the marvellous utterance of the great master of dramatic poetry.
And Hamlet's character is not altogether admirable; but it is therefore none the less, but
probably the more, deeply interesting. How closely packed the play is with profound truths
of life philosophy is shown by the fact that it has contributed not only very much more--four
or five times more--than any other poem of similar length to the storehouse of adage and familiar
phrase, but at least twice as much as any other of Shakespeare's plays. I know two boys who,
going to see the play for the first time, some years before the appearance of a like story
in the newspapers, came home and did actually, in the innocence of their hearts, qualify the
great admiration they expressed for it by adding, "but how full it is of quotations." In fact,
about one eighth of this long play has become so familiar to the world that it is in common
use, and is recognized as the best expression known of the thoughts that it embodies. This,
however, is not an absolute test of excellence, for it is remarkable that "King Lear" is very
much behind it, and also behind "Othello," in this respect; and indeed there are several plays,
including "Macbeth," "Julius Cæsar," "Henry IV.," "As You Like It," and "The Merchant of Venice,"
which are richer than "King Lear" in passages familiarly quoted; and yet as to the superiority
of "King Lear" to the other plays I think there can be no doubt. It is the greatest tragedy,
the greatest dramatic poem, the greatest book, ever written; so great is it, in fact, so vast
in its style, so lofty in its ideal, that to those who have reflected upon it and justly apprehended
it, it has become unplayable. As well attempt to score the music of the spheres, or to paint
"the fat weed that roots itself in ease on Lethe wharf." In "King Lear" there is a personage
who may be very instructively compared with others of the same kind by the student of Shakespeare's
mental development. This is the Fool. Shakespeare's fools or clowns (such as those in "Love's
Labor's Lost" and in "Hamlet") are among the most remarkable evidences of his ability to make
anything serve as the occasion and the mouthpiece of his wit and his wisdom. He did not make
the character; he found it on the stage, and a favorite with a considerable part of the play-goers.
It was, however, as he found it, a very coarse character, rude as well as gross in speech,
and given to practical joking. He relieved it of all the rudeness, if not of all the grossness,
and reformed the joking altogether; but he also filled the Fool's jesting with sententious
satire, and while preserving the low-comedy style of the character, brought it into keeping
with a lofty and even a tragic view of life. In "King Lear" the Fool rises into heroic proportions,
and becomes a sort of conscience, or second thought, to Lear. Compared even with Touchstone
he is very much more elevated, and shows not less than Hamlet, or than Lear himself, the grand
development of Shakespeare's mind at this period of its maturity. In the representation of
Shakespeare's plays there has been no greater affront to common sense than the usual presentation
of this Fool upon the stage as a boy, except the putting a pretty woman into the part, dressed
in such a way as to captivate the eye and divert the attention by the beauty of her figure.
It is disturbing enough to see Ariel, sexless, but, like the angels, rather masculine than
feminine, represented by a woman dressed below the waist in an inverted gauze saucer, and above
the waist in a perverted gauze nothing; but to see Lear's Fool thus unbedecked is more amazing
than Bottom's brutal translation was to his fellow actors. This Fool is a man of middle age,
one who has watched the world and grown sad over it. His jesting has a touch of heart-break
in it which is prevented from becoming pathetic only by the cynicism which pertains partly
to his personal character and partly to his office. He and Kent are about of an age--Kent,
who when asked his age, as he comes back disguised to his old master, says, "Not so young as
to love a woman for her singing, nor so old as to dote on her for anything; I have years on
my back forty-eight"--a speech which contains one of the finest of Shakespeare's minor touches
of worldly-wise character drawing. The German artist Retsch in his fine outline illustrations
of this play has conceived this Fool with fine appreciation of Shakespeare's meaning. He makes
him a mature man, with a wan face and a sad, eager eye. The misrepresentation of the character
has its origin in Lear's calling the Fool "boy"--a term partly of endearment and partly of
patronage, which has been so used in all countries and in all times. A similar misunderstanding
of a similar word fool, which Lear touchingly applies to Cordelia in the last scene--"and my
poor fool is hanged"--caused the misapprehension until of late years[G] that Lear's court Fool
was hanged--although why Edmund's creatures should have been at the trouble in the stress of
their disaster to hang a Fool it would puzzle any one to tell.

"Othello" bears throughout the marks of the same maturity of intellect, and the same mastery
of dramatic effect, that appear in "Hamlet" and in "King Lear"; but from the nature of its
subject it is not so profoundly thoughtful as the others. It is a drama of action, which "Hamlet"
is not in a high degree; and although a grand example of the imaginative dramatic style, it
has the distinction of being the most actable of all Shakespeare's tragedies. It is difficult
to conceive any age or any country in which "Othello" would not be an impressive and a welcome
play to any intelligent audience. Highly poetical in its treatment, it is intensely real in
its interest; and it must continue so until there is a radical change in human nature.

In the first of these articles I proposed to analyze and compare the jealousy of Othello, Claudio,
and Leontes; but I have abandoned the design, partly because I find that it would require another
article in itself, and partly because it would necessarily lead me into a psychological and
physiological discussion which would hardly be in keeping with the purpose with which I am
now writing, which is merely to offer such guidance and such help as I can give to intelligent
and somewhat inexperienced readers of Shakespeare. But I will remark that Othello's jealousy
is man's jealousy (so called) raised to the most intense power by the race and the social position
of the person who is its subject. The feeling in man and that in woman, called jealousy, are
quite different in origin and in nature, although they have the same name. In woman the feeling
arises from a supposed slight of her person, the spretæ injuria formæ of Virgil, to which he
attributes Juno's enmity to Troy; and however it may be sentimentally developed, it has this
for its spring and its foundation. But a man, unless he is the weakest of all coxcombs, and
unworthy to wear his beard, does not trouble himself because a woman admires another man's
person more than his own. His feeling has its origin in the motherhood of woman, a recognition
of which is latent in all social arrangements touching the sex, and in all man's feeling toward
her. Man's jealousy is a mingled feeling of resentment of personal disloyalty, and of grief
at unchastity on the part of the woman that he loves. Man is jealous much in the same sense
in which it is said, "The Lord thy God is a jealous God"; which saying, indeed, is a consequence
of the anthropomorphic conception of the Deity, notwithstanding the exclusion from it of the
idea of sex. But it is impossible to conceive of such a feeling as feminine jealousy being
referred to in the passage in the second commandment. The "jealousy" of Othello and Leontes,
and of Claudio, will be found on examination to be at bottom the same. In Claudio it is correct,
gentlemanly, princely, and somewhat weak; in Leontes it is morbid, unreasonable, hard, and
cruel; in Othello it is perfectly pure in its quality, and has in it quite as much of tenderness
and grief as of wrath and indignation; and it rages with all the fierceness of his half-savage
nature. The passion in him becomes heroic, colossal; but it is perfect in its nature and in
its proportions, and from the point to which he has been brought by Iago, perfectly justifiable.
Hence it is that it is so respected by women. Nothing was more remarkable at Salvini's admirable
performance of Othello than the acquiescence of all his female auditors in the fate of Desdemona.
They were sorry for the poor girl, to be sure; but they seemed to think that Desdemonas were
made to be the victims of Othellos, and that a man who could love in that fashion and be jealous
in that style of exalted fury was rather to be pitied and admired when he smothered a woman
on a misunderstanding. She should not have teased him so to take back Cassio; and what could
she have expected when she was so careless about the handkerchief and told such lies about
it! It is somewhat unpleasant to be smothered, to be sure, but all the same she ought to be
content and happy to be the object of such love and the occasion of such jealousy. They mourned
far more over his fate than over hers. This representation of manly jealousy, so elemental
and simple, and yet so stupendous, is one of Shakespeare's masterpieces. I mean not merely
in its verbal expression, but in its characteristic conception of the masculine form of the
passion. Compare it with the jealousy of any of his women--of Adriana, of Julia, of Cleopatra,
of Imogen, of Regan--and see how different it is in kind; I will not say in degree; for Shakespeare
has not exhibited woman as highly deformed by this passion; that he left for inferior dramatists,
with whom it is a favorite subject.

In two of these tragedies we have Shakespeare's most elaborate and, so to speak, admirable
representations of villany: Edmund in "King Lear" and Iago in "Othello." These vile creations
cannot, however, be justly regarded as the fruit of a lower view of human nature consequent
upon a longer acquaintance with it. They were merely required by the exigencies of his plots;
and being required, he made them as it was in him to do. For in nothing is his superiority
more greatly manifested than in the fact that monsters of baseness, or even thoroughly base
men, figure so rarely among his dramatis personæ. They are common with inferior dramatists
and writers of prose fiction, whose ruder hands need them as convenient motive powers and as
vehicles of the expression of a lower view of human nature. Not so with him. He has weak and
erring men--men who are misled by their passions, ambition, revenge, selfish lust, or what
not; but Iago, Edmund, and the Duke in "Measure for Measure" are almost all his characters
of their kind. In "Richard III." he merely painted a highly colored historical portrait; and
Parolles, in "All's Well that Ends Well," and Iachimo, in "Cymbeline," do not rise to the dignity
of even third-rate personages. Iago, it need hardly be said, is the most perfect of all his
creatures in this kind, and indeed he is the most admirably detestable and infamous character
in all literature. Edmund is equally base and cruel; but compared with Iago he is a coarse,
low, brutal, and rabid animal. In Iago all the craft and venom of which the human soul is capable
is united with an intellectual subtlety which seems to reach the limit of imagination or conception.
There are some who see in the making the bastard son in "Lear" the monster of ingratitude and
villany and the legitimate a model of all the manly and filial virtues an evidence of Shakespeare's
judgment and discrimination. But this is one of those fond and over-subtle misapprehensions
from which Shakespeare has suffered in not a few instances, even at the hands of critics of
reputation. It suited Shakespeare's plot that the villain should be the bastard; that is all;
and Lear's legitimate daughters Goneril and Regan are as base, as bad, and as cruelly ungrateful
as Gloucester's illegitimate son. Shakespeare knew human nature too well, and handled it with
too just and impartial a hand, to let the question of legitimacy influence him in one way or
the other. In "King John" we have, on the contrary, the mean-souled Robert Faulconbridge and
his gallant and chivalrous bastard brother Philip.

About the same time, or if not in the same time, perhaps in the same year which saw the production
of "King Lear," "Macbeth" was written. But its date is not certain within four or five years.
It was surely written before 1610, in which year a contemporary diary records its performance
on the 20th of April. The Cambridge editors, in their annotated edition of this play, in the
"Clarendon Press" series, prefer the later date; but notwithstanding my great respect for their
judgment, I hold to my conclusion for the earlier, for the reasons given in my own edition.
The question has not in itself much pertinence to our present purpose, as there is no doubt
that the tragedy was produced in this period, and its general style, both of thought and versification,
is that of Shakespeare in its fullest development and vigor. But with the question of date
there is involved another of great interest to the thoughtful reader--that of mixed authorship.
In the introductory essay to my edition of this play (published in 1861) attention was directed
to the internal evidence that it was hastily written and left unfinished.[H] Subsequent editors
and critics, notably the Cambridge editors and the Rev. F. G. Fleay, in his "Shakespearian
Manual," starting from this view, have gone so far as to say that "Macbeth," as we have it,
is not all Shakespeare's, but in part the work of Thomas Middleton, a second or third-rate
playwright contemporary with Shakespeare, who wrote a play, called "The Witch," which is plainly
an imitation of the supernatural scenes in this tragedy. The Cambridge editors believe that
Middleton was permitted to supply certain scenes at the time of the writing of Macbeth: Mr.
Fleay, that Middleton cut down and patched up Shakespeare's perfected work, adding much inferior
matter of his own, and that he did this being engaged to alter the play for stage purposes.
The latter opinion I must reject, notwithstanding Mr. Fleay's minute, elaborate, and often
specious argument; but the opinion of the Cambridge editors seems to me to a certain extent
sound. I cannot, however, go to the length which they do in rejecting parts of this play as
not being Shakespeare's work. This study of Shakespeare's style and of what is not his work
at a certain period of his life being directly to our purpose, let us examine the tragedy for
traces of his hand and of another.

And first let the reader turn to Scene 5 of Act III., which consists almost entirely of a long
speech by Hecate, beginning:

   Have I not reason, beldames as you are,
   Saucy, and overbold? How did you dare
   To trade and traffic with Macbeth
   In riddles and affairs of death:
   And I, the mistress of your charms,
   The close contriver of all harms,
   Was never called to bear my part,
   Or show the glory of our art?

This speech is surely not of Shakespeare's writing. Its being in octosyllabic rhyme is not
against it, however; although he abandoned rhyme almost altogether at or before this period.
The fact of the business of the scene being supernatural would account for its form. But it
is mere rhyme; little more than an unmeaning jingle of verses. Any journeyman at versemaking
would write such stuff. Read the speech through, and then think of the writer of "Hamlet,"
and "Lear," and "Othello," producing such a weak wash of words at the same time when he was
writing those tragedies. And even turn back and compare it with the rhyming speeches of his
other supernatural personages, of Puck and Titana and Oberon in "A Midsummer Night's Dream,"
which he wrote at least ten or twelve years earlier, and you will see that it is not only so
inferior, but so unlike his undoubted work that it must be rejected. Turn next to Scene 3 of
Act II., and read the speeches of the Porter. Long ago Coleridge said of these, "This low soliloquy
of the Porter and his few speeches afterward I believe to have been written for the mob by
some other hand." That they were written for the mob is nothing against them as Shakespeare's.
Shakespeare wrote for the mob. He made a point of putting in something for the groundlings[I]
in every play that he wrote. But with what a mighty hand he did it! so that those who have
since then sat in the highest seats in the world's theatre have laughed, and pondered as they
laughed. "Lear" is notably free from this element; but even in the philosophical "Hamlet" we
have the much elaborated scene of the Gravediggers, which was written only to please Coleridge's
"mob."[J] But let the reader now compare these Porter's speeches in "Macbeth" with those of
the Gravediggers in "Hamlet," and if he is one who can hope to appreciate Shakespeare at all,
he will at this stage of his study see at once that although both are low-comedy, technically
speaking, the former are low-lived, mean, thoughtless, without any other significance than
that of the surface meaning of the poor, gross language in which they are written; while the
latter, although, far more laughable even to the most uncultivated hearer, are pregnant with
thought and suggestion. There can be no question that these speeches in "Macbeth" were written
by some other hand than Shakespeare's.

Having now satisfied ourselves that some part of "Macbeth" is not Shakespeare's (and I began
with those so manifestly spurious passages to establish that point clearly and easily in the
reader's apprehension), "we are in a proper mood of mind to consider the objections that have
been made by the Cambridge editors to other parts of the tragedy. The whole second scene of
Act I. is regarded as spurious because of "slovenly metre," too slovenly for him even when
he is most careless; "bombastic phraseology," too bombastic for him even when he is most so;
also because he had too much good sense to send a severely wounded soldier with the news of
a victory. I cannot reject this scene for these reasons. The question of metre and style is
one of judgment; and the one seems to me not more irregular and careless, and the other not
more tumid, than Shakespeare is in passages undoubtedly of his writing; while there is a certain
flavor of language in the scene and a certain roll of the words upon the tongue which are his
peculiar traits and tricks of style. The point as to the wounded soldier seems to me a manifest
misapprehension. He is not sent as a messenger. Nothing in the text or in the stage directions
of the original edition gives even color to such an opinion. The first two scenes of this act
prepare one's mind for the tragedy and lay out its action; and they do so, as far as design
is concerned, with great skill. The first short scene announces the supernatural character
of the agencies at work; the next tells us of the personages who are to figure in the action
and the position in which they are placed. In the second scene King Duncan and his suite, marching
toward the scene of conflict, and so near it that they are within ear-shot, if not arrow-shot,
meet a wounded officer. He is not sent to them. He is merely retiring from the field severely
wounded--so severely that he cannot remain long uncared for. The stage direction of the folio
is "Alarum within," which means (as will be found by examining other plays) that the sound
of drums, trumpets, and the conflict of arms is heard. Then, "Enter King, etc., etc., meeting
a bleeding Captaine." The King, then, does not greet or regard him as a messenger, but exclaims,
"What bloody man is that?" and adds, "He can report, as seemeth by his plight, the condition
of the revolt." Plainly this is no messenger, but a mere wounded officer who leaves the field
because, as he says, his "gashes cry for help."

In Act IV., Sc. 1, this speech of the First Witch after the "Show of Eight Kings," is plainly
not Shakespeare's:

   Ay, sir, all this is so; but why
   Stands Macbeth thus amazedly?
   Come, sisters, cheer we up his sprites,
   And show the best of our delights.
   I'll charm the air to give a sound,
   While you perform your antic round,
   That this great king may kindly say
   Our duties did his welcome pay.

This is condemned by the Cambridge editors, and I agree entirely with them. Moreover it seems
to be manifestly from the same hand as Hecate's speech (Act III., Sc. 5), previously referred
to. The style shows this, and the motive is the same--the introduction of fairy business, dancing
and singing, which have nothing to do with the action of the tragedy, and are quite foreign
to the supernatural motive of it as indicated in the witch scenes which have the mark of Shakespeare's
hand.

In Act IV., Sc. 3, the passage in regard to touching for the King's Evil, from "Enter a Doctor"
to "full of grace," was, we may be pretty sure, an interpolation previous to a representation
at court, as the Cambridge editors suggest, and it is probably not Shakespeare's; but I would
not undertake to say so positively. The same editors say they "have doubts about the second
scene of Act V." I notice this not merely to express my surprise at it, but to let the reader
see how difficult it is to arrive at a general consent upon such points which are merely matters
of judgment. To me this scene is unmistakably Shakespeare's. Who else could have written this
passage, not only for its excellence but for its peculiarity?

   Caithness.--Great Dunsinane he strongly fortifies:
   Some say he's mad; others, that lesser hate him,
   Do call it valiant fury; but for certain
   He cannot buckle his distempered cause
   Within the belt of rule.

I am sure that I should have suspected those lines to be Shakespeare's if I had first met them
without a name, in a nameless book. Still more surprising is it to me to find these editors
saying that in Act V., Sc. 5, lines 47-50 are "singularly weak." Here they are:

   If this which he avouches does appear,
   There is no flying hence or tarrying here.
   I 'gin to be a-weary of the sun,
   And wish the estate of the world were now undone.

The first two have no particular character, nor need they have any, as they merely introduce
the last two, which contain an utterance of blank despair and desolation which seems to me
more expressive than any other that I ever read.

The last passage of the play, that after line 34, when Macbeth and Macduff go off fighting,
and Macbeth is killed, are probably, as the Cambridge editors suggest, by another hand than
Shakespeare's. Their tameness and their constrained rhythm are not Shakespearian work, particularly
at this period of his life, and in the writing of such a scene. "Nor would he," as the Cambridge
editors say, "have drawn away the veil which with his fine tact he had dropped over her [Lady
Macbeth's] fate by telling us that she had taken off her life 'by self, and violent hands.'"

The person who wrote these un-Shakespearian passages was probably Middleton. Shakespeare, writing
the tragedy in haste for an occasion, received a little help, according to the fashion of the
time, from another playwright; and the latter having imitated the supernatural poets of this
play in one of his own, the players or managers afterward introduced from that play songs by
him--"Music and a song, Come away, come away," Act III., Sc. 5, and "Music and a song, Black
spirits," etc., Act IV., Sc. 1. This was done to please the inferior part of the audience.
These songs and all this sort of operatic incantation are entirely foreign to the supernatural
motive of the tragedy as Shakespeare conceived it. And I will here remark that the usual performance
of "Macbeth" with "a chorus" and "all Locke's music" is a revolting absurdity.

My next paper will close this series with an examination of some of Shakespeare's least known
dramas.

                                        RICHARD GRANT WHITE.

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote G: Since 1854.]

[Footnote H: For the convenience of readers to whom my edition is not accessible I quote the
following passage:

     "I am more inclined to this opinion from the indications which the
     play itself affords that it was produced upon an emergency. It
     exhibits throughout the hasty execution of a grand and clearly
     conceived design. But the haste is that of a master of his art,
     who, with conscious command of its resources, and in the frenzy of
     a grand inspiration, works out his conception to its minutest
     detail of essential form, leaving the work of surface finish for
     the occupation of cooler leisure. What the Sistine Madonna was to
     Raphael, it seems that 'Macbeth' was to Shakespeare--a magnificent
     impromptu; that kind of impromptu which results from the
     application of well-disciplined powers and rich stores of thought
     to a subject suggested by occasion. I am inclined to regard
     'Macbeth' as, for the most part, a specimen of Shakespeare's
     unelaborated, if not unfinished, writing, in the maturity and
     highest vitality of his genius. It abounds in instances of
     extremest compression and most daring ellipsis; while it exhibits
     in every scene a union of supreme dramatic and poetic power, and in
     almost every line an imperially irresponsible control of language.
     Hence, I think, its lack of formal completeness of versification in
     certain passages, and also of the imperfection in its text, the
     thought in which the compositors were not always able to follow and
     apprehend. The only authority for the text of 'Macbeth' is the
     folio of 1623, the apparent corruptions of which must be restored
     with a more than usually cautious hand. Without being multitudinous
     or confusing, they are sufficiently numerous and important to test
     severely the patience, acumen, and judgment of any editor."--"The
     Works of William Shakespeare." Vol. X., P. 424.]

[Footnote I: So called because they stood on the ground. The pit was then a real pit, and its
floor was the bare earth. There were no benches. It was so in the French theatre until a much
later period. Hence the French name parterre for the pit--par terre, upon the ground. The name
parquet, which is given to that part of a theatre in America, is not French, and is no word
at all, but a miserable affected nonentity of sound.]

[Footnote J: The reader who cares to do so will find something upon this point in my essay
on Shakespeare's genius, "Life and Genius of Shakespeare," pp. 280, 281.]

APPLIED SCIENCE.

A LOVE STORY IN TWO CHAPTERS.

CHAPTER I.

The village of Salmon Falls, in eastern New England, consists of a number of mills and factories,
the railroad station, a store or two, and two hundred dwellings. Among these is the Denny mansion
at the top of the hill, where the road climbs up from the station and the river. It is a large
square house in the old colonial fashion, with two wings at the rear and a garden in front.

It was a warm July morning when Mr. John Denny, mill owner and proprietor of the homestead,
had his chair rolled out to the porch, and with some assistance from the servants, reached
it on his crutch and sat down in the shadow of the great house and out of the glare of the
hot sun. The vine-covered porch and the wide piazza opened directly upon the garden and gave
a full view of the road. Beyond there was an outlook over the open fields, the mills, the stream,
and the village in the valley. By the road there was a stone wall and a wicker gate opening
upon the grassy sidewalk outside. A table had been laid with a white cloth in the porch, and
Mr. Denny sat by it and waited for the coming of his daughter and breakfast. While he sat thus
he turned over a number of papers, and then, after a while, he began to talk to himself somewhat
in this wise:

"Expense! expense! expense! There seems no end to it. Bills coming in every day, and every
one larger than was expected. In my young days we built a shop and knew to a dollar what it
would cost. Now the estimates are invariably short. The batting mill has already gone a thousand
dollars beyond the estimates, and the roof is but just put on. Even the new chimney cost four
dollars a foot more than was expected. Thank Heaven, it is done, and that expense is over.
Could I walk, I might look after things and keep them within bounds. With my crushed foot I
sit a prisoner at home, and must leave all to Lawrence. It is fortunate that I have one man
I can trust with my affairs."

Just here Alma, his only child, a bright and wholesome girl of nineteen, appeared from the
house. Fairly educated, sensible, and affectionate, but perhaps a trifle inexperienced by reason
of her residence in this quiet place, she is at once the pride and the light of the house.

"Good morning, father. Are you well this happy summer's day?"

The old gentleman kissed her fondly, and asked did she pass a quiet night.

"Oh, yes. I didn't sleep much, that is all--for thinking."

"Thinking of what?"

"The expected guest. To-day is the 9th of July, and cousin Elmer comes."

"Ah, yes--Elmer Franklin. I had almost forgotten him."

"How does he look, father? Is his hair dark, or has he blue eyes? I hardly know which I like best."

"I do not remember. I've not seen the boy since he was a mere child, years ago. He has been
at school since."

"He must be a man now. He is past twenty-one, and, as for school, why, it's the Scientific
School, and I'm sure men go to that."

"You seem greatly interested in this unknown relative, Alma."

"He is to be our guest, father--for a whole month. Come! Will you have breakfast out here in
the porch?"

"Yes, dear. It is quite comfortable here, and it will save the trouble of moving."

Thereupon Alma entered the house in search of the breakfast, and a moment after Mr. Lawrence
Belford entered the garden at the street gate. The son of an old friend of Mr. Denny's lamented
wife, Mr. Belford had been admitted to the house some months since as confidential clerk and
business man. He was a rather commonplace person, about thirty years of age, and his education
and manners were good if not remarkable. During his residence with the Dennys he had found
time to fall in love with Alma, and they had been engaged--and with Mr. Denny's consent.

"Good morning, Lawrence. You're just in time for breakfast."

"Good morning, sir. Thank you, no. I have been to breakfast. I am just up from the station."

"Seen anything of the railroad coach? The train is in, and it is time for the coach to pass.
Our guest may be in it."

"No, sir, but I saw the express coming up the hill with an extra large load of baggage."

Just here Alma returned from the house bearing a large tray of plates and breakfast things.
The young people greet each other pleasantly, and Alma proceeds to lay the table.

"Now for breakfast, father. Everything waits upon a good appetite. Will you not join us, Lawrence?"

Mr. Belford replies that he has been to breakfast. Mr. Denny takes a cup of coffee, and while
sipping it remarks:

"How many more window-frames shall you require for the new mill, Lawrence?"

"Ten more, sir. There is only a part of the fourth story unfinished."

"Alma, dear, do you remember how high we decided the new chimney was to be? Yes, thank you,
only two lumps of sugar. Thank you. You remember we were talking about it when the Lawsons
were here."

"Don't ask me. Ask Lawrence. I never can remember anything about such matters."

Just at that moment the express pulled up at the gate, and there was a knock. Alma rose hastily,
and said:

"Oh! That must be Elmer."

She opened the gate, and young Mr. Elmer Franklin of New York entered. A man to respect: an
open, manly face, clear blue eyes, and a wiry, compact, and vigorous frame. A man with a sound
mind in a sound body. He was dressed in a gray travelling suit, and had a knapsack strapped
to his back; in his hand a stout stick looking as if just cut from the roadside, and at his
side a field glass in a leather case. Immediately behind him came a man bending under the load
of an immense trunk. Alma smiled her best, and the young stranger bowed gallantly.

"Mr. Denny, I presume?"

"Welcome, cousin Franklin," said Mr. Denny from his chair. "I knew you at once, though it is
years since any members of our families have met. Pardon me if I do not rise. I'm an old man,
and confined to my chair."

Mr. Franklin offered his hand and said politely:

"Thank you, sir, for your kind reception. I am greatly pleased to---- Hullo! Look out there,
boys! That baggage is precious and fragile."

Another man appeared, and the two brought in trunks and boxes, bundles and parcels, till there
was quite a large heap of baggage piled up on the grass. Alma and Lawrence were properly amazed
at this array of things portable, and Mr. Denny laid aside the breakfast things to look at
the rather remarkable display.

The young man seemed to think apologies essential.

"I do not wonder that you are alarmed. I do not often take such a load of traps. I wrote you
that my visit would be one of study and scientific investigation, and I was obliged to bring
my philosophical apparatus and books with me."

"It is indeed a wonderful train of luggage for a man. One would have thought you intended to
bring a wife."

Then Mr. Denny bethought him of his duty, and he introduced his newly found relative to his
daughter and to Mr. Lawrence Belford, and then bade him draw up to the table for breakfast.
The young man made the motions suitable for such an occasion, and then he turned to pay his
expressman. This trifling incident deserves record as happily illustrating the young man's
noble character.

"Thank you, sir. Breakfast will be a cheerful episode. I've a glorious appetite, for I walked
up from the station."

"There's a coach, Mr. Franklin, and it passes our door."

"I knew that, sir, but I preferred to walk and see the country. Fine section of conglomerate
you have in the road cutting just above the station."

"Eh! What were you saying?"

"I said that I observed an interesting section of conglomerate--water-worn pebbles, I should
say--mingled with quartz sand, on the roadside. I must have a run down there and a better look
at it after breakfast."

Mr. Denny was somewhat overwhelmed at this, and said doubtfully,

"Ah, yes, I remember--yes, exactly."

"Are you interested in geology, Miss Denny?"

Alma was rather confused, and tried hard to find the lump of sugar that had melted away in
her coffee, and said briefly,

"No. I didn't know that we had any in this part of the country."

Mr. Belford here felt called upon to say:

"My dear Alma, you forget yourself."

"Why will you take me up so sharply, Lawrence? I meant to say that I didn't know we had any
quartz conglomerate hereabouts."

Mr. Franklin smiled pleasantly, and remarked to himself:

"My dear Alma! That's significant. Wonder if he's spooney on her?"

Then he said aloud:

"The pursuit of science demands good dinners. Pardon me if I take some more coffee."

"Yes, do--and these rolls. I made them myself--expressly for you."

"Thank you for both rolls and compliment."

Mr. Lawrence took up some of the papers from the table and began to read them, and the others
went on with their breakfast. Presently Mr. Denny said:

"I presume, Mr. Franklin, that you are greatly interested in your school studies?"

"Yes, sir. The pursuit of pure science is one of the most noble employments that can tax the
cultivated intellect."

"But you must confess that it is not very practical."

Before the young man could reply Alma spoke:

"Oh! cousin Elmer--I mean Mr. Franklin--excuse me. You haven't taken off your knapsack."

Taking it off and throwing it behind him on the ground, he said:

"It's only my clothes."

"Clothes!" said Mr. Denny. "Then what is in the trunks?"

"My theodolite, cameras, chains, levels, telescopes, retorts, and no end of scientific traps."

Alma, quite pleased:

"How interesting. Won't you open one of the trunks and let us see some of the things?"

"With the greatest pleasure; but perhaps I'd better take them to my room first."

"Anything you like, Elmer--Mr. Franklin, I mean. Our house is your home."

Lawrence Belford here frowned and looked in an unpleasant manner for a moment at the young
stranger, who felt rather uncomfortable, though he could scarcely say why. With apparent indifference
he drew out a small brass sounder, such as is used in telegraph offices, and began snapping
it in his fingers.

In his mind he said:

"Wonder if any of them are familiar with the great dot and line alphabet!"

Alma heard the sounder and said eagerly:

"Oh! cou--Mr. Franklin, what is that?"

"It is a pocket sounder. Do you know the alphabet?"

"I should hope so."

"I beg pardon. I meant Morse's."

"Morse's?"

"Yes. Morse's alphabet."

"No. You must teach it to me."

Thereupon he moved the sounder slowly, giving a letter at a time, and saying:

   "A - -- L - -- - - M -- -- A - --.

That's your name. Queer sound, isn't it?"

"Let me try. Perhaps I could do it."

"My dear Alma, your father is waiting. You had best remove the things."

"Yes, Lawrence. I'll call Mary."

The maid soon appeared, and the breakfast things were removed. Then Mr. Denny drew Mr. Franklin's
attention to the new factory chimney that stood in plain sight from where they sat.

The young man promptly drew out his field glass, and, mounting one of the steps of the porch,
took a long look at the new shaft.

"Not quite plumb, is it?"

"Not plumb! What do you mean?"

"It is impossible," said Mr. Belford with some warmth.

"It looks so," said the young man with the glass still up at his eyes.

"I tell you it is impossible, sir. I built it myself, and I ought to know."

"Oh! Beg pardon. You can take the glass and see for yourself."

"I need no glass. I took the stage down only yesterday, and I ought to know."

"Allow me to take your glass, cousin Franklin," said Mr. Denny. He took the glass, but quickly
laid it down with a sigh.

"My eyes are old and weak, and the glass does not suit them. I am very sorry to hear what you
say. I would not have one of my chimneys out of line for the world."

"I am sorry I said anything about it, sir. I did not know the chimney belonged to you."

Alma was apparently distressed at the turn the conversation had taken, and tried to lead it
to other matters, but the old gentleman's mind was disturbed, and he returned to the chimney.

"I designed it to be the tallest and finest chimney I ever erected, and I hope it is all correct."

"It is, sir," said Mr. Belford. "Everything is correct to the very capstones."

"It is my tallest chimney, Mr. Franklin--eighty-one feet and six inches; and that is two feet
taller than any chimney in the whole Salmon Falls valley."

Mr. Franklin, in an innocent spirit of scientific inquiry, put his glass to his eyes and examined
the chimney again. Alma began to feel ill at ease, and Lawrence Belford indulged in a muttered
curse under his black moustache.

"Eighty-one feet and six inches--the tallest chimney in the valley."

No one seemed to heed the old gentleman's remark, and presently Mr. Franklin laid his field
glass on the table, and taking out his brass sounder, he idly moved it as if absently thinking
of something.

Alma suddenly looked up with a little blush and a smile. Her eyes seemed to say to him:

"I heard you call? What is it?"

He nodded pleasantly, and said, "Would you like to see some of my traps?"

"Oh, yes. Do open one of your trunks."

Mr. Franklin took out a bunch of keys and went to one of the trunks. As he did so he said to
himself:

"Deuced bright girl! She learned my call in a flash. I must teach her the whole alphabet, and
then will have some tall fun and circumvent that fool of a clerk."

This remark was applied to Mr. Belford, and was eminent for its touching truth.

While the young people were opening the trunk, Mr. Denny and Mr. Belford were engaged in examining
the business papers spread on the table, and for several minutes they paid no attention to
things done and said almost under their eyes.

Such a very strange trunk. Instead of clothing, it contained the most singular assortment of
scientific instruments. Each was carefully secured so that no rude handling would harm it,
and all shining and glistening brilliantly as if kept with the most exquisite care. Mr. Franklin
unfastened a small brass telescope, mounted upon a stand, with a compass, levels, plumb line,
and weight attached.

"That's my theodolite. There's a tripod in one of my boxes. I'll get it and mount it, and we'll
have a shot at the chimney.

"What do you mean?"

"Oh, nothing! I'm going to measure it. Wouldn't you like to help me?"

"With all my heart. Tell me what to do."

"Presently. Wait till I've screwed things together; then I'll tell you what to do. Oh! By the
way, I must tell you an amusing episode that happened at the railroad station while I was waiting
for my luggage. There was a young man sending off a message at the little telegraph station,
and I overheard the message and the comments of the operator."

Alma didn't appear to enjoy this incident.

"Not listening intentionally, you know. It was the telegraph I heard, not the people."

Alma felt better.

"It was all by mere sounds, and it ran this way: 'The old fool is here again.' That's what
she said--the operator, I mean. 'To Isaac Abrams, 1,607 Barclay street, New York. I have secured
the will. Foreclose the mortgage and realize at once. Get two state rooms for the 25th.--L.
B.' That was the message, and it was so very strange I wrote it out in my---- Oh! Beg pardon,
Miss Denny. Are you ill?"

Alma's face had assumed a sudden pallor, and she seemed frightened and ill at ease.

"'Tis nothing--really nothing! I shall be better presently."

Then, as if anxious to change the conversation, she began to ask rapid questions about the
theodolite and its uses.

Mr. Franklin was too well bred to notice anything, but he confessed to himself that he had
said something awkward, and, for the life of him, he could not imagine what it might be. He
replied briefly, and then went on with his preparations for some time in silence, Alma meanwhile
looking on with the greatest interest. The theodolite having been put together, Mr. Franklin
opened another box and took out a wooden tripod, such as are used to support such instruments.
He also took out a fine steel ribbon, or measuring tape, neatly wound up on a reel.

"You shall carry that, Miss Denny, and I'll shoulder the theodolite."

"Wait till I get my hat and the sun umbrella."

"To be sure; it will be warm in the fields."

Alma was soon arrayed in a dainty chip. At least she called it a chip, and the historian can
do naught but repeat her language. Besides this, it was not bigger than a chip, and it looked
very pretty tied under her chin. Over her head she carried its real protection, an immense
Japanese paper umbrella, light, airy, and generous.

"Where are you going, Alma?" said Mr. Denny.

"Oh! only to the fields for a little walk. We'll be back presently."

The confidential clerk thought it strange that the daughter of the house should be so free
with the stranger. But the young people were distant cousins, and it wouldn't have been polite
in him to have objected to the little walk.

So the two, under the friendly shade of the big paper umbrella, went out to see the new chimney,
while Mr. Denny and the confidential clerk staid behind to talk business.

The new chimney stood at the southeast corner of the great four-story mill, and close beside
the little brick engine house. Alma led the youthful son of science out of the gate, down the
road a few rods, and then they passed a stile, and took the winding path that straggled over
the pastures to the mill.

Of course they talked volubly. This being the stern and prosy record of applied science, it
becomes us not to report the chatterings of these two till they reached the base of the vast
brick chimney, towering nearly eighty feet into the air above them. Its long shadow lay like
a stiffened snake upon the fields, and Elmer, observing it, said:

"Good! We can use the shadow, too, and have double proof."

"How?" said the bright one, in a beautiful spirit of inquiry.

"If an upright stick, a foot long, casts a shadow three feet long, the shadow of another stick
beside it, at the same time, is proportionally long."

"I knew that before. That isn't very high science."

"Why did you say 'how'?"

"Because I didn't think. Because I was a goose."

"Such terms are not choice, and are devoid of truth. Here! stern duty calls. Do you hold one
end of the tape at the foot of the chimney, and I'll measure off the base line of our triangle."

Alma was charmed to be of use, and sat on a stone with the brass ring of the tape on her ring
finger next her engagement ring, and her hand flat against the first course of bricks. Trifles
sometimes hint great events. Little did she think that the plain brass ring on her finger was
the hard truth of science that should shiver her gold ring to fragments and pale its sparkling
diamond. Being a wholesome creature, and not given to romance, she thought nothing about it,
which was wise. Her cousin, the knight of the theodolite, set his instrument upright upon the
grass, and then ran the measuring line out to its full length.

"All right! Let the tape go."

Alma took off the brass ring, and the steel ribbon ran like a glittering snake through the
grass, and she slowly followed it and joined her knight.

"Once more, please. Hold the ring on this bit of a stake that I've set up in the ground."

Alma, like a good girl, did as she was bid, and the ribbon ran out again to its full length.
Another stake was set up, and the theodolite was placed in position and a sight obtained at
the top of the tall chimney. A little figuring in a note-book, and then the son of high science
quietly remarked:

"Seventy-six feet four inches--short five feet two inches."

Just here several urchins of an inquiring turn of mind drew near and began to make infantile
comments, and asked with charming freedom if it was circus.

"No!" said Alma, from under her paper tent. "No! Run away, children, run away."

It was too warm for so much exertion, and they wouldn't move.

"Oh! never mind them. They don't trouble me; and if it amuses them, it's so much clear gain."

"They are some of the factory children, and I thought they might bother you."

"Inelegant, but thoughtful." He didn't say so. He only thought it, which was quite as well.

During this little episode the impressive facts that all this scientific exertion had brought
out concerning the chimney were lost upon Alma. It was small consequence. She knew it well
enough before night.

Now for the shadow by way of proof. The theodolite, paper umbrella, and admiring crowd of children
trotted severally and collectively over the grass till they reached the chimney again.

"The tape-measure, Alma. You hold the ring, and I'll unreel the string."

It was surprising how quickly these two made each other's acquaintance. By the time the long
shadow was measured, a stake set up, and the two shadows compared, they seemed to have known
each other for weeks. Such is the surprising effect of pure science when applied to love.

Had it come to this already? She was engaged to the confidential, the chimney-builder. His
ring glittered on her finger. True--all of it!

See them sauntering slowly (the thermometer at 87 deg.) homeward under the friendly shade of
an oiled paper umbrella. They are indeed good friends already. They enter the house together,
and the cheerful dinner bell greets their ears. She folds her oiled paper tent and he sets
his instrument up in a corner of the great shady hall. She leads the way to the chamber that
is to be his room during his stay, and then retires to her own to prepare for the frugal noontide
meal.

The exact truth records that the meal was not severely frugal. It was otherwise, and so much nicer.

The entire family were assembled, and conversation was lively, considering the weather. Near
the close of the meal it grew suddenly warm. The innocent son of science, proud of his accomplishments,
made a most incautious statement, and the result was peculiar.

"Oh, uncle, you were saying this morning that my science was not very practical. I tried a
bit of it on your chimney this morning, and what do you think I found?"

"I'm sure I can't tell," said Mr. Denny.

"I measured it, and it is exactly seventy-six feet, four inches high."

If he had dropped a can of nitro-glycerin under the table, the effect couldn't have been more
startling. Mr. Lawrence Belford dropped his fruit knife with a ruinous rattle, his face assumed
the color of frosted cake (the frosting, to be exact), and he seemed thoroughly frightened.
Mr. Denny looked surprised, and said,

"What?"

Alma said nothing, but fished for the sugar in her strawberries and cream.

"What did you say, Mr. Franklin?"

"I said that I measured the new chimney, just for the fun of the thing, and found that it is
exactly seventy-six feet, four inches high."

"It's an abominable lie."

"Lawrence!" said Alma, with an appealing glance.

"Are you sure, Mr. Franklin? Have you not made some mistake?"

"You are utterly mistaken, Mr. Franklin. I measured that chimney with a line from the top,
and I know your statement is entirely incorrect."

"I hope so," said the old gentleman.

"It is so, sir," added Mr. Belford; and then, waxing bolder, he said, "How could this young
person, just from school, know anything of such matters? Did he build a staging, or did he
climb up the inside like a chimney sweep?"

Young Mr. Franklin saw that he had in some innocent fashion started a most disagreeable subject.
Why Mr. Denny should be so disturbed and Mr. Belford so angry was past his comprehension. At
the same time Mr. Belford's language was offensive, and he replied with some spirit:

"There is no need to climb the chimney, or use a line. It is a trifling affair to ascertain
the height of any building with a theodolite, as you probably know."

"I tell you, sir, it is false--utterly false. Besides, you have made some mistake in the figures.
You--you--but I've no patience with such boy's play. It's only fit for school children."

"Lawrence," said Alma, "you are unkind. I'm sure we meant no harm. I helped Mr. Franklin, and
I'm sure he's right; besides, we measured the chimney by its shadow, and both statements were
alike."

"Oh, if you've turned against me, I've nothing more to say."

Mr. Denny meanwhile seemed lost in deep study, and he hardly heeded what was going on.

"What can that boy know about such things? I tell you, it's----"

"It seems to me, Mr. Belford, you are unnecessarily excited," said Mr. Denny. "Mr. Franklin
is a much younger man than you, but he showed a knowledge of this matter, and if his figures
are correct----"

"They are, sir," said Elmer warmly. "I can show you the base line, and the theodolite is still
at the same angle. Alma saw me measure the base, and she can tell you its length. There are
the figures in my note-book."

Mr. Denny took the note-book and examined the figuring out of this problem, and Elmer went
to the hall for his instrument. He returned with the theodolite still secured at the angle
at which the sight had been taken. As he laid the instrument on the dining table, he said:

"I am very sorry, uncle, that I did anything about this matter. It was done in mere sport,
and I wish I had said nothing concerning it. I would not had not Mr. Belford used the language
he did."

Mr. Denny ran his eye over the figures in the book, and then, with a pained expression, he
said briefly,

"Everything seems to be correct."

"Damnation! I'll break his head for him, the intermeddling fool." This language was not actually
used by Mr. Belford, but he thought as much. His eyes flashed, and he clenched his fists under
the table. Alma's presence alone restrained him from something more violent. He appeared calm,
but inwardly he was angry. This unexpected announcement concerning the chimney he had built
cast a heavy shadow over him, and his conscience awoke with a sudden smart.

Alma was greatly disturbed, and ready to cry for shame and vexation. She did not, for she felt
sure this was only the beginning of a new trouble, and she well knew that heavy sorrows had
already invaded the house. They needed no more.

Mr. Franklin glanced from one to another in alarm. He saw that he was treading upon uncertain
ground, and he wisely held his peace. After a brief and awkward pause, Mr. Belford rose, and
pleading the calls of business, went out, and the unhappy interview came to an end.

       *       *       *       *       *

It was a strange room. Its belongings stranger still. A large square chamber, with windows
on three sides and a door and a fireplace on the other. Just now the fireplace had fallen from
its high estate and had become a catch-all for the wrecks of much unpacking. There was a small
single bed, two chairs, and an indefinite number of tables. Impossible to say how many, for
they were half obscured by numberless things scientific: microscopes, a retort, small furnace,
two cameras, galvanic battery, coils of wire and rubber tubing, magic lantern, books, photographs,
and papers; on a small desk a confused pile of papers; on the walls a great number of pictures
and photographs.

The very den of a student of science. Hardly room to walk among the wilderness of traps, boxes,
and trunks. At the window, the young man, just dressed, and taking a view of the mill and its
new chimney.

"Gad! how mad the fellow was over my little measurements. Wonder what it all means? The girl's
in trouble, the father has a grief, and the clerk--I can make nothing of him. What matter?
My duty is with my books, that I may pursue pure science. The moment things become practical
I drop 'em."

Then he turned and looked out of the next window.

"Fine view of the river. I must have another try at it with the camera."

He crossed the room, and standing in the bright morning sunshine, he looked about to examine
the other L that had been thrown out from the back of the main building.

"That's Alma's room, and the next is the clerk's, the chimney man. The window is open, and
the place looks as dark as a cave. I've a mind to light it up."

So saying he took a small hand mirror from a table near by. Holding it in the full sunlight,
he moved it slowly about till the dancing spot of reflected light fell upon the open window
and leaped in upon the opposite wall of the room. The observer with steady hand moved the spot
of light about till he had probed the room, and found all it contained, which was nothing save
a bed and two chairs.

"Applied science reports the man is fit for treason, spoils, and that sort of thing. He has
no pictures. His room is a sleeping den. The man is a----Hallo! Steady there!"

The door in the room opened, and the student of applied science turned quickly away with his
back to the wall beside his window. Cautiously raising the mirror, he held it near the window
in such a way that in it he could see all that went on in the other room, without being himself
seen.

Suddenly he saw something in the glass. Some one appeared at the window, looked out as if watching
for something, and then withdrew into the bare little sleeping room. Then the figure in the
mirror went to the bed and carefully turned all the clothes back. The student of science watched
the mirror intently. The figure bent over the uncovered mattress and quietly opened the sacking
and took something out. It sat down on the edge of the disordered bed and proceeded to examine
the box or bundle, whatever it might be, that it had found in the bed.

Just here there was the sound of a distant door opening and closing. The figure crouched low
on the bed, as if fearing to be seen, and waited till all was quiet again. Then it slowly opened
the box or package, and took out a folded paper. The student bent over the mirror with the
utmost interest. What did it mean? What would happen next? Nothing in particular happened.
The figure closed the box, returned it to its hiding place in the bed, and then crept out of
the range of reflected vision.

Why should the confidential clerk hide papers in his bed? What was the nature of the documents?
A strange affair, certainly, but it did not concern him, and perhaps he had better drop the
subject. He turned to his books and papers, and for an hour or more was too much occupied with
them to heed aught else.

Suddenly there was a brisk series of taps at his door, like this:

   -  - --  - - -- --  -  - --   --

"I'm here. Come in."

Alma, the bright one entered.

"What a room! Such disorder, Elmer."

"Yes. It is quite a comfortable den. I've unpacked everything, and--mind your steps--feel quite
at home--thank you."

"I should say as much. Do look at the dust. I must have Mary up here at once."

"Madam, I never allow any female person to touch my traps. Mary may make the bed, but she must
not sweep, nor dust, nor touch anything."

"Oh! really. Then I'll go at once."

"Better not."

"Why?"

"Because I've many things to show----"

"Oh, Elmer! What is that--that queer thing on the table? May I look at it?"

"That's my new camera."

"How stupid. I might have known that. Do you take pictures?"

"Photos? Yes. Will you sit?"

"Oh, dear, no. I hate photographs. It's so disagreeable to see oneself staring with some impossible
expression, and sitting in an impossible palace, with a distant landscape and drapery curtains."

"Then I'll take a view for you. Find a seat somewhere while I rig things. See those two people
sitting on the little bridge that crosses the race beyond the mill? I'll photograph them without
their permission."

Alma looked out of the window when Elmer had raised the curtain, but declared she couldn't
see anything.

"They are very far off. Take the field glass, and you'll see them."

Alma took the glass from the table, and looked out on the sunny landscape.

"I see what you mean, but I can't make out who they are, even with the glass. It's a man and
a woman, and that's as much as I can see."

"You shall see them plain enough in a moment."

So saying, Elmer placed a long brass telescope upon a stand by the open window, and through
it he examined the couple on the bridge. Meanwhile Alma gazed round the room and examined its
strange contents with the greatest interest.

The moment the focus of the glass was secured, Elmer hastily took the little camera, and adjusting
a slide in it from a table drawer, he placed it before the telescope on the table and close
to the eye hole. Then, by throwing a black cloth over his head, he looked into it, turned a
screw or two, and in a moment had a negative of the distant couple.

"Aren't you almost ready?"

"In one moment, Alma. I must fix this first. I'll be right back."

So saying he took the slide from the little camera, and went out of the room into a dark closet
in the entry.

Alma waited patiently for a few moments, and then she took up the field glass, and looked out
of the window. Who could they be? They seemed to be having a cosy time together; but beyond
the fact that one figure was a woman she could learn nothing. She wanted to take a look through
the telescope, but did not dare to move the little camera that stood before it.

"Here's the picture," said Elmer as he entered the room.

Alma took the bit of glass he offered her, but declared she couldn't see anything but a dirty
spot on the glass.

"That's the negative. Let me copy it, and then I'll throw it up with the stereopticon."

He selected another bit of glass from a box, and in a few minutes had it prepared and the two
put together and laid in the sun on the window-seat.

"What's in that iron box, Elmer?"

"Nitrous oxide."

"The same thing that the dentists use?"

"Yes. Would you like to try a whiff? It's rather jolly, and will not hurt you in the least."

Elmer caught up a bit of rubber pipe, secured one end to the iron chest and inserted the other
in a mouthpiece having the proper inhalation and exhalation valves.

"Put that in your mouth for a moment."

Alma, with beautiful confidence, put the tube in her mouth, and in a moment her pretty head
fell back against the back of the chair in deep sleep. With wonderful speed and skill Elmer
rolled a larger camera that stood in a corner out into the centre of the room, ran in a slide,
adjusted the focus, and before the brief slumber passed had a negative of the sleeping one.

"Oh, how odd! What a queer sensation to feel yourself going and going, off and off, till you
don't know where you are!"

"It is rather queer. I've often taken the gas myself--just for fun. Now, Alma, if you will
let down the curtains, and close the shutters, and make the room dark, I'll light the lantern
and show you the picture."

Alma shut the blinds, drew down the curtains, and closed all the shutters save one.

"Won't it be too dark?"

"No. It must be quite dark. You can stand here in the middle of the room and look at that bit
of bare wall between the windows. I left that space clear for a screen."

Alma eagerly took her place, and said with a laugh:

"If this is the pursuit of pure science, it is very amusing. I'd like to study science--in
this way."

"Yes, it is rather interesting----"

"Oh, Elmer, it's pitch dark."

"Never mind. Stand perfectly still and watch the wall. There--there's the spot of light. Now
I'll run in the positive."

A round spot of white light fell on the unpapered wall, and then two dusky shadows slid over
it, vague, obscure, and gigantic.

"There are your people. Now I'll adjust the focus. There--look."

A heavy sob startled him.

"Oh! It's that hateful Alice Green!"

Elmer opened the door of the lantern, and the light streamed full upon Alma. She was bathed
in tears, and her shoulders, visible through her light summer dress, shook with sobs.

"What's the matter?"

"Nothing! Oh, it's--nothing--let me--go----"

With an impatient gesture she tried to brush the tears from her eyes, and then, without a word,
she hastily ran out of the room.

