'I entered a vineyard one day and saw a hawk stoop upon a partridge and seize it: but the partridge
escaped from him and entering its nest, hid itself there. The hawk followed and called out
to it, saying, "O wittol, I saw thee in the desert, hungry, and took pity on thee; so I gathered
grain for thee and took hold of thee that thou mightest eat; but thou fledst, wherefore I know
not, except it were to slight me. So come out and take the grain I have brought thee to eat,
and much good may it do thee!" The partridge believed what he said and came out, whereupon
the hawk stuck his talons into him and seized him. "Is this that which thou saidst thou hadst
brought me from the desert," cried the partridge, "and of which thou badest me eat, saying,
'Much good may it do thee?' Thou hast lied to me and may God make what thou eatest of my flesh
to be a deadly poison in thy maw!" Know, then, O wolf, that he, who digs a pit for his brother,
soon falls into it himself, and thou first dealtest perfidiously with me.' 'Spare me this talk
and these moral instances,' said the wolf, 'and remind me not of my former ill deeds, for the
sorry plight I am in suffices me, seeing that I am fallen into a place, in which even my enemy
would pity me, to say nothing of my friend. So make thou some shift to deliver me and be thou
thereby my saviour. If this cause thee aught of hardship, think that a true friend will endure
the sorest travail for his friend's sake and risk his life to deliver him from perdition; and
indeed it hath been said, "A tender friend is better than an own brother." So if thou bestir
thyself and help me and deliver me, I will gather thee such store of gear, as shall be a provision
for thee against the time of want, and teach thee rare tricks to gain access to fruitful vineyards
and strip the fruit-laden trees.' 'How excellent,' rejoined the fox, laughing, 'is what the
learned say of those who are past measure ignorant, like unto thee!' 'What do they say?' asked
the wolf; and the fox answered, 'They say that the gross of body are gross of nature, far from
understanding and nigh unto ignorance. As for thy saying, O perfidious, stupid self-deceiver,
that a friend should suffer hardship to succour his friend, it is true, as thou sayest: but
tell me, of thine ignorance and poverty of wit, how can I be a true friend to thee, considering
thy treachery? Dost thou count me thy friend? Behold, I am thine enemy, that exulteth in thy
misfortune; and couldst thou understand it, this word were sorer to thee than slaughter and
arrow-shot. As for thy promise to provide me a store against the time of want and teach me
tricks to enter vineyards and spoil fruit-trees, how comes it, O crafty traitor, that thou
knowest not a trick to save thyself from destruction? How far art thou from profiting thyself
and how far am I from lending ear to thy speech! If thou have any tricks, make shift for thyself
to save thee from this peril, wherefrom I pray God to make thine escape distant! So look, O
idiot, if there be any trick with thee and save thyself from death therewith, before thou lavish
instruction on others. But thou art like a certain sick man, who went to another, suffering
from the same disease, and said to him, "Shall I heal thee of thy disease?" "Why dost thou
not begin by healing thyself?" answered the other; so he left him and went his way. And thou,
O ignorant wolf, art like this; so stay where thou art and be patient under what hath befallen
thee.' When the wolf heard what the fox said, he knew he had no hope from him; so he wept for
himself, saying, 'Verily, I have been heedless of mine affair; but if God deliver me from this
scrape, I will assuredly repent of my arrogance towards those who are weaker than I and will
put on wool and go upon the mountains, celebrating the praises of God the Most High and fearing
His wrath. Yea, I will sunder myself from all the other wild beasts and feed the poor and those
who fight for the Faith.' Then he wept and lamented, till the heart of the fox was softened
and he took pity on him, whenas he heard his humble words and his professions of repentance
for his past arrogance and tyranny. So he sprang up joyfully and going to the brink of the
pit, sat down on his hind quarters and let his tail fall therein; whereupon the wolf arose
and putting out his paw, pulled the fox's tail, so that he fell down into the pit with him.
Then said the wolf, 'O fox of little ruth, why didst thou exult over me, thou that wast my
companion and under my dominion? Now thou art fallen into the pit with me and retribution hath
soon overtaken thee. Verily, the wise have said, "If one of you reproach his brother with sucking
the teats of a bitch, he also shall suck her," and how well saith the poet:

When fortune's blows on some fall hard and heavily, With others
     of our kind as friend encampeth she.
So say to those who joy in our distress, "Awake; For those who
     mock our woes shall suffer even as we."

And death in company is the best of things; wherefore I will make haste to kill thee, ere thou
see me killed.' 'Alas! Alas!' said the fox in himself. 'I am fallen in with this tyrant, and
my case calls for the use of craft and cunning; for indeed it is said that a woman fashions
her ornaments for the festival day, and quoth the proverb, "I have kept thee, O my tear, against
the time of my distress!" Except I make shift to circumvent this overbearing beast, I am lost
without recourse; and how well says the poet:

Provide thee by craft, for thou liv'st in a time Whose folk are
     as lions that lurk in a wood,
And set thou the mill-stream of knavery abroach, That the mill of
     subsistence may grind for thy food,
And pluck the fruits boldly; but if they escape From thy grasp,
     then content thee with hay to thy food.'

Then said he to the wolf, 'Hasten not to slay me, for that is not my desert and thou wouldst
repent it, O valiant beast, lord of might and exceeding prowess! If thou hold thy hand and
consider what I shall tell thee, thou wilt know that which I purpose; but if thou hasten to
kill me, it will profit thee nothing and we shall both die here.' 'O wily deceiver,' answered
the wolf, 'how hopest thou to work my deliverance and thine own, that thou wouldst have me
grant thee time? Speak and let me know thy purpose.' 'As for my purpose,' replied the fox,
'it was such as deserves that thou reward me handsomely for it; for when I heard thy promises
and thy confession of thy past ill conduct and regrets for not having earlier repented and
done good and thy vows, shouldst thou escape from this thy stress, to leave harming thy fellows
and others and forswear eating grapes and other fruits and devote thyself to humility and cut
thy claws and break thy teeth and don wool and offer thyself as a sacrifice to God the Most
High,--when (I say), I heard thy repentance and vows of amendment, compassion took me for thee,
though before I was anxious for thy destruction, and I felt bound to save thee from this thy
present plight. So I let down my tail, that thou mightest grasp it and make thine escape. Yet
wouldst thou not put off thy wonted violence and brutality nor soughtest to save thyself by
fair means, but gavest me such a tug that I thought my soul would depart my body, so that thou
and I are become involved in the same stead of ruin and death. There is but one thing can deliver
us, to which if thou agree, we shall both escape; and after it behoves thee to keep the vows
thou hast made, and I will be thy friend.' 'What is it thou hast to propose?' asked the wolf.
'It is,' answered the fox, 'that thou stand up, and I will climb up on to thy head and so bring
myself nigh on a level with the surface of the earth. Then will I give a spring and as soon
as I reach the ground, I will fetch thee what thou mayst lay hold of and make thine escape.'
'I have no faith in thy word,' rejoined the wolf, 'for the wise have said, "He who practices
trust in the place of hate, errs," and "He who trusts in the faithless is a dupe; he who tries
those that have been [already] tried (and found wanting) shall reap repentance and his days
shall pass away without profit; and he who cannot distinguish between cases, giving each its
due part, his good fortune will be small and his afflictions many." How well saith the poet:

Be thy thought ever ill and of all men beware; Suspicion of good
     parts the helpfullest was e'er.
For nothing brings a man to peril and distress As doth the doing
     good (to men) and thinking fair.

And another:

Be constant ever in suspect; 'twill save thee aye anew; For he
     who lives a wakeful life, his troubles are but few.
Meet thou the foeman in thy way with open, smiling face; But in
     thy heart set up a host shall battle with him do.

And yet another:

Thy worst of foes is thy nearest friend, in whom thou puttest
     trust; So look thou be on thy guard with men and use them
     warily aye.
'Tis weakness to augur well of fate; think rather ill of it. And
     be in fear of its shifts and tricks, lest it should thee
     bewray.'

'Verily,' said the fox, 'distrust is not to be commended in every case; on the contrary, a
confiding disposition is the characteristic of a noble nature and its issue is freedom from
terrors. Now it behoves thee, O wolf, to put in practice some device for thy deliverance from
this thou art in and the escape of us both will be better than our death: so leave thy distrust
and rancour; for if thou trust in me, one of two things will happen; either I shall bring thee
whereof to lay hold and escape, or I shall play thee false and save myself and leave thee;
and this latter may not be, for I am not safe from falling into some such strait as this thou
art in, which would be fitting punishment of perfidy. Indeed the adage saith, "Faith is fair
and perfidy foul." It behoves thee, therefore, to trust in me, for I am not ignorant of the
vicissitudes of Fortune: so delay not to contrive some device for our deliverance, for the
case is too urgent for further talk.' 'To tell thee the truth,' replied the wolf, 'for all
my want of confidence in thy fidelity, I knew what was in thy mind and that thou wast minded
to deliver me, whenas thou heardest my repentance, and I said in myself, "If what he asserts
be true, he will have repaired the ill he did: and if false, it rests with God to requite him."
So, behold, I accept thy proposal, and if thou betray me, may thy perfidy be the cause of thy
destruction!' Then he stood upright in the pit and taking the fox upon his shoulders, raised
him to the level of the ground, whereupon the latter gave a spring and lighted on the surface
of the earth. When he found himself in safety, he fell down senseless, and the wolf said to
him, 'O my friend, neglect not my case and delay not to deliver me.' The fox laughed derisively
and replied, 'O dupe, it was but my laughing at thee and making mock of thee that threw me
into thy hands: for when I heard thee profess repentance, mirth and gladness seized me and
I frisked about and danced and made merry, so that my tail fell down into the pit and thou
caughtest hold of it and draggedst me down with thee. Why should I be other than a helper in
thy destruction, seeing that thou art of the host of the devil! I dreamt yesterday that I danced
at thy wedding and related my dream to an interpreter, who told me that I should fall into
a great danger and escape from it. So now I know that my falling into thy hand and my escape
are the fulfilment of my dream, and thou, O ignorant dupe, knowest me for thine enemy; so how
canst thou, of thine ignorance and lack of wit, hope for deliverance at my hands, after all
thou hast heard of harsh words from me, and wherefore should I endeavour for thy deliverance,
whenas the wise have said, "In the death of the wicked is peace for mankind and purgation for
the earth?" Yet, but that I fear to reap more affliction by keeping faith with thee than could
follow perfidy, I would do my endeavour to save thee.' When the wolf heard this, he bit his
paws for despite and was at his wit's end what to do. Then he gave the fox fair words, but
this availed nought; so he said to him softly, 'Verily, you foxes are the most pleasant spoken
of folk and the subtlest in jest, and this is but a jest of thine; but all times are not good
for sport and jesting.' 'O dolt,' answered the fox, 'jesting hath a limit, that the jester
overpasses not, and deem not that God will again give thee power over me, after having once
delivered me from thee.' Quoth the wolf, 'It behoves thee to endeavour for my release, by reason
of our brotherhood and fellowship, and if thou deliver me, I will assuredly make fair thy reward.'
'The wise say,' rejoined the fox,' "Fraternize not with the ignorant and wicked, for he will
shame thee and not adorn thee,--nor with the liar, for if thou do good, he will hide it, and
if evil, he will publish it;" and again, "There is help for everything but death: all may be
mended, save natural depravity, and everything may be warded off, except Fate." As for the
reward thou promisest me, I liken thee therein to the serpent that fled from the charmer. A
man saw her affrighted and said to her, "What ails thee, O serpent?" Quoth she, "I am fleeing
from the serpent-charmer, who is in chase of me, and if thou wilt save me and hide me with
thee, I will make fair thy recompense and do thee all manner of kindness." So he took her,
moved both by desire of the promised recompense and a wish to find favour with God, and hid
her in his bosom. When the charmer had passed and gone his way and the serpent had no longer
any reason to fear, he said to her, "Where is the recompense thou didst promise me? Behold,
I have saved thee from that thou dreadest." "Tell me where I shall bite thee," replied she,
"for thou knowest we overpass not that recompense." So saying, she gave him a bite, of which
he died. And I liken thee, O dullard, to the serpent in her dealings with the man. Hast thou
not heard what the poet says?

Trust not in one in whose heart thou hast made wrath to abide And
     thinkest his anger at last is over and pacified.
Verily vipers, though smooth and soft to the feel and the eye And
     graceful of movements they be, yet death-dealing venom they
     hide.'

'O glib-tongue, lord of the fair face,' said the wolf, 'thou art not ignorant of my case and
of men's fear of me and knowest how I assault the strong places and root up the vines. Wherefore,
do as I bid thee and bear thyself to me as a servant to his lord.' 'O stupid dullard,' answered
the fox, 'that seekest a vain thing, I marvel at thy stupidity and effrontery, in that thou
biddest me serve thee and order myself towards thee as I were a slave bought with thy money;
but thou shalt see what is in store for thee, in the way of breaking thy head with stones and
knocking out thy traitor's teeth.' So saying, he went up to a hill that gave upon the vineyard
and standing there, called out to the people of the place, nor did he give over crying, till
he woke them and they, seeing him, came up to him in haste. He held his ground till they drew
near him and near the pit, when he turned and fled. So they looked into the pit and spying
the wolf, fell to pelting him with heavy stones, nor did they leave smiting him with sticks
and stones and piercing him with lances, till they killed him and went away; whereupon the
fox returned to the pit and looking down, saw the wolf dead: so he wagged his head for excess
of joy and chanted the following verses:

Fate took the soul o' the wolf and snatched it far away; Foul
     fall it for a soul that's lost and perished aye!
How oft, O Gaffer Grim, my ruin hast thou sought! But unrelenting
     bale is fallen on thee this day.
Thou fellst into a pit, wherein there's none may fall Except the
     blasts of death blow on him for a prey.

Then he abode alone in the vineyard, secure and fearing no hurt.

                   THE MOUSE AND THE WEASEL.

A mouse and a weasel once dwelt in the house of a poor peasant, one of whose friends fell sick
and the doctor prescribed him husked sesame. So he sought of one of his comrades sesame and
gave the peasant a measure thereof to husk for him; and he carried it home to his wife and
bade her dress it. So she steeped it and husked it and spread it out to dry. When the weasel
saw the grain, he came up to it and fell to carrying it away to his hole, nor stinted all day,
till he had borne off the most of it. Presently, in came the peasant's wife, and seeing great
part of the sesame gone, stood awhile wondering; after which she sat down to watch and find
out the cause. After awhile, out came the weasel to carry off more of the grain, but spying
the woman seated there, knew that she was on the watch for him and said to himself, 'Verily,
this affair is like to end ill. I fear me this woman is on the watch for me and Fortune is
no friend to those who look not to the issues: so I must do a fair deed, whereby I may manifest
my innocence and wash out all the ill I have done.' So saying, he began to take of the sesame
in his hole and carry it out and lay it back upon the rest. The woman stood by and seeing the
weasel do thus, said in herself, 'Verily, this is not the thief, for he brings it back from
the hole of him that stole it and returns it to its place. Indeed, he hath done us a kindness
in restoring us the sesame and the reward of those that do us good is that we do them the like.
It is clear that this is not he who stole the grain. But I will not leave watching till I find
out who is the thief.' The weasel guessed what was in her mind, so he went to the mouse and
said to her, 'O my sister, there is no good in him who does not observe the claims of neighbourship
and shows no constancy in friendship.' 'True, O my friend,' answered the mouse, 'and I delight
in thee and in thy neighbourhood; but what is the motive of thy speech?' Quoth the weasel,
'The master of the house has brought home sesame and has eaten his fill of it, he and his family,
and left much; every living soul has eaten of it, and if thou take of it in thy turn, thou
art worthier thereof than any other.' This pleased the mouse and she chirped and danced and
frisked her ears and tail, and greed for the grain deluded her; so she rose at once and issuing
forth of her hole, saw the sesame peeled and dry, shining with whiteness, and the woman sitting
watching, armed with a stick. The mouse could not contain herself, but taking no thought to
the issue of the affair, ran up to the sesame and fell to messing it and eating of it; whereupon
the woman smote her with the stick and cleft her head in twain: so her greed and heedlessness
of the issue of her actions led to her destruction."

"By Allah," said the Sultan to Shehrzad, "this is a goodly story! Hast thou any story bearing
upon the beauty of true friendship and the observance of its obligations in time of distress
and rescuing from destruction?" "Yes, answered she; "it hath teached me that

                     THE CAT AND THE CROW.

A crow and a cat once lived in brotherhood. One day, as they were together under a tree, they
spied a leopard making towards them, of which they had not been ware, till he was close upon
them. The crow at once flew up to the top of the tree; but the cat abode confounded and said
to the crow, 'O my friend, hast thou no device to save me? All my hope is in thee.' 'Indeed,'
answered the crow, 'it behoveth brethren, in case of need, to cast about for a device, whenas
any peril overtakes them, and right well saith the poet:

He is a right true friend who is with thee indeed And will
     himself undo, to help thee in thy need,
Who, when love's severance is by evil fate decreed, To join your
     sundered lives will risk his own and bleed.'

Now hard by the tree were shepherds with their dogs; so the crow flew towards them and smote
the face of the earth with his wings, cawing and crying out, to draw their attention. Then
he went up to one of the dogs and flapped his wings in his eyes and flew up a little way, whilst
the dog ran after him, thinking to catch him. Presently, one of the shepherds raised his head
and saw the bird flying near the ground and lighting now and then; so he followed him, and
the crow gave not over flying just out of the dogs' reach and tempting them to pursue and snap
at him: but as soon as they came near him, he would fly up a little; and so he brought them
to the tree. When they saw the leopard, they rushed upon it, and it turned and fled. Now the
leopard thought to eat the cat, but the latter was saved by the craft of its friend the crow.
This story, O King, shows that the friendship of the virtuous saves and delivers from difficulties
and dangers.

                     THE FOX AND THE CROW.

A fox once dwelt in a cave of a certain mountain, and as often as a cub was born to him and
grew stout, he would eat it, for, except he did so, he had died of hunger; and this was grievous
to him. Now on the top of the same mountain a crow had made his nest, and the fox said to himself,
'I have a mind to strike up a friendship with this crow and make a comrade of him, that he
may help me to my day's meat, for he can do what I cannot.' So he made for the crow's stead,
and when he came within earshot, he saluted him, saying, 'O my neighbour, verily a true-believer
hath two claims upon his true-believing neighbour, that of neighbourliness and that of community
of faith; and know, O my friend, that thou art my neighbour and hast a claim upon me, which
it behoves me to observe, the more that I have been long thy neighbour. Moreover, God hath
set in my breast a store of love to thee, that bids me speak thee fair and solicit thy friendship.
What sayst thou?' 'Verily,' answered the crow, 'the best speech is that which is soothest,
and most like thou speakest with thy tongue that which is not in thy heart. I fear lest thy
friendship be but of the tongue, outward, and shine enmity of the heart, inward; for that thou
art the Eater and I the Eaten, and to hold aloof one from the other were more apt to us than
friendship and fellowship. What, then, maketh thee seek that thou mayst not come at and desire
what may not be, seeing that thou art of the beast and I of the bird kind? Verily, this brotherhood
[thou profferest] may not be, neither were it seemly.' He who knoweth the abiding-place of
excellent things,' rejoined the fox, 'betters choice in what he chooses therefrom, so haply
he may win to advantage his brethren; and indeed I should love to be near thee and I have chosen
thy companionship, to the end that we may help one another to our several desires; and success
shall surely wait upon our loves. I have store of tales of the goodliness of friendship, which,
an it like thee, I will relate to thee.' 'Thou hast my leave,' answered the crow; 'let me hear
thy story and weigh it and judge of thine intent thereby.' 'Hear then, O my friend,' rejoined
the fox, 'that which is told of a mouse and a flea and which bears out what I have said to
thee.' 'How so?' asked the crow. 'It is said,' answered the fox, 'that

The Mouse and the Flea.

A mouse once dwelt in the house of a rich and busy merchant. One night, a flea took shelter
in the merchant's bed and finding his body soft and being athirst, drank of his blood. The
smart of the bite awoke the merchant, who sat up and called to his serving men and maids. So
they hastened to him and tucking up their sleeves, fell to searching for the flea. As soon
as the latter was ware of the search, he turned to flee and happening on the mouse's hole,
entered it. When the mouse saw him, she said to him, "What brings thee in to me, seeing that
thou art not of my kind and canst not therefore be assured of safety from violence or ill-usage?"
"Verily," answered the flea, "I took refuge in thy dwelling from slaughter and come to thee,
seeking thy protection and not anywise coveting thy house, nor shall aught of mischief betide
thee from me nor aught to make thee leave it. Nay, I hope to repay thy favours to me with all
good, and thou shalt assuredly see and praise the issue of my words." "If the case be as thou
sayest," answered the mouse, "be at thine ease here; for nought shall betide thee, save what
may pleasure thee; there shall fall on thee rain of peace alone nor shall aught befall thee,
but what befalls me. I will give thee my love without stint and do not thou regret thy loss
of the merchant's blood nor lament for thy subsistence from him, but be content with what little
of sufficient sustenance thou canst lightly come by; for indeed this is the safer for thee,
and I have heard that one of the moral poets saith as follows:

I have trodden the road of content and retirement And lived out
     my life with whatever betided;
With a morsel of bread and a draught of cold water, Coarse salt
     and patched garments content I abided.
If God willed it, He made my life easy of living; Else, I was
     contented with what He provided."

"O my sister," rejoined the flea, "I hearken to thine injunction and submit myself to yield
thee obedience, nor have I power to gainsay thee, till life be fulfilled, in this fair intent."
"Purity of intent suffices to sincere affection," replied the mouse. So love befell and was
contracted between them and after this, the flea used (by night) to go to the merchant's bed
and not exceed moderation (in sucking his blood) and harbour with the mouse by day in the latter's
hole. One night, the merchant brought home great store of dinars and began to turn them over.
When the mouse heard the chink of the coin, she put her head out of her hole and gazed at it,
till the merchant laid it under his pillow and went to sleep, when she said to the flea, "Seest
thou not the favourable opportunity and the great good fortune! Hast thou any device to bring
us to our desire of yonder dinars?" "Verily," answered the flea, "it is not good for one to
strive for aught, but if he be able to compass his desire; for if he lack of ableness thereto,
he falls into that of which he should be ware and attains not his wish for weakness, though
he use all possible cunning, like the sparrow that picks up grain and falls into the net and
is caught by the fowler. Thou hast no strength to take the dinars and carry them into thy hole,
nor can I do this; on the contrary, I could not lift a single dinar; so what hast thou to do
with them?" Quoth the mouse, "I have made me these seventy openings, whence I may go out, and
set apart a place for things of price, strong and safe; and if thou canst contrive to get the
merchant out of the house, I doubt not of success, so Fate aid me." "I will engage to get him
out of the house for thee," answered the flea and going to the merchant's bed, gave him a terrible
bite, such as he had never before felt, then fled to a place of safety. The merchant awoke
and sought for the flea, but finding it not, lay down again on his other side. Then came the
flea and bit him again, more sharply than before. So he lost patience and leaving his bed,
went out and lay down on the bench before the door and slept there and awoke not till the morning.
Meanwhile the mouse came out and fell to carrying the dinars into her hole, till not one was
left; and when it was day, the merchant began to accuse the folk and imagine all manner of
things. And know, O wise, clear-sighted and experienced crow (continued the fox), that I only
tell thee this to the intent that thou mayst reap the recompense of thy goodness to me, even
as the mouse reaped the reward of her kindness to the flea; for see how he repaid her and requited
her with the goodliest of requitals.' Quoth the crow, 'It lies with the benefactor to show
benevolence or not; nor is it incumbent on us to behave kindly to whoso seeks an impossible
connection. If I show thee favour, who art by nature my enemy, I am the cause of my own destruction,
and thou, O fox, art full of craft and cunning. Now those, whose characteristics these are,
are not to be trusted upon oath, and he who is not to be trusted upon oath, there is no good
faith in him. I heard but late of thy perfidious dealing with thy comrade the wolf and how
thou leddest him into destruction by thy perfidy and guile, and this though he was of thine
own kind and thou hadst long companied with him; yet didst thou not spare him; and if thou
didst thus with thy fellow, that was of thine own kind, how can I have confidence in thy fidelity
and what would be thy dealing with thine enemy of other than thy kind? Nor can I liken thee
and me but to the Falcon and the Birds.' 'How so?' asked the fox. 'They say,' answered the
crow, 'that

The Falcon and the Birds.

There was once a falcon who was a cruel tyrant in the days of his youth, so that the beasts
of prey of the air and of the earth feared him and none was safe from his mischief; and many
were the instances of his tyranny, for he did nothing but oppress and injure all the other
birds. As the years passed over him, he grew weak and his strength failed, so that he was oppressed
with hunger; but his cunning increased with the waning of his strength and he redoubled in
his endeavour and determined to go to the general rendezvous of the birds, that he might eat
their leavings, and in this manner he gained his living by cunning, whenas he could do so no
longer by strength and violence. And thou, O fox, art like this: if thy strength fail thee,
thy cunning fails not; and I doubt not that thy seeking my friendship is a device to get thy
subsistence; but I am none of those who put themselves at thy mercy, for God hath given me
strength in my wings and caution in my heart and sight in my eyes, and I know that he who apeth
a stronger than he, wearieth himself and is often destroyed, wherefore I fear for thee lest,
if thou ape a stronger than thou, there befall thee what befell the sparrow.' 'What befell
the sparrow?' asked the fox. 'I conjure thee, by Allah, to tell me his story.' 'I have heard,'
replied the crow, 'that

The Sparrow and the Eagle.

A sparrow was once hovering over a sheep-fold, when he saw a great eagle swoop down upon a
lamb and carry it off in his claws. As soon as the sparrow lighted on the sheep's back, he
clapped his wings and would have flown away, but his feet became tangled in the wool and he
could not win free. All this while the shepherd was looking on, having seen as well what happened
with the eagle as with the sparrow; so he came up to the latter in a rage and seized him. Then
he plucked out his wing-feathers and tying his feet with a twine, carried him to his children
and threw him to them. "What is this?" asked they and he answered, "This is one that aped a
greater than himself and came to grief." Now thou, O fox,' continued the crow, 'art like this
and I would have thee beware of aping a greater than thou, lest thou perish. This is all I
have to say to thee; so go from me in peace.' When the fox despaired of the crow's friendship,
he turned away, groaning and gnashing his teeth for sorrow and disappointment, which when the
crow heard, he said to him, 'O fox, why dost thou gnash thy teeth?' 'Because I find thee wilier
than myself,' answered the fox and made off to his den."

"O Shehrzad," said the Sultan, "how excellent and delightful are these thy stories! Hast thou
more of the like edifying tales?" "It is said," answered she, "that

                 THE HEDGEHOG AND THE PIGEONS.

A hedgehog once took up his abode under a palm-tree, on which roosted a pair of wood-pigeons,
that had made their nest there and lived an easy life, and he said to himself, 'These pigeons
eat of the fruit of the palm-tree, and I have no means of getting at it; but needs must I go
about with them.' So he dug a hole at the foot of the palm-tree and took up his lodging there,
he and his wife. Moreover, he made a place of prayer beside the hole, in which he shut himself
and made a show of piety and abstinence and renunciation of the world. The male pigeon saw
him praying and worshipping and inclined to him for his much devoutness and said to him, 'How
long hast thou been thus?' 'Thirty years,' replied the hedgehog. 'What is thy food?' asked
the bird and the other answered, 'What falls from the palm-tree.' 'And what is thy clothing?'
asked the pigeon. 'Prickles,' replied the hedgehog; 'I profit by their roughness.' 'And why,'
continued the bird, 'hast thou chosen this place rather than another?' 'I chose it,' answered
the hedgehog, 'that I might guide the erring into the right way and teach the ignorant.' 'I
had thought thee other-guise than this,' rejoined the pigeon; but now I feel a yearning for
that which is with thee.' Quoth the hedgehog, 'I fear lest thy deed belie thy speech and thou
be even as the husbandman, who neglected to sow in season, saying, "I fear lest the days bring
me not to my desire, and I shall only waste my substance by making haste to sow." When the
time of harvest came and he saw the folk gathering in their crops, he repented him of what
he had lost by his tardiness and died of chagrin and vexation.' 'What then shall I do,' asked
the pigeon, 'that I may be freed from the bonds of the world and give myself up altogether
to the service of my Lord?' 'Betake thee to preparing for the next world,' answered the hedgehog,
'and content thyself with a pittance of food.' 'How can I do this,' said the pigeon, 'I that
am a bird and may not go beyond the palm-tree whereon is my food? Nor, could I do so, do I
know another place, wherein I may abide.' Quoth the hedgehog, 'Thou canst shake down of the
fruit of the palm what shall suffice thee and thy wife for a year's victual; then do ye take
up your abode in a nest under the tree, that ye may seek to be guided in the right way, and
do ye turn to what ye have shaken down and store it up against the time of need; and when the
fruits are spent and the time is long upon you, address yourselves to abstinence from food.'
'May God requite thee with good,' exclaimed the pigeon, 'for the fair intent with which thou
hast reminded me of the world to come and hast directed me into the right way!' Then he and
his wife busied themselves in knocking down the dates, till nothing was left on the palm-tree,
whilst the hedgehog, finding whereof to eat, rejoiced and filled his den with the dates, storing
them up for his subsistence and saying in himself, 'When the pigeon and his wife have need
of their provant, they will seek it of me, trusting in my devoutness and abstinence; and from
what they have heard of my pious counsels and admonitions, they will draw near unto me. Then
will I seize them and eat them, after which I shall have the place and all that drops from
the palm-tree, to suffice me.' Presently the pigeon and his wife came down and finding that
the hedgehog had carried off all the dates, said to him, 'O pious and devout-spoken hedgehog
of good counsel, we can find no sign of the dates and know not on what else we shall feed.'
'Belike,' replied the hedgehog, 'the winds have carried them away; but the turning from the
provision to the Provider is of the essence of prosperity, and He who cut the corners of the
mouth will not leave it without victual.' And he gave not over preaching to them thus and making
a show of piety and cozening them with fine words, till they put faith in him and entered his
den, without suspicion, where-upon he sprang to the door and gnashed his tusks, and the pigeon,
seeing his perfidy manifested, said to him, 'What has to-night to do with yester-night? Knowest
thou not that there is a Helper for the oppressed? Beware of treachery and craft, lest there
befall thee what befell the sharpers who plotted against the merchant.' 'What was that?' asked
the hedgehog. 'I have heard tell,' answered the pigeon, 'that

The Merchant and the Two Sharpers.

There was once in a city called Sendeh a very wealthy merchant, who made ready merchandise
and set out with it for such a city, thinking to sell it there. There followed him two sharpers,
who had made up into bales what goods they could get and giving out to him that they also were
merchants, companied with him by the way. At the first halting-place, they agreed to play him
false and take his goods; but, at the same time, each purposed inwardly foul play to the other,
saying in himself, "If I can cheat my comrade, it will be well for me and I shall have all
to myself." So each took food and putting therein poison, brought it to his fellow; and they
both ate of the poisoned mess and died. Now they had been sitting talking with the merchant;
so when they left him and were long absent from him, he sought for them and found them both
dead; whereby he knew that they were sharpers, who had plotted to play him foul, but their
treachery had recoiled upon themselves; so the merchant was preserved and took what they had.'"

"O Shehrzad," said the Sultan, "verily thou hast aroused me to all whereof I was negligent!
Continue to edify me with these fables." Quoth she, "It has come to my knowledge, O King, that

                   THE THIEF AND HIS MONKEY.

A certain man had a monkey and was a thief, who never entered one of the markets of the city
in which he dwelt, but he made off with great purchase. One day, he saw a man offering for
sale worn clothes, and he went calling them in the market, but none bid for them, and all to
whom he showed them refused to buy of him. Presently, the thief saw him put the clothes in
a wrapper and sit down to rest for weariness; so he made the ape sport before him, and whilst
he was busy gazing at it, stole the parcel from him. Then he took the ape and made off to a
lonely place, where he opened the wrapper and taking out the old clothes, wrapped them in a
piece of costly stuff. This he carried to another market and exposed it for sale with what
was therein, making it a condition that it should not be opened and tempting the folk with
the lowness of the price he set on it. A certain man saw the wrapper and it pleased him; so
he bought the parcel on these terms and carried it home, doubting not but he had gotten a prize.
When his wife saw it, she said, 'What is this?' And he answered, 'It is precious stuff, that
I have bought below its worth, meaning to sell it again and take the profit.' 'O dupe,' rejoined
she, 'would this stuff be sold under its value, except it were stolen? Dost thou not know that
he who buys a ware, without examining it, erreth? And indeed he is like unto the weaver.' 'What
is the story of the weaver?' asked he; and she said, 'I have heard tell that

The Foolish Weaver.

There was once in a certain village a weaver who could not earn his living save by excessive
toil. One day, it chanced that a rich man of the neighbourhood made a feast and bade the folk
thereto. The weaver was present and saw such as were richly clad served with delicate meats
and made much of by the master of the house, for what he saw of their gallant array. So he
said in himself, "If I change this my craft for another, easier and better considered and paid,
I shall amass store of wealth and buy rich clothes, that so I may rise in rank and be exalted
in men's eyes and become like unto these." Presently, one of the mountebanks there climbed
up to the top of a steep and lofty wall and threw himself down, alighting on his feet; which
when the weaver saw, he said to himself, "Needs must I do as this fellow hath done, for surely
I shall not fail of it." So he climbed up on to the wall and casting himself down to the ground,
broke his neck and died forthright. I tell thee this (continued the woman) that thou mayst
get thy living by that fashion thou knowest and throughly understandest, lest greed enter into
thee and thou lust after what is not of thy competence.' Quoth he, 'Not every wise man is saved
by his wisdom nor is every fool lost by his folly. I have seen a skilful charmer versed in
the ways of serpents, bitten by a snake and killed, and I have known others prevail over serpents,
who had no skill in them and no knowledge of their ways.' And he hearkened not to his wife,
but went on buying stolen goods below their value, till he fell under suspicion and perished.

                  THE SPARROW AND THE PEACOCK.

There was once a sparrow, that used every day to visit a certain king of the birds and was
the first to go in to him and the last to leave him. One day, a company of birds assembled
on a high mountain, and one of them said to another, 'Verily, we are waxed many and many are
the differences between us, and needs must we have a king to order our affairs, so shall we
be at one and our differences will cease.' Thereupon up came the sparrow and counselled them
to make the peacock,--that is, the prince he used to visit,--king over them. So they chose
the peacock to their king and he bestowed largesse on them and made the sparrow his secretary
and vizier. Now the sparrow was wont bytimes to leave his assiduity [in the personal service
of the king] and look into affairs [in general]. One day, he came not at the usual time, whereat
the peacock was sore troubled; but presently, he returned and the peacock said to him, 'What
hath delayed thee, that art the nearest to me of all my servants and the dearest?' Quoth the
sparrow, 'I have seen a thing that is doubtful to me and at which I am affrighted.' 'What was
it thou sawest?' asked the king; and the sparrow answered, 'I saw a man set up a net, hard
by my nest, and drive its pegs fast into the ground. Then he strewed grain in its midst and
withdrew afar off. As I sat watching what he would do, behold, fate and destiny drove thither
a crane and his wife, which fell into the midst of the net and began to cry out; whereupon
the fowler came up and took them. This troubled me, and this is the reason of my absence from
thee, O king of the age; but never again will I abide in that nest, for fear of the net.' 'Depart
not thy dwelling,' rejoined the peacock; 'for precaution will avail thee nothing against destiny.'
And the sparrow obeyed his commandment, saying, 'I will take patience and not depart, in obedience
to the king.' So he continued to visit the king and carry him food and water, taking care for
himself, till one day he saw two sparrows fighting on the ground and said in himself, 'How
can I, who am the king's vizier, look on and see sparrows fighting in my neighbourhood? By
Allah, I must make peace between them!' So he flew down to them, to reconcile them; but the
fowler cast the net over them and taking the sparrow in question, gave him to his fellow, saying,
'Take care of him, for he is the fattest and finest I ever saw.' But the sparrow said in himself,
'I have fallen into that which I feared and it was none but the peacock that inspired me with
a false security. It availed me nothing to beware of the stroke of fate, since for him who
taketh precaution there is no fleeing from destiny; and how well says the poet:

That which is not to be shall by no means be brought To pass, and
     that which is to be shall come, unsought,
Even at the time ordained; but he that knoweth not The truth is
     still deceived and finds his hopes grown nought.'

           STORY OF ALI BEN BEKKAR AND SHEMSENNEHAR.

There lived once [at Baghdad] in the days of the Khalif Haroun er Reshid a merchant named Aboulhusn
Ali ben Tahir, who was great of goods and grace, handsome and pleasant-mannered, beloved of
all. He used to enter the royal palace without asking leave, for all the Khalif's concubines
and slave-girls loved him, and he was wont to company with Er Reshid and recite verses to him
and tell him witty stories. Withal he sold and bought in the merchants' bazaar, and there used
to sit in his shop a youth named Ali ben Bekkar, a descendant of the ancient kings of Persia,
who was fair of face and elegant of shape, with rosy cheeks and joined eyebrows, sweet of speech
and laughing-lipped, a lover of mirth and gaiety. It chanced one day, as they sat laughing
and talking, there came up ten damsels like moons, every one of them accomplished in beauty
and symmetry, and amongst them a young lady riding on a mule with housings of brocade and golden
stirrups. She was swathed in a veil of fine stuff, with a girdle of gold-embroidered silk,
and was even as says the poet:

She hath a skin like very silk and a soft speech and sweet;
     Gracious to all, her words are nor too many nor too few.
Two eyes she hath, quoth God Most High, "Be," and forthright they
     were; They work as wine upon the hearts of those whom they
     ensue.
Add to my passion, love of her, each night; and, solacement Of
     loves, the Resurrection be thy day of rendezvous!

The lady alighted at Aboulhusn's shop and sitting down there, saluted him, and he returned
her salute. When Ali ben Bekkar saw her, she ravished his understanding and he rose to go away;
but she said to him, 'Sit in thy place. We came to thee and thou goest away: this is not fair.'
'O my lady,' answered he, 'by Allah, I flee from what I see; for the tongue of the case saith:

She's the sun and her dwelling's in heaven on high; Look, then,
     to thine heart thou fair patience commend.
Thou mayst not climb up to her place in the sky, Nor may she to
     thee from her heaven descend.'

When she heard this, she smiled and said to Aboulhusn, 'What is the name of this young man?'
'He is a stranger,' answered he. 'What countryman is he?' asked she, and the merchant replied,
'He is a descendant of the (ancient) kings of Persia; his name is Ali ben Bekkar, and indeed
it behoves us to use strangers with honour.' 'When my damsel comes to thee,' rejoined she,
'come thou at once to us and bring him with thee, that we may entertain him in our abode, lest
he blame us and say, "There is no hospitality in the people of Baghdad:" for niggardliness
is the worst fault that a man can have. Thou hearest what I say to thee and if thou disobey
me, thou wilt incur my displeasure and I will never again visit thee or salute thee.' 'On my
head and eyes,' answered Aboulhusn; 'God preserve me from thy displeasure, fair lady!' Then
she rose and went away, leaving Ali ben Bekkar in a state of bewilderment. Presently, the damsel
came and said to the merchant, 'O my lord Aboulhusn, my lady Shemsennehar, the favourite of
the Commander of the Faithful Haroun er Reshid, bids thee to her, thee and thy friend, my lord
Ali ben Bekkar.' So he rose and taking Ali with him, followed the girl to the Khalif's palace,
where she carried them into a chamber and made them sit down. They talked together awhile,
till she set trays of food before them, and they ate and washed their hands. Then she brought
them wine, and they drank and made merry; after which she bade them rise and carried them into
another chamber, vaulted upon four columns and adorned and furnished after the goodliest fashion
with various kinds of furniture and decorations, as it were one of the pavilions of Paradise.
They were amazed at the rarities they saw and as they were gazing at these marvels, up came
ten damsels, like moons, with a proud and graceful gait, dazzling the sight and confounding
the wit, and ranged themselves in two ranks, as they were of the houris of Paradise. After
awhile, in came ten other damsels, with lutes and other instruments of mirth and music in their
hands, who saluted the two guests and sitting down, fell to tuning their instruments. Then
they rose and standing before them, played and sang and recited verses: and indeed each one
of them was a seduction to the faithful. Whilst they were thus occupied, there entered other
ten damsels like unto them, high-bosomed and of an equal age, with black eyes and rosy cheeks,
joined eyebrows and languorous looks, a seduction to the faithful and a delight to all who
looked upon them, clad in various kinds of coloured silks, with ornaments that amazed the wit.
They took up their station at the door, and there succeeded them yet other ten damsels, fairer
than they, clad in gorgeous apparel, such as defies description; and they also stationed themselves
by the door. Then in came a band of twenty damsels and amongst them the lady Shemsennehar,
as she were the moon among the stars, scarved with the luxuriance of her hair and dressed in
a blue robe and a veil of silk, embroidered with gold and jewels. About her middle she wore
a girdle set with various kinds of precious stones, and she advanced with a graceful and coquettish
gait, till she came to the couch that stood at the upper end of the chamber and seated herself
thereon. When Ali ben Bekkar saw her, he repeated the following couplets:

Yes, this is she indeed, the source of all my ill, For whom with
     long desire I languish at Love's will.
Near her, I feel my soul on fire and bones worn waste For
     yearning after her that doth my heart fulfih

Then said he to Aboulhusn, 'Thou hadst dealt more kindly with me to have forewarned me of these
things; that I might have prepared my mind and taken patience to support what hath befallen
me ;' and he wept and groaned and complained. 'O my brother,' replied Aboulhusn, 'I meant thee
nought but good; but I feared to tell thee of this, lest such transport should overcome thee
as might hinder thee from foregathering with her and intervene between thee and her: but take
courage and be of good heart, for she is well disposed to thee and inclineth to favour thee.'
'What is the lady's name?' asked Ali ben Bekkar. 'She is called Shemsennehar,' answered Aboulhusn
'she is one of the favourites of the Commander of the Faithful Haroun er Reshid and this is
the palace of the Khalifate.' Then Shemsennehar sat gazing upon Ali ben Bekkar's charms and
he upon hers, till each was engrossed with love of the other. Presently, she commanded the
damsels to sit; so they sat down, each in her place, on a couch before one of the windows,
and she bade them sing; whereupon one of them took a lute and sang the following verses:

Twice be the message to my love made known, And take the answer
     from his lips alone.
To thee, O monarch of the fair, I come And stand, of this my case
     to make my moan.
O thou my sovereign, dear my heart and life, That in my inmost
     bosom hast thy throne,
Prithee, bestow a kiss upon thy slave; If not as gift, then even
     as a loan.
I will repay it, (mayst thou never fail!) Even as I took it, not
     a little gone.
Or, if thou wish for more than thou didst lend, Take and content
     thee; it is all thine own.
May health's fair garment ever gladden thee, Thee that o'er me
     the wede of woe hast thrown!

Her singing charmed Ali ben Bekkar, and he said to her, 'Sing me more of the like of these
verses.' So she struck the strings and sang as follows:

By excess of estrangement, beloved mine, Thou hast taught long
     weeping unto my eyne.
O joy of my sight and its desire, O goal of my hopes, my
     worship's shrine,
Have pity on one, whose eyes are drowned In the sorrowful lover's
     tears of brine!

When she had finished, Shemsennehar said to another damsel, 'Sing us somewhat, thou.' So she
played a lively measure and sang the following verses:

His looks 'twas made me drunken, in sooth, and not his wine; And
     the grace of his gait has banished sleep from these eyes of
     mine.
'Twas not the wine-cup dazed me, but e'en his glossy curls; His
     charms it was that raised me and not the juice o' the vine.
His winding browlocks have routed my patience, and my wit Is done
     away by the beauties his garments do enshrine.[FN#5]

When Shemsennehar heard this, she sighed heavily, and the song pleased her. Then she bade another
damsel sing; so she took the lute and chanted the following:

A face that vies, indeed, with heaven's lamp, the sun; The
     welling of youth's springs upon him scarce begun.
His curling whiskers write letters wherein the sense Of love in
     the extreme is writ for every one.
Beauty proclaimed of him, whenas with him it met, "A stuff in
     God's best loom was fashioned forth and done!"

When she had finished, Ali Ben Bekkar. said to the damsel nearest him, 'Sing us somewhat, thou.'
So she took the lute and sang these verses:

The time of union's all too slight For coquetry and prudish
     flight.
Not thus the noble are. How long This deadly distance and
     despite?
Ah, profit by the auspicious time, To sip the sweets of
     love-delight.

Ali ben Bekkar followed up her song with plentiful tears; and when Shemsennehar saw him weeping
and groaning and lamenting, she burned with love-longing and desire and passion and transport
consumed her. So she rose from the couch and came to the door of the alcove, where Ali met
her and they embraced and fell down a-swoon in the doorway; whereupon the damsels came to them
and carrying them into the alcove, sprinkled rose-water upon them. When they revived, they
missed Aboulhusn, who had hidden himself behind a couch, and the young lady said, 'Where is
Aboulhusn?' So he showed himself to her from beside the couch, and she saluted him, saying,
'I pray God to give me the means of requiting thee thy kindness!' Then she turned to Ali ben
Bekkar and said to him, 'O my lord, passion has not reached this pass with thee, without doing
the like with me; but there is nothing for it but to bear patiently what hath befallen us.'
'By Allah, O my lady,' rejoined he, 'converse with thee may not content me nor gazing upon
thee assuage the fire of my heart, nor will the love of thee, that hath mastered my soul, leave
me, but with the passing away of my life.' So saying, he wept and the tears ran down upon his
cheeks, like unstrung pearls. When Shemsennehar saw him weep, she wept for his weeping; and
Aboulhusn exclaimed, 'By Allah, I wonder at your plight and am confounded at your behaviour;
of a truth, your affair is amazing and your case marvellous. If ye weep thus, what while ye
are yet together, how will it be when ye are parted? Indeed, this is no time for weeping and
wailing, but for foregathering and gladness; rejoice, therefore, and make merry and weep no
more.' Then Shemsennehar signed to a damsel, who went out and returned with handmaids bearing
a table, whereon were silver dishes, full of all manner rich meats. They set the table before
them, and Shemsennehar began to eat and to feed Ali ben Bekkar, till they were satisfied, when
the table was removed and they washed their hands. Presently the waiting-women brought censors
and casting bottles and sprinkled them with rose-water and incensed them with aloes and ambergris
and other perfumes; after which they set on dishes of graven gold, containing all manner of
sherbets, besides fruits and confections, all that the heart can desire or the eye delight
in, and one brought a flagon of carnelian, full of wine. Then Shemsennehar chose out ten handmaids
and ten singing-women to attend on them and dismissing the rest to their apartments, bade some
of those who remained smite the lute. They did as she bade them and one of them sang the following
verses:

My soul be a ransom for him who returned my salute with a smile
     And revived in my breast the longing for union after
     despair!
The hands of passion have brought my secret thoughts to the light
     And that which is in my bosom unto my censors laid bare.
The very tears of my eyes press betwixt me and him, As though
     they, even as I, enamoured of him were.

When she had finished, Shemsennehar rose and filling a. cup, drank it off, then filled it again
and gave it to Ali ben Bekkar; after which she bade another damsel sing; and she sang the following
verses:

My tears, as they flow, are alike to my wine, as I brim it up!
     For my eyes pour forth of their lids the like of what froths
     in my cup.[FN#6]
By Allah, I know not, for sure, whether my eyelids it is Run over
     with wine or else of my tears it is that I sup!

Then Ali ben Bekkar drank off his cup and returned it to Shemsennehar. She filled it again
and gave it to Aboulhusn, who drank it off. Then she took the lute, saying, 'None shall sing
over my cup but myself.' So she tuned the strings and sang these verses:

The hurrying tears upon his cheeks course down from either eye'
     For very passion, and love's fires within his heart flame
     high.
He weeps whilst near to those he loves, for fear lest they
     depart: So, whether near or far they be, his tears are never
     dry.

And again:

Our lives for thee, O cupbearer, O thou whom beauty's self From
     the bright parting of thy hair doth to the feet army!
The full moon[FN#7] from thy collar-folds rises, the
     Pleiades[FN#8] Shine from thy mouth and in thine hands there
     beams the sun of day.[FN#9]
I trow, the goblets wherewithal thou mak'st us drunk are those
     Thou pourest to us from thine eyes, that lead the wit
     astray.
Is it no wonder that thou art a moon for ever full And that thy
     lovers 'tis, not thou, that wane and waste away?
Art thou a god, that thou, indeed, by favouring whom thou wilt
     And slighting others, canst at once bring back to life and
     slay?
GCod moulded beauty from thy form and eke perfumed the breeze With
     the sheer sweetness of the scent that cleaves to thee alway.
None of the people of this world, an angel sure thou art, Whom
     thy Creator hath sent down, to hearten our dismay.

When Ali and Aboulhusn and the bystanders heard Shemsennehar's song, they were transported
and laughed and sported; but while they were thus engaged, up came a damsel, trembling for
fear, and said, 'O my lady, Afif and Mesrour and Merjan and others of the Commander of the
Faithful's eunuchs, whom I know not, are at the door.' When they heard this they were like
to die of fright, but Shemsennehar laughed and said, 'Have no fear.' Then said she to the damsel,
'Hold them in parley, whilst we remove hence.' And she caused shut the doors of the alcove
upon Ali and Aboulhusn and drew the curtains over them; after which she shut the door of the
saloon and went out by the privy gate into the garden, where she seated herself on a couch
she had there and bade one of the damsels rub her feet. Then she dismissed the rest of her
women and bade the portress admit those who were at the door; whereupon Mesrour entered, he
and his company, twenty men with drawn swords, and saluted her. Quoth she, 'Wherefore come-ye?'
And they answered, 'The Commander of the Faithful salutes thee. He wearies for thy sight and
would have thee to know that this with him is a day of great joy and gladness and he is minded
to seal his gladness with thy present company: wilt thou then go to him or shall he come to
thee?' At this she rose, and kissing the earth, said, 'I hear and obey the commandment of the
Commander of the Faithful.' Then she summoned the chief (female) officers of her household
and other damsels and made a show of complying with the Khalif's orders and commanding them
to make preparations for his reception, albeit all was in readiness; and she said to the eunuchs,
'Go to the Commander of the Faithful and tell him that I await him after a little space, that
I may make ready for him a place with carpets and so forth.' So they returned in haste to the
Khalif, whilst Shemsennehar, doffing her (outer) clothing, repaired to her beloved Ali ben
Bekkar and strained him to her bosom and bade him farewell, whereat he wept sore and said,
'O my lady, this leave-taking will lead to the ruin of my soul and the loss of my life; but
I pray God to grant me patience to bear this my love, wherewith He hath smitten me!' 'By Allah,
answered she, 'none will suffer perdition but I; for thou wilt go out to the market and company
with those that will divert thee, and thine honour will be in safety and thy passion concealed;
whilst I shall fall into trouble and weariness nor find any to console me, more by token that
I have given the Khalif a rendezvous, wherein haply great peril shall betide me, by reason
of my love and longing passion for thee and my grief at being parted from thee. For with what
voice shall I sing and with what heart shall I present me before the Khalif and with what speech
shall I entertain the Commander of the Faithful and with what eyes shall I look upon a place
where thou art not and take part in a banquet at which thou art not present and with what taste
shall I drink wine of which thou partakest not?' 'Be not troubled,' said Aboulhusn 'but take
patience and be not remiss in entertaining the Commander of the Faithful this night, neither
show him any neglect, but be of good courage.' At this juncture, up came a damsel, who said
to Shemsennehar, 'O my lady, the Khalif's pages are come.' So she rose to her feet and said
to the maid, 'Take Aboulhusn and his friend and carry them to the upper gallery giving upon
the garden and there leave them, till it be dark; when do thou make shift to carry them forth.'
Accordingly, the girl carried them up to the gallery and locking the door upon them, went away.
As they sat looking on the garden, the Khalif appeared, preceded by near a hundred eunuchs
with drawn swords and compassed about with a score of damsels, as they were moons, holding
each a lighted flambeau. They were clad in the richest of raiment and on each one's head was
a crown set with diamonds and rubies. The Khalif walked in their midst with a majestic gait,
whilst Mesrour and Afif and Wesif went before him and Shemsennehar and all her damsels rose
to receive him and meeting him at the garden door, kissed the earth before him; nor did they
cease to go before him, till they brought him to the couch, whereon he sat down, whilst all
the waiting-women and eunuchs stood before him and there came fair maids and slave-girls with
lighted flambeaux and perfumes and essences and instruments of music. Then he bade the singers
sit down, each in her room, and Shemsennehar came up and seating herself on a stool by the
Khalif's side, began to converse with him, whilst Ali and the jeweller looked on and listened,
unseen of the prince. The Khalif fell to jesting and toying with Shemsennehar and bade throw
open the (garden) pavilion. So they opened the doors and windows and lighted the flambeaux
till the place shone in the season of darkness even as the day. The eunuchs removed thither
the wine-service and (quoth Aboulhusn), 'I saw drinking-vessels and rarities, whose like mine
eyes never beheld, vases of gold and silver and all manner precious stones and jewels, such
as beggar description, till indeed meseemed I was dreaming, for excess of amazement at what
I saw!' But as for Ali ben Bekkar, from the moment Shemsennehar left him, he lay prostrate
on the ground for excess of passion and desire and when he revived, he fell to gazing upon
these things that had not their like, and saying to Aboulhusn, 'O my brother, I fear lest the
Khalif see us or come to know of us; but the most of my fear is for thee. For myself, I know
that I am surely lost past recourse, and the cause of my destruction is nought but excess of
passion and love-longing and desire and separation from my beloved, after union with her; but
I beseech God to deliver us from this predicament.' Then they continued to look on, till the
banquet was spread before the Khalif, when he turned to one of the damsels and said to her,
'O Gheram, let us hear some of thine enchanting songs.' So she tool: the lute and tuning it,
sang as follows:

The longing of a Bedouin maid, whose folk are far away, Who
     yearns after the willow of the Hejaz and the bay,--
Whose tears, when she on travellers lights, might for their water
     serve And eke her passion, with its heat, their bivouac-fire
     purvey,--
Is not more fierce nor ardent than my longing for my love, Who
     deem: that I commit a crime in loving him alway.

When Shemsennehar heard this, she slipped off the stool on which she sat and fell to the earth
insensible; where upon the damsels came and lifted her up. When Ali ben Bekkar saw this from
the gallery, he also fell down senseless, and Aboulhusn said, 'Verily Fate hath apportioned
passion equally between you!' As he spoke, in came the damsel who had brought them thither
and said to him, 'O Aboulhusn, arise and come down, thou and thy friend, for of a truth the
world is grown strait upon us and I fear lest our case be discovered or the Khalif become aware
of you: so, except you descend at once, we are dead folk. 'How shall this youth descend,' replied
he, 'seeing that he hath not strength to rise?' With this she fell to sprinkling rose-water
on Ali ben Bekkar, till he came to himself, when Aboulhusn lifted him up and the damsel stayed
him. So they went down from the gallery and walked on awhile, till they came to a little iron
door, which the damsel opened, and they found themselves on the Tigris' bank. Here they sat
down on a stone bench, whilst the girl clapped her hands and there came up a man with a little
boat, to whom said she, 'Carry these two young men to the other bank.' So they all three entered
the boat and the man put off with them; and as they launched out into the stream, Ali ben Bekkar
looked back towards the Khalif's palace and the pavilion and the garden and bade them farewell
with these verses:

I stretch forth a feeble hand to bid farewell to thee, With the
     other upon my burning breast, beneath the heart of me.
But be not this the last of the love betwixt us twain And let not
     this the last of my soul's refreshment be.

The damsel said to the boatman, 'Make haste with them.' So he plied his oars swiftly till they
reached the opposite bank, where they landed, and she took lease of them, saying, 'It were
my wish not to leave you, but I can go no farther than this.' Then she turned back, whilst
Ali ben Bekkar lay on the ground before Aboulhusn and could not rise, till the latter said
to him, 'This place is not sure and I am in fear of our lives, by reason of the thieves and
highwaymen and men of lawlessness.' With this Ali arose and essayed to walk a little, but could
not. Now Aboulhusn had friends in that quarter, so he made for the house of one of them, in
whom he trusted and who was of his intimates, and knocked at the door. The man came out quickly
and seeing them, bade them welcome and brought them into his house, where he made them sit
down and talked with them and asked them whence they came. Quoth Aboulhusn 'We came out but
now, being moved thereto by a man with whom I had dealings and who hath in his hands monies
of mine. It was told me that he was minded to flee into foreign countries with my money; so
I came out to-night in quest of him, taking with me this my friend Ali ben Bekkar for company
but he hid from us and we could get no speech of him So we turned back, empty-handed, and knew
not whither to go, for it were irksome to us to return home at this hour of the night; wherefore
we came to thee, knowing thy wonted courtesy and kindness.' 'Ye are right welcome,' answered
the host, and studied to do them honour. They abode with him the rest of the night, and as
soon as it was day, they left him and made their way back to the city. When they came to Aboulhusn's
house, the latter conjured his friend to enter; so they went in and lying down on the bed,
slept awhile. When they awoke, Aboulhusn bade his servants spread the house with rich carpets
saying in himself, 'Needs must I divert this youth and distract him from thoughts of his affliction,
for I know his case better than another.' Then he called for water for Ali ben Bekkar, and
the latter rose and making his ablutions, prayed the obligatory prayers that he had omitted
for the past day and night; after which he sat down and began to solace himself with talk with
his friend. When Aboulhusn saw this, he turned to him and said, 'O my lord, it were better
for thy case that thou abide with me this night, so thy heart may be lightened and the anguish
of love-longing that is upon thee be dispelled and thou make merry with us and haply the fire
of thy heart be allayed.' 'O my brother,' answered Ali, 'do what seemeth good to thee; for
I may not anywise escape from what hath befallen me.' Accordingly, Aboulhusn arose and bade
his servants summon some of the choicest of his friends and sent for singers and musicians.
Meanwhile he made ready meat and drink for them, and they came and sat eating and drinking
and making merry till nightfall Then they lit the candles, and the cups of friendship and good
fellowship went round amongst them, and the time passed pleasantly with them. Presently, a
singing-woman took the lute and sang the following verses:

Fate launched at me a dart, the arrow of an eye; It pierced me
     and cut off from those I love am I.
Fortune hath mauled me sore and patience fails me now; But long
     have I forebode misfortune drawing nigh.

When Ali ben Bekkar heard this, he fell to the earth in a swoon and abode thus till daybreak,
and Aboulhusn despaired of him. But, with the dawning, he came to himself and sought to go
home; nor could Aboulhusn deny him, for fear of the issue of his affair. So he made his servants
bring a mule and mounting Ali thereon, carried him to his lodging, he and one of his men. When
he was safe at home, the merchant thanked God for his deliverance from that peril and sat awhile
with him, comforting him; but Ali could not contain himself, for the violence of his passion
and love-longing. Presently Aboulhusn rose to take leave of him and Ali said, 'O my brother,
leave me not without news.' 'I hear and obey, answered Aboulhusn, and repairing to his shop,
opened it and sat there all day, expecting news of Shemsennehar; but none came. He passed the
night in his own house and when it was day, he went to Ali ben Bekkar's lodging and found him
laid on his bed, with his friends about him and physicians feeling his pulse and prescribing
this or that. When he saw Aboulhusn, he smiled, and the latter saluting him, enquired how he
did and sat with him till the folk withdrew, when he said to him, 'What plight is this?' Quoth
Ali, 'It was noised abroad that I was ill and I have no strength to rise and walk, so as to
give the lie to the report of my sickness, but continue lying here as thou seest. So my friends
heard of me and came to visit me. But, O my brother, hast thou seen the damsel or heard any
news of her?' 'I have not seen her,' answered Aboulhusn, 'since we parted from her on the Tigris'
bank; but, O my brother, beware of scandal and leave this weeping.' 'O my brother,' rejoined
Ali, 'indeed, I have no control over myself ;' and he sighed and recited the following verses:

She giveth unto her hand that whereof mine doth fail, A dye on
     the wrist, wherewith she doth my patience assail
She standeth in fear for her hand of the arrows she shoots from
     her eyes; So, for protection, she's fain to clothe it in
     armour of mail.[FN#10]
The doctor in ignorance felt my pulse, and I said to him, "Leave
     thou my hand alone; my heart it is that doth ail."
Quoth she to the dream of the night, that visited me and fled,
     "By Allah, describe him to me and bate me no jot of the
     tale!"
It answered, "I put him away, though he perish of thirst, and
     said, 'Stand off from the watering-place!' So he could not
     to drink avail."
She poured forth the pearls of her tears from her eyes' narcissus
     and gave The rose of her cheeks to drink and bit upon
     jujubes[FN#11] with hail.[FN#12]

Then he said, 'O Aboulhusn, I am smitten with an affliction, from which I deemed myself in
surety, and there is no greater ease for me than death.' 'Be patient,' answered his friend:
'peradventure God will heal thee.' Then he went out from him and repairing to his shop, opened
it, nor had he sat long, when up came Shemsennehar's hand-maid, who saluted him. He returned
her salute and looking at her, saw that her heart was palpitating and that she was troubled
and bore the traces of affliction: so he said to her, 'Thou art welcome. How is it with Shemsennehar?'
'I will tell thee,' answered she; 'but first tell me how doth Ali ben Bekkar.' So he told her
all that had passed, whereat she was grieved and sighed and lamented and marvelled at his case.
Then said she, 'My lady's case is still stranger than this; for when you went away, I turned
back, troubled at heart for you and hardly crediting your escape, and found her lying prostrate
in the pavilion, speaking not nor answering any, whilst the Commander of the Faithful sat by
her head, unknowing what aided her and finding none who could give him news of her. She ceased
not from her swoon till midnight, when she revived and the Khalif said to her, "What ails thee,
O Shemsennehar, and what has behllen thee this night?" "May God make me thy ransom, O Commander
of the Faithful!" answered she. "Verily, bile rose in me and lighted a fire in my body, so
that I lost my senses for excess of pain, and I know no more." "What hast thou eaten to-day?"
asked the Khalif. Quoth she, "I broke my fast on something I had never before eaten." Then
she feigned to be recovered and calling for wine, drank it and begged the Khalif to resume
his diversion. So he sat down again on his couch in the pavilion and made her sit as before.
When she saw me, she asked me how you fared; so I told her what I had done with you and repeated
to her the verses that Ali ben BeLkar had recited at parting, whereat she wept secretly, but
presently stinted. After awhile, the Khalif ordered a damsel to sing, and she chanted the following
verses:

Life, as I live, has not been sweet since I did part from thee;
     Would God I knew but how it fared with thee too after me!
If thou be weeping tears of brine for sev'rance of our loves, Ah,
     then, indeed, 'twere meet my tears of very blood should be.

When my lady heard this, she fell back on the sofa in a swoon, and I seized her hand and sprinkled
rose-water on her face, till she revived, when I said to her, "O my lady, do not bring ruin
on thyself and on all thy house-hold, but be patient, by the life of thy beloved!" "Can aught
befall me worse than death?" answered she. "That, indeed, I long for, for, by Allah, my ease
is therein." Whilst we were talking, another damsel sang the following words of the poet:

"Patience shall peradventure lead to solacement," quoth they; and
     I, "Where's patience to be had, now he is gone away?"
He made a binding covenant with me to cut the cords Of patience,
     when we two embraced upon the parting day.

When Shemsennehar heard this, she swooned away once more, which when the Khalif saw, he came
to her in haste and commanded the wine-service to be removed and each damsel to return to her
chamber. He abode with her the rest of the night, and when it was day, he sent for physicians
and men of art and bade them medicine her, knowing not that her sickness arose from passion
and love-longing. He tarried with her till he deemed her in a way of recovery, when he returned
to his palace, sore concerned for her illness, and she bade me go to thee and bring her news
of Ali ben Bekkar. So I came, leaving with her a number of her bodywomen; and this is what
has delayed me from thee.' When Aboulhusn heard her story, he marvelled and said, 'By Allah,
I have acquainted thee with his whole case; so now return to thy mistress; salute her for me
and exhort her to patience and secrecy and tell her that I know it to be a hard matter and
one that calls for prudent ordering.' She thanked him and taking leave of him, returned to
her mistress, whilst he abode in his place till the end of the day, when he shut the shop and
betaking himself to Ali ben Bekkar's house, knocked at the door. One of the servants came out
and admitted him; and when Ali saw him, he smiled and re-joiced in his coming, saying, 'O Aboulhusn,
thou hast made a weary man of me by thine absence from me this day; for indeed my soul is pledged
to thee for the rest of my days.' 'Leave this talk,' answered the other. 'Were thy healing
at the price of my hand, I would cut it off, ere thou couldst ask me; and could I ransom thee
with my life, I had already laid it down for thee. This very day, Shemsennehar's handmaid has
been with me and told me that what hindered her from coming before this was the Khalif's sojourn
with her mistress;' and he went on to repeat to him all that the girl had told him of Shemsennehar;
at which Ali lamented sore and wept and said to him, 'O my brother, I conjure thee by God to
help me in this mine affliction and teach me how I shall do! Moreover, I beg thee of thy grace
to abide with me this night, that I may have the solace of thy company.' Aboulhusn agreed to
this; so they talked together till the night darkened, when Ali groaned aloud and lamented
and wept copious tears, reciting the following verses:

My eye holds thine image ever; thy name in my mouth is aye And
     still in my heart is thy sojourn; so how canst thou absent
     be?
How sore is my lamentation for life that passes away Nor is
     there, alas! in union a part for thee and me!

And also these:

She cleft with the sword of her glance the helm of my courage in
     two And the mail of my patience she pierced with the spear
     of her shape through and through.
She unveiled to us, under the musk of the mole that is set on her
     cheek, carnphor-whlte dawning a-break through a night of the
     ambergris' hue.[FN#13]
Her spirit was stirred to chagrin and she bit on cornelian[FN#14]
     with pearls,[FN#15] Whose unions unvalued abide in a lakelet
     of sugary dew.
She sighed for impatience and smote with her palm on the snows of
     her breast. Her hand left a scar; so I saw what never before
     met my view;
Pens fashioned of coral (her nails), that, dinting the book of
     her breast Five lines, scored in ambergris ink, on a table
     of crystal drew,
O ye that go girded with steel, O swordsmen, I rede you beware Of
     the stroke of her death-dealing eyes, that never looked yet
     but they slew!
And guard yourselves, ye of the spears, and fence off her thrust
     from your hearts, If she tilt with the quivering lance of
     her shape straight and slender at you.

Then he gave a great cry and fell down in a swoon. Aboulhusn thought that his soul had departed
his body and he ceased not from his swoon till daybreak, when he came to himself and talked
with his friend, who sat with him till the forenoon. Then he left him and repaired to his shop.
Hardly had he opened it, when the damsel came and stood before him. As soon as he saw her,
she made a sign of salutation to him, which he returned; and she greeted him for her mistress,
saying, 'How doth Ali ben BeLkar?' 'O good damsel,' replied he, 'ask me not how he doth nor
what he suffers for excess of passion; for he sleeps not by night neither rests by day; wakefulness
wasteth him and affliction hath gotten the mastery of him and his case is distressful to his
friend.' Quoth she, 'My lady salutes thee and him, and indeed she is in worse case than he.
She hath written him a letter and here it is. When she gave it me, she said to me, "Do not
return save with the answer." So wilt thou go with me to him and get his reply?' 'I hear and
obey,' answered Aboulhusn, and shutting his shop, carried her, by a different way to that by
which he came, to Ali ben Bekkar's house, where he left her standing at the door and entered.
When Ali saw him, he rejoiced, and Aboulhusn said to him, 'The reason of my coming is that
such an one hath sent his handmaid to thee with a letter, containing his greeting to thee and
excusing himself for that he hath tarried by reason of a certain matter that hath betided him.
The girl stands even now at the door: shall she have leave to enter?' And he signed to him
that it was Shemsennehar's slave-girl. Ali understood his sign and answered, 'Bring her in.'
So she entered and when he saw her, he shook for joy and signed to her, as who should say,
'How doth thy lord, may God grant him health and recovery!' 'He is well,' answered she and
pulling out the letter, gave it to him. He took it and kissing it, opened and read it; after
which he handed it to Aboulhusn, who found written therein what follows:

The messenger of me will give thee news aright; So let his true
     report suffice thee for my sight.
A lover hast thou left, for love of thee distraught; Her eyes
     cease never-more from watching, day or night.
I brace myself to bear affliction, for to foil The buffets of
     ill-fate is given to no wight.
But be thou of good cheer; for never shall my heart Forget thee
     nor thy thought be absent from my spright.
Look on thy wasted frame and what is fallen thereon And thence
     infer of me and argue of my plight.

To proceed: I have written thee a letter without fingers and speak to thee without tongue;
to tell thee my whole state, I have an eye from which sleeplessness is never absent and a heart
whence sorrowful thought stirs not. It is with me as I had never known health nor let sadness,
neither beheld a fair face nor spent an hour of pleasant life; but it is as I were made up
of love-longing and of the pain of passion and chagrin. Sickness is unceasing upon me and my
yearning redoubles ever; desire increases still and longing rages in my heart. I pray God to
hasten our union and dispel the trouble of my mind: and I would fain have thee write me some
words, that I may solace myself withal. Moreover, I would have thee put on a becoming patience,
till God give relief; and peace be on thee.' When Ali ben Bekkar had read this letter, he said,
'With what hand shall I write and with what tongue shall I make moan and lament? Indeed she
addeth sickness to my sickness and draweth death upon my death!' Then he sat up and taking
inkhorn and paper, wrote the following reply: 'In the name of God, the Compassionate, the Merciful.
O my lady, thy letter hath reached me and hath given ease to a mind worn out with passion and
desire and brought healing to a wounded heart, cankered with languishment and sickness; for
indeed I am become even as saith the poet:

Bosom contracted and grievous thought dilated, Eyes ever wakeful
     and body wearied aye;
Patience cut off and separation ever present, Reason disordered
     and heart all stolen away.

Know that complaining quenches not the fire of calamity; but it eases him whom love-longing
consumes and separation destroys; and so I comfort myself with the mention of the word "union;"
for how well saith the poet:

If love had not pain and pleasure, satisfaction and despite,
     Where of messengers and letters were for lovers the
     delight?'

When he had made an end of this letter, he gave it to Aboulhusn, saying, 'Read it and give
it to the damsel.' So he took it and read it and its words stirred his soul and its meaning
wounded his vitals. Then he gave it to the girl, and Ali said to her, 'Salute thy lady for
me and tell her of my passion and longing and how love is blent with my flesh and my bones;
and say to her that I need one who shall deliver me from the sea of destruction and save me
from this dilemma; for of a truth fortune oppresseth me with its vicissitudes; and is there
any helper to free me from its defilements?' So saying, he wept and the damsel wept for his
weeping. Then she took leave of him and Aboulhusn went out with her and bade her farewell.
So she went her way and he returned to his shop, which he opened, and sat down there, according
to his wont; but as he sat, he found his bosom straitened and his heart oppressed and was troubled
about his case. He ceased not from melancholy thought the rest of that day and night, and on
the morrow he betook himself to Ali ben Bekkar, with whom he sat till the folk withdrew, when
he asked him how he did. Ali began to complain of passion and descant upon the longing and
distraction that possessed him, ending by repeating the following words of the poet:

Folk have made moan of passion before me of past years, And live
     and dead for absence have suffered pains and fears;
But what within my bosom I harbour, with mine eyes I've never
     seen the like of nor heard it with mine ears.

And also these:

I've suffered for thy love what Cais, that madman[FN#16] hight,
     Did never undergo for love of Leila bright.
Yet chase I not the beasts o' the desert, as did he; For madness
     hath its kinds for this and th' other wight.

Quoth Aboulhusn, 'Never did I see or hear of one like unto thee in thy love! If thou sufferest
all this transport and sickness and trouble, being enamoured of one who returns thy passion,
how would it be with thee, if she whom thou lovest were contrary and perfidious? Meseems, thy
case will be discovered, if thou abide thus.' His words pleased Ali ben Bekkar and he trusted
in him and thanked him.

Now Aboulhusn had a friend, to whom he had discovered his affair and that of Ali ben Bekkar
and who knew that they were close friends; but none other than he was acquainted with what
was betwixt them. He was wont to come to him and enquire how Ali did and after a little, he
began to ask about the damsel; but Aboulhusn put him off, saying, 'She invited him to her and
there was between him and her what passeth words, and this is the end of their affair; but
I have devised me a plan which I would fain submit to thy judgment.' 'And what is that?' asked
his friend. 'O my brother,' answered Aboulhusn, 'I am a man well known, having much dealing
among the notables, both men and women, and I fear lest the affair of these twain get wind
and this lead to my death and the seizure of my goods and the ruin of my repute and that of
my family. Wherefore I purpose to get together my property and make ready forthright and repair
to the city of Bassora and abide there, till I see what comes of their affair, that none may
know of me, for passion hath mastered them and letters pass between them. Their go-between
and confidant at this present is a slave-girl, who hath till now kept their counsel, but I
fear lest haply she be vexed with them or anxiety get the better of her and she discover their
case to some one and the matter be noised abroad and prove the cause of my ruin; for I have
no excuse before God or man.' 'Thou acquaintest me with a perilous matter,' rejoined his friend,
'and one from the like of which the wise and understanding will shrink in affright. May God
preserve thee and avert from thee the evil thou dreadest! Assuredly, thy resolve is a wise
one.' So Aboulhusn returned home and betook himself to setting his affairs in order and preparing
for his journey; nor had three days elapsed ere he made an end of his business and departed
for Bassora. Three days after, his friend came to visit him, but finding him not, asked the
neighbours of him; and they answered, 'He set out three days ago for Bassora, for he had dealings
with merchants there and is gone thither to collect his debts; but he will soon return.' The
man was confounded at the news and knew not whither to go; and he said in himself, 'Would I
had not parted with Aboulhusn!' Then he bethought him how he should gain access to Ali ben
Bekkar and repairing to the latter's lodging, said to one of his servants, 'Ask leave for me
of thy master that I may go in and salute him.' So the servant went in and told his master
and presently returning, invited the man to enter. So he went in and found Ali ben Bekkar lying
back on the pillow and saluted him. Ali returned his greeting and bade him welcome; whereupon
the other began to excuse himself for having held aloof from him all this while and added,
'O my lord, there was a close friendship between Aboulhusn and myself, so that I used to trust
him with my secrets and could not brook to be severed from him an hour. It chanced but now
that I was absent three days' space on certain business with a company of my friends, and when
I came back, I found his shop shut; so I asked the neighbours of him and they replied, "He
is gone to Bassora." Now I know he had no surer friend than thou; so I conjure thee, by Allah,
to tell me what thou knowest of him.' When Ali heard this, his colour changed and he was troubled
and answered, 'I never heard of his departure till this day, and if it be as thou sayest, weariness
is come upon me.' And he repeated the following verses:

Whilom I wept for what was past of joy and pleasant cheer, Whilst
     yet the objects of my love were unremoved and near;
But now my sad and sorry fate hath sundered me and them And I
     to-day must weep for those that were to me most dear.

Then he bent his head awhile in thought and presently raising it, said to one of his servants,
'Go to Aboulhusn'' house and enquire whether he be at home or gone on a journey. If they say,
"He is abroad;" ask whither.' The servant went out and presently returning, said to his master,
'When I asked after Aboulhusn, his people told me that he was gone on a journey to Bassora;
but I saw a damsel standing at the door, who knew me, though I knew her not, and said to me,
"Art thou not servant to Ali ben Bekkar?" "Yes," answered I. And she said, "I have a message
for him from one who is the dearest of all folk to him." So she came with me and is now at
the door.' Quoth Ali, 'Bring her in.' So the servant went out and brought her in, and the man
who was with Ali ben Bekkar looked at her and found her comely. She came up to Ali and saluting
him, talked with him privily; and he from time to time exclaimed with an oath and swore that
he had not done as she avouched. Then she took leave of him and went away. When she was gone,
Aboulhusn's friend, who was a jeweller, took occasion to speak and said to Ali ben Bekkar,
'Doubtless, the women of the palace have some claim upon thee or thou hast dealings with the
Khalif's household?' 'Who told thee of this?' asked Ali. 'I know it by yonder damsel,' replied
the jeweller, 'who is Shemsennehar's slave-girl; for she came to me awhile since with a written
order for a necklace of jewels; and I sent her a costly one.' When Ali heard this, he was greatly
troubled, so that the jeweller feared for his life, but after awhile he recovered himself and
said, 'O my brother, I conjure thee by Allah to tell me truly how thou knowest her.' 'Do not
press me as to this,' replied the other; and Ali said, 'Indeed, I will not desist from thee
till thou tell me the truth.' 'Then,' said the jeweller, 'I will tell thee all, that thou mayst
not distrust me nor be alarmed at what I said, nor will I conceal aught from thee, but will
discover to thee the truth of the matter, on condition that thou possess me with the true state
of thy case and the cause of thy sickness.' Then he told him all that had passed between Aboulhusn
and himself, adding that he had acted thus only out of friendship for him and of his desire
to serve him and assuring him that he would keep his secret and venture life and goods in his
service. So Ali in turn told him his story and added, 'By Allah, O my brother, nought moved
me to keep my case secret from thee and others but my fear lest the folk should lift the veils
of protection from certain persons.' 'And I,' rejoined the jeweller, 'desired not to foregather
with thee but of the great affection I bear thee and my zeal for thee in every case and my
compassion for the anguish thy heart endureth for severance. Haply, I may be a comforter to
thee in the room of my friend Aboulhusn, during his absence. So take heart and be of good cheer.'
Ali thanked him and repeated the following verses:

If, 'I am patient,' I say, since forth from me he went, My tears
     give me the lie and the stress of my lament.
And how shall I hide the tears, that flow in streams adown The
     table of my cheek for his evanishment?

Then he was silent awhile, and presently said to the jeweller, 'Knowest thou what the girl
whispered to me?' 'Not I, by Allah, O my lord,' answered he. Quoth Ali, 'She would have it
that I had counselled Aboulhusn to go to Bassora and that I had used this device to put a stop
to our correspondence and intercourse. I swore to her that this was not so: but she would not
credit me and went away to her mistress, persisting in her injurious suspicions; and indeed
I know not what I shall do without Aboulhusn, for she inclined to him and gave ear to his word.'
'O my brother,' answered the jeweller, 'I guessed as much from her manner; but, if it please
God the Most High, I will help thee to thy desire.' 'Who can help me,' rejoined Ali, 'and how
wilt thou do with her, when she takes umbrage like a wilding of the desert?' 'By Allah,' exclaimed
the jeweller, 'needs must I do my utmost endeavour to help thee and contrive to make her acquaintance,
without exposure or mischief!' Then he asked leave to depart, and Ali said, 'O my brother,
see thou keep my counsel' And he looked at him and wept. The jeweller bade him farewell and
went away, knowing not what he should do to further his wishes; but as he went along pondering
the matter, he spied a letter lying in the road, and taking it up, found that it bore the following
superscription, 'From the least worthy of lovers to the most excellent of beloved ones.' He
opened it and found these words written therein:

'The messenger brought me a promise of union and delight; But yet
     that he had mistaken 'twas constant in my spright.
Wherefore I joyed not: but sorrow was added unto me, For that I
     knew my envoy had read thee not aright.

To proceed: Know, O my lord, that I am ignorant of the cause of the breaking off of the correspondence
between thee and me: but if it arise from cruelty on thy part, I will meet it with fidelity,
and if love have departed from thee, I will remain constant to my love in absence for I am
with thee even as says the poet:

Be haughty and I will be patient; capricious, I'll bear; turn
     away, I'll draw near thee; be harsh, I'll be abject;
     command, I'll give ear and obey.

As he was reading, up came the slave-girl, looking right and left, and seeing the letter in
the jeweller's hand, said to him, 'O my lord, this letter is one I let fall.' He made her no
answer, but walked on, and she followed him, till he came to his house, when he entered and
she after him, saying, 'O my lord, give me back the letter, for it fell from me.' He turned
to her and said, 'O good slave-girl, fear not, neither grieve, for verily God the Protector
loves to protect [His creatures]; but tell me the truth of thy case, for I am one who keepeth
counsel. I conjure thee by an oath to hide from me nothing of thy lady's affair; for haply
God shall help me to further her wishes and make easy what is hard by my hand' 'O my lord,'
answered she, 'indeed a secret is not lost whereof thou art the keeper; nor shall any affair
come to nought for which thou strivest. Know that my heart inclines to thee, and do thou give
me the letter.' Then she told him the whole story, adding, 'God is witness to what I say.'
'Thou hast spoken truly,' said the jeweller, 'for I am acquainted with the root of the matter.'
Then he told her how he had come by Ali ben Bekkar's secret and related to her all that had
passed, whereat she rejoiced; and they agreed that she should carry the letter to Ali and return
and tell the jeweller all that passed. Accordingly he gave her the letter and she took it and
sealed it up as it was before, saying, 'My mistress Shemsennehar gave it to me sealed; and
when he hath read it and given me the reply, I will bring it to thee.' Then she repaired to
Ali ben Bekkar, whom she found waiting, and gave him the letter. He read it and writing an
answer, gave it to the damsel. She carried it to the jeweller, who broke the seal and read
what was written therein, as follows:

'Neglected are our messages, for lo, our go-between, That wont to
     keep our counsel erst, is wroth with us, I ween.
So choose us out a messenger, a true and trusty wight, Yea, one
     of whom fidelity, not falsehood, is well seen.

To proceed: Verily, I have not entered upon perfidy nor left fidelity; I have not used cruelty,
neither have I put off loyalty nor broken faith. I have not ceased from affection nor severed
myself from grief; neither have I found aught after separation but misery and ruin. I know
nothing of that thou avouchest nor do I love aught but that which thou lovest. By Him who knoweth
the secret of the hidden things, I have no desire but to be united with her whom I love and
my one business is the concealment of my passion, though sickness consume me. This is the exposition
of my case and peace be on thee.' When the jeweller read this letter, he wept sore and the
girl said to him, 'Leave not this place, till I return to thee; for he suspects me of such
and such things, in which he is excusable; so it is my desire to bring thee in company with
my mistress Shemsennehar, howsoever I may contrive it. I left her prostrate, awaiting my return
with the answer.' Then she went away and the jeweller passed the night in a state of agitation.
On the morrow he prayed the morning prayer and sat awaiting the girl's coming. Presently she
came in to him, rejoicing, and he said to her, 'What news, O damsel?' Quoth she, 'I gave my
mistress Ali ben Bekkar's reply, and when she read it, she was troubled in her mind; but I
said to her, "O my lady, have no fear of the hindrance of your affair by reason of Aboulhusn's
absence, for I have found one to take his place, better than he and more of worth and apt to
keep secrets." Then I told her what was between Aboulhusn and thyself and how thou camest by
his confidence and that of Ali ben Bekkar and how I met with thee and showed her how matters
stood betwixt thee and me. Now she is minded to have speech of thee, that she may be assured
by thy words of the covenants between thee and him; so do thou make ready to go with me to
her forthwith. When the jeweller heard the girl's words, he saw that what she proposed was
a grave matter and a great peril, not lightly to be undertaken or entered upon, and said to
her, 'O my stster, verily, I am of the common people and not like unto Aboulhusn; for he was
of high rank and repute and was wont to frequent the Khalif's household, because of their need
of his wares. As for me, he used to talk with me, and I trembled before him the while. So,
if thy mistress would have speech of me, it must be in some place other than the Khalif's palace
and far from the abode of the Commander of the Faithful; for my reason will not let me do what
thou proposest.' Accordingly, he refused to go with her, and she went on to assure him of impunity,
saying, 'Fear not,' and pressed him, till he consented to accompany her; but, when he would
have risen, his legs bent under him and his hands trembled and he exclaimed, 'God forbid that
I should go with thee! Indeed, I cannot do this.' 'Reassure thyself,' answered she; 'if it
irk thee to go to the Khalif's palace and thou canst not muster up courage to accompany me,
I will make her come to thee; so stir not from thy place till I return to thee with her.' Then
she went away and returning after a little, said to the jeweller, 'Look that there be with
thee neither slave-girl nor man-slave nor any other.' Quoth he, 'I have but an old negress-slave,
who waits on me.' So she locked the door between the jeweller and his negress and sent his
man-servants out of the house, after which she went out and presently returned, followed by
a lady, who filled the house with the sweet scent of her perfumes. When the jeweller saw her,
he sprang to his feet and set her a couch and a cushion, and she sat down. He seated himself
before her and she abode awhile without speaking, till she was rested, when she unveiled her
face and it seemed to the jeweller as if the sun had risen in his house. Then said she to her
slave-girl, 'Is this the man of whom thou spakest to me?' 'Yes,' answered she; whereupon the
lady turned to the jeweller and said to him, 'How is it with thee?' 'Well,' replied he. 'May
God preserve thy life and that of the Commander of the Faithful!' Quoth she, 'Thou hast moved
us to come to thee and possess thee with our secret.' Then she questioned him of his household
and family; and he discovered to her all his circumstance and said to her, 'I have another
house, which I have set apart for entertaining my friends and brethren, and there is none there
save the old negress, of whom I spoke to thy handmaid.' She asked him how he came first to
know of the matter and what had made Aboulhusn absent himself, so he told her all and she bewailed
the loss of Aboulhusn and said to the jeweller, 'Know that the minds of men are at one in desires,
and however they may differ in estate, men are still men and have need one of the other: an
affair is not accomplished without speech nor is a wish fulfilled save by endeavour: ease comes
not but after weariness nor is succour compassed save by the help of the generous. Now I have
trusted my secret to thee and it is in thy power to expose or shield us; I say no more, because
of thy generosity of nature. Thou knowest that this my hand-maid keeps my counsel and is therefore
in high favour with me and I have chosen her to transact my affairs of importance. So let none
be worthier in thy sight than she and acquaint her with thine affair. Be of good cheer, for
thou art safe from what thou fearest on our account, and there is no shut place but she shall
open it to thee. She shall bring thee messages from me to Ali ben Bekkar, and thou shalt be
our go-between.' So saying, she rose, scarcely able to stand, and the jeweller forewent her
to the door of the house, after which he returned and sat down again in his place, having seen
of her beauty what dazzled him and heard of her speech what confounded his wit and witnessed
of her grace and courtesy what bewitched him. He sat musing on her perfections till his trouble
subsided, when he called for food and ate enough to stay his stomach. Then he changed his clothes
and repairing to Ali ben Bekkar's house, knocked at the door. The servants hastened to admit
him and brought him to their master, whom he found laid upon his bed. When he saw the jeweller,
he said to him, 'Thou hast tarried long from me and hast added concern to my concern.' Then
he dismissed his servants and bade shut the doors, after which he said to the jeweller, 'By
Allah, O my brother, I have not closed my eyes since I saw thee last; for the slave-girl came
to me yesterday with a sealed letter from her mistress Shemsennehar;' and went on to tell him
all that had passed, adding, 'Indeed, I am perplexed concerning mine affair and my patience
fails me: for Aboulhusn was of comfort to me, because he knew the girl.' When the jeweller
heard this, he laughed and Ali said, 'Why dost thou laugh at my words, thou in whom I rejoiced
and to whom I looked for succour against the shifts of fortune?' Then he sighed and wept and
repeated the following verses:

Many an one laughs at my weeping, whenas he looks on my pain. Had
     he but suffered as I have, he, also, to weep would be fain.
No one hath ruth on the smitten, for that he is doomed to endure
     But he who alike is afflicted and long in affliction hath
     lain
My passion, my yearning, my sighing, my care and distraction end
     woe Are all for a loved one, whose dwelling is in my heart's
     innermost fane.
He made his abode in my bosom and never will leave it again; And
     yet with my love to foregather I weary and travail in vain.
I know of no friend I can choose me to stand in his stead unto
     me, Nor ever, save him, a companion, to cherish and love
     have I ta'en.[FN#17]

When the jeweller heard this, he wept also and told him all that had passed betwixt himself
and the slave-girl and her mistress, since he left him, whilst Ali gave ear to his speech,
and at every fresh word his colour shifted 'twixt white and red and his body grew now stronger
and now weaker, till he came to the end of his tale, when Ali wept and said to him, 'O my brother,
I am a lost man in any event. Would my end were near, that I might be at rest from ail this!
But I beg thee, of thy favour, to be my helper and comforter in all my affairs, till God accomplish
His will; and I will not gainsay thee in aught.' Quoth the jeweller, 'Nothing will quench the
fire of thy passion save union with her whom thou lovest: and this must not be in this perilous
place, but in a house of mine other than in which the girl and her mistress came to me. This
place she chose for herself, to the intent that ye may there foregather and complain one to
the other of what you have suffered from the pangs of love.' 'O my lord,' answered Ali ben
Bekkar, 'do as thou wilt and may God requite thee for me! What thou deemest fit will be right:
but be not long about it, lest I die of this anguish.' So I abode with him (quoth the jeweller)
that night, entertaining him with converse, till daybreak, when I prayed the morning prayers
and going out from him, returned to my house. Hardly had I done so, when the damsel came up
and saluted me. I returned her greeting and told her what had passed between Ali ben Bekkar
and myself; and she said, 'Know that the Khalif has left us and there is none in our lodging,
and it is safer for us and better.' 'True,' replied I; 'yet it is not like my house yonder,
which is both surer and fitter for us.' 'Be it as thou wilt,' rejoined she. 'I will go to my
lady and tell her what thou sayest.' So she went away and presently returned and said to me,
'It is to be as thou sayest: so make us ready the place and expect us.' Then she took out a
purse of diners and said to me, 'My lady salutes thee and bids thee take this and provide therewith
what the case calls for.' But I swore that I would have nought of it; so she took the purse
and returning to her mistress, said to her, 'He would not take the money, but gave it back
to me.' 'No matter,' answered Shemsennehar. As soon as she was gone, I betook myself to my
other house and transported thither all that was needful, by way of furniture and utensils
and rich carpets and vessels of china and glass and gold and silver, and made ready meat and
drink for the occasion. When the damsel came and saw what I had done, it pleased her and she
bade me fetch Ali ben Bekkar; but I said, 'None shall fetch him but thou.' Accordingly she
went to him and brought him back, dressed to perfection and looking his best. I met him and
welcomed him and making him sit down on a couch befitting his condition, set before him sweet-scented
flowers in vases of china and crystal of various colours. Then I set on a tray of vari-coloured
meats, of such as rejoice the heart with their sight, and sat talking with him and diverting
him, whi'st the girl went away and was absent till after sundown, when she returned with Shemsennehar,
attended by two maids and no more. When Ali saw her, he rose and embraced her and they both
fell down in a swoon. They lay awhile insensible, then, coming to themselves, began to complain
to each other of the pains of separation. They sat awhile, conversing with eloquence and tenderness,
after which they perfumed themselves and fell to thanking me for what I had done. Said I, 'Have
ye a mind for food?' 'Yes,' answered they. So I set food before them, and they ate till they
were satisfied and washed their hands, after which I carried them to another room and brought
them wine. So they drank and grew merry with wine and inclined to one another, and Shemsennehar
said to me, 'O my lord, complete thy kindness by bringing us a lute or other instrument of
music that the measure of our joy may be filled.' 'On my head and eyes,' answered I and rising,
brought her a lute. She took it and tuned it, then laying it in her lap, made masterly music,
at once exciting to sorrowful thoughts and cheering the afflicted; after which she sang the
following verses:

I wake and I watch till it seemeth as I were in love with unrest
     And I waste and I languish, as sickness, meseemeth, were
     born in my breast.
The tides of my tears, ever flowing, have burnt up my cheeks with
     their heat: Would I knew if our loves, after sev'rance, with
     union again will be blest!

She went on to sing song after song, choice words set to various airs, till our minds were
bewitched and it seemed as if the very room would dance with excess of pleasure for the marvel
of her sweet singing and there was nor thought nor reason left in us. When we had sat awhile
and the cup had gone round amongst us, the damsel took the lute and sang the following verses
to a lively measure:

My love a visit promised me and did fulfil his plight One night
     that I shall reckon aye for many and many a night.
O night of raptures that the fates vouchsafed unto us twain;
     Unheeded of the railing tribe and in the spies' despite!
My loved one lay the night with me and I of my content Clipped
     him with my left hand, while he embraced me with his right.
I strained him to my breast and drank his lips' sweet wine, what
     while I of the honey and of him who sells it had delight.

Whilst we were thus drowned in the sea of gladness, in came a little maid, trembling, and said,
'O my lady, look how you may go away, for the folk are upon us and have surrounded the house,
and we know not the cause of this.' When I heard this, I arose in affright, and behold, in
came a slave-girl, who said, 'Calamity hath overtaken you!' At the same moment, the door was
burst open and there rushed in upon us half a score masked men, with poniards in their hands
and swords by their sides, and as many more behind them. When I saw this, the world, for all
its wideness, was straitened on me and I looked to the door, but saw no way out; so I sprang
(from the roof) into the house of one of my neighbours and hid myself there. Thence I heard
a great uproar in my house and concluded that the Khalif had gotten wind of us and sent the
chief of the police to seize us and bring us before him. So I abode confounded and remained
in my place, without daring to move, till midnight, when the master of the house became aware
of me and being greatly affrighted, made at me with a drawn sword in his hand, saying, 'Who
is this in my house?' Quoth I, 'I am thy neighbour, the jeweller;' and he knew me and held
his hand. Then he fetched a light and coming up to me, said, 'O my brother, indeed that which
hath befallen thee this night is grievous to me.' 'O my brother,' answered I, 'tell me who
it was entered my house and broke in the door, for I fled to thee, not knowing what was the
matter.' Quoth he, 'The robbers, who visited our neighbours yesterday and slew such an one
and took his goods, saw thee yesterday bringing hither furniture and what not; so they broke
in upon thee and stole thy goods and slew thy guests.' Then we arose, he and I, and repaired
to my house, which I found empty and stripped of everything, whereat I was confounded and said
to myself, 'I care not for the loss of the gear, though indeed I borrowed part thereof of my
friends; yet is there no harm in that, for they know my excuse in the loss of my goods and
the pillage of my house; but as for Ali ben Bekkar and the Khalif's favourite, I fear lest
their case get wind and this cause the loss of my life.' So I turned to my neighbour and said
to him, 'Thou art my brother and my neighbour and wilt cover my nakedness; what dost thou counsel
me to do?' 'I counsel thee to wait,' answered he; 'for they who entered thy house and stole
thy goods have murdered the better part of a company from the Khalif's palace, besides some
of the police, and the Khalif's officers are now in quest of them on every side. Haply they
will chance on them and so thy wish will come about without effort of thine.' Then I returned
to my other house, that in which I dwelt, saying to myself, 'This that hath befallen me is
what Aboulhusn feared and from which he fled to Bassora.' Presently the pillage of my pleasure-house
was noised abroad among the folk, and they came to me from all sides, some rejoicing in my
misfortune and others excusing me and condoling with me, whilst I bewailed myself to them and
ate not neither drank for grief. As I sat, repenting me of what I had done, one of my servants
came in to me and said, 'There is a man at the door, who asks for thee; and I know him not.'
So I went out and found at the door a man whom I knew not. I saluted him, and he said to me,
'I have somewhat to say to thee privily.' So I brought him in and said to him, 'What hast thou
to say to me?' Quoth he, 'Come with me to thine other house.' 'Doss thou then know my other
house,' asked I. 'I know all about thee,' replied he, 'and I know that also wherewith God will
dispel thy concern.' So I said to myself, 'I will go with him whither he will;' and we went
out and walked on till we came to my other house, which when he saw, he said to me, 'It is
without door or doorkeeper, and we cannot sit in it; so come thou with me to another house.'
Accordingly, he went on from place to place and I with him, till the night overtook us. Yet
I put no question to him and we ceased not to walk on, till we reached the open country. He
kept saying, 'Follow me,' and quickened his pace, whilst I hurried after him, heartening myself
to go on. Presently; we came to the river-bank, where he took boat with me, and the boatman
rowed us over to the other side. Here my guide landed and I after him and he took my hand and
led me to a street I had never before entered, nor do I know in what quarter it is. Presently
he stopped at the door of a house, and opening, entered and made me enter with him; after which
he bolted the door with a bolt of iron and carried me along the vestibule, till he brought
me in presence of ten men, brothers, as they were one and the same man. We saluted them and
they returned our greeting and bade us be seated; so we sat down. Now I was like to die for
very weariness; so they brought rose-water and sprinkled it on my face, after which they gave
me to drink and set food before me, of which some of them ate with me. Quoth I to myself, 'Were
there aught of harm in the food, they would not eat with me.' So I ate, and when we had washed
our hands, each of us returned to his place. Then said they to me, 'Dost thou know us?' 'I
never in my life saw you nor this your abode,' answered I; 'nay, I know not even him who brought
me hither.' Said they, 'Tell us thy case and lie not in aught.' 'Know then,' rejoined I, 'that
my case is strange and my affair marvellous: but do you know aught of me?' 'Yes,' answered
they; 'it was we took thy goods yesternight and carried off thy friend and her who was singing
to him.' 'May God let down the veil of His protection over you!' said I. 'But where is my friend
and she who was singing to him?' They pointed to two doors and replied, 'They are yonder, each
in a room apart; but, by Allah, O our brother, the secret of their case is known to none but
thee, for from the time we brought them hither, we have not seen them nor questioned them of
their condition, seeing them to be persons of rank and dignity. This it was that hindered us
from putting them to death: so tell us the truth of their case and be assured of their safety
and thine own.' When I heard this, I was like to die of fright and said to them, 'O my brethren,
if generosity were lost, it would not be found save with you and had I a secret, which I feared
to divulge, your breasts alone should have the keeping of it.' And I went on to expatiate to
them in this sense, till I saw that frankness would profit me more than concealment; so I told
them the whole story. When they heard it, they said, 'And is this young man Ali ben Bekkar
and this damsel Shemsennehar?' 'Yes,' answered I. This was grievous to them and they rose and
made their excuses to the two lovers. Then they said to me, 'Part of what we took from thy
house is spent, but here is what is left of it.' So saying, they gave me back the most part
of my goods and engaged to return them to my house and restore me the rest. So my heart was
set at ease, and some of them abode with me, whilst the rest fetched Ali ben Bekkar and Shemsennehar,
who were well-nigh dead for excess of fear. Then they all sallied forth with us and I went
up to the two lovers and saluting them, said to them, 'What became of the damsel and the two
maids?' 'We know nothing of them,' answered they. Then we walked on till we came to the river-bank,
where we all embarked in the boat that had brought me over before, and the boatman rowed us
to the other side; but hardly had we landed and sat down on the bank to rest, when a troop
of horse swooped down on us like eagles and surrounded us on all sides, whereupon the robbers
with us sprang up in haste and the boatman, putting back for them, took them in and pushed
off into mid-stream, leaving us on the bank, unable to move or abide still. The horseman said
to us, 'Whence come ye?' And we were perplexed for an answer; but I said, 'Those ye saw with
us are rogues: we know them not. As for us, we are singers, whom they would have taken to sing
to them, nor could we win free of them, save by subtlety and fair words, and they have but
now left us.' They looked at Ali and Shemsennehar and said to me, 'Thou hast not spoken sooth;
but if thy tale be true, tell us who you are and whence you come and in what quarter you dwell.'
I knew not what to answer, but Shemsennehar sprang up and approaching the captain of the troop,
spoke with him privily, whereupon he dismounted and setting her on his steed, began to lead
it along by the bridle. Two of his men did the like with Ali ben Bekkar and myself, and they
fared on with us, till they reached a certain part of the river-bank, when the captain sang
out in jargon and there came to us a number of men with two boats. The captain embarked with
Shemsennehar in one boat and went his way, whilst the rest of his men put off in the other,
with Ali ben Bekkar and myself, and rowed on with us, we the while enduring the agonies of
death for excess of fear, till they came to a place whence there was a way to our quarter.
Here we landed and walked on, escorted by some of the horsemen, till we came to Ali ben Bekkar's
house, where they took leave of us and went their way. We entered the house and abode there,
unable to stir and knowing not night from day, till nightfall of the next day, when I came
to myself and saw Ali ben Bekkar stretched out without sense or motion, and the men and women
of his household weeping over him. When they saw that I had recovered my senses, some of them
came to me and helping me sit up, said to me, 'Tell us what hath befallen our son and how he
came in this plight.' 'O folk,' answered I, 'hearken to me and importune me not; but be patient
and he will come to himself and tell you his story for himself.' And I was round with them
and made them afraid of a scandal between us; but as we were thus, behold, Ali ben Bekkar moved
in his bed, whereat his friends rejoiced and the [most part of the] folk withdrew from him;
but his people forbade me to go away. Then they sprinkled rose-water on his face, and he presently
revived and breathed the air, whereupon they questioned him of his case. He essayed to answer
them, but could not speak forthright and signed to them to let me go home. So they let me go,
and I returned to my own house, supported by two men and hardly crediting my escape. When my
people saw me thus, they fell a-shrieking and buffeting their faces; but I signed to them to
hold their peace, and they were silent. Then the two men went their way and I threw myself
down on my bed, where I lay the rest of the night and awoke not till the forenoon, when I found
my people collected round me and they said, 'What hath befallen thee and what (evil) hath smitten
thee with its mischief?' Quoth I, 'Bring me to drink.' So they brought me wine, and I drank
what I would and said to them, 'Wine got the better of me and it was this caused the state
in which ye saw me' Then they went away, and I made my excuses to my friends and asked if any
of the goods that had been stolen from my other house had been returned.' 'Yes,' answered they.
'Some of them have come back: and the manner of their coming was that a man came and threw
them down in the doorway and we saw him not.' So I comforted myself and abode two days, unable
to rise, at the end of which time I began to regain strength and went to the bath, for I was
worn out with fatigue and troubled at heart for Ali ben Bekkar and Shemsennehar, because I
had no news of them all this time and could neither get to Ali's house nor rest in my own,
out of fear for myself. And I repented to God the Most High of what I had done and praised
Him for my safety. Then I bethought me to go to such and such a place and see the folk and
divert myself; so I went to the stuff-market and sat awhile with a friend of mine there. When
I rose to go, I saw a woman standing in my road; so I looked at her, and behold it was Shemsennehar's
slave-girl. When I saw her, the world grew dark in my eyes and I hurried on. She followed me,
but I was afraid and fled from her, trembling whenever I looked at her, whilst she pursued
me, saying, 'Stop, that I may tell thee somewhat.' But I heeded her not and went on, till I
reached a mosque in an unfrequented spot, and she said to me, 'Enter the mosque, that I may
say a word to thee, and fear nothing.' And she conjured me: so I entered the mosque, and she
after me. I prayed a two-bow prayer, after which I turned to her, sighing, and said, 'What
dost thou want?' She asked me how I did, and I told her all that had befallen myself and Ali
ben Bekkar and asked her for news of herself. 'Know,' answered she, 'that when I and the two
maids saw the robbers break open thy door, we doubted not but they were the Khalif's officers
and would seize us and our mistress and we perish forthright: so we fled over the roofs and
casting ourselves down from a high place, took refuge with some people, who harboured us and
brought us to the palace, where we arrived in the sorriest of plights. We concealed our case
and abode on coals of fire till nightfall, when I opened the river-gate and calling the boatman
who had carried us the night before, said to him, "I know not what is come of my mistress;
so take me in thy boat, that we may seek her on the river: it may be I shall chance on some
news of her." So he took me into the boat and rowed about with me till midnight, when I spied
a boat making towards the water-gate, with one man rowing and another standing up and a woman
lying prostrate between them. When they reached the shore and the woman landed, I looked at
her, and behold, it was Shemsennehar. So I landed and joined her, dazed for joy, after having
lost hope of her. When I came up to her, she bade me give the man who had brought her thither
a thousand diners, and I and the two maids carried her in and laid her on her bed, and she
at death's door. She abode thus all that day and the next day and I forbade the eunuchs and
women to go in to her; but on the third day, she revived and I found her as she had come out
of the grave. So I sprinkled rose-water upon her face and changed her clothes and washed her
hands and feet, nor did I cease to persuade her, till I brought her to eat a little and drink
some wine, though she had no mind to it. As soon as she had breathed the air and strength began
to return to her, I fell to upbraiding her, saying, "Consider, O my lady, and have pity on
thyself; thou seest what has betided us Surely, enough of evil hath befallen thee and thou
hast been nigh upon death." "By Allah, O good damsel," replied she, "death were easier to me
than what hath befallen me; for I had renounced all hope of deliverance and gave myself up
for lost. When the robbers took us from the jeweller's house, they asked me who I was; I replied,
'I am a singing-girl,' and they believed me. Then they said to Ali ben Bekkar, 'And who art
thou and what is thy condition?' And he answered, 'I am of the common people.' So they carried
us to their abode, and we hurried on with them for fear; but when they had us with them in
the house, they looked at me and seeing the clothes I wore and my necklaces and jewellery,
believed me not and said to me, 'No singing-girl ever had such jewels as these; tell us the
truth of thy case.' I returned them no answer, saying in myself, 'Now will they kill me for
my clothes and ornaments;' and I spoke not a word. Then they turned to Ali ben Bekkar and said
to him, 'And thou, who and whence art thou? For thy favour is not as that of the common folk.'
But he was silent and we ceased not to keep our counsel and weep, till God inclined the rogues'
hearts towards us and they said to us, 'Who is the owner of the house in which you were?' 'Such
an one, the jeweller,' answered we; whereupon quoth one of them, 'I know him well and where
he lives, and I will engage to bring him to you forthright.' Then they agreed to set me in
a place by myself and Ali ben Bekkar in a place by himself, and said to us, 'Be at rest and
fear not lest your secret be divulged; ye are safe from us.' Meanwhile their comrade went away
and returned with the jeweller, who made known to them our case, and we joined company with
him; after which one of the band fetched a boat, in which they embarked us all three and rowing
us over the river, landed us on the opposite bank and went away; whereupon up came a horse-patrol
and asked us who we were. So I spoke with the captain and said to him, 'I am Shemsennehar,
the Khalif's favourite; I had drunken wine and went out to visit certain of my acquaintance
of the wives of the Viziers, when yonder rogues laid hold of me and brought me hither; but
when they saw you, they fled. I met these men with them; so do thou escort me and them to a
place of safety and I will requite thee.' When the captain heard my speech, he knew me and
alighting, mounted me on his horse; and in like manner did two of his men with Ali and the
jeweller. And now my heart is on fire on their account, especially for Ali's friend the jeweller:
so do thou go to him and salute him and ask him for news of Ali ben Bekkar." I spoke to her
and blamed her and bade her beware, saying' "O my lady, have a care for thyself and give up
this intrigue." But she was angered at my words and cried out at me. So I came forth in quest
of thee, but found thee not and dared not go to Ali's house; so stood watching for thee, that
I might ask thee of him and know how it is with him. And I beg thee, of thy favour, to take
some money of me, for belike thou borrowedst of thy friends some of the goods, and as they
are lost, it behoves thee to make them compensation.' 'I hear and obey,' answered I. 'Go on.'
And I walked with her till we drew near my house, when she said to me, 'Wait till I return
to thee.' So she went away and presently returned with a bag of money, which she handed to
me, saying, 'O my lord, where shall we meet?' Quoth I, 'I will go to my house at once and suffer
hardship for thy sake and contrive how thou mayst win to him, for access to him is difficult
at this present.' 'Let me know where I shall come to thee,' said she, and I answered, 'In my
other house; I will go thither forthright and have the doors repaired and the place made secure
again, and henceforth we will meet there.' Then she took leave of me and went her way, whilst
I carried the money home, and counting it, found it five thousand diners. I gave my people
some of it and made good their loss to all who had lent me aught, after which I took my servants
and repaired to my other house, with builders and carpenters, who restored it to its former
state. Moreover, I placed my negress-slave there and forgot what had befallen me. Then I repaired
to Ali ben Bekkar's house, where his servants accosted me, saying, 'Our lord calls for thee
day and night and hath promised his freedom to whichever of us brings thee to him; so we have
been in quest of thee everywhere, but knew not where to find thee. Our master is by way of
recovery, but he has frequent relapses, and when he revives, he names thee and says, "Needs
must ye bring him to me, though but for an instant," and sinks back into his torpor.' So I
went in to Ali ben Bekkar and finding him unable to speak, sat down at his head, whereupon
he opened his eyes and seeing me, wept and said, 'Welcome and fair welcome!' I raised him and
making him sit up, strained him to my bosom, and he said, 'Know, O my brother, that, since
I took to my bed, I have not sat up till now: praised be God that I see thee again!' Presently,
little by little, I made him stand up and walk a few steps, after which I changed his clothes
and he drank some wine. All this he did to please me. Then, seeing him to be somewhat restored,
I told him what had befallen me with the slave-girl, none else hearing me, and said to him,
'I know what thou sufferest; but take heart and be of good courage; for henceforth nought shall
betide thee, but what shall rejoice thee and ease thine heart.' He smiled and called for food,
which being brought, he signed to his servants, and they withdrew. Then said he to me, 'O my
brother, thou seest what hath befallen me;' and he made his excuses to me and enquired how
I had fared all that while. I told him all that had befallen me, from first to last, at which
he wondered and calling his servants, said, 'Bring me such and such things.' Accordingly, they
brought in rich carpets and hangings and utensils of gold and silver, more than I had lost,
and he gave them all to me; so I sent them to my house and abode with him that night. When
the day began to break, he said to me, 'To everything there is an end, and the end of love
is death or enjoyment. I am nearer unto death, would I had died ere this befell! For, had not
God favoured us, we had been discovered and put to shame. And now I know not what shall deliver
me from this my strait, and were it not that I fear God, I would hasten my own death; for know,
O my brother, that I am like the bird in the cage and that my life is of a surety perished,
by reason of the distresses that have befallen me; yet hath it a fixed period and an appointed
term.' And he wept and groaned and repeated the following verses:

Indeed, it sufficeth the lover the time that his tears have run;
     As for affliction, of patience it hath him all fordone.
He who concealeth the secrets conjoined us heretofore And now His
     hand hath severed that which Himself made one.

When he had finished, I said to him, 'O my lord, I would fain return to my house; it may be
the damsel will come back to me with news.' 'It is well,' answered he; 'go and return to me
speedily with news, for thou seest my condition.' So I took leave of him and went home. Hardly
had I sat down, when up came the damsel, choked with her tears. 'What is the matter?' asked
I, and she said, 'O my lord, what we feared has fallen on us; for, when I returned yesterday
to my lady, I found her enraged with one of the two maids who were with us the other night,
and she ordered her to be beaten. The girl took fright and ran away; but one of the gate-keepers
stopped her and would have sent her back to her mistress. However, she let fall some hints,
which excited his curiosity; so he coaxed her and led her on to talk, and she acquainted him
with our case. This came to the ears of the Khalif, who bade remove my mistress and all her
gear to his own palace and set over her a guard of twenty eunuchs. Since then he has not visited
her nor given her to know the cause of his action, but I suspect this to be the cause; wherefore
I am in fear for myself and am perplexed, O my lord, knowing not what I shall do nor how I
shall order my affair and hers, for she had none more trusted nor trustier than myself. So
do thou go quickly to Ali ben Bekkar and acquaint him with this, that he may be on his guard;
and if the affair be discovered, we will cast about for a means of saving ourselves.' At this,
I was sore troubled and the world grew dark in my sight for the girl's words. Then she turned
to go, and I said to her, 'What is to be done?' Quoth she, 'My counsel is that thou hasten
to Ali ben Bekkar, if thou be indeed his friend and desire his escape; thine be it to carry
him the news forthright, and be it mine to watch for further news.' Then she took her leave
of me and went away. I followed her out and betaking myself to Ali ben Bekkar, found him flattering
himself with hopes of speedy enjoyment and staying himself with vain expectations. When he
saw me, he said, 'I see thou hast come back to me forthwith' 'Summon up all thy patience,'
answered I, 'and put away thy vain doting and shake off thy preoccupation, for there hath befallen
that which may bring about the loss of thy life and goods.' When he heard this, he was troubled
and his colour changed and he said to me, 'O my brother, tell me what hath happened.' 'O my
lord,' replied I, 'such and such things have happened and thou art lost without recourse, if
thou abide in this thy house till the end of the day.' At this he was confounded and his soul
well-nigh departed his body, but he recovered himself and said to me, 'What shall I do, O my
brother, and what is thine advice?' 'My advice,' answered I, 'is that thou take what thou canst
of thy property and whom of thy servants thou trustest and flee with me to a land other than
this, ere the day come to an end.' And he said, 'I hear and obey.' So he rose, giddy and dazed,
now walking and now falling down and took what came under his hand. Then he made an excuse
to his household and gave them his last injunctions, after which he loaded three camels and
mounted his hackney. I did the like and we went forth privily in disguise and fared on all
day and night, till nigh upon morning, when we unloaded and hobbling our camels, lay down to
sleep; but, being worn with fatigue, we neglected to keep watch, so that there fell on us robbers,
who stripped us of all we had and slew our servants, when they would have defended us, after
which they made off with their booty, leaving us naked and in the sorriest of plights. As soon
as they were gone, we arose and walked on till morning, when we came to a village and took
refuge in its mosque. We sat in a corner of the mosque all that day and the next night, without
meat or drink; and at daybreak, we prayed the morning prayer and sat down again. Presently,
a man entered and saluting us, prayed a two-bow prayer, after which he turned to us and said,
'O folk, are ye strangers?' 'Yes,' answered we, 'robbers waylaid us and stripped us, and we
came to this town, but know none here with whom we may shelter.' Quoth he, 'What say you? Will
you come home with me?' And I said to Ali ben Bekkar, 'Let us go with him, and we shall escape
two evils; first, our fear lest some one who knows us enter the mosque and so we be discovered;
and secondly, that we are strangers and have no place to lodge in.' 'As thou wilt,' answered
he. Then the man said to us again, 'O poor folk, give ear unto me and come with me to my house.'
'We hear and obey,' answered I; whereupon he pulled off a part of his own clothes and covered
us therewith and made his excuses to us and spoke kindly to us. Then we accompanied him to
his house and he knocked at the door, whereupon a little servant came out and opened to us.
We entered after our host, who called for a parcel of clothes and muslin for turbans, and gave
us each a suit of clothes and a piece of muslin; so we made us turbans and sat down. Presently,
in came a damsel with a tray of food and set it before us, saying, 'Eat.' We ate a little and
she took away the tray; after which we abode with our host till nightfall, when Ali ben Bekkar
sighed and said to me, 'Know, O my brother, that I am a dead man and I have a charge to give
thee: it is that, when thou seest me dead, thou go to my mother and tell her and bid her come
hither, that she may be present at the washing of my body and take order for my funeral; and
do thou exhort her to bear my loss with patience.' Then he fell down in a swoon and when he
revived, he heard a damsel singing afar off and addressed himself to give ear to her and hearken
to her voice; and now he was absent from the world and now came to himself, and anon he wept
for grief and mourning at what had befallen him. Presently, he heard the damsel sing the following
verses:

Parting hath wrought in haste our union to undo After the
     straitest loves and concord 'twixt us two.
The shifts of night and day have torn our lives apart. When shall
     we meet again? Ah, would to God I knew!
After conjoined delight, how bitter sev'rance is! Would God it
     had no power to baffle lovers true!
Death's anguish hath its hour, then endeth; but the pain Of
     sev'rance from the loved at heart is ever new.
Could we but find a way to come at parting's self, We'd surely
     make it taste of parting's cup of rue.

When he heard this, he gave one sob and his soul quitted his body. As soon as I saw that he
was dead, I committed his body to the care of the master of the house and said to him, 'I go
to Baghdad, to tell his mother and kinsfolk, that they may come hither and take order for his
burial' So I betook myself to Baghdad and going to my house, changed my clothes, after which
I repaired to Ali ben Bekkar's lodging. When his servants saw me, they came to me and questioned
me of him, and I bade them ask leave for me to go in to his mother. She bade admit me; so I
entered and saluting her, said, 'Verily God orders the lives of all creatures by His commandment
and when He decreeth aught, there is no escaping its fulfilment, nor can any soul depart but
by His leave, according to the Writ which prescribeth the appointed terms.' She guessed by
these words that her son was dead and wept sore, then she said to me, 'I conjure thee by Allah,
tell me, is my son dead?' I could not answer her for tears and much grief, and when she saw
me thus, she was choked with weeping and fell down in a swoon. As soon as she came to herself,
she said to me, 'Tell me how my son died.' 'May God abundantly requite thee for him!' answered
I and told her all that had befallen him, from first to last. 'Did he give thee any charge?'
asked she. 'Yes,' answered I and told her what he had said, adding, 'Hasten to take order for
his funeral.' When she heard this, she swooned away again; and when she recovered, she addressed
herself to do as I bade her. Then I returned to my house; and as I went along, musing sadly
upon his fair youth, a woman caught hold of my hand. I looked at her and behold, it was Shemsennehar's
slave-girl, broken for grief. When we knew each other, we both wept and gave not over weeping
till we reached my house, and I said to her, 'Knowest thou the news of Ali ben Bekkar?' 'No,
by Allah,' replied she; so I told her the manner of his death and all that had passed, whilst
we both wept; after which I said to her, 'And how is it with thy mistress?' Quoth she, 'The
Khalif would not hear a word against her, but saw all her actions in a favourable light, of
the great love he bore her, and said to her, "O Shemsennehar, thou art dear to me and I will
bear with thee and cherish thee, despite thine enemies." Then he bade furnish her a saloon
decorated with gold and a handsome sleeping-chamber, and she abode with him in all ease of
life and high favour. One day, as he sat at wine, according to his wont, with his favourites
before him, he bade them be seated in their places and made Shemsennehar sit by his side. (Now
her patience was exhausted and her disorder redoubled upon her.) Then he bade one of the damsels
sing: so she took a lute and tuning it, preluded and sang the following verses:

One sought me of lore and I yielded and gave him that which he
     sought. And my tears write the tale of my transport in
     furrows upon my cheek.
Meseemeth as if the teardrops were ware, indeed, of our case And
     hide what I'd fain discover and tell what to hide I seek.
How can I hope to be secret and hide the love that I feel, Whenas
     the stress of my longing my passion for thee doth speak?
Death, since the loss of my loved ones, is sweet to me: would I
     knew What unto them is pleasant, now that they've lost me
     eke!

When Shemsennehar heard these verses, she could not keep her seat, but fell down in a swoon,
whereupon the Khalif threw the cup from his hand and drew her to him, crying out. The damsels
clamoured and he turned her over and shook her, and behold, she was dead. The Khalif grieved
sore for her death and bade break all the vessels and lutes and other instruments of mirth
and music in the place; then carrying her body to his closet, he abode with her the rest of
the night. When the day broke, he laid her out and commanded to wash her and shroud her and
bury her. And he mourned very sore for her and questioned not of her case nor what ailed her.
And I beg thee in God's name,' continued the damsel, 'to let me know the day of the coming
of Ali ben Bekkar's funeral train, that I may be present at his burial.' Quoth I, 'For myself,
thou canst find me where thou wilt; but thou, who can come at thee where thou art?' 'On the
day of Shemsennehar's death,' answered she, 'the Commander of the Faithful freed all her women,
myself among the rest; and we are now abiding at the tomb in such a place.' So I accompanied
her to the burial-ground and visited Shemennehar's tomb;[FN#18] after which I went my way and
awaited the coming of Ali ben Bekkar's funeral. When it arrived, the people of Baghdad went
forth to meet it and I with them; and I saw the damsel among the women and she the loudest
of them in lamentation, crying out and wailing with a voice that rent the vitals and made the
heart ache. Never was seen in Baghdad a greater funeral than his and we ceased not to follow
in crowds, till we reached the cemetery and buried him to the mercy of God the most High; nor
from that time to this have I ceased to visit his tomb and that of Shemsennehar." This, then,
is their story, and may God the Most High have mercy upon them!

                    KEMEREZZEMAN AND BUDOUR.

There was once, of old time, a king called Shehriman, who was lord of many troops and guards
and officers and reigned over certain islands, known as the Khalidan Islands, on the borders
of the land of the Persians; but he was grown old and decrepit, without having been blessed
with a son, albeit he had four wives, daughters of kings, and threescore concubines, with each
of whom he was wont to lie one night in turn.  This preyed upon his mind and disquieted him,
so that he complained thereof to one of his Viziers, saying, 'I fear lest my kingdom be lost,
when I die, for that I have no son to take it after me.'  'O King,' answered the Vizier, 'peradventure
God shall yet provide for this; do thou put thy trust in Him and be constant in supplication
to Him.'  So the King rose and making his ablutions, prayed a two-bow prayer with a believing
heart; after which he called one of his wives to bed and lay with her forthright.  By God's
grace, she conceived by him and when her months were accomplished, she bore a male child, like
the moon on the night of its full.  The King named him Kemerezzeman and rejoiced in him with
exceeding joy and bade decorate the city in his honour.  So they decorated the city seven days,
whilst the drums beat and the messengers bore the glad tidings abroad.  Meanwhile nurses and
attendants were provided for the boy and he was reared in splendour and delight, until he reached
the age of fifteen.  He grew up of surpassing beauty and symmetry, and his father loved him
very dear, so that he could not brook to be parted from him day or night.  One day, he complained
to one of his Viziers of the excess of his love for his son, saying, 'O Vizier, of a truth
I fear the shifts and accidents of fortune for my son Kemerezzeman and fain would I marry him
in my lifetime.'  'O King,' answered the Vizier, 'marriage is one of the most honourable of
actions, and thou wouldst indeed do well to marry thy son in thy lifetime, ere thou make him
king.'  Quoth the King, 'Fetch me my son;' so Kemerezzeman came and bowed his head before his
father, out of modesty.  'O Kemerezzeman,' said the King, 'I desire to marry thee and rejoice
in thee in my lifetime.'  'O my father,' answered the prince, 'know that I have no wish to
marry, nor doth my soul incline to women; for that I have read many books and heard much talk
concerning their craft and perfidy, even as saith the poet:

If ye would know of women and question of their case, Lo, I am
     versed in their fashions and skilled all else above.
When a man's head grows grizzled or for the nonce his wealth
     Falls from his hand, then, trust me, he hath no part in
     their love.

And again:

Gainsay women; he obeyeth Allah best who saith them nay, And he
     prospers not who giveth them his bridle-rein to sway;
For they'll hinder him from winning to perfection in his gifts,
     Though a thousand years he study, seeking after wisdom's
     way.

Wherefore (continued Kemerezzeman) marriage is a thing to which I will never consent; no, not
though I drink the cup of death.' When the King heard this, the light in his sight became darkness
and he was excessively chagrined at his son's lack of obedience to his wishes; yet, for the
great love he bore him, he forbore to press him and was not wroth with him, but caressed him
and spoke him fair and showed him all manner of kindness such as tends to cultivate affection.
He took patience with him a whole year, during which time Kemerezzeman increased daily in beauty
and elegance and amorous grace, till he became perfect in eloquence and loveliness.  All men
were ravished with his beauty and every breeze that blew carried the tidings of his charms;
he was a seduction to lovers and a garden of delight to longing hearts, for he was sweet of
speech and his face put the full moon to shame.  Accomplished in symmetry as in elegance and
engaging manners, his shape was slender and graceful as the willow-wand or the flowering cane
and his cheeks might pass for roses or blood-red anemones.  He was, in fine, charming in all
respects, even as the poet hath said of him:

He comes and "Blest be God!" say all men, high and base. "Glory
     to Him who shaped and fashioned forth his face!"
He's monarch of the fair, wherever they may be;  For, lo, they're
     all become the liegemen of his grace.
The water of his mouth is liquid honey-dew And 'twixt his lips
     for teeth fine pearls do interlace.
Perfect in every trait of beauty and unique, His witching
     loveliness distracts the human race.
Beauty itself hath writ these words upon his cheek, "Except this
     youth there's none that's fair in any place."

When the year came to an end, the King called his son to him and said, 'O my son, wilt thou
not hearken to me?'  Whereupon Kemerezzeman fell down for respect and shame before his father
and replied, 'O my father, how should I not hearken to thee, seeing that God commandeth me
to obey thee and not gainsay thee?' 'O my son,' said King Shehriman, 'know that I desire to
marry thee and rejoice in thee, whilst yet I live, and make thee king over my realm, before
my death.'  When the prince heard this, he bowed his head awhile, then raised it and said,
'O my father, this is a thing that I will never do, though I drink the cup of death.  I know
of a surety that God the Most High enjoins on me obedience to thee; but in His name I conjure
thee, press me not in this matter of marriage, neither think that I will ever marry my life
long; for that I have read the books both of the ancients and the moderns and have come to
know all the troubles and calamities that have befallen them through women and the disasters
that have sprung from their craft without end.  How well says the poet:

He, whom the baggages entrap, Deliverance shall never know,
Although a thousand forts he build, Plated with lead;--'gainst
     such a foe
It shall not profit him to build Nor citadels avail, I trow.
Women are traitresses to all, Both near and far and high and low.
With fingers dyed and flowing hair Plaited with tresses, sweet of
     show,
And eyelids beautified with kohl, They make one drink of bale and
     woe.

And no less excellently saith another:

Women, for all to chastity they're bidden, everywhere Are carrion
     tossed about of all the vultures of the air.
To-night their converse, ay, and all their secret charms are
     thine, But on the morn their leg and wrist fall to another's
     share;
Like to an inn in which thou lodg'st, departing with the dawn,
     And one thou know'st not, after thee, lights down and lodges
     there.

When King Shehriman heard these his son's words, he made him no
answer, of his great love for him, but redoubled in favour and
kindness to him.  As soon as the audience was over, he called his
Vizier and taking him apart, said to him, 'O Vizier, tell me how
I shall do with my son in this matter of his marriage.  I took
counsel with thee thereon and thou didst counsel me to marry him,
before making him king.  I have spoken with him once and again of
marriage, and he still gainsaid me; so do thou now counsel me
what to do.'  'O King,' answered the Vizier, 'wait another year,
and if after that thou be minded to speak to him on the matter of
marriage, do it not privily, but on a day of state, when all the
Viziers and Amirs are present and all the troops standing before
thee.  Then send for thy son and broach to him the matter of
marriage before the Viziers and grandees and officers of state
and captains; for he will surely be daunted by their presence and
will not dare to oppose thy will.'  The King rejoiced exceedingly
in his Vizier's advice, deeming it excellent, and bestowed on him
a splendid robe of honour.  Then he took patience with his son
another year, whilst, with every day that passed over him,
Kemerezzeman increased in grace and beauty and elegance and
perfection, till he was nigh twenty years old.  Indeed, God had
clad him in the habit of beauty and crowned him with the crown of
perfection: his eyes were more ensorcelling than Harout and
Marout[FN#19] and the play of his glances more misleading than
Taghout.[FN#20] His cheeks shone with redness and his eyelashes
outvied the keen-edged sword: the whiteness of his forehead
resembled the shining moon and the blackness of his hair was as
the murky night.  His waist was more slender than the gossamer
and his buttocks heavier than two hills of sand, troubling the
heart with their softness; but his waist complained of their
weight.
Yea, the sun in all his splendour cannot with his brightness vie,
     And the crescent moon's a fragment that he from his nail
     doth pare.

The King, accordingly, waited till a day of state, when the audience hall was filled with his
Amirs and Viziers and grandees and officers of state and captains.  As soon as they were all
assembled, he sent for his son Kemerezzeman, who came and kissing the earth three times, stood
before him, with his hands clasped behind his back.  Then said the King to him, 'Know, O my
son, that I have sent for thee and summoned thee to appear before this assembly and all these
officers of state that I may lay a commandment on thee, wherein do thou not gainsay me.  It
is that thou marry, for I am minded to wed thee to a king's daughter and rejoice in thee ere
I die.'  When the prince heard these his father's words, he bowed his head awhile, then raising
it, replied, being moved thereto by youthful folly and boyish ignorance, 'Never will I marry,
no, not though I drink the cup of death!  As for thee, thou art great in years and little of
wit: hast thou not, twice before this, questioned me of the matter of marriage, and I refused
thee?  Indeed, thou dotest and art not fit to govern a flock of sheep!'  So saying, he unclasped
his hands from behind his back and rolled up his sleeves, in his rage; moreover, he added many
words to his father, knowing not what he said, in the trouble of his spirit.  The King was
confounded and ashamed, for that this befell in the presence of his grandees and officers assembled
on an occasion of state; but presently the energy of kingship took him and he cried out upon
his son and made him tremble.  Then he called to his guards and bade them seize him and bind
his hands behind his back.  So they laid hands on Kemerezzeman and binding him, brought him
before his father, full of shame and confusion, with his head bowed down for fear and inquietude
and his brow and face beaded with sweat. The King loaded him with reproaches, saying, 'Out
on thee, thou whoreson and nursling of abomination!  Dost thou dare to answer me thus before
my captains and officers?  But hitherto none hath corrected thee.  Knowest thou not that this
thou hast done were disgraceful in the meanest of my subjects?'  And he commanded his guards
to loose his bonds and imprison him in one of the turrets of the citadel.  So they carried
the prince into an old tower, wherein there was a dilapidated saloon, after having first swept
it and cleansed its floor and set him a couch in its midst, on which they laid a mattress,
a leathern rug and a cushion. Then they brought him a great lantern and a candle, for the place
was dark, even by day, and posting an eunuch at the door, left him to himself.  Kemerezzeman
threw himself on the couch, broken-spirited and mournful-hearted, blaming himself and repenting
of his unseemly behaviour to his father, when repentance availed him nothing, and saying, 'May
God curse marriage and girls and women, the traitresses!  Would I had hearkened to my father
and married!  It were better for me than this prison.'

Meanwhile, King Shehriman abode on his throne till sundown, when he took the Vizier apart and
said to him, 'O Vizier, thine advice is the cause of all this that hath befallen between me
and my son.  What doth thou counsel me to do now?'  'O King,' answered he, 'leave thy son in
prison for the space of fifteen days; then send for him and command him to marry, and he will
not again gainsay thee.'  The King accepted the Vizier's counsel and lay down to sleep, troubled
at heart concerning Kemerezzeman, for he loved him very dearly, having no other child, and
it was his wont not to sleep, save with his arm about his son's neck.  So he passed the night
in trouble and unease, tossing from side to side, as he were laid on coals of tamarisk-wood;
for he was overcome with inquietude and sleep visited him not all that night; but his eyes
ran over with tears and he repeated the following verses:

The night, whilst the slanderers sleep, is tedious unto me;
     Suffice thee a heart that aches for parting's agony!
I cry, whilst my night for care grows long and longer aye, "O
     light of the morning, say, is there no returning for thee?"

And these also:

When the Pleiads I saw leave to shine in their stead And over the
     pole-star a lethargy shed
And the maids of the Bier[FN#22] in black raiment unveiled, I
     knew that the lamp of the morning was dead.

To return to Kemerezzeman.  When the night came on, the eunuch set the lantern before him and
lighting a candle, placed it in the candlestick; then brought him food.  The prince ate a little
and reproached himself for his ill-behaviour to his father, saying to himself, 'O my soul,
knowst thou not that a son of Adam is the hostage of his tongue and that a man's tongue is
what casts him into perils?'  Then his eyes ran over with tears and he bewailed that which
he had done, from an anguished heart and an aching bosom, repenting him with an exceeding repentance
of the wrong he had done his father repeating the following verses:

For the sheer stumble of his tongue the youth must death aby,
     Though for the stumble of his foot the grown man shall not
     die.
Thus doth the slipping of his mouth smite off his head, I ween,
     What while the slipping of his foot is healed, as time goes
     by.

When he had made an end of eating, he called the eunuch, who washed his hands.  Then he made
his ablutions and prayed the prayers of sundown and nightfall, after which he sat down on the
couch, to read[FN#23] the Koran.  He read the chapters called 'The Cow,' 'The family of Imran,'
'Ya-Sin,' 'The Compassionate,' 'Blessed be the King,' 'Unity' and 'The two Amulets,' and concluded
with blessing and supplication, seeking refuge with God from Satan the accursed.  Then he put
off his trousers and the rest of his clothes and lay down, in a shirt of fine waxed cloth and
a coif of blue stuff of Merv, upon a mattress of satin, embroidered on both sides with gold
and quilted with Irak silk, having under his head a pillow stuffed with ostrich-down.  In this
guise, he was like the full moon, when it rises on its fourteenth night.  Then, drawing over
himself a coverlet of silk, he fell asleep with the lantern burning at his feet and the candle
at his head, and woke not for a third part of the night, being ignorant of that which lurked
for him in the secret purpose of God and what He who knoweth the hidden things had appointed
unto him.  Now, as chance and destiny would have it, the tower in question was old and had
been many years deserted; and there was therein a Roman well, inhabited by an Afriteh of the
lineage of Iblis the Accursed, by name Maimouneh, daughter of Ed Dimiryat, a renowned King
of the Jinn.  In the middle of the night, Maimouneh came up out of the well and made for heaven,
thinking to listen by stealth to the discourse of the angels; but, when she reached the mouth
of the well, she saw a light shining in the tower, contrary to wont; whereat she was mightily
amazed, having dwelt there many years and never seen the like, and said to herself, 'Needs
must there be some cause for this.'  So she made for the light and found that it came from
the saloon, at whose door she found the eunuch sleeping.  She entered and saw a man Iying asleep
upon the couch, with the lantern burning at his feet and the candle at his head; at which she
wondered and going softly up to him, folded her wings and drawing back the coverlid, discovered
his face.  The lustre of his visage outshone that of the candle, and the Afriteh abode awhile,
astounded at his beauty and grace; for his face beamed with light, his cheeks were rose-red
and his eyelids languorous; his brows were arched like bows and his whole person exhaled a
scent of musk, even as saith of him the poet:

I kissed him and his cheeks forthwith grew red, and black and
     bright The pupils grew that are my soul's seduction and
     delight.
O heart, if slanderers avouch that there exists his like For
     goodliness, say thou to them, "Produce him to my sight."

When Maimouneh saw him, she glorified God and said, 'Blessed be Allah, the best of Creators!'
For she was of the true-believing Jinn.  She stood awhile, gazing on his face, proclaiming
the unity of God and envying the youth his beauty and grace.  And she said in herself, 'By
Allah, I will do him no hurt nor let any harm him, but will ransom him from all ill, for this
fair face deserves not but that folk should look upon it and glorify God. But how could his
family find it in their hearts to leave him in this desert place, where if one of our Marids
came upon him at this hour, he would kill him?'  Then she bent over him and kissing him between
the eyes, folded back the coverlet over his face; after which she spread her wings and soaring
into the air, flew upward till she drew near the lowest heaven, when she heard the noise of
wings beating the air and making for the sound, found that it came from an Afrit called Dehnesh.
So she swooped down on him like a sparrow-hawk; and when he was ware of her and knew her to
be Maimouneh, daughter of the King of the Jinn, he feared her and his nerves trembled; and
he implored her forbearance, saying, 'I conjure thee by the Most Great and August Name and
by the most noble talisman graven upon the seal of Solomon, entreat me kindly and harm me not!'
When she heard this, her heart inclined to him and she said, 'Verily, thou conjurest me with
a mighty conjuration, O accursed one! Nevertheless, I will not let thee go, till thou tell
me whence thou comest at this hour.'  'O princess,' answered he, 'know that I come from the
uttermost end of the land of Cathay and from among the islands, and I will tell thee of a wonderful
thing I have seen this night.  If thou find my words true, let me go my way and write me a
patent under thy hand that I am thy freedman, so none of the Jinn, whether of the air or the
earth, divers or flyers,[FN#24] may do me let or hindrance.'  'And what is it thou hast seen
this night, O liar, O accursed one?'  rejoined Maimouneh.  'Tell me without leasing and think
not to escape from my hand with lies, for I swear to thee by the inscription on the beazel
of the ring of Solomon son of David (on whom be peace,) except thy speech be true, I will pluck
out thy feathers with mine own hand and strip off thy skin and break thy bones.'  'I accept
this condition, O my lady,' answered Dehnesh, son of Shemhourish the Flyer.  'Know that I come
to-night from the Islands of the Inland Sea in the parts of Cathay, which are the dominions
of King Ghaiour, lord of the Islands and the Seas and the Seven Palaces.  There I saw a daughter
of his, than whom God hath made none fairer in her time,--I cannot picture her to thee, for
my tongue would fail to describe her aright; but I will name to thee somewhat of her charms,
by way of approximation.  Her hair is like the nights of estrangement and separation and her
face like the days of union; and the poet hath well described her when he says:

She took up three locks of her hair and spread them out one night
     And straight four nights discovered at once unto my sight.
Then did she turn her visage up to the moon of the sky And showed
     me two moons at one season, both burning clear and bright.

She hath a nose like the point of the burnished sword and cheeks like purple wine or blood-red
anemones: her lips are like coral and cornelian and the water of her mouth is sweeter than
old wine, its taste would allay the torments of Hell.  Her tongue is moved by abounding wit
and ready repartee: her breast is a temptation to all that see it, glory be to Him who created
it and finished it: and joined thereto are two smooth round arms.  As says of her the poet
El Welhan:

She hath two wrists, which, were they not by bracelets held, I
     trow, Would flow out of their sleeves as brooks of liquid
     silver flow.

She has breasts like two globes of ivory, the moons borrow from their brightness, and a belly
dimpled as it were a brocaded cloth of the finest Egyptian linen, with creases like folded
scrolls, leading to a waist slender past conception, over buttocks like a hill of sand, that
force her to sit, when she would fain stand, and awaken her, when she would sleep, even as
saith of her the poet:

Her slender waist a pair of buttocks overlies, The which both
     over her and me do tyrannize.
For they confound my wit, whenas I think on them, And eke enforce
     her sit, whenas she fain would rise.

They are upborne by smooth round thighs and legs like columns of pearl, and all this rests
upon two slender feet, pointed like spear-blades, the handiwork of God, the Protector and Requiter,
I wonder how, of their littleness, they can sustain what is above them.  But I cut short my
description of her charms, lest I be tedious.  The father of this young lady is a powerful
king, a fierce cavalier, immersed night and day in wars and battles, fearless of death and
dreading not ruin, for that he is a masterful tyrant and an irresistible conqueror, lord of
troops and armies, continents and islands, cities and villages, and his name is King Ghaiour,
lord of the Islands and the Seas and of the Seven Palaces.  He loves his daughter, the young
lady whom I have described to thee, very dearly, and for love of her, he gathered together
the treasures of all the kings and built her therewith seven palaces, each of a different fashion;
the first of crystal, the second of marble, the third of China steel, the fourth of precious
stones, the fifth of porcelain and vari-coloured onyx, the sixth of silver and the seventh
of gold.  He filled the seven palaces with rich silken carpets and hangings and vessels of
gold and silver and all manner of gear befitting kings and commanded his daughter, whose name
is the Princess Budour, to abide in each by turns for a certain season of the year.  When her
beauty became known and her fame was noised abroad in the neighbouring countries, all the kings
sent to her father, to demand her in marriage, and he consulted her on the matter, but she
misliked it and said, "O my father, I have no mind to marry; for I am a sovereign lady and
a princess ruling over men, and I have no desire for a man who shall rule over me." The more
she refused, the more the eagerness of her suitors increased and all the kings of the Islands
of the Inland Sea sent gifts and offerings to her father, with letters asking her in marriage.
So he pressed her again and again to make choice of a husband, despite her refusals, till at
last she turned upon him angrily and said to him, "O my father, if thou name marriage to me
again, I will go into my chamber and take a sword and fixing its hilt in the ground, set its
point to my breast; then will I lean upon it, till it come forth from my back, and so kill
myself." When the King heard this, the light became darkness in his sight and his heart was
torn with anxiety and perplexity concerning her affair; for he feared lest she should kill
herself and knew not how to deal with the kings who sought her hand.  So he said to her, "If
thou be irrevocably determined not to marry, abstain from going in and out." Then he shut her
up in her chamber, appointing ten old body-women to guard her, and made as though he were wroth
with her, forbidding her to go forth to the seven palaces; moreover, he sent letters to all
the kings, giving them to know that she had been stricken with madness.  It is now a year (continued
Dehnesh) since she has been thus cloistered, and every night I go to her, whilst she is asleep,
and take my fill of gazing on her face and kiss her between the eyes: yet, of my love to her,
I do her no hurt neither swive her, for that her youth is fair and her loveliness surpassing;
every one who sees is jealous for her of himself.  I conjure thee, therefore, O my lady, to
go back with me and look on her beauty and symmetry; and after, if thou wilt, chastise me or
enslave me: for it is thine to command and to forbid.'  So saying, he bowed his head towards
the earth and drooped his wings; but Maimouneh laughed at his words and spitting in his face,
answered, 'What is this girl of whom thou pratest but a potsherd to cleanse the privities withal?
Faugh! Faugh!  By Allah, O accursed one, I thought thou hadst some rare story to tell me or
some marvel to make known to me!  How would it be if thou sawest my beloved?  Verily this night
I have seen a young man whom if thou sawest though but in sleep, thou wouldst be palsied with
admiration and thy mouth would water.'  'And who and what is this youth?'  asked the Afrit.
'Know, O Dehnesh,' answered she, 'that there hath befallen him the like of what befell thy
mistress; for his father pressed him again and again to marry, but he refused, till at length
his father waxed wroth and imprisoned him in the tower where I dwell: and I came up to-night
and saw him.'  'O my lady,' said Dehnesh, 'show me the youth, that I may see if he be indeed
handsomer than my mistress, the Princess Budour, or not; for I cannot believe that there lives
her equal.'  'Thou liest, O accursed one!'  rejoined Maimouneh.  'O most ill-omened of Marids
and vilest of  Satans! Sure am I that there is not in this world the like of my beloved. Art
thou mad to even thy beloved with mine?'  'I conjure thee by Allah, O my lady,' said Dehnesh,
'to go back with me and see my mistress, and after I will return with thee and look upon thy
beloved.'  'It must needs be so, O accursed one!'  answered she. 'Yet, for that thou art a
knavish devil, I will not go with thee nor shalt thou come with me, save upon surety and condition
of pledge.  If thy beloved prove handsomer than mine, the pledge shall be thine against me;
but if my beloved prove the fairer, the pledge shall be mine against thee.'  'O my lady,' said
Dehnesh, 'I accept this thy condition; so come with me to the Islands.'  'Not so,' replied
Maimouneh; 'for the abode of my beloved is nearer than that of thine: here it is under us;
so come down with me and see my beloved, and after we will go look upon thy mistress.'  'I
hear and obey,' said Dehnesh.  So they descended and alighting on the tower, entered the saloon,
where Maimouneh stationed Dehnesh beside the bed and putting out her hand, drew back the silken
coverlet, whereupon Kemerezzeman's face shone out like the sun.  She looked at him a moment,
then turning to Dehnesh, said, ''Look, O accursed one, and be not the vilest of madmen; I am
a maiden and am ravished with him.'  So Dehnesh looked at the prince and gazed steadfastly
on him awhile, then, shaking his head, said to Maimouneh, 'By Allah, O my lady, thou art excusable;
but there is another thing to be considered, and that is that the female estate differs from
the male.  By the virtue of God, this thy beloved is the likest of all created things to my
mistress in beauty and loveliness and grace and it is as though they were both cast alike in
the mould of perfection!'  When Maimouneh heard these words, the light in her sight became
darkness and she dealt him so fierce a buffet on the head with her wing as well-nigh made an
end of him. Then, 'I conjure thee,' said she, 'by the light of his glorious countenance, go
at once, O accursed one, and bring hither thy mistress in haste that we may lay them together
and look on them both, as they lie asleep side by side; so will it appear to us whether is
the goodlier and more beautiful of the two.  Except thou obey me forthright, I will dart my
sparks at thee and consume thee with my fire; yea, I will rend thee in pieces and cast thee
into the deserts, as an example to stay-at-home and wayfarer.'  'O my lady,' answered the Afrit,
'I will do thy bidding, for I know that my mistress is the fairer and sweeter.' So saying,
he flew away and Maimouneh flew with him, to guard him.  They were absent awhile and presently
returned, bearing the young lady, who was clad in a shift of fine Venetian silk, laced with
gold and wrought with the most exquisite broidery and having the following verses worked upon
the ends of the sleeves:

Three things for ever hinder her to visit us, for fear Of the
     intriguing spy and eke the rancorous envier;
Her forehead's lustre and the sound of all her ornaments And the
     sweet scent her creases hold of ambergris and myrrh.
Grant with the border of her sleeve she hide her brows and doff
     Her ornaments, how shall she do her scent away from her?

They carried her into the saloon and laying her beside Kemerezzeman, uncovered both their faces,
and behold, they were the likest of all folk, one to the other, as they were twins or an only
brother and sister; and indeed they were a temptation to the pious, even as says of them  the
poet El Mubin:

Be not thy love, O heart, to one alone confined, Lest, for that
     one, amaze and doting thee enwind;
But love thou rather all the fair, and thou shalt find, If one
     contrarious prove, another will be kind.

And quoth another:

Two fair ones lying on the earth I did of late espy; Two that I
     needs must love, although they lay upon mine eye.

Dehnesh and Maimouneh gazed on them awhile, and the former said, 'By Allah, O my lady, it is
good!  My mistress is assuredly the fairer.'  'Not so,' answered she, 'my beloved is the fairer.
Out on thee, O Dehnesh!  Thou art blind of eye and heart and distinguishest not between good
and bad.[FN#25] Wilt thou hide the truth?  Dost thou not see his beauty and grace and symmetry?
Out on thee, hear what I purpose to say in praise of my beloved, and do thou the like for her
thou lovest, an thou be a true lover.'  Then she kissed Kemerezzeman again and again between
the eyes and repeated the following ode:

Ah me, what ails the censurer that he at thee should flite? How
     shall I be consoled for thee, and thou a sapling slight?
Thou of the black and languorous eye, that casteth far and wide
     Charms, whose sheer witchery compels to passion's utmost
     height,
Whose looks, with Turkish languor fraught, work havoc in the
     breast, Leaving such wounds as ne'er were made of falchion
     in the fight,
Thou layst on me a heavy load of passion and desire, On me that
     am too weak to bear a shift upon me dight.
My love for thee, as well thou know'st, my very nature is, And
     that for others which I feign dissembling but and sleight.
An if my heart were like to thine, I'd not refuse; alack!  'Tis
     but my body's like thy waist, worn thin and wasted quite.
Out on him for a moon that's famed for beauty far and near, That
     for th' exemplar of all grace men everywhere do cite!
The railers say, "Who's this for love of whom thou art
     distressed?" And I reply, "An if ye can, describe the lovely
     wight."
O learn to yield, hard heart of his, take pattern by his shape!
     So haply yet he may relent and put away despite.
Thou, that my prince in beauty art, a steward[FN#26] hast, whose
     rule Aggrieves me and a chamberlain[FN#27] that doth me foul
     upright.
He lies who says, "All loveliness in Joseph was comprised." How
     many a Joseph is there not within thy beauty bright!
The Jinn do fear me, whenas I confront them face to face; But
     when I meet with thee, my heart doth tremble for affright.
I feign aversion unto thee, for fear of slanderous tongues; The
     more I feign, the more my love to madness I excite.
Black hair and smooth and glistening brows, eyes languorous and
     soft, As of the maids of Paradise, and slender shape and
     slight!

When Dehnesh heard this, he shook for delight and was filled with admiration and said, 'Thou
hast indeed done well in praise of him whom thou lovest!  Needs must I do my endeavour, in
my turn, to celebrate my mistress, to the best of my power, and recite somewhat in her honour.'
Then he went up to the lady Budour and kissing her  between the eyes, looked at her and at
Maimouneh and recited the following verses, for all he had no skill in poetry:

They chide my passion for my fair in harsh and cruel guise; But,
     of their ignorance, forsooth, they're neither just nor wise.
Vouchsafe thy favours to the slave of love, for, an he taste Of
     thine estrangement and disdain, assuredly he dies.
Indeed, for very stress of love, I'm drenched with streaming
     tears, That, like a rivulet of blood, run ever from mine
     eyes.
No wonder 'tis what I for love endure; the wonder is That any,
     since the loss of thee, my body recognize.
Forbidden be thy sight to me, if I've a thought of doubt Or if my
     heart of passion tire or feign or use disguise!

And also the following:

I feed mine eyes on the places where we met long ago; Far distant
     now is the valley and I'm forslain for woe.
I'm drunk with the wine of passion and the teardrops in mine eyes
     Dance to the song of the leader of the camels, as we go.
I cease not from mine endeavour to win to fortune fair; Yet in
     Budour, Suada,[FN#28] all fortune is, I know.
Three things I reckon, I know not of which to most complain; Give
     ear whilst I recount them and be you judge, I trow.
Firstly, her eyes, the sworders; second, the spearman, her shape,
     And thirdly, her ringlets that clothe her in armour,[FN#29]
     row upon row.
Quoth she (and indeed I question, for tidings of her I love, All
     whom I meet, or townsman or Bedouin, high or low)
Quoth she unto me, "My dwelling is in thy heart; look there And
     thou shalt see me." I answer, "And where is my heart?
     Heigho!"

When Maimouneh heard this, she said, 'Thou hast done well, O
Dehnesh!  But tell me, which of the two is the handsomer?'  And
he answered, 'My mistress Budour is certainly handsomer than thy
beloved.'  'Thou liest, O accursed one!'  cried Maimouneh.  'Nay,
my beloved is more beautiful than thine!'  And they ceased not to
gainsay each other, till Maimouneh cried out at Dehnesh and would
have laid violent hands on him; but he humbled himself to her and
softening his speech, said to her, 'Let us leave talking, for we
do but contradict each other, and rather seek one who shall judge
fairly between us, whether of the two is fairer, and let us abide
by his sentence.'  'I agree to this,' answered she and smote the
earth with her foot, whereupon there came up a one-eyed Afrit,
hump-backed and scurvy, with eyes slit endlong in his face.  On
his head were seven horns and four locks of hair falling to his
heels; his hands were like pitchforks, his legs like masts and he
had claws like a lion and hoofs like those of the wild ass.  When
he saw Maimouneh, he kissed the earth before her and standing
with his hands clasped behind him, said, 'What is thy will, O
king's daughter?'  'O Keshkesh,' answered she, 'I would have thee
judge between me and this accursed Dehnesh.'  And she made known
to him the whole matter, whereupon he looked at the prince and
princess and saw them lying asleep, embraced, each with an arm
about the other's neck, alike in beauty and grace and equal in
goodliness.
Thou that for loving censures the votaries of love, Canst thou
     assain a heart diseased or heal a cankered brain?
O Lord, O Thou Compassionate, I prithee, ere we die, Though only
     for a single day, unite us two again!

Then he turned to Maimouneh and Dehnesh and said to them, 'By Allah, if you will have the truth,
they are equal in beauty and grace and perfection, nor is there any difference between them
but that of sex.  But I have another idea, and it is that we wake each of them in turn, without
the other's knowledge, and whichever is more enamoured of the other shall be held the lesser
in beauty and grace.'  'This is a good counsel,' answered Maimouneh, and Dehnesh said, 'I consent
to this.'  Then Dehnesh changed himself to a flea and bit Kemerezzeman on the neck, whereupon
the prince awoke with a start and rubbed the place of the bite, because of the smart.  Then
turning sideways, he found lying by him something, whose breath was more fragrant than musk,
and whose body was softer than cream.

And also quoth another:

She shineth forth, a moon, and bends, a willow-wand, And
     breathes, pure ambergris, and gazes, a gazelle.
It seems as if grief loved my heart and when from her
     Estrangement I endure, possession to it fell.

She was clad in a shift of Venetian silk, without drawers, and wore on her head a kerchief
embroidered with gold and jewels; her ears were hung with earrings, that shone like stars,
and round her neck was a collar of great pearls, past the competence of any king.  When he
saw this, his reason was confounded and natural heat began to stir in him; God awoke in him
the desire of coition and he said, 'What God wills, shall be, and what He will not, shall not
be!'  So saying, he put out his hand and turning her over, loosed the collar of her shift,
laying bare her bosom, with its breasts like globes of ivory; whereat his inclination for her
redoubled and he desired her with an exceeding desire.  Then he shook her and moved her, essaying
to waken her and saying, 'O my beloved, awake and look on me; I am Kemerezzeman.'  But she
awoke not, neither moved her head, for Dehnesh made her sleep heavy. With this, he considered
awhile and said to himself, 'If I guess aright, this is she to whom my father would have married
me and I have refused these three years past; but, God willing, as soon as it is day, I will
say to him,  "Marry me to her that I may enjoy her," nor will I let half the day pass ere I
possess her and take my fill of her beauty and grace.'  Then he bent over Budour, to kiss her,
whereat Maimouneh trembled and was confounded and Dehnesh was like to fly for joy.  But, as
Kemerezzeman was about to kiss her, he was ashamed before God and turned away his head, saying
to his heart, 'Have patience.'  Then he considered awhile and said, 'I will be patient, lest
my father have brought this young lady and made her lie by my side, to try me with her, charging
her not to be lightly awakened, whenas I would fain arouse her, and bidding her tell him all
that I do to her. Belike, he is hidden somewhere whence he can see all I do with this young
lady, himself unseen; and to-morrow he will flout me and say, "How comes it that thou feignest
to have no mind to marry and yet didst kiss and clip yonder damsel?" So I will forbear her,
lest I be shamed before my father; and it were well that I look not on her nor touch her at
this present, except to take from her somewhat to serve as a sign of remembrance and a token
between us.'  Then he lifted her hand and took from her little finger a ring worth much money,
for that its beazel was of precious jewels and around it were graven the following verses:

Think not that I have forgotten thy sometime promises, Though long
     thou hast protracted thy cruelty, ywis.
Be generous, O my master, vouchsafe me of thy grace, So it to me
     be given thy lips and cheeks to kiss.
Never, by Allah, never will I abandon thee, Though thou
     transgress thy limits in love and go amiss!

Then he put the ring on his own little finger, and turning his back to her, went to sleep.
When Maimouneh saw this, she was glad and said, 'Saw ye how my beloved Kemerezzeman forbore
this young lady?  Verily, this was of the perfection of his excellences; for see how he looked
on her and noted her beauty and grace, yet clipped her not neither kissed her nor put his hand
to her, but turned his back to her and slept.'  'It is well,' answered they; 'we saw how perfectly
he bore himself.' Then Maimouneh changed herself into a flea and entering Budour's clothes,
crept up her leg and bit her four finger-breadths below the navel; whereupon she opened her
eyes and sitting up in bed, saw a youth lying beside her and breathing heavily in his sleep,
the loveliest of God's creatures, with eyes that put to shame the fair maids of Paradise, mouth
like Solomon's seal, whose water was sweeter to the taste and more efficacious than triacle,[FN#30]
lips the colour of coral and cheeks like blood-red anemones, even as saith one, describing him:

From Zeyneb[FN#31] and Newar[FN#32] my mind is drawn away By the
     rose of a cheek, whereo'er a whisker's myrtles stray.
I'm fallen in love with a fawn, a youngling tunic-clad, And joy
     no more in love of bracelet-wearing may.
My mate in banquet-hall and closet's all unlike To her with whom
     within my harem's close I play:
O thou that blames me, because I flee from Hind[FN#33] And
     Zeyneb, my excuse is clear as break of day.
Would'st have me be a slave, the bondsman of a slave, One
     cloistered and confined behind a wall alway?[FN#34]

When the princess saw him, a transport of passion and longing seized her and she said to herself,
'Alas my shame!  This is a strange youth and I know him not.  How comes he lying in one bed
with me?'  Then she looked at him again and noting his beauty and grace, said, 'By Allah, he
is a comely youth and my heart is well-nigh torn in sunder with longing for him.  But alas,
how am I shamed by him!  By Allah, had I known it was he who sought my hand of my father, I
had not rejected him, but had married him and enjoyed his loveliness!'  Then she gazed in his
face and said, 'O my lord and light of mine eyes, awake from sleep and enjoy my beauty and
grace.'  And she moved him with her hand; but Maimouneh let down sleep upon him (as it were
a curtain) and pressed on his head with her wings, so that he awoke not.  The princess went
on to shake him and say, 'My life on thee, give ear unto me!  Awake and look on the narcissus
and the tender green and enjoy my body and my secret charms and dally with me and touzle me
from now till break of day!  I conjure thee by Allah, O my lord, sit up and lean against the
pillow and sleep not!' Still he made her no answer, but breathed heavily in his sleep. 'Alas!
Alas!'  continued she.  'Thou art proud in thy beauty and grace and lovely looks!  But if thou
art handsome, so am I; what then is this thou dost?  Have they lessoned thee to flout me or
has the wretched old man, my father, made thee swear not to speak to me to-night?'  But he
opened not his mouth neither awoke, whereat her passion redoubled and God inflamed her heart
with love of him.  She stole one glance at him that cost her a thousand sighs: her heart fluttered
and her entrails yearned and she exclaimed, 'Speak to me, O my lord!  O my friend, my beloved,
answer me and tell me thy name, for indeed thou hast ravished my wit!'  Still he abode drowned
in sleep and answered her not a word, and she sighed and said, 'Alas!  Alas!  why art thou
so self-satisfied?'  Then she shook him and turning his hand over, saw her ring on his little
finger, whereat she cried out and said, with a sigh of passion, 'Alack!  Alack!  By Allah,
thou art my beloved and lovest me!  Yet meseems thou turnest away from me out of coquetry,
for all thou camest to me whilst I was asleep and knew not what thou didst, and tookest my
ring.  But I will not pull it off thy finger.'  So saying, she opened the bosom of his shirt
and kissed him and put her hand to him, seeking somewhat that she might take as a token, but
found nothing.  Then she put her hand into his breast, and for the smoothness of his body,
it slipped down to his navel and thence to his yard, whereupon her heart ached and her entrails
quivered and desire was sore upon her, for that women's lust is fiercer than that of men, and
she was confounded.  Then she took his ring from his finger and put it on her own and kissed
his mouth and hands, nor did she leave any part of him unkissed; after which she took him to
her breast and laying one of her hands under his neck and the other under his armpit, fell
asleep by his side.  Then said Maimouneh to Dehnesh, 'O accursed one, sawst thou how prudishly
and coquettishly my beloved bore himself and what ardour of passion thy mistress showed to
him?  There can be no doubt that my beloved is handsomer than thine; nevertheless I pardon
thee.' Then she wrote him a patent of manumission and said to Keshkesh, 'Help Dehnesh to take
up his mistress and carry her back to her own place, for the night wanes apace and there is
but little left of it.'  'I hear and obey,' answered Keshkesh.  So the two Afrits lifted up
the Princess Budour and flying away with her, carried her back to her own place and laid her
on her bed, whilst Maimouneh abode alone with Kemerezzeman, gazing upon him as he slept, till
the night was all but spent, when she went her way.

At break of day, the prince awoke from sleep and turned right and left, but found not the young
lady by him and said in himself, 'What is this?  It would seem as if my father would fain incline
me to marriage with the young lady, that was with me, and have now taken her away by stealth,
to the intent that my desire for marriage may redouble.'  Then he called out to the eunuch
who slept at the door, saying, 'Out on thee, O accursed one, arise forthright!'  So the eunuch
arose, dazed with sleep, and brought him basin and ewer, whereupon Kemerezzeman entered the
draught-house and did his need; then, coming out, made his ablutions and prayed the morning-prayer,
after which he sat telling his beads.  Then he looked up, and seeing the eunuch standing waiting
upon him, said to him, 'Out on thee, O Sewab! Who was it came hither and took away the young
lady from beside me, whilst I slept?'  'O my lord, what young lady?'  asked the eunuch.  'She
that lay with me last night,' replied Kemerezzeman. The eunuch was troubled at his words and
said to him, 'By Allah, there has been with thee neither young lady nor other!  How should
she have come in to thee, when the door was locked and I asleep before it?  By Allah, O my
lord, neither man nor woman has come in to thee!'  'Thou liest, O pestilent slave!'  exclaimed
the prince.  'Dost thou also presume to hoodwink me and wilt thou not tell me what is come
of the young lady who lay with me last night and who took her away?'  The eunuch was affrighted
at him and answered, 'By Allah, O my lord, I have seen neither girl nor boy!'  His words only
angered Kemerezzeman and he said to him, 'O accursed one, my father hath taught thee deceit!
Come hither.' So the eunuch came up to him, and the prince seized him by the collar and threw
him to the ground.  He let fly a crack of wind, and Kemerezzeman, kneeling upon him, kicked
him and throttled him, till he fainted away.  Then he tied him to the well-rope, and lowering
him into the well, plunged him into the water, then drew him up and plunged him in again. 
Now it was hard winter weather, and Kemerezzeman ceased not to lower the eunuch into the water
and pull him up again, whilst he screamed and called for help.  Quoth the prince, 'By Allah,
O accursed one, I will not draw thee up out of the well, till thou tell me the story of the
young lady and who it was took her away, whilst I slept.'  'O my lord,' answered the eunuch,
seeing death staring him in the face, 'let me go and I will tell thee the truth.'  So Kemerezzeman
pulled him up out of the well, all but dead for cold and wet and torture and beating and fear
of drowning.  His teeth chattered and he shook like the reed in the hurricane and his clothes
were drenched and his body befouled and torn by the rough slimy sides of the well.  When Kemerezzeman
saw him in this sorry plight, he relented towards him; and as soon as the eunuch found himself
on dry land, he said to him, 'O my lord, let me go and put off my clothes and wring them out
and spread them in the sun to dry and don others; after which I will return to thee forthwith
and tell thee the truth of the matter.'  'O wretched slave,' answered the prince, 'hadst thou
not seen death face to face, thou hadst never confessed; but go now and do thy will, and after
return speedily and tell me the truth.'  So the eunuch went out, hardly crediting his escape,
and gave not over running and stumbling, in his haste, till he came in to King Shehriman, whom
he found sitting talking with his Vizier of Kemerezzeman's case and saying, 'I slept not last
night, for anxiety concerning my son Kemerezzeman, and indeed I fear lest some harm befall
him in that old tower. What good was there in imprisoning him?'  'Have no care for him,' answered
the Vizier.  'By Allah, no hurt will befall him!  Leave him in prison for a month, till his
humour yield and his spirit be broken and he return to his senses.'  As he spoke, in came the
eunuch, in the aforesaid plight, and said to the King, who was troubled at sight of him, 'O
our lord the Sultan, thy son's wits are fled and he has gone mad; he has dealt with me thus
and thus, so that I am become as thou seest, and says, "A young lady lay with me this night
and stole away whilst I slept.  Where is she?" And insists on my telling him where she is and
who took her away. But I have seen neither girl nor boy; the door was locked all night, for
I slept before it, with the key under my head, and opened to him in the morning with my own
hand.'  When the King heard this, he cried out, saying, 'Alas, my son!'  And he was sore enraged
against the Vizier, who had been the cause of all this, and said to him, 'Go, bring me news
of my son and see what hath befallen his wit.'  So the Vizier rose and hastened with the slave
to the tower, tumbling over his skirts, in his fear of the King's anger.  The sun had now risen
and when he came in to Kemerezzeman, he found him sitting on the couch, reading the Koran;
so he saluted him and sitting down by his side, said to him, 'O my lord, this wretched slave
brought us news that disquieted and alarmed us and incensed the King.'  'And what,' asked Kemerezzeman,
'hath he told you of me, to trouble my father?  In good sooth, he hath troubled none but me.'
'He came to us in a sorry plight,' answered the Vizier, 'and told us of thee a thing which
God forfend and a lie which it befits not to repeat, may God preserve thy youth and sound wit
and eloquent tongue and forbid aught of foul to come from thee!'  'O Vizier,' said the prince,
'what did this pestilent slave say of me?'  'He told us,' replied the Vizier, 'thou hadst taken
leave of thy wits and would have it that a young lady lay with thee last night and wast instant
with him to tell thee whither she had gone and didst torture him to that end.'  When Kemerezzeman
heard this, he was sore enraged and said to the Vizier, 'It is manifest to me that you taught
the eunuch to do as he did and forbade him to tell me what became of the young lady.  But thou,
O Vizier, art more reasonable than the eunuch; so do thou tell me forthright whither went the
young lady that lay in my bosom last night; for it was you who sent her and bade her sleep
in my arms, and we lay together till day; but when I awoke, I found her not.  So where is she
now?'  'O my lord Kemerezzeman,' said the Vizier, 'the name of God encompass thee!  By Allah,
we sent none to thee last night, but thou layest alone, with the door locked on thee and the
eunuch sleeping before it, nor did there come to thee a young lady or any other.  Stablish
thy reason, O my lord, and return to thy senses and occupy thy mind no longer [with vain imaginations].'
'O Vizier,' rejoined Kemerezzeman, incensed at his words, 'the young lady in question is my
beloved, the fair one with the black eyes and red cheeks, whom I held in my arms all last night.'
The Vizier wondered at his words and said to him, 'Didst thou see this damsel with thine eyes
and on wake, or in sleep?'  'O wretched old man,' answered Kemerezzeman, 'thinkest thou I saw
her with my ears?  Indeed, I saw her with my very eyes and on wake and touched her with my
hand and watched by her half the night, gazing my fill on her beauty and grace and elegance
and lovely looks.  But thou hadst schooled her and charged her to speak no word to me; so she
feigned sleep and I lay by her side till morning, when I awoke and found her gone.' 'O my lord
Kemerezzeman,' rejoined the Vizier, 'surely thou sawest this in thy sleep; it must have been
a delusion of dreams or a hallucination caused by eating various kinds of food or a suggestion
of the accursed devils.'  'O pestilent old man,' cried the prince, 'wilt thou too make a mock
of me and tell me this was an illusion of dreams, when this eunuch confessed to the young lady,
saying, "I will return to thee forthwith and tell thee all about her?"' So saying, he sprang
up and laying hold of the Vizier's long beard, twisted his hand in it and tugging him off the
couch, threw him on the floor.  It seemed to the Vizier as though his soul departed his body
for the violent plucking at his beard, and Kemerezzeman fell to kicking him and pummelling
his breast and sides and cuffing him on the nape, till he had well-nigh made an end of him.
Then said the Vizier in himself, 'I must save myself from this madman by telling him a lie,
even as did the eunuch; else he will kill me, for he is mad beyond a doubt.'  So he said to
Kemerezzeman, 'O my lord, bear me not malice, for indeed thy father charged me to conceal from
thee this affair of the young lady; but now I am weak and weary and sore with beating; for
I am an old man and lack strength to endure blows.  So have a little patience with me and I
will tell thee all.'  When the prince heard this, he left beating him and said, 'Why couldst
thou not tell me without blows and humiliation?  Rise now, unlucky old man that thou art, and
tell me her story.'  Quoth the Vizier, 'Dost thou ask of the young lady with the fair face
and perfect shape?'  'Yes,' answered Kemerezzeman.  'Tell me who it was laid her by my side
and took her away by night, and let me know whither she is gone, that I may go to her.  If
my father did this to try me, with a view to our marriage, I consent to marry her and be quit
of this trouble; for he only dealt thus with me, because I refused to marry.  I say again,
I consent to marry: so tell this to my father, O Vizier, and advise him to marry me to her,
for I will have none other and my heart loveth her alone.  Go now to my father and counsel
him to hasten our marriage and bring me his answer forthright.'  'It is well,' rejoined the
Vizier, and went out from him, hardly crediting his escape.  Then he set off running and stumbling
as he went, for excess of affright and agitation, till he came in to the King, who said to
him, 'O Vizier, what has befallen thee and who has maltreated thee and how comes it that I
see thee thus confounded and terrified?'  'O King,' answered the Vizier, 'I bring thee news.'
'What is it?'  asked Shehriman, and the Vizier said, 'Know that thy son Kemerezzeman's wits
are gone and that madness hath betided him.'  When the King heard this, the light in his face
became darkness and he said, 'Expound to me the nature of my son's madness.'  'O my lord,'
answered the Vizier, 'I hear and obey.'  Then he told him all that had passed and the King
said to him, 'O most ill-omened of Viziers and filthiest of Amirs, know that the reward I will
give thee in return for this thy news of my son's madness shall be the cutting off of thy bead
and the forfeiture of thy goods; for thou hast caused my son's disorder by the wicked and sinister
counsel thou hast given me first and last.  By Allah, if aught of mischief or madness have
befallen him, I will nail thee upon the dome [of the palace] and make thee taste the bitterness
of death!'  Then rising, he betook himself with the Vizier to the tower, and when Kemerezzeman
saw him, he came down to him in haste from the couch on which he sat and kissing his hands,
drew back and stood before him awhile, with his eyes cast down and his hands clasped behind
him.  Then he raised his head and repeated the following verses, whilst the tears streamed
down his cheeks:

If I have borne myself blameworthily to you Or if I've made
     default in that which is your due,
I do repent my fault; so let your clemency Th' offender
     comprehend, who doth for pardon sue.

When the King heard this, he embraced his son and kissing him between the eyes, made him sit
by his side on the couch; then turned to the Vizier and looking on him with angry eyes, said
to him, 'O dog of a Vizier, why didst thou tell me that my son was mad and make my heart quake
for him?'  Then he turned to the prince and said to him, 'O my son, what is to-day called?'
'O my father,' answered he, 'to-day is Saturday and to-morrow Sunday: then come Monday, Tuesday,
Wednesday, Thursday and Friday.'  'O my son, O Kemerezzeman,' exclaimed the King, 'praised
be God for the preservation of thy reason!  What is this present month called in Arabic?'

'Dhoulcaadeh,' answered Kemerezzeman, 'and it is followed by Dhoulhejjeh; then comes Muherrem,
then Sefer, then Rebia the First and Rebia the Second, the two Jumadas, Rejeb, Shaaban, Ramazan
and Shewwal.'  At this the King rejoiced exceedingly and spat in the Vizier's face, saying,
'O wicked old man, how canst thou pretend that my son is mad?  None is mad but thou.'  The
Vizier shook his head and would have spoken, but bethought himself to wait awhile and see what
befell.  Then the King said to Kemerezzeman, 'O my son, what is this thou sayest to the eunuch
and the Vizier of a fair damsel that lay with thee last night?  What damsel is this of whom
thou speakest?'  Kemerezzeman laughed at his father's words and replied, 'O my father, I can
bear no more jesting; so mock me not with another word, for my humour is soured by that you
have done with me.  Let it suffice thee to know that I consent to marry, but on condition that
thou give me to wife her with whom I lay yesternight; for I am assured that it was thou sentest
her to me and madest me in love with her, then tookest her away from beside me before the dawn.'
'O my son,' rejoined the King, 'the name of God encompass thee and preserve thy wit from madness!
What young lady is this of whom thou talkest?  By Allah, O my son, I know nothing of the affair,
and I conjure thee, tell me if it be a delusion of sleep or a hallucination caused by food?
Doubtless, thou layest down to sleep last night, with thy mind occupied with marriage and troubled
with the thought of it (may God curse marriage and the hour in which it occurred to me and
him who counselled it!) and dreamtest that a handsome young lady embraced thee and didst fancy
thou sawst her on wake; but all this, O my son, is but an illusion of dreams.'  'Leave this
talk,' replied Kemerezzeman, 'and swear to me by God, the All-wise Creator, the Humbler of
the mighty and the Destroyer of the Chosroes, that thou knowest nothing of the young lady nor
of her abiding-place.'  'By the virtue of the Most High God,' said the King, 'the God of Moses
and Abraham, I know nothing of all this and it is assuredly but an illusion of dreams that
thou hast seen in sleep.'  Quoth the prince, 'I will give thee a proof that it was not a dream.
Come, let me put a case to thee: did it ever happen to any to dream that he was fighting a
sore battle and after to awake and find in his hand a sword besmeared with blood?'  'No, by
Allah, O my son,' answered the King, 'this hath never been.'  'I will tell thee what happened
to me,' rejoined Kemerezzeman.  'Meseemed I awoke from sleep in the middle of the past night
and found a young lady lying by my side, whose shape and favour were as mine. I embraced her
and turned her about with my hand and took her ring, which I put on my finger, and she pulled
off my ring and put it on her finger.  Then I went to sleep by her side, but refrained from
her and was ashamed to kiss her on the mouth, deeming that thou hadst sent her to me, with
intent to tempt me with her and incline me to marriage, and misdoubting thee to be hidden somewhere
whence thou couldst see what I did with her.  At point of day, I awoke and found no trace of
her, nor could I come at any news of her, and there befell me what thou knowest of with the
eunuch and the Vizier.  How then can this have been a dream and a delusion, seeing that the
ring is a reality?  I should indeed have deemed it a dream but for her ring on my finger. Here
it is: look at it, O King, and see what is its worth.'  So saying, he handed the ring to his
father, who examined it and turned it over, then said to his son, 'Verily, there hangs some
mighty mystery by this ring and some strange secret.  What befell thee last night is indeed
a mysterious affair and I know not how this intruder came in upon us.

And now, O my son,' added he, 'I am certified that thou art not mad; but thy case is a strange
one, none can unravel it for thee but God the Most High.'  'By Allah, O my father,' cried the
prince, 'deal kindly with me and seek out this damsel and hasten her coming to me; else I shall
die of grief.'  And he repeated the following verses, in a voice that betrayed the ardour of
his passion:

An if thy very promise of union prove untrue, Let but in sleep
     thy favours the longing lover cheer.
"How can the phantom visit a lover's eyes," quoth they, "From
     which the grace of slumber is banned and banished sheer?"

And he sighed and wept and groaned aloud from a wounded heart,
whilst the tears streamed from his eyes.  Then turning to his
father, with submission and despondency, he said to him, 'By
Allah, O my father, I cannot endure to be parted from her even
for an hour.'  The King smote hand upon hand and exclaimed,
'There is no power and no virtue but in God, the Most High, the
Sublime!  There is no device can profit us in this affair!'  Then
he took his son by the hand and carried him to the palace, where
Kemerezzeman lay down on the bed of languor and the King sat at
his head, weeping and mourning over him and leaving him not night
or day, till at last the Vizier came in to him and said, 'O King
of the age and the time, how long wilt thou remain shut up with
thy son and deny thyself to thy troops?  Verily, the order of thy
realm is like to be deranged, by reason of thine absence from
thy grandees and officers of state.  It behoves the man of
understanding, if he have various wounds in his body, to apply
him (first) to heal the most dangerous; so it is my counsel to
thee that thou transport the prince to the pavilion overlooking
the sea and shut thyself up with him there, setting apart
Monday and Thursday in every week for state receptions and the
transaction of public business.  On these days let thine Amirs
and Viziers and Chamberlains and deputies and captains and
grandees and the rest of the troops and subjects have access to
thee and submit their affairs to thee, and do thou their needs
and judge between them and give and take with them and command
and forbid.  The rest of the week thou shalt pass with thy son
Kemerezzeman, and thus do till God vouchsafe you both relief.
O all ye children of mankind, to whom the Fates are kind, Let
     caution ever have a part in all your reckoning.'

The King was struck with the Vizier's words and deemed his counsel wise and timely, fearing
lest the order of the state be deranged; so he rose at once and bade carry his son to the pavilion
in question, which was built (upon a rock) midmost the water and was approached by a causeway,
twenty cubits wide.  It had windows on all sides, overlooking the sea; its floor was of variegated
marble and its roof was painted in the richest colours and decorated with gold and lapis-lazuli.
They furnished it for Kemerezzeman with embroidered rugs and carpets of the richest silk and
hung the walls with choice brocades and curtains bespangled with jewels.  In the midst they
set him a couch of juniper-wood, inlaid with pearls and jewels, and he sat down thereon, like
a man that had been sick twenty years; for the excess of his concern and passion for the young
lady had wasted his charms and emaciated his body, and he could neither eat nor drink nor sleep.
His father seated himself at his head, mourning sore for him, and every Monday and Thursday
he gave his Viziers and Amirs and grandees and officers and the rest of his subjects leave
to come in to him in the pavilion.  So they entered and did their several service and abode
with him till the end of the day, when they went their ways and he returned to his son, whom
he left not night nor day; and on this wise did he many days and nights.

To return to the Princess Budour.  When the two Afrits carried her back to her palace and laid
her on her bed, she slept on till daybreak, when she awoke and sitting up, looked right and
left, but saw not the youth who had lain in her bosom.  At this, her heart was troubled, her
reason fled and she gave a great cry, whereupon all her damsels and nurses and serving-women
awoke and came in to her; and the chief of them said to her, 'What ails thee, O my lady?' 
'O wretched old woman,' answered the princess, 'where is my beloved, the handsome youth that
lay last night in my bosom?  Tell me where he is gone.'  When the old woman heard this, the
light in her eyes became darkness and she was sore in fear of her mischief and said to her,
'O my lady Budour, what unseemly words are these?'  'Out on thee, pestilent crone that thou
art!'  cried the princess.  'Where is my beloved, the goodly youth with the shining face and
the slender shape, the black eyes and the joined eyebrows, who lay with me last night from
dusk until near daybreak?'  'By Allah, O my lady,' replied the old woman, 'I have seen no young
man nor any other; but I conjure thee, leave this unseemly jesting, lest we be all undone.
Belike, it may come to thy father's ears and who shall deliver us from his hand?'  'I tell
thee,' rejoined Budour, 'there lay a youth with me last night, one of the fairest-faced of
men.'  'God preserve thy reason!'  exclaimed the nurse.  'Indeed, no one lay with thee last
night.'  The princess looked at her hand and seeing her own ring gone and Kemerezzeman's ring
on her finger in its stead, said to the nurse, 'Out on thee, thou accursed traitress, wilt
thou lie to me and tell me that none lay with me last night and forswear thyself to me?'  'By
Allah,' replied the nurse, 'I do not lie to thee nor have I sworn falsely!'  Her words incensed
the princess and drawing a sword she had by her, she smote the old woman with it and slew her;
whereupon the eunuch and the waiting-women cried out at her and running to her father, acquainted
him with her case.  So he went to her forthright and said to her, 'O my daughter, what ails
thee?'  'O my father,' answered she, 'where is the young man that lay with me last night?'
Then her reason left her and she cast her eyes right and left and rent her dress even to the
skirt.  When the King saw this, he bade the women lay hands on her; so they seized and bound
her, then putting a chain of iron about her neck, made her fast to the window and there left
her.  As for her father, the world was straitened upon him, when he saw what had befallen her,
for that he loved her and her case was not a little thing to him.  So he summoned the doctors
and astrologers and magicians and said to them, 'Whoso cureth my daughter of her disorder,
I will marry him to her and give him half my kingdom; but whoso cometh to her and cureth her
not, I will strike off his head and hang it over her palace-gate.'  Accordingly, all who went
in to her, but failed to cure her, he beheaded and hung their heads over her palace-gate, till
he had beheaded forty physicians and crucified as many astrologers on her account; wherefore
all the folk held aloof from her, for all the physicians failed to cure her malady and her
case was a puzzle to the men of science and the magicians.  And as her longing and passion
redoubled and love and distraction were sore upon her, she poured forth tears and repeated
the following verses:

My longing after thee, my moon, my foeman is; The thought of thee
     by night doth comrade with me dwell.
I pass the darksome hours, and in my bosom flames A fire, for
     heat that's like the very fire of hell.
I'm smitten with excess of ardour and desire; By which my pain is
     grown an anguish fierce and fell.

Then she sighed and repeated these also:

My peace on the beloved ones, where'er they light them down! I
     weary for the neighbourhood of those I love, full sore.
My salutation unto you,--not that of taking leave, But greetings
     of abundant peace, increasing evermore!
For, of a truth, I love you dear and love your land no less; But
     woe is me!  I'm far away from that I weary for.

Then she wept till her eyes grew weak and her cheeks pale and withered: and thus she abode
three years.  Now she had a foster-brother, by name Merzewan, who was absent from her all this
time, travelling in far countries.  He loved her with an exceeding love, passing that of brothers;
so when he came back, he went in to his mother and asked for his foster-sister the princess
Budour.  'Alas, my son,' answered she, 'thy sister has been smitten with madness and has passed
these three years, with an iron chain about her neck; and all the physicians and men of science
have failed of curing her.'  When he heard this, he said, 'I must needs go in to her; peradventure
I may discover what ails her, and be able to cure her.'  'So be it,' replied his mother; 'but
wait till to-morrow, that I may make shift for thee.'  Then she went to the princess's palace
and accosting the eunuch in charge of the door, made him a present and said to him, 'I have
a married daughter, who was brought up with thy mistress and is sore concerned for what has
befallen her, and I desire of thy favour that my daughter may go in to her and look on her
awhile, then return whence she came, and none shall know it.'  'This may not be, except by
night,' replied the eunuch, 'after the King has visited the princess and gone away; then come
thou and thy daughter.'  She kissed the eunuch's hand and returning home, waited till the morrow
at nightfall, when she dressed her son in woman's apparel and taking him by the hand, carried
him to the palace.  When the eunuch saw her, he said, 'Enter, but do not tarry long.'  So they
went in and when Merzewan saw the princess in the aforesaid plight, he saluted her, after his
mother had taken off his woman's attire: then pulling out the books he had brought with him
and lighting a candle, he began to recite certain conjurations.  The princess looked at him
and knowing him, said to him, 'O my brother, thou hast been absent on thy travels and we have
been cut off from news of thee.'  'True,' answered he; 'but God has brought me back in safety
and I am now minded to set out again; nor has aught delayed me but the sad news I hear of thee;
wherefore my heart ached for thee and I came to thee, so haply I may rid thee of thy malady.'
'O my brother,' rejoined she, 'thinkest thou it is madness ails me?'  'Yes,' answered he, and
she said, 'Not so, by Allah!  It is even as says the poet:

Quoth they, "Thou'rt surely mad for him thou lov'st;" and I
     replied, "Indeed the sweets of life belong unto the raving
     race.
Lo, those who love have not, for that, the upper hand of fate;
     Only the madman 'tis, I trow, o'ercometh time and space.
Yes, I am mad; so bring me him for whom ye say I'm mad; And if he
     heal my madness, spare to blame me for my case."'

Then she told him that she was in love, and he said, 'Tell me thy story and what befell thee:
peradventure God may discover to me a means of deliverance for thee.' 'Know then,' said she,
'that one night I awoke from sleep, in the last watch of the night, and sitting up, saw by
my side the handsomest of youths, as he were a willow-wand or an Indian cane, the tongue fails
to describe him. Me-thought this was my father's doing to try me, for that he had consulted
me, when the kings sought me of him in marriage, and I had refused.  It was this idea that
withheld me from arousing him, for I thought that if I did aught or embraced him, he would
most like tell my father.  When I awoke in the morning, I found his ring on my finger in place
of my own, which he had taken; and, O my brother, my heart was taken with him at first sight;
and for the violence of my passion and longing, I have never since known the taste of sleep
and have no occupation save weeping and repeating verses night and day.  This, then, O my brother,
is the story of the cause of my (pretended) madness.' Then she poured forth tears and repeated
the following verses:

Love has banished afar my delight; they are fled With a fawn that
     hath hearts for a pasturing-stead.
To him lovers' blood is a trifle, for whom My soul is a-wasting
     for passion and dread.
I'm jealous for him of my sight and my thought; My heart is a spy
     on my eyes and my head.
His eyelashes dart at us death-dealing shafts; The hearts that
     they light on are ruined and dead.
Whilst yet there is left me a share in the world, Shall I see
     him, I wonder, or ever I'm sped?
I fain would conceal what I suffer for him; 'Tis shown to the spy
     by the tears that I shed.
When near, his enjoyment is distant from me: But his image is
     near, when afar he doth tread.

'See then, O my brother,' added she, 'how thou mayest aid me in this my affliction.'  Merzewan
bowed his head awhile, marvelling and knowing not what to do, then raised it and said to her,
'I believe all thou hast said to be true, though the case of the young man passes my imagination:
but I will go round about all countries and seek for what may heal thee; peradventure God shall
appoint thy deliverance to be at my hand.  Meanwhile, take patience and be not disquieted.'
So saying, he took leave of her, after he had prayed that she might be vouchsafed constancy,
and left her repeating the following verses:

Thine image in my thoughts fares as a pilgrim aye, For all thy
     stead and mine are distant many a day.
The wishes of my heart do bring thee near to me For 'gainst the
     speed of thought what is the levin's ray?
Depart thou not, that art the lustre of mine eyes; Yea, when
     thou'rt far removed, all void of light are they.

He returned to his mother's house, where he passed the night, and on the morrow, after furnishing
himself for his journey, he set out and travelled from city to city and from island to island
for a whole month.  Everywhere he heard talk of the princess Budour's madness, till he came
to a city named Teyreb and seeking news of the townsfolk, so haply he might light on a cure
for his foster-sister's malady, heard that Kemerezzeman, son of King Shehriman, was fallen
sick and afflicted with melancholy madness. He enquired the name of this prince's capital and
was told that it stood on the Islands of Khalidan and was distant thence a whole month's journey
by sea and six by land.  So he took passage in a ship that was bound thither, and they sailed
with a favouring breeze for a whole month, till they came in sight of the city and there remained
for them but to enter the harbour; when there came out on them a tempestuous wind which carried
away the masts and rent the canvas, so that the sails fell into the sea and the ship foundered,
with all on board.  Each looked to himself, and as for Merzewan, the current carried him under
the King's palace, wherein was Kemerezzeman.  As fate would have it, it was the day on which
the King gave audience to his grandees and officers, and he was sitting, with his son's head
in his lap, whilst an eunuch whisked away the flies.  The prince had not spoken, neither had
he eaten nor drunk for two days, and he was grown thinner than a spindle.  Now the Vizier was
standing near the window giving on the sea and raising his eyes, saw Merzewan at the last gasp
for struggling with the waves; whereupon his heart was moved to pity for him and he drew near
to the King and said to him, 'O King, I crave thy leave to go down to the court of the pavilion
and open the water-gate, that I may rescue a man who is at the point of drowning in the sea
and bring him forth of peril into deliverance; peradventure, on this account, God may ease
thy son of his affliction.'  'O Vizier,' replied Shehriman, enough is that which has befallen
my son through thee and on thine account.  Belike, if thou rescue this drowning man, he will
look on my son and come to know our affairs and exult over me; but I swear by Allah, that,
if he come hither and see my son and after go out and speak of our secrets to any, I will assuredly
strike off thy head before his; for thou art the cause of all that hath befallen us, first
and last.  Now do as thou wilt.' The Vizier rose and opening the postern, descended to the
causeway; then walked on twenty steps and came to the sea, where he saw Merzewan nigh unto
death.  So he put out his hand to him and catching him by the hair of his head, drew him ashore,
in a state of unconsciousness, with belly full of water and eyes starting from his head.  The
Vizier waited till he came to himself, when he pulled off his wet clothes and clad him in a
fresh suit, covering his head with one of his servants' turbans; after which he said to him,
'I have been the means of saving thee from drowning: do not thou requite me by causing my death
and thine own.'  'How so?' asked Merzewan; and the Vizier answered, 'Thou art now about to
go up and pass among Amirs and Viziers, all silent and speaking not, because of Kemerezzeman,
the King's son.'  When Merzewan heard the name of Kemerezzeman, he knew that this was he of
whom he came in search, but he feigned ignorance and said to the Vizier, 'And who is Kemerezzeman?'
Quoth the Vizier, 'He is the King's son and lies sick on his couch, restless, eating not nor
drinking neither sleeping night nor day; indeed he is nigh upon death and we have lost hope
of his recovery.  Beware lest thou look too long on him or on any place other than that where
thou settest thy feet: else thou art a lost man and I also.'  'O Vizier,' said Merzewan, 'I
conjure thee by Allah, tell me of thy favour, the cause of this youth's malady.' 'I know none,'
answered the Vizier, 'save that, three years ago, his father pressed him to marry, but he refused;
whereat the King was wroth and imprisoned him.  On the morrow, he would have it that he had
had, for a bedfellow, the night before, a young lady of surpassing beauty, beggaring description,
with whom he had exchanged rings; but we know not the meaning of all this.  So by Allah, O
my son, when thou comest up into the palace, look not on the prince, but go thy way; for the
King's heart is full of anger against me.'  'By Allah,' said Merzewan in himself, 'this is
he whom I sought!'  Then he followed the Vizier up to the palace, where the latter seated himself
at the prince's feet; but Merzewan must needs go up to Kemerezzeman and stand before him, gazing
on him.  At this, the Vizier was like to die of affright and signed to Merzewan to go his way;
but he feigned not to see him and gave not over gazing upon Kemerezzeman, till he was assured
that it was indeed he of whom he was in search. Then, 'Glory be to God,' cried he, 'who hath
made his shape even as her shape and his complexion as her complexion and his cheek as her
cheek!'  At this Kemerezzeman opened his eyes and gave ear to his speech; and when Merzewan
saw him listening, he repeated the following verses:

I see thee full of song and plaint and ecstasy amain, And to the
     setting forth in words of charms I find thee fain.
Can it be love hath wounded thee or art thou shot with shafts?
     For sure these fashions but belong unto a smitten swain.
Ho, pour me out full cups of wine and sing me eke, in praise Of
     Tenam, Suleyma, Rebaeb,[FN#35] a glad and lovesome strain!
Yea, let the grape-vine's sun[FN#36] go round, whose mansion is
     its jar, Whose East the cupbearer and West my thirsty mouth
     I feign.
I'm jealous of the very clothes she dights upon her side, For
     that upon her body soft and delicate they've lain;
And eke I'm envious of the cups that touch her dainty lips, When
     to the kissing-place she sets them ever and again.
Think not that I in anywise with sword am done to death; 'Tis by
     the arrows of a glance, alack!  that I am slain.
Whenas we met again, I found her fingers dyed with red, As 'twere
     the juice of tragacanth had steeped them in its stain.
Said I to her, "Thou'st dyed thy palms,[FN#37] whilst I was far
     away. This then is how the slave of love is 'quited for his
     pain."
Quoth she (and cast into my heart the flaming fires of love,
     Speaking as one who hath no care love's secret to contain),
"No, by thy life, this is no dye I've used!  So haste thou not To
     heap accusings on my head and slander me in vain.
For, when I saw thee get thee gone upon our parting day, My eyes,
     for very dreariment, with tears of blood did rain.
I wiped them with my hand, and so my fingers with my blood Were
     all to-reddened and do yet their ruddy tint retain."
Had I for very passion wept, or e'er my mistress did, I should,
     before repentance came, have solaced heart and brain;
But she before my weeping wept; her tears drew mine and so Quoth
     I, "Unto the precedent the merit doth pertain."
Chide not at me for loving her, for by Love's self I swear, My
     heart with anguish for her sake is well-nigh cleft in twain.
I weep for one whose face is decked by Beauty's self; there's
     none, Arab or foreigner, to match with her, in hill or
     plain.
The lore of Locman[FN#38] hath my love and Mary's chastity, with
     Joseph's loveliness to boot and David's songful vein;
Whilst Jacob's grief to me belongs and Jonah's dreariment, Ay,
     and Job's torment and despite and Adam's plight of bane.
Slay ye her not, although I die for love of her, but ask, How
     came it lawful unto her to shed my blood in vain.

When Kemerezzeman heard these verses, they brought refreshment and healing to his heart, and
he sighed and turning his tongue in his mouth, said to the King, 'O my father, let this young
man come and sit by my side.'  The King, hearing these words from his son, rejoiced exceedingly,
though at the first he had been wroth with Merzewan and thought in himself to have stricken
off his head: but when he heard Kemerezzeman speak, his anger left him and he arose and drawing
Merzewan to him, made him sit down by his son and said to him, 'Praised be God for thy safety!'
'May God bless thee,' answered Merzewan, 'and preserve thy son to thee!'  Then said the King,
'From what country comest thou?' 'From the Islands of the Inland Sea,' replied he, 'the kingdom
of King Ghaiour, lord of the Islands and the seas and the Seven Palaces.'  Quoth the King,
'Maybe thy coming shall be blessed to my son and God vouchsafe to heal him of his malady.'
'God willing,' rejoined Merzewan, 'all shall yet be well.'  Then turning to Kemerezzeman, he
said to him in his ear, unheard of the King and his court, 'Be of good cheer, O my lord, and
take heart and courage.  As for her for whose sake thou art thus, ask not of her condition
on thine account.  Thou keptest thy secret and fellest sick, but she discovered hers and they
said she was mad; and she is now in prison, with an iron chain about her neck, in most piteous
case; but, God willing, the healing of  both of you shall be at my hand.'  When Kemerezzeman
heard this, his life returned to him and he took heart and courage and signed to his father
to help him sit up; at which the King was like to lose his reason for joy and lifting him up,
set two pillows for him to lean upon.  Then, of his fear for his son, he shook the handkerchief
of dismissal and all the Amirs and Viziers withdrew; after which he bade perfume the palace
with saffron and decorate the city, saying to Merzewan, 'By Allah, O my son, thou hast a lucky
and a blessed aspect!'  And he made much of him and called for food, which when they brought,
Merzewan said to the prince, 'Come, eat with me.'  So he obeyed him and ate with him, while
the King called down blessings on Merzewan and said, 'How auspicious is thy coming, O my son!'
When he saw Kemerezzeman eat, his joy redoubled and he went out and told the prince's mother
and the people of the palace.  Then he let call abroad the good news of the prince's recovery
and proclaimed the decoration of the city: so the people rejoiced and decorated the city and
it was a day of high festival.  Merzewan passed the night with Kemerezzeman, and the King also
slept with them, in the excess of his joy for his son's recovery.  Next morning, when the King
had gone away and the two young men were left alone, Kemerezzeman told Merzewan his story from
first to last and the latter said to him, 'I know her with whom thou didst foregather; her
name is the princess Budour and she is daughter to King Ghaiour.'  Then he told him all that
had befallen the princess and acquainted him with the excessive love she bore him, saying,
'All that befell thee with thy father hath befallen her with hers, and thou art without doubt
her beloved, even as she is thine; so brace up thy resolution and take heart, for I will bring
thee to her and unite you both anon and deal with you even as saith the poet:

Though to the lover adverse be the fair And drive him with her
     rigours to despair,
Yet will I soon unite them, even as I The pivot of a pair of
     scissors were.

And he went on to comfort and hearten Kemerezzeman and urged him to eat and drink, cheering
him and diverting him with talk and song and stories, till he ate food and drank wine and life
and strength returned to him.  In good time he became free of his disorder and stood up and
sought to go to the bath.  So Merzewan took him by the hand and carried him to the bath, where
they washed their bodies and made them clean.  When his father heard of this, in his joy he
freed the prisoners and gave alms to the poor; moreover he bestowed splendid dresses of honour
upon his grandees and let decorate the city seven days.  Then said Merzewan to Kemerezzeman,
'Know, O my lord, that the sole object of my journey hither was to deliver the princess Budour
from her present strait; and it remains but for us to devise how we may get to her, since thy
father cannot brook the thought of parting with thee.  So it is my counsel that tomorrow thou
ask his leave to go a-hunting, saying, "I have a mind to divert myself with hunting in the
desert and to see the open country and pass the night there."  Then do thou take with thee
a pair of saddle-bags full of gold and mount a swift hackney and I will do the like; and we
will take each a spare horse.  Suffer not any servant to follow us, for as soon as we reach
the open country, we will go our ways.'  Kemerezzeman rejoiced mightily in this plan and said,
'It is good.'  Then he took heart and going in to his father, sought his leave to go out to
hunt, saying as Merzewan had taught him.  The King consented and said, 'O my son, a thousandfold
blessed be the day that restores thee to health!  His father bade him farewell and pressed
him to his breast and kissed him, saying, 'I conjure thee by Allah, be not absent from me more
than one night, wherein sleep will be denied me, for I am even as saith the poet:

Thy presence with me is my heaven of delight And my hell of
     affliction the loss of thy sight.
My soul be thy ransom!  If love be my crime For thee, my offence,
     of a truth, is not light.
Doth passion blaze up in thy heart like to mine? I suffer the
     torments of hell day and night.'

'O my father,' answered Kemerezzeman, 'God willing, I will lie but one night abroad.'  Then
he took leave of him, and he and Merzewan mounted and taking with them the dromedary and camel,
rode out into the open country.  They drew not bridle from the first of the day till nightfall,
when they halted and ate and drank and fed their beasts and rested awhile; after which they
again took horse and fared on three days, till they came to a spacious wooded tract.  Here
they alighted and Merzewan, taking the camel and one of the horses, slaughtered them and cut
the flesh off their bones.  Then he took from Kemerezzeman his shirt and trousers and cassock
and tearing them in shreds, smeared them with the horse's blood and cast them down in the fork
of the road.  Then they ate and drank and taking horse set forward again.  'O my brother,'
said Kemerezzeman, 'what is this thou hast done and how will it profit us?'  'Know,' answered
Merzewan, 'that thy father, when he finds that we have outstayed the night for which we had
his leave, will mount and follow in our track till he comes hither; and when he sees the blood
and thy clothes torn and bloodied, he will deem thee to have been slain of highway robbers
or wild beasts; so he will give up hope of thee and return to his city, and by this devise
we shall gain our end.'  'By Allah,' said Kemerezzeman, 'this is indeed a rare device!  Thou
hast done well.'  Then they fared on days and nights and Kemerezzeman did nought but weep and
complain, till they drew near their journey's end, when he rejoiced and repeated the following
verses:

Wilt thou be harsh to a lover, who's never unmindful of thee, And
     wilt thou now cast him away to whom thou wast fain
     heretofore?
May I forfeit the favour of God, if I ever was false to thy love!
     Abandonment punish my crime, if I've broken the vows that I
     swore!
But no, I've committed no crime, that calleth for rigour from
     thee; Or, if in good sooth I'm at fault, I bring thee
     repentance therefor.
Of the marvels of Fortune it is that thou shouldst abandon me
     thus; But Fortune to bring to the light fresh marvels will
     never give o'er.

When he had made an end of these verses, Merzewan said to him, 'See, yonder are King Ghaiour's
Islands.'  Whereat Kemerezzeman rejoiced with an exceeding joy and thanked him for what he
had done and strained him to his bosom and kissed him between the eyes.  They entered the city
and took up their lodging at a khan, where they rested three days from the fatigues of the
journey; after which Merzewan carried Kemerezzeman to the bath and clothing him in a merchant's
habit, provided him with a geomantic tablet of gold, a set of astrological instruments and
an astrolabe of silver, plated with gold.  Then he said to him, 'Go, O my lord, stand before
the King's palace and cry out, "I am the mathematician, I am the scribe, I am he that knows
the Sought and the Seeker, I am the skilled physician, I am the accomplished astrologer.  Where
then is he that seeketh?"  When the King hears this, he will send after thee and carry thee
in to his daughter the princess Budour, thy mistress: but do thou say to him, "Grant me three
days' delay, and if she recover, give her to me to wife, and if not, deal with me as with those
who came before me."  If he agree to this, as soon as thou art alone with her, discover thyself
to her; and when she knows thee, her madness will cease from her and she will be made whole
in one night.  Then do thou give her to eat and drink, and her father, rejoicing in her recovery,
will marry thee to her and share his kingdom with thee, according to the condition he hath
imposed on himself: and so peace be on thee.'  'May I never lack thine excellence!' replied
Kemerezzeman, and taking the instruments aforesaid, sallied forth of the khan and took up his
station before King Ghaiour's palace, where he began to cry out, saying, 'I am the scribe,
I am the mathematician, he that knows the Sought and the Seeker, I am he who makes calculations
for marriage contracts, who draws horoscopes, interprets dreams and traces the magical characters
by which hidden treasures are discovered!  Where then is the seeker?'  When the people of the
city heard this, they flocked to him, for it was long since they had seen a scribe or an astrologer,
and stood round him, wondering at his beauty and grace and perfect symmetry.  Presently one
of them accosted him and said, 'God on thee, O fair youth with the eloquent tongue, cast not
thyself into perdition, in thy desire to marry the princess Budour!  Do but look on yonder
heads hung up; they are all those of men who have lost their lives in this same venture.' He
paid no heed to them, but cried out at the top of his voice, saying, 'I am the doctor, the
scribe!  I am the astrologer, the mathematician!'  And all the townsfolk forbade him from this,
but he heeded them not, saying in himself, 'None knoweth desire save he who suffereth it.'
Then he began again to cry his loudest, saying, 'I am the scribe, I am the mathematician, I
am the astrologer!'  till all the townsfolk were wroth with him and said to him, 'Thou art
but a silly self-willed boy!  Have pity on thine own youth and tender years and beauty and
grace.'  But he cried all the more, 'I am the astrologer, I am the mathematician! Is there
any one that seeketh?'  As he was thus crying and the people remonstrating with him, King Ghaiour
heard his voice and the clamour of the folk and said to his Vizier, 'Go down and bring me yon
astrologer.'  So the Vizier went down and taking Kemerezzeman from the midst of the crowd,
carried him up to the King, before whom he kissed the earth, repeating the following verses:

Eight elements of high renown are all comprised in thee; By them
     may Fortune never cease thy bounder slave to be!
Munificence and knowledge sure, glory and piety, Fair fluent
     speech and eloquence and might and victory.

When the King saw him, he made him sit down by his side and said to him, 'By Allah, O my son,
an thou be not an astrologer, venture not thy life nor submit thyself to my condition; for
I have bound myself to strike off the head of whoso goeth in to my daughter and healeth her
not of her disorder; but him who healeth her I will marry to her.  So let not thy beauty and
grace delude thee; for, by Allah, if thou cure her not, I will assuredly cut off thy head!'
'I knew of this condition before I came hither,' answered Kemerezzeman, 'and am ready to abide
by it.'  Then King Ghaiour took the Cadis to witness against him and delivered him to an eunuch,
saying, 'Carry this fellow to the lady Budour.'  So the eunuch took him by the hand and led
him along the gallery; but Kemerezzeman out-went him and pushed on before, whilst the eunuch
ran after him, saying, 'Out on thee!  Hasten not to destroy thyself.  By Allah, never yet saw
I astrologer so eager for his own destruction: thou knowest not the calamities that await thee.'
But Kemerezzeman turned away his face and repeated the following verses:

A learned man, I'm ignorant before thy beauties bright; Indeed, I
     know not what I say, confounded at thy sight.
If I compare thee to the sun, thou passest not away, Whilst the
     sun setteth from the sky and fails anon of light.
Perfect, indeed, thy beauties are; they stupefy the wise Nor ev'n
     the eloquent avail to praise thy charms aright.

The eunuch stationed Kemerezzeman behind the curtain of the princess's door and the prince
said to him, 'Whether of the two wilt thou liefer have me do, cure thy lady from here or go
in and cure her within the curtain?'  The eunuch marvelled at his words and answered, 'It were
more to thine honour to cure her from here.'  So Kemerezzeman sat down behind the curtain and
taking out pen and inkhorn and paper, wrote the following: 'This is the letter of one whom
passion torments and whom desire consumes and sorrow and misery destroy; one who despairs of
life and looks for nothing but death, whose mourning heart has neither comforter nor helper,
whose sleepless eyes have none to succour them against affliction, whose day is passed in fire
and his night in torment, whose body is wasted for much emaciation and there comes to him no
messenger from his beloved:

I write with a heart devoted to thee and the thought of thee And
     an eyelid, wounded for weeping tears of the blood of me.
And a body that love and affliction and passion and long desire
     Have clad with the garment of leanness and wasted utterly.
I plain me to thee of passion, for sore hath it baffled me Nor is
     there a corner left me where patience yet may be.
Wherefore, have mercy, I prithee, show favour unto me, For my
     heart, my heart is breaking for love and agony.

The cure of hearts is union with the beloved and whom his love maltreateth, God is his physician.
If either of us have broken faith, may the false one fail of his desire!  There is nought goodlier
than a lover who is faithful to a cruel beloved one.' Then, for a subscription, he wrote, 'From
the distracted and despairing lover, him whom love and longing disquiet, from the captive of
passion and transport, Kemerezzeman, son of Shehriman, to the peerless beauty, the pearl of
the fair Houris, the Lady Budour, daughter of King Ghaiour.  Know that by night I am wakeful
and by day distraught, consumed with ever-increasing wasting and sickness and longing and love,
abounding in sighs, rich in floods of tears, the prisoner of passion, the slain of desire,
the debtor of longing, the boon-companion of sickness, he whose heart absence hath seared.
I am the sleepless one, whose eyes close not, the slave of love, whose tears run never dry,
for the fire of my heart is still unquenched and the flaming of my longing is never hidden.'
Then in the margin he wrote this admired verse:

Peace from the stores of the grace of my Lord be rife On her in
     whose hand are my heart and soul and life!

And also these:

Vouchsafe thy converse unto me some little, so, perchance, Thou
     mayst have ruth on me or else my heart be set at ease.
Yea, for the transport of my love and longing after thee, Of all
     I've suffered I make light and all my miseries.
God guard a folk whose dwelling-place is far removed from mine,
     The secret of whose love I've kept in many lands and seas!
But fate, at last, hath turned on me a favourable face And on my
     loved one's threshold-earth hath cast me on my knees.
Budour beside me in the bed I saw and straight my moon, Lit by
     her sun, shone bright and blithe upon my destinies.[FN#39]

Then by way of subscription, he wrote the following verses:

Ask of my letter what my pen hath written, and the scroll Will
     tell the passion and the pain that harbour in my soul.
My hand, what while my tears rain down, writes and desire makes
     moan Unto the paper by the pen of all my weary dole.
My tears roll ever down my cheeks and overflow the page; Nay, I'd
     ensue them with my blood, if they should cease to roll.

And at the end he added this other verse:

I send thee back herewith the ring I took whilere of thee, Whenas
     we companied; so send me that thou hadst of me.

Then he folded up Budour's ring inside the letter and sealing it, gave it to the eunuch, who
went in with it to the princess.  She took it from him and opening it, found in it her own ring.

Then she rose and setting her feet to the wall, strained with all her might upon the iron collar,
till she broke it from her neck and snapped the chains; then going forth, she threw herself
on Kemerezzeman and kissed him on the mouth, like a pigeon billing. And she embraced him with
all the stress of her love and longing and said to him, 'O my lord, do I wake or sleep and
has God indeed vouchsafed us reunion after separation?  Praised be He who hath reknit our loves,
after despair!'  When the eunuch saw this, he ran to King Ghaiour and kissing the earth before
him, said, 'O my lord, know that this is indeed the prince and paragon of astrologers; for
he hath cured thy daughter from behind the curtain, without going in to her.'  'Look to it
well,' said the King; 'is this news true?'  'O my lord,' answered the eunuch, 'come and see
for thyself how she hath found strength to break the iron chains and is come forth to the astrologer,
kissing and embracing him.'  So the King arose and went in to his daughter, who, when she saw
him, rose and covered her face, reciting the following verses:

I love not the toothstick; 'tis hateful to me, For I, when I name
     it, say, "Other than thee."[FN#40]
But I love, notwithstanding, the capparis-tree, For, whenas I
     name it I say, "Thee I see."[FN#41]

The King was transported for joy at her recovery and kissed her between the eyes, for he loved
her very dearly; then turning to Kemerezzeman, he asked him who he was and whence he came.
The prince told him his name and rank and that he was the son of King Shehriman, and related
to him the whole story from beginning to end; whereat Ghaiour marvelled and said, 'Verily,
your story deserves to be recorded in books and read after you, generation after generation.'
Then he summoned Cadis and witnesses forthright and married the two lovers; after which he
bade decorate the city seven days long.  So they decorated the city and held high festival,
and all the troops donned their richest clothes, whilst the drums beat and the criers announced
the glad tidings.  Then they spread the tables with all manner meats and unveiled the princess
before Kemerezzeman, and behold, each was like unto the other in beauty and elegance and amorous
grace.  So the King rejoiced in the issue of her affair and in her marriage and praised God
for that He had made her to fall in love with a goodly youth of the sons of the kings.  Then
Kemerezzeman went in to her and lay with her that night and took his will of her, whilst she
in like manner fufilled her desire of him and enjoyed his beauty and grace; and they clipped
each other till the morning.  On the morrow, the King made a banquet and spreading the tables
with the richest meats, kept open house a whole month to all comers from the Islands of the
Inner and the Outer Seas. Now, when Kemerezzeman had thus attained his desire and had tarried
awhile with the princess Budour, he bethought him of his father and saw him in a dream, saying,
'O my son, is it thus thou dealest with me?' and reciting the following verses:

The moon o' the dark by his neglect my spirit doth appal And to
     the watching of his stars hath made my eyelids thrall.
But soft, my heart!  It may be yet he will return to thee; And
     patience, soul, beneath the pain he's smitten thee withal!

Kemerezzeman awoke in the morning, afflicted and troubled at what he had seen, whereupon the
princess questioned him and he told her his dream.  Then they both went in to King Ghaiour
and telling him what had passed, besought his leave to depart.  He gave the prince the leave
he sought; but the princess said, 'O my father, I cannot endure to be parted from him.'  Quoth
Ghaiour, 'Then go thou with him,' and gave her leave to be absent a whole year, charging her
to visit him once in every year thereafterward.  So she kissed his hand and Kemerezzeman did
the like; after which he proceeded to equip them for the journey, furnishing them with horses
and dromedaries of choice and a litter for his daughter, besides mules and camels laden with
victual and all manner of travelling gear.  Moreover, he gave them slaves and eunuchs to serve
them and bestowed on Kemerezzeman ten splendid suits of cloth of gold, embroidered with jewels,
together with a treasury[FN#42] of money and ten riding horses and as many she-camels.  When
the day of departure arrived, the King accompanied them to the farthest limits of his islands,
where, going in to his daughter Budour in the litter, he kissed her and strained her to his
bosom, weeping and repeating the following verses:

O thou that seekest parting, stay thy feet, For sure embraces are
     a lover's right.
Softly, for fortune's nature is deceit And parting is the end of
     love-delight.

Then, leaving her, he kissed her husband and commended his daughter to his care; after which
he bade him farewell and giving the signal for departure, returned to his capital with his
troops.  The prince and princess and their suite fared on without stopping a whole month, at
the end of which time they came to a spacious champaign, abounding in pasturage, where they
alighted and pitched their tents.  They ate and drank and rested, and the princess Budour lay
down to sleep.  Presently, Kemerezzeman went in to her and found her lying asleep, in a shift
of apricot-coloured silk, that showed all it should have covered, and a coif of cloth of gold
embroidered with pearls and jewels. The breeze raised her shift and showed her breasts and
navel and a belly whiter than snow, each one of whose dimples contained an ounce of benzoin
ointment.[FN#43] At this sight, his love and passion for her redoubled, and he recited the
following verses:

If, whilst within my entrails the fires of hell did stir And
     flames raged high about me, 'twere spoken in my ear,
"Which wilt thou have the rather, a draught of water cold Or
     sight of her thou lovest?"  I'd say, "The sight of her."

Then he put his hand to the ribbon of her trousers and drew it and loosed it, for that his
soul lusted after her, when he saw a jewel, red as dragon's blood,[FN#44] made fast to the
band.  He untied and examined it and seeing two lines of writing graven thereon, in a character
not to be read, marvelled and said in himself, 'Except she set great store by this, she had
not tied it to the ribbon of her trousers nor hidden it in the most private place about her
person, that she might not be parted from it.  I wonder what she doth with it and what is the
secret that is in it.'  So saying, he took it and went without the tent to look at it in the
light; but as he was examining it, a bird swooped down on him and snatching it from his hand,
flew off with it and lighted on the ground at a little distance.  Fearing to lose the talisman,
he ran after the bird; but it flew on before him, keeping just out of his reach, and drew him
on from place to place and from hill to hill, till the night came on and the air grew dark,
when it roosted on a high tree.  Kemerezzeman stopped under the tree, confounded and faint
for hunger and weariness, and giving himself up for lost, would have turned back, but knew
not the way, for the darkness had overtaken him.  So he exclaimed, 'There is no power and no
virtue but in God the Most High, the Supreme!'  and lying down under the tree, slept till the
morning, when he awoke and saw the bird also awake and fly away.  He arose and walked after
it, and it flew on little by little before him, after the measure of his going; at which he
smiled and said, 'By Allah, this is a strange thing!  Yesterday, the bird flew before me as
fast as I could run; and to-day, knowing that I am tired and cannot run, it flieth after the
measure of my walking.  By Allah, this is wonderful!  But, whether it lead me to my death or
to my life, I must needs follow it, wherever it goeth, for it will surely not abide save in
some inhabited land.  So he  followed the bird, eating of the fruits of the earth and drinking
of its waters, for ten days' space, and every night the bird roosted on a tree.  At the end
of this time, he came in sight of an inhabited city, whereupon the bird darted off like the
glance of the eye and entering the town, was lost to view: and Kemerezzeman marvelled at this
and exclaimed, 'Praised be God, who hath brought me hither in safety!'  Then he sat down by
a stream and washed his hands and feet and face and rested awhile: and recalling his late easy
and pleasant life of union with his beloved and contrasting it with his present plight of trouble
and weariness and hunger and strangerhood and severance, the tears streamed from his eyes and
he repeated the following cinquains:

I strove to hide the load that love on me did lay; In vain, and
     sleep for me is changed to wake alway.
Whenas wanhope doth press my heart both night and day, I cry
     aloud, "O Fate, hold back thy hand, I pray.
          For all my soul is sick with dolour and dismay!"
If but the Lord of Love were just indeed to me, Sleep had not
     fled mine eyes by his unkind decree.
Have pity, sweet, on one that is for love of thee Worn out and
     wasted sore; once rich and great was he,
          Now beggared and cast down by love from his array.
The railers chide at thee full sore; I heed not, I, But stop my
     ears to them and give them back the lie.
"Thou lov'st a slender one," say they; and I reply, "I've chosen
     her and left all else beneath the sky."
          Enough; when fate descends, the eyes are blinded aye.

As soon as he was rested, he rose and walked on, little by little, till he came to the city-gate
and entered, knowing not whither he should go.  He traversed the city from end to end, without
meeting any of the townsfolk, entering by the land-gate and faring on till he came out at the
sea-gate, for the city stood on the sea-shore.  Presently, he found himself among the orchards
and gardens of the place and passed among the trees, till he came to a garden-gate and stopped
before it, whereupon the keeper came out to him and saluted him.  The prince returned his greeting
and the other bade him welcome, saying, 'Praised be God that thou hast come off safe from the
people of the city! Quick, come into the garden, ere any of the townsfolk see thee.' So Kemerezzeman
entered the garden, amazed, and said to the keeper, 'Who and what then are the people of this
city?'  'Know,' answered the other,' that the people of this city are all Magians: but, God
on thee, tell me how and why thou camest hither.'  Accordingly, Kemerezzeman told him all that
had befallen him, at which the gardener marvelled greatly and said, 'Know, O my son, that from
this place to the cities of Islam is four months' journey by sea and a whole year by land.
We have a ship that sails yearly hence with merchandise to the Ebony Islands, which are the
nearest Muslim country, and thence to the Khalidan Islands, the dominions of King Shehriman.'
Kemerezzeman considered awhile and concluding that he could not do better than abide with the
gardener and become his assistant, said to him, 'Wilt thou take me into thy service, to help
thee in this garden?'  'Willingly,' answered the gardener and clothing him in a short blue
gown, that reached to his knees, taught him to lead the water to the roots of the trees.  So
Kemerezzeman abode with him, watering the trees and hoeing up the weeds and weeping floods
of tears; for he had no rest day or night, by reason of his strangerhood and separation from
his beloved, and he ceased not to repeat verses upon her, amongst others the following:

Ye made us a promise of yore; will ye not to your promise be
     true? Ye spoke us a word aforetime; as ye spoke to us, will
     ye not do?
We waken, whilst ye are asleep, according to passion's decree; So
     have ye the vantage of us, for watchers and sleepers are
     two.
We vowed to each other, whilere, that we would keep secret our
     loves; But the breedbate possessed you to speak, and you
     spoke and revealed what none knew.
Beloved in pleasure and pain, chagrin and contentment alike,
     Whate'er may betide, ye alone are the goal that my wishes
     ensue.
There's one that still holdeth a heart, a heart sore tormented of
     mine; Ah, would she'd have ruth on my plight and pity the
     soul that she slew!
Not every one's eye is as mine, worn wounded and cankered with
     tears, And hearts that are, even as mine, the bondslaves of
     passion, are few.
Ye acted the tyrant with me, saying, "Love is a tyrant, I trow."
     Indeed, ye were right, and the case has proved what ye said
     to be true.
Alack!  They've forgotten outright a passion-distraught one,
     whose faith Time 'minisheth not, though the fires in his
     entrails rage ever anew.
If my foeman in love be my judge, to whom shall I make my
     complaint? To whom of injustice complain, to whom for
     redress shall I sue?
Were it not for my needing of love and the ardour that burns in
     my breast, I had not a heart love-enslaved and a soul that
     for passion must rue.

To return to the princess Budour.  When she awoke, she sought her husband and found him not:
then she saw the ribbon of her trousers undone and the talisman missing and said to herself,
'By Allah, this is strange!  Where is my husband?  It would seem as if he had taken the talisman
and gone away, knowing not the secret that is in it.  Whither can he have gone?  It must have
been some extraordinary matter that drew him away, for he cannot brook to leave me an hour.
May God curse the talisman and its hour!'  Then she considered awhile and said in herself,
'If I go out and tell the servants that my husband is lost, they will covet me: I must use
stratagem.'  So she rose and donned some of her husband's clothes and boots and spurs and a
turban like his, drawing the loose end across her face for a chin-band.  Then setting a slave-girl
in her litter, she went forth the tent and called to the servants, who brought her Kemerezzeman's
horse; and she mounted and bade load the beasts and set forward.  So they bound on the burdens
and departed, none doubting but she was Kemerezzeman, for she resembled him in face and form;
nor did they leave journeying, days and nights, till they came in sight of a city overlooking
the sea, when they halted to rest and pitched their tents without the walls.  The princess
asked the name of the place and was told, 'It is called the City of Ebony: its king is named
Armanous, and he hath a daughter called Heyat en Nufous.'  Presently, the King sent to learn
who it was that had encamped without his city; so the messenger, coming to the tents, enquired
of Budour's servants and was told that she was a king's son, bound for the Khalidan Islands,
who had strayed from his road; whereupon he returned and told the King, who straightway took
horse and rode out, with his nobles, to meet the strange prince.  As he drew near the tents,
the princess came to meet him on foot, whereupon the King alighted and they saluted each other.
Then he carried her into the city and bringing her to the palace, let spread a banquet and
bade transport her company and baggage to the guest-house, where they abode three days; at
the end of which time the King came in to Budour (Now she had that day gone to the bath and
her face shone as the moon at its full, enchanting all beholders, and she was clad in robes
of silk, embroidered with gold and jewels) and said to her, 'Know, O my son, that I am a very
old man and am grown unable for the conduct of the state.  Now God has blessed me with no child
save one daughter, who resembles thee in beauty and grace; so, O my son, if this my country
please thee and thou be willing to make thine abode here, I will marry thee to my daughter
and give thee my kingdom and so be at rest.'  When Budour heard this, she bowed her head and
her forehead sweated for shame, and she said to herself, 'How shall I do, and I a woman?  If
I refuse and depart, I cannot be safe but that he may send after me troops to kill me; and
if I consent, belike I shall be put to shame.  I have lost my beloved Kemerezzeman and know
not what is come of him; wherefore I see nothing for it but to hold my peace and consent and
abide here, till God accomplish what is to be.' So she raised her head and made submission
to King Armanous, saying, 'I hear and obey,' whereat he rejoiced and bade make proclamation,
throughout the Ebony Islands, to hold high festival and decorate the houses.  Then he assembled
his chamberlains and Amirs and Viziers and other officers of state and the Cadis of the city,
and putting off the kingship, invested Budour therewith and clad her in the royal robes.  Moreover,
the Amirs and grandees went in to her and did her homage, nothing doubting but that she was
a young man, and all who looked on her berayed their hose for the excess of her beauty and
grace; then, after the lady Budour had been made Sultan and the drums had been beaten, in announcement
of the joyful event, Armanous proceeded to equip his daughter for marriage, and in a few days,
they brought Budour in to her, when they seemed as it were two moons risen at one time or two
suns foregathering.  So they entered the bridal-chamber and the doors were shut and the curtains
let down upon them, after the attendants had lighted the candles and spread the bed for them.
When Budour found herself alone with the princess Heyat en Nufous, she called to mind her beloved
Kemerezzeman and grief was sore upon her.  So she wept for his loss and absence and repeated
the following verses:

O ye who went and left my heart to pine alone fore'er, No spark
     of life remains in me, since ye away did fare!
I have an eye that doth complain of sleeplessness alway; Tears
     have consumed it; would to God that sleeplessness would
     spare!
When ye departed, after you the lover did abide; But question of
     him what of pain in absence he doth bear.
But for the ceaseless flood of tears my eyes pour forth, the
     world Would at my burning all catch fire, yea, seas and
     lands and air.
To God Most High I make my moan of dear ones loved and lost, That
     on my passion have no ruth nor pity my despair.
I never did them wrong, except my love for them were such; But
     into blest and curst in love men aye divided were.

When she had finished, she sat down beside the princess Heyat en Nufous and kissed her on the
mouth.  Then, rising abruptly, she made the ablution and betook herself to her devotions, nor
did she leave praying till Heyat en Nufous was asleep, when she slipt into bed and lay with
her back to her till morning; then rose and went out.  Presently, the old king and queen came
in to their daughter and asked her how she did, whereupon she told them what had passed and
repeated to them the verses she had heard.

Meanwhile, Budour seated herself upon the throne and all the Amirs and captains and officers
of state came in to her and wished her joy of the kingship, kissing the earth before her and
calling down blessings upon her.  She smiled on them and clad them in robes of honour, augmenting
the fiefs of the Amirs and giving largesse to the troops; wherefore all the people loved her
and offered up prayers for the continuance of her reign, doubting not but that she was a man.
She sat all day in the hall of audience, ordering and forbidding and dispensing justice, releasing
those who were in prison and remitting the customs dues, till nightfall, when she withdrew
to the apartment prepared for her.  Here she found Heyat en Nufous seated; so she sat down
by her and clapping her on the back, caressed her and kissed her between the eyes, repeating
the following verses:

The secret that I cherished my tears have public made; The
     wasting of my body my passion hath bewrayed.
I hid my love and longing; but on the parting-day My plight,
     alas!  revealed it to spies; 'twas open laid.
O ye who have departed the camp, ye've left behind My body worn
     with languor and spirit all decayed.
Within my heart's recesses ye have your dwelling-place; My tears
     are ever running and lids with blood berayed.
For ever will I ransom the absent with my soul; Indeed, for them
     my yearnings are patent and displayed.
I have an eye, whose pupil, for love of them, rejects Sleep and
     whose tears flow ever, unceasing and unstayed.
My foes would have me patient for him; but God forbid That ever
     of my hearing should heed to them be paid!
I baulked their expectation.  Of Kemerezzeman Sometime I did
     accomplish the joys for which I prayed.
He doth, as none before him, perfections all unite; No king of
     bygone ages was in the like arrayed.
His clemency and bounty Ben Zaideh's[FN#45] largesse And
     Muawiyeh's[FN#46] mildness have cast into the shade.
But that it would be tedious and verse sufficeth not To picture
     forth his beauties, I'd leave no rhyme unmade.

Then she wiped away her tears and making the ablution, stood up to pray; nor did she give over
praying, till drowsiness overcame Heyat en Nufous and she slept, whereupon Budour came and
lay beside her till the morning.  At daybreak, she arose and prayed the morning-prayer; then,
going forth, seated herself on the throne and passed the day in ordering and forbidding and
administering justice.  Meanwhile, King Armanous went in to his daughter and asked her how
she did; so she told him all that had passed and repeated to him the verses that Budour had
recited, adding, 'O my father, never saw I one more abounding in sense and modesty than my
husband, save that he doth nothing but weep and sigh.'  'O my daughter,' answered her father,
'have patience with him yet this third night, and if he go not in to thee and do away thy maidenhead,
we will take order with him and oust him from the throne and banish him the country.'  When
the night came, the princess Budour rose from the throne and betaking herself to the bride-chamber,
found the candles lighted and the princess Heyat en Nufous sitting awaiting her; whereupon
she bethought her of her husband and recalling the early severance of their loves, wept and
sighed and groaned groan upon groan, repeating the following verses:

I swear the tidings of my woes fills all the country-side, Like
     the sun shining on the hills of Nejed far and wide.
His gesture speaks, but hard to tell the meaning of it is, And
     thus my yearning without end is ever magnified.
I hate fair patience since the hour I fell in love with thee.
     Hast seen a lover hating love at any time or tide?
One, in whose glances sickness lies, hath smitten me to death,
     For looks are deadliest of the things, wherein doth sickness
     bide.
He shook his clustered ringlets down and laid his chin-band by,
     And beauty thus in him, at once both black and white, I
     spied.
Sickness and cure are in his hands; for, to the sick of love, By
     him alone who caused their dole can healing be applied.
The softness of his waist hath made his girdle mad for love And
     of his hips, for jealousy, to rise he is denied.
His forehead, covered with his curls, is as a mirky night;
     Unveiled, 'tis as a shining moon that thrusts the dark
     aside.

When she had finished, she would have risen to pray, but Heyat en Nufous caught her by the
skirt, saying, 'O my lord, art thou not ashamed to neglect me thus, after all the favour my
father hath done thee?'  When Budour heard this, she sat down again and said, 'O my beloved,
what is this thou sayest?'  'What I say,' answered Heyat en Nufous, 'is that I never saw any
so self-satisfied as thou.  Is every fair one so disdainful?  I say not this to incline thee
to me, but only of my fear for thee from King Armanous; for he purposes, an thou go not in
to me to-night and do away my maidenhead, to strip thee of the kingship on the morrow and banish
thee the realm; and belike his much anger may lead him to kill thee.  But I, O my lord, have
compassion on thee and give thee fair warning; and it is thine to decide.'  At this, Budour
bowed her head in perplexity and said in herself, 'If I refuse, I am lost, and if I obey, I
am shamed.  I am now queen of all the Ebony Islands and they are under my rule and I shall
never again foregather with Kemerezzeman except it be in this place; for there is no way for
him to his native land but through the Ebony Islands.

'O my sister,' continued she, 'the breasts of the noble are the graves of secrets, and I will
not discover thine.'  Then they toyed and embraced and kissed and slept till near the call
to morning-prayer, when Heyat en Nufous arose and slaughtering a young pigeon, besmeared herself
and besprinkled her shift with its blood.  Then she put off her trousers and cried out, whereupon
her waiting-women hastened to her and raised cries of joy.  Presently, her mother came in to
her aad asked her how she did and tended her and abode with her till evening; whilst the lady
Budour repaired to the bath and after washing herself, proceeded to the hall of audience, where
she sat down on her throne and dispensed justice among the folk.  When King Armanous heard
the cries, he asked what was the matter and was informed of the consummation of his daughter's
marriage; whereat he rejoiced and his breast dilated and he made a great banquet.

