A

NEW SYSTEM;

OR, AN

ANALYSIS

OF

ANTIENT MYTHOLOGY:

WHEREIN AN ATTEMPT IS MADE TO DIVEST TRADITION OF FABLE; AND TO REDUCE THE TRUTH TO ITS ORIGINAL
PURITY,

BY JACOB BRYANT, ESQ.

THE THIRD EDITION. IN SIX VOLUMES.

WITH A PORTRAIT AND SOME ACCOUNT OF THE AUTHOR;

A VINDICATION OF THE APAMEAN MEDAL;

Observations and Inquiries relating to various Parts of Antient History;

A COMPLETE INDEX,

AND FORTY-ONE PLATES, NEATLY ENGRAVED.

VOL. II.

LONDON:

PRINTED FOR J. WALKER; W.J. AND J. RICHARDSON; R. FAULDER AND SON; R. LEA; J. NUNN; CUTHELL
AND MARTIN; H.D. SYMONDS; VERNOR, HOOD, AND SHARPE; E. JEFFERY; LACKINGTON, ALLEN, AND CO.;
J. BOOKER; BLACK, PARRY, AND KINGSBURY; J. ASPERNE; J. MURRAY; AND J. HARRIS.

1807.

       *       *       *       *       *

A

NEW SYSTEM

OR AN

ANALYSIS

OF

ANTIENT MYTHOLOGY.

       *       *       *       *       *

PHŒNIX AND PHŒNICES.

As there has been much uncertainty about the purport and extent of these terms; and they are
of great consequence in the course of history; I will endeavour to state their true meaning.
Phoinic, or Poinic, was an Egyptian and Canaanitish term of honour; from whence were formed
Φοινιξ, Φοινικες, Φοινικοεις of the Greeks, and Phoinic, Poinicus, Poinicius of the Romans;
which were afterwards changed to Phœnix, Punicus, and [1]Puniceus. It was originally a title,
which the Greeks made use of as a provincial name: but it was never admitted as such by the
people, to whom it was thus appropriated, till the Greeks were in possession of the country.
And even then it was but partially received: for though mention is made of the coast of Phœnice,
yet we find the natives called Sidonians, Tyrians, and [2]Canaanites, as late as the days of
the Apostles. It was an honorary term, compounded of Anac with the Egyptian prefix; and rendered
at times both Phoinic and Poinic. It signified a lord or prince: and was particularly assumed
by the sons of Chus and Canaan. The Mysians seem to have kept nearest to the original pronunciation,
who gave this title to the God Dionusus, and called him Ph'anac.

  [3]Ogygia me Bacchum vocat,
  Osirin Ægyptus putat,
  Mysi Phanacem.

It was also conferred upon many things, which were esteemed princely and noble. Hence the red,
or scarlet, a colour appropriated to great and honourable personages, was styled Phoinic. The
palm was also styled Phoinic, Φοινιξ: and the antients always speak of it as a stately and
noble tree. It was esteemed an emblem of honour; and made use of as a reward of victory. Plurimarum
palmarum homo, was a proverbial expression among the Romans, for a soldier of merit. Pliny
speaks of the various species of palms; and of the great repute in which they were held by
the Babylonians. He says, that the noblest of them were styled the royal Palms; and supposes
that they were so called from their being set apart for the king's use. But they were very
early an emblem of royalty: and it is a circumstance included in their original name. We find
from Apuleius, that Mercury, the [4]Hermes of Egypt, was represented with a palm branch in
his hand: and his priests at Hermopolis used to have them stuck in their [5]sandals, on the
outside. The Goddess [6]Isis was thus represented: and we may infer that Hermes had the like
ornaments; which the Greeks mistook for feathers, and have in consequence of it added wings
to his feet. The Jews used to carry boughs of the same tree at some of their festivals; and
particularly at the celebration of their nuptials: and it was thought to have an influence
at the birth. Euripides alludes to this in his Ion; where he makes Latona recline herself against
a Palm tree, when she is going to produce Apollo and Diana.

    [7]Φοινικα Παρ' ἁβροκομαν
  Ενθα λοχευματα σεμν' ελοχευσατο
    Λατω.

In how great estimation this tree was held of old, we may learn from many passages in the sacred
writings. Solomon says to his espoused, [8]how fair and how pleasant art thou, O Love, for
delights: thy stature is like a Palm tree. And the Psalmist for an encouragement to holiness,
says, [9]that the righteous shall flourish like the Palm tree: for the Palm was supposed to
rise under a weight; and to thrive in proportion to its being [10]depressed. There is possibly
a farther allusion in this, than may at first appear. The antients had an opinion, that the
Palm was immortal: at least, if it did die, it recovered again, and obtained a second life
by renewal. Hence the story of the bird, styled the Phoenix, is thought to have been borrowed
from this tree. Pliny, in describing the species of Palm, styled Syagrus, says, [11]Mirum de
eâ accepimus, cum Phœnice Ave, quæ putatur ex hujus Palmæ argumento nomen accepisse, iterum
mori, et renasci ex seipsà. Hence we find it to have been an emblem of immortality among all
nations, sacred and prophane. The blessed in heaven are represented in the Apocalypse by St.
John, [12]as standing before the throne in white robes, with branches of Palm in their hands.
The notion of this plant being an emblem of royalty prevailed so far, that when our Saviour
made his last entrance into Jerusalem, the people took branches of Palm trees, and accosted
him as a prince, crying, [13]Hosanna--blessed is the King of Israel.

The title of Phoinic seems at first to have been given to persons of great stature: but, in
process of time, it was conferred upon people of power and eminence, like αναξ and ανακτες
among the Greeks. The Cuthites in Egypt were styled Royal Shepherds, Βασιλεις Ποιμενες, and
had therefore the title of Phœnices. A colony of them went from thence to Tyre and Syria: hence
it is said by many writers that Phœnix came from Egypt to Tyre. People, not considering this,
have been led to look for the shepherd's origin in Canaan, because they were sometimes called
Phœnices. They might as well have looked for them in Greece; for they were equally styled [14]Ἑλληνες,
Hellenes. Phœnicia, which the Greeks called Φοινικη, was but a small part of Canaan. It was
properly a slip of sea coast, which lay within the jurisdiction of the Tyrians and Sidonians,
and signifies Ora Regia; or, according to the language of the country, the coast of the Anakim.
It was a lordly title, and derived from a stately and august people. All the natives of Canaan
seem to have assumed to themselves great honour. The Philistines are spoken of as [15]Lords,
and the merchants of Tyre as Princes; whose grandeur and magnificence are often alluded to
in the Scriptures. The prophet Ezekiel calls them the princes of the sea. [16]Then all the
princes of the sea shall come down from their thrones, and lay away their robes, and put off
their broidered garments. And Isaiah speaks to the same purpose. The scripture term by which
they are here distinguished is שרים, Sarim: but the title which they assumed to themselves
was Ph'anac, or Ph'oinac, the Phœnix of the Greeks and Romans. And as it was a mere title,
the sacred writers of the old testament never make use of it to distinguish either the people
or country. This part of Canaan is never by them called Phœnicia: yet others did call it so;
and the natives were styled Phœnices before the birth of Homer. But this was through mistake;
for it was never used by the natives as a provincial appellation. I have shewn that it was
a title of another sort, a mark of rank and pre-eminence: on this account it was assumed by
other people, and conferred upon other places. For this reason it is never mentioned by any
of the sacred writers before the captivity, in order to avoid ambiguity. The Gentile writers
made use of it; and we see what mistakes have ensued. There were Phœnicians of various countries.
They were to be found upon the Sinus [18]Persicus, upon the Sinus [19]Arabicus, in Egypt, in
[20]Crete, in [21]Africa, in [22]Epirus, and even in Attica. [23]Φοινικες--γενος τι Αθηνῃσι.
There is a race of people called Phœnicians among the [24]Athenians. In short, it was a title
introduced at Sidon, and the coast adjoining, by people from Egypt: and who the people were
that brought it may be known from several passages in antient history; but particularly from
an extract in Eusebius, [25]Φοινιξ και Καδμος, απο Θηβων των Αιγυπτιων εξελθοντες εις την Συριαν,
Τυρου και Σιδωνος εβασιλευον. Phœnix and Cadmus, retiring from Thebes, in Egypt, towards the
coast of Syria, settled at Tyre and Sidon, and reigned there. It is said, that [26]Belus carried
a colony to the same parts: and from what part of the world [27]Belus must be supposed to have
come, needs not to be explained. Euripides styles Cepheus the king of Ethiopia, the son of
Phœnix: and Apollodorus makes him the son of Belus: hence we may infer, that Belus and Phœnix
were the same. Not that there were any such persons as Phœnix and Belus, for they were certainly
titles: and, under the characters of those two personages, Colonies, named Belidæ and Phœnices,
went abroad, and settled in different parts. Their history and appellation may be traced from
Babylonia to Arabia and Egypt; and from thence to Canaan, and to the regions in the west. It
were therefore to be wished, that the terms Phœnix and Phœnicia had never been used in the
common acceptation; at least when the discourse turns upon the more antient history of Canaan.
When the Greeks got possession of the coast of Tyre, they called it Phœnicia: and from that
time it may be admitted as a provincial name. In consequence of this, the writers of the New
Testament do not scruple to make use of it, but always with a proper limitation; for the geography
of the Scriptures is wonderfully exact. But the Greek and Roman writers often speak of it with
a greater latitude, and include Judea and Palestina within its borders; and sometimes add Syria
and Idume. But these countries were all separate and distinct; among which Phœnicia bore but
a small proportion. Yet, small as it may have been, many learned men have thought, that all
the colonies, which at times settled upon the coast of the Mediterranean, were from this quarter;
and that all science was of Phœnician original. But this is not true according to their acceptation
of the term. Colonies did settle; and science came from the east: but not merely from the Sidonian.
I shall shew, that it was principally owing to a prior and superior branch of the family.

       *       *       *       *       *

ADDENDA.

OF THE PALM TREE.

Phœnix was a colour among horses. They were styled Phœnices, and [28]Phœniciati, from the colour
of the Palm tree, which they resembled; and upon the same account had the name of Spadices.
This, according to Aulus Gellius, was a term synonymous with the former. [29]Rutilus, et Spadix
Phœnicii συνωνυμος, exuberantiam splendoremque significant ruboris, quales sunt fructus Palmæ
arboris, nondum sole incocti: unde spadicis et Phœnicei nomen est. [30]Spadix, σπαδιξ, avulsus
est a Palmâ termes cum fructu. Homer, describing the horses of Diomedes, says, that the one
was Phœnix, or of a bright Palm colour, with a white spot in his forehead like a moon.

  [31]Ὁς το μεν αλλο τοσον φοινιξ ην, ενδε μετωπῳ
  Λευκον σημ' ετετυκτο περιτροχον ηϋτε μηνη.

Upon this the Scholiast observes, Φοινικες το χρωμα, ητοι πυῤῥος. The horse was of a Palm colour,
which is a bright red. We call such horses bays, which probably is a term of the same original.
The branch of a Palm tree was called Bai in Egypt; and it had the same name in other places.
Baia, Βαια, are used for Palm-branches by St. John. [32]Τα βαια των Φοινικων. And it is mentioned
by the author of the book of Maccabees, that the Jews, upon a solemn occasion, entered the
temple. [33]Μετα αινεσεως και βαιων. And Demetrius writes to the high priest, Simon, [34]Τον
στεφανον τον χρυσουν και την Βαϊνην, ἁ απεστειλατε, κεκομισμεθα. Coronam auream et Bainem,
quæ misistis, accepimus. The Greeks formed the word βαϊνη from the Egyptian Bai. The Romans
called the same colour Badius. [35]Varro, speaking of horses, mentions,

  Hic badius, ille gilvus, ille Murinus.

As the Palm tree was supposed to be immortal; or, at least, if it did die, to revive, and enjoy
a second life, the Egyptians gave the name of Bai to the soul: [36]Εστι μεν γαρ το βαι ψυχη.

       *       *       *       *       *

OF THE

TERM CAHEN:

THE

COHEN, כהן, OF THE HEBREWS.

I have before taken notice that the term Cahen denoted a Priest, or President; and that it
was a title often conferred upon princes and kings. Nor was it confined to men only: we find
it frequently annexed to the names of Deities, to signify their rule and superintendency over
the earth. From them it was derived to their attendants, and to all persons of a prophetical
or sacred character. The meaning of the term was so obvious, that one would imagine no mistake
could have ensued: yet such is the perverseness of human wit, that we find it by the Greeks
and Romans constantly misapplied. They could not help imagining, from the sound of the word,
which approached nearly to that of κυων and canis, that it had some reference to that animal:
and, in consequence of this unlucky resemblance, they continually misconstrued it a dog. Hence
we are told by [37]Ælian and [38]Plutarch, not only of the great veneration paid to dogs in
Egypt, and of their being maintained in many cities and temples; in which they certainly exceed
the truth; but we are moreover assured, that the people of Ethiopia had a dog for their king:
that he was kept in great state, being surrounded with a numerous body of officers and guards,
and in all respects royally treated. Plutarch speaks of him as being [39]σεμνως προσκυνομενος,
worshipped with a degree of religious reverence. The whole of this notion took its rise from
a misinterpretation of the title above. I have mentioned, that in early times Cahen was a title
universally conferred upon priests and prophets: hence Lycophron, who has continually allusions
to obsolete terms, calls the two diviners, Mopsus and Amphilochus, Κυνας.

  [40]Δοιαιδε ῥειθρων Πυραμου προς εκβολαις
  Αυτοκτονοις σφαγαισι Δηραινου ΚYΝΕΣ
  Δμηθεντες αιχμαζουσι λοισθιον βοαν.

Upon which the Scholiast observes: Κυνες ὁι Μαντεις: by Cunes are meant Diviners: and again,
Κυνας Απολλωνος τους μαντεις ειπειν. The Poet, by Κυνας, means the ministers and prophets of
Apollo. Upon this the learned [41]Meursius observes, that Lycophron had here made use of a
term imported from Egypt: so that, I think, we cannot be mistaken about the purport of the
word, however it may have been perverted.

The name of the Deity, Canouphis, expressed also Canuphis, and Cnuphis, was compounded with
this term. He was represented by the Egyptians as a princely person, with a serpent entwined
round his middle, and embellished with other characteristics, relating to time and duration,
of which the serpent was an emblem. Oph, and Ouph, signified a serpent in the Amonian language;
and the Deity was termed Can-uph, from his serpentine representation. The whole species, in
consequence of this, were made sacred to him, and styled Canyphian. To this Lucan alludes,
when, in speaking of the Seps, he calls all the tribe of serpents Cinyphias pestes:

    [42]Cinyphias inter pestes tibi palma nocendi.

Canuphis was sometimes expressed Anuphis and Anubis; and, however rendered, was by the Greeks
and Romans continually spoken of as a dog; at least they supposed him to have had a dog's head,
and often mention his [43]barking. But they were misled by the title, which they did not understand.
The Egyptians had many emblematical personages, set off with heads of various animals, to represent
particular virtues and affections, as well as to denote the various attributes of their Gods.
Among others was this canine figure, which I have no reason to think was appropriated to Canuph,
or Cneph. And though upon gems and marbles his name may be sometimes found annexed to this
character, yet it must be looked upon as a Grecian work, and so denominated in consequence
of their mistaken notion. For we must make a material distinction between the hieroglyphics
of old, when Egypt was under her own kings; and those of later date, when that country was
under the government of the Greeks: at which time their learning was greatly impaired, and
their antient theology ruined. Horus Apollo assures us, if any credit may be given to what
he says, that this canine figure was an emblem of the earth: [44]Οικουμενην γραφοντες κυνοκεφαλον
ζωγραφουσι. When they would describe the earth, they paint a Cunocephalus. It could not, therefore,
I should think, in any degree relate to Canuphis. The same[45] writer informs us, that under
the figure of a dog they represented a priest, or sacred scribe, and a prophet; and all such
as had the chief management of funerals: also the spleen, the smell, sneezing; rule and government,
and a magistrate, or judge: which is a circumstance hardly to be believed. For, as hieroglyphics
were designed to distinguish, it is scarce credible that the Egyptians should crowd together
so many different and opposite ideas under one character, whence nothing could well ensue but
doubt and confusion. Besides, I do not remember, that in any group of antient hieroglyphics
the figure of a dog occurs. The meaning of this history, I think, may be with a little attention
made out. The Egyptians were refined in their superstitions, above all the nations in the world;
and conferred the names and titles of their Deities upon vegetables and animals of every species;
and not only upon these, but also upon the parts of the human body, and the very passions of
the mind. Whatever they deemed salutary, or of great value, they distinguished by the title
of Sacred, and consecrated it to some [46]God. This will appear from words borrowed from Egypt.
The Laurel, Laurus, was denominated from Al-Orus: the berry was termed bacca, from Bacchus;
Myrrh, Μυῤῥα was from Ham-Ourah; Casia, from Chus. The Crocodile was called Caimin and Campsa;
the Lion, El-Eon; the Wolf, El-Uc; the Cat, Al-Ourah: whence the Greeks formed λεων, λυκος,
αιλουρος. The Egyptians styled Myrrh, Baal; balsam, baal-samen; Camphire, Cham-phour, καμφουρα
of Greece; Opium, Ophion. The sweet reed of Egypt was named [47]Canah, and Conah, by way of
eminence; also, [48]Can-Osiris. Cinnamon was denominated from Chan-Amon; Cinnabar, κινναβαρις,
from Chan-Abor; the sacred beetle, Cantharus, from Chan-Athur. The harp was styled Cinnor,
and was supposed to have been found out by Cinaras; which terms are compounded of Chan-Or,
and Chan-Arez; and relate to the Sun, or Apollo, the supposed inventor of the lyre. Priests
and magistrates were particularly honoured with the additional title of Cahen; and many things
held sacred were liable to have it in their composition. Hence arose the error of Horus Apollo;
who, having been informed that the antient Egyptians distinguished many things which were esteemed
holy by this sacred title, referred the whole to hieroglyphics, and gave out that they were
all represented under the figure of a dog. And it is possible, that in later times the Grecian
artists, and the mixed tribes of Egypt, may have expressed them in this manner; for they were
led by the ear; and did not inquire into the latent purport of the [49]theology transmitted
to them. From hence we may perceive how little, in later times, even the native Egyptians knew
of their rites and history.

Farther accounts may be produced from the same writer, in confirmation of what I have been
saying. He not only mentions the great veneration paid by the Egyptians to dogs, but adds,
that in many temples they kept κυνοκεφαλοι, a kind of baboons, or animals with heads like those
of dogs, which were wonderfully endowed. By their assistance the Egyptians found out the particular
periods of the Sun and Moon. These did not, like other animals, die at once, but by piece-meal;
so that one half of the animal was oftentimes buried, while the other half[50] survived. He
moreover assures us, that they could read and write; and whenever one of them was introduced
into the sacred apartments for probation, the priest presented him with a [51]tablet, and with
a pen and ink; and by his writing could immediately find out if he were of the true intelligent
breed. These animals are said to have been of infinite use to the antient Egyptians in determining
times and seasons; for it seems they were, in some particular functions, the most accurate
and punctual of any creatures upon earth: [52]Per æquinoctia enim duodecies in die urinam reddere,
et in nocte[53] compertus (Cunocephalus), æquali interstitio servato, Trismegisto ansam dedit
diem dividendi in duodecim partes æquales. Such is the history of these wonderful [54]animals.
That Apes and Baboons were, among the Egyptians, held in veneration, is very certain. The Ape
was sacred to the God Apis; and by the Greeks was rendered Capis, and [55]Ceipis. The Baboon
was denominated from the Deity[56] Babon, to whom it was equally sacred. But what have these
to do with the supposed Cunocephalus, which, according to the Grecian interpretation, is an
animal with the head of a dog? This characteristic does not properly belong to any species
of Apes, but seems to have been unduly appropriated to them. The term Cunocephalus, Κυνοκεφαλος,
is an Egyptian compound: and this strange history relates to the priests of the country, styled
Cahen; also to the novices in their temples; and to the examinations, which they were obliged
to undergo, before they could be admitted to the priesthood. To explain this, I must take notice,
that in early times they built their temples upon eminences, for many reasons; but especially
for the sake of celestial observations. The Egyptians were much addicted to the study of astronomy:
and they used to found their colleges in Upper Egypt upon rocks and hills, called by them Caph.
These, as they were sacred to the Sun, were farther denominated Caph-El, and sometimes Caph-Aur,
and Caph-Arez. The term Caph-El, which often occurs in history, the Greeks uniformly changed
to Κεφαλη, Cephale: and from Cahen-Caph-El, the sacred rock of Orus, they formed Κυνοκεφαλη,
and Κυνοκεφαλος; which they supposed to relate to an animal with the head of a dog. But this
Cahen-Caph-El was certainly some royal seminary in Upper Egypt, whence they drafted novices
to supply their colleges and temples. These young persons were, before their introduction,
examined by some superior priest; and, accordingly as they answered upon their trial, they
were admitted, or refused. They were denominated Caph-El, and Cahen-Caph-El, from the academy
where they received their first instruction; and this place, though sacred, seems to have been
of a class subordinate to others. It was a kind of inferior cloister and temple, such as Capella
in the Romish church; which, as well as Capellanus, was derived from Egypt: for, the church,
in its first decline, borrowed largely from that country. That there was some particular place
of this sort situated upon a rock or eminence, may, I think, be proved from Martianus Capella;
and, moreover, that it was a seminary well known, where the youth of Upper Egypt were educated.
For, in describing the sciences, under different personages, he gives this remarkable account
of Dialectica upon introducing her before his audience. [57]Hæc se educatam dicebat in Ægyptiorum
Rupe; atque in Parmenidis exinde gymnasium, atque Atticam demeasse. And Johannes Sarisburiensis
seems to intimate that Parmenides obtained his knowledge from the same quarter, when he mentions
[58]"in Rupe vitam egisse. In this short detail we have no unpleasing account of the birth
of science in Egypt, and of its progress thence to Attica. It is plain that this Rupes Ægyptiaca
could be nothing else but a seminary, either the same, or at least similar to that, which I
have before been describing. As the Cunocephali are said to have been sacred to Hermes, this
college and temple were probably in the nome of Hermopolis. Hermes was the patron of Science,
and particularly styled Cahen, or [59]Canis: and the Cunocephali are said to have been worshipped
by the people of that [60]place. They were certainly there reverenced: and this history points
out very plainly the particular spot alluded to. Hermopolis was in the upper region styled
Thebaïs: and there was in this district a tower, such as has been [61]mentioned. It was in
aftertimes made use of for a repository, where they laid up the tribute. This may have been
the Rupes Ægyptiaca, so famed of old for science; and which was the seat of the Chancephalim,
or Cunocephalians.

It is said of the Cunocephali, that when one part was dead and buried, the other still survived.
This can relate to nothing else but a society, or body politic, where there is a continual
decrement, yet part still remains; and the whole is kept up by succession. It is an enigma,
which particularly relates to the priesthood in Egypt: for the sacred office there was hereditary,
being vested in certain families; and when part was dead, a residue still [62]survived, who
admitted others in the room of the deceased. [63]Επεαν δε τις αποθανῃ, τουτου ὁ παις αντικατισταται.
The sons, we find, supplied the place of their fathers: hence the body itself never became
extinct, being kept up by a regular succession. As to the Cunocephali giving to Hermes the
first hint of dividing the day into twelve parts from the exactness, which was observed in
their [64]evacuations, it is a surmise almost too trifling to be discussed. I have shewn that
the Cunocephali were a sacred college, whose members were persons of great learning: and their
society seems to have been a very antient institution. They were particularly addicted to astronomical
observations; and by contemplating the heavens, styled Ouran, they learned to distinguish the
seasons, and to divide the day into parts. But the term Ouran the Greeks by a strange misconception
changed to ουρειν; of which mistake they have afforded other instances: and from this abuse
of terms the silly figment took its rise.

The Cunocephali are not to be found in Egypt only, but in India likewise; and in other parts
of the world. Herodotus [65]mentions a nation of this name in Libya: and speaks of them as
a race of men with the heads of dogs. Hard by in the neighbourhood of this people he places
the Ακεφαλοι, men with no heads at all: to whom, out of humanity, and to obviate some very
natural distresses, he gives eyes in the breast. But he seems to have forgot mouth and ears,
and makes no mention of a nose: he only says, [66]Ακεφαλοι, ὁι εν στηθεσιν οφθαλμους εχοντες.
Both these and the Cunocephali were denominated from their place of residence, and from their
worship: the one from Cahen-Caph-El, the other from Ac-Caph-El: each of which appellations
is of the same purport, the right noble, or sacred [67]rock of the Sun.

Similar to the history of the Cunocephali, and Acephali, is that of the Cunodontes. They are
a people mentioned by Solinus and Isidorus, and by them are supposed to have had the teeth
of dogs. Yet they were probably denominated, like those above, from the object of their worship,
the Deity Chan-Adon; which the Greeks expressed Κυνοδων, and styled his votaries [68]Cunodontes.

The Greeks pretended, that they had the use of the sphere, and were acquainted with the zodiac,
and its asterisms very early. But it is plain from their mistakes, that they received the knowledge
of these things very late; at a time when the terms were obsolete, and the true purport of
them not to be obtained. They borrowed all the schemes under which the stars are comprehended
from the Egyptians: who had formed them of old, and named them from circumstances in their
own religion and mythology. They had particularly conferred the titles of their Deities upon
those stars, which appeared the brightest in their hemisphere. One of the most remarkable and
brilliant they called Cahen Sehor; another they termed Purcahen; a third Cahen Ourah, or Cun
Ourah. These were all misconstrued, and changed by the Greeks; Cahen-Sehor to Canis Sirius;
P'urcahen to Procyon; and Cahen Ourah to Cunosoura, the dog's tail. In respect to this last
name I think, from the application of it in other instances, we may be assured that it could
not be in acceptation what the Greeks would persuade us: nor had it any relation to a dog.
There was the summit of a hill in Arcadia of this [69]name: also a promontory in [70]Attica;
and another in [71]Eubœa. How could it possibly in its common acceptation be applicable to
these places? And as a constellation if it signified a dog's tail, how came it to be a name
given to the tail of a bear? It was a term brought from [72]Sidon, and Egypt: and the purport
was to be sought for from the language of the Amonians.

The antient Helladians used upon every promontory to raise pillars and altars to the God of
light, Can-Our, the Chan-Orus of Egypt. But Can-Our, and Can-Ourah, they changed to κυνοσουρα,
as I have shewn: yet notwithstanding this corruption, the true name is often to be discovered.
The place which is termed Cunosoura by Lucian, in his Icaromemenippus, is called Cunoura by
Stephanus Byzant, and by [73]Pausanias. Cunoura is also used by Lycophron, who understood antient
terms full well, for any high rock or headland.

  [74]Εν ἁισι προς κυνουρα καμπυλους σχασας
  Πευκης οδοντας.

    Προς κυνουρα, προς τραχειας πετρας. Scholiast. ibid.

We find the same mistake occur in the account transmitted to us concerning the first discovery
of purple. The antients very gratefully gave the merit of every useful and salutary invention
to the Gods. Ceres was supposed to have discovered to men corn, and bread: Osiris shewed them
the use of the plough; Cinyras of the harp: Vesta taught them to build. Every Deity was looked
up to as the cause of some blessing. The Tyrians and Sidonians were famous for the manufacture
of purple: the die of which was very exquisite, and the discovery of it was attributed to Hercules
of Tyre; the same who by Palæphatus is styled Hercules [75]Philosophus. But some will not allow
him this honour; but say, that the dog of Hercules was the discoverer. For accidentally feeding
upon the Murex, with which the coast abounded, the dog stained his mouth with the ichor of
the fish; and from hence the first hint of dying was [76]taken. This gave birth to the proverbial
expression, [77]Ἑυρημα κυνος ην ἡ σεβαστη πορφυρα. Nonnus mentions the particular circumstance
of the dog's staining his mouth:

  [78]Χιονεας πορφυρε παρηϊδας ἁιματι κοχλου.

Such is the story, which at first sight is too childish to admit of credit. It is not likely
that a dog would feed upon shell-fish: and if this may at any time have happened, yet whoever
is at all conversant in natural history, must know, that the murex is of the turbinated kind,
and particularly aculeated; having strong and sharp protuberances, with which a dog would hardly
engage. The story is founded upon the same misconception, of which so many instances have been
produced. Hercules of Tyre, like all other oriental divinities, was styled Cahen, and Cohen;
as was allowed by the Greeks themselves. [79]Τον Ἡρακλην φασι κατα την Αιγυπτιων διαλεκτον
ΧΩΝΑ λεγεσθαι. We are told, that Hercules in the language of the Egyptians is called Chon.
This intelligence, however, they could not abide by; but changed this sacred title to [80]κυων,
a dog, which they described as an attendant upon the Deity.

The Grecians tell us, that the Egyptians styled Hermes a dog: but they seem to have been aware,
that they were guilty of an undue representation. Hence Plutarch tries to soften, and qualify
what is mentioned, by saying, [81]Ου γαρ κυριως τον Ἑρμην ΚYΝΑ λεγουσιν (ὁι Αιγυπτιοι): by
which this learned writer would insinuate, that it was not so much the name of a dog, as the
qualities of that animal, to which the Egyptians alluded. Plutarch thought by this refinement
to take off the impropriety of conferring so base a name upon a Deity. But the truth is, that
the Egyptians neither bestowed it nominally; nor alluded to it in any degree. The title which
they gave to Hermes was the same that they bestowed upon Hercules: they expressed it Cahen,
and Cohen; and it was very properly represented above by the Greek term Χων, Chon. It is said
of Socrates, that he sometimes made use of an uncommon oath, μα τον κυνα, και τον χηνα by the
dog and the goose: which at first does not seem consistent with the gravity of his character.
But we are informed by Porphyry, that this was not done by way of ridicule: for Socrates esteemed
it a very serious and religious mode of attestation: and under these terms made a solemn appeal
to the son of [82]Zeus. The purport of the words is obvious: and whatever hidden meaning there
may have been, the oath was made ridiculous by the absurdity of the terms. Besides, what possible
connection could there have subsisted between a dog and a Deity; a goose and the son of Jove?
There was certainly none: yet Socrates, like the rest of his fraternity, having an antipathy
to foreign terms, chose to represent his ideas through this false medium; by which means the
very essence of his invocation was lost. The son of Zeus, to whom he appealed, was the Egyptian
Cahen abovementioned; but this sacred title was idly changed to κυνα και χηνα, a dog and a
goose, from a similitude in sound. That he referred to the Egyptian Deity, is manifest from
Plato, who acknowledges that he swore, [83]μα τον κυνα τον Αιγυπτιων θεον. By which we are
to understand a Cahen of Egypt. Porphyry expressly says, that it was the God Hermes the son
of Zeus, and Maia: [84]Κατα τον του Διος και Μαιας παιδα εποιειτο τον ὁρκον.

I cannot account upon any other principle than that upon which I have proceeded, for the strange
representation of Apollo, and Bacchus, gaping with open mouths. So it seems they were in some
places described. Clemens of Alexandria mentions from Polemon, that Apollo was thus exhibited:
[85]Πολεμων δε κεχηνοτος Απολλωνος οιδεν αγαλμα. And we are told that a gaping[86] Bacchus
was particularly worshipped at Samos. They were both the same as the Egyptian Orus; who was
styled Cahen-On, Rex, vel Deus Sol; out of which Cahen-On the Grecians seem to have formed
the word Χαινων: and in consequence of it, these two Deities were represented with their jaws
widely extended. This term was sometimes changed to κοινος, communis: hence it is that we so
often meet with κοινοι Θεοι, and κοινοι βωμοι, upon coins and marbles: also κοινος Ἑρμης. And
as Hermes was the reputed God of gain, every thing found was adjudged to be κοινος, or common.

                  [87]Αλλ' εσιδουσα
  Εξαπινης, Ἑρμης κοινος, εφη θυγατηρ.
  [88]Κοινον ειναι τον Ἑρμην.

Notwithstanding this notion so universally received, yet among the Grecians themselves the
term κοινος was an antient title of eminence. [89]Κοινος, ὁ Δεσποτης. Coinos signifies a lord
and master: undoubtedly from Cohinus; and that from Cohen. It would be endless to enumerate
all the instances which might be brought of this nature. Of this, I think, I am assured, that
whoever will consider the uncouth names both of Deities, and men, as well as of places, in
the light recommended; and attend to the mythology transmitted concerning them; will be able
by these helps to trace them to their original meaning. It is, I think, plain, that what the
Grecians so often interpreted κυνες, was an antient Amonian title. When therefore I read of
the brazen dog of Vulcan, of the dog of Erigone, of Orion, of Geryon, of Orus, of Hercules,
of Amphilochus, of Hecate, I cannot but suppose, that they were the titles of so many Deities;
or else of their priests, who were denominated from their office. In short, the Cahen of Egypt
were no more dogs than the Pateræ of Amon were basons: and though Diodorus does say, that at
the grand celebrity of [90]Isis, the whole was preceded by dogs, yet I cannot help being persuaded
that they were the priests of the Goddess.

By this clue we may unravel many intricate histories transmitted from different parts. In the
temple of Vulcan, near mount Ætna, there are said to have been a breed of dogs, which fawned
upon good men, but were implacable to the bad. [91]Inde etiam perpetuus ignis a Siculis alebatur
in Ætnæo Vulcani templo, cui custodes adhibiti sunt sacri canes, blandientes piis hominibus,
in impios ferocientes. In the celebrated gardens of Electra there was a golden dog, which shewed
the same regard to good men, and was as inveterate to others.

  [92]Χρυσεος οιδαινοντι κυων συνυλακτεε λαιμῳ
  Σαινων ηθαδα φωτα.

What is more remarkable, there were many gaping dogs in this temple; which are represented
as so many statues, yet were endowed with life.

  [93]Χασμασι ποιητοισι σεσῃροτες ανθερεωνες
  Ψευδαλεων σκυλακων στιχες εμφρονες.

Homer describes something of the same nature in the gardens of Alcinous.

  [94]Χρυσειοι δ' ἑκατερθε και αργυρεοι κυνες ησαν,
  Ὁυς Ἡφαιστος ετευξεν ιδυιῃσι πραπιδεσσιν,
  Αθανατους οντας, και αγηρως ηματα παντα.

All this relates to the Cusean priests of Vulcan or Hephaistos, and to the priesthood established
in his temple: which priesthood was kept up by succession, and never became extinct. What was
Cusean, the Greeks often rendered Χρυσειον, as I shall hereafter shew. The same people were
also styled Cuthim; and this word likewise among the antients signified gold: from hence these
priests were styled Χρυσειοι κυνες. We find the like history in Crete: here too was a golden
dog, which Zeus had appointed to be the guardian of his temple[95]. By comparing these histories,
I think we cannot fail of arriving at the latent meaning. The God of light among other titles
was styled Cahen, or Chan-Ades: but the term being taken in the same acceptation here, as in
the instances above, the Deity was changed to a dog, and said to reside in the infernal regions.
From hence he was supposed to have been dragged to light by Hercules of Thebes. The notion
both of Cerberus and Hades being subterraneous Deities took its rise from the temples of old
being situated near vast caverns, which were esteemed passages to the realms below. Such were
in Messenia, in Argolis, in Bithynia, and at Enna in Sicily; not to mention divers other places.
These temples were often named Kir-Abor; and the Deity Chan-Ades; out of which terms the Greeks
formed Τον Κερβερον κυνα ἁδου; and fabled, that he was forced into upper air by Hercules, through
these infernal inlets. And as temples similar in name and situation were built in various parts,
the like history was told of them all. Pausanias takes notice of this event, among other places,
being ascribed to the cavern at [96]Tænarus; as well as to one at [97]Trœzen, and to a third
near the city [98]Hermione. The Poet Dionysius speaks of the feat being performed in the country
of the Marianduni, near Colchis.

  [99]Και Μαριανδυνων ἱερον πεδον, ενθ' ενεπουσιν
  Ουδαιου Κρονιδαο μεγαν κυνα Χαλκεοφωνον
  Χερσιν ανελκομενον μεγαλητορος Ἡρακληος,
  Δεινον απο στοματων βαλεειν σιαλωδεα χυλον.

But however the Deity in all these instances may have been degraded to the regions of darkness,
yet he was the God of light, Κυν-ἁδης; and such was the purport of that name. He was the same
as Apollo, as may be proved from the Cunidæ at Athens, who were a family set apart for his
service. Κυννιδαι, γενος Αθηνῃσιν, εξ ὁυ ὁ ἱερευς του Κυννιου Απολλωνος. Hesychius. The Cunnidai
are a family at Athens, out of which the priest of Apollo Cunnius is chosen. He styles him
Apollo Cunnius: but the Cunidai were more properly denominated from Apollo Cunides, the same
as Cun-Ades. Poseidon was expressly styled Cun-Ades; and he was the same Deity as Apollo, only
under a different title, as I have shewn. Κυναδης Ποσειδων Αθηνῃσιν ετιμᾳτο. Hesychius. Poseidon
was worshipped at Athens under the title of Cun-Ades.

Though I have endeavoured to shew, that the term of which I have been treating was greatly
misapplied, in being so uniformly referred to dogs, yet I do not mean to insinuate that it
did not sometimes relate to them. They were distinguished by this sacred title, and were held
in some degree of [100]veneration; but how far they were reverenced is not easy to determine.
Herodotus,[101] speaking of the sanctity of some animals in Egypt, says, that the people in
every family, where a dog died, shaved themselves all over: and he mentions it as a custom
still subsisting in his own time. Plutarch[102] differs from him. He allows that these animals
were, at one time, esteemed holy; but it was before the time of Cambyses: from the æra of his
reign they were held in another light: for when this king killed the sacred Apis, the dogs
fed so liberally upon his entrails, without making a proper distinction, that they lost all
their sanctity. It is of little consequence whichever account be the truest. They were certainly
of old looked upon as sacred; and esteemed emblems of the Deity. And it was, perhaps, with
a view to this, and to prevent the Israelites retaining any notion of this nature, that a dog
was not suffered to come within the precincts of the temple at [103]Jerusalem. In the Mosaic
law, the price of a dog, and the hire of a harlot, are put upon the same level. [104]Thou shalt
not bring the hire of a whore, or the price of a dog, into the house of the Lord thy God for
any vow: for both these are an abomination to the Lord thy God.

To conclude: The Dog, in Egypt, was undoubtedly called Cahen, and Cohen; a title by which many
other animals, and even vegetables, were honoured, on account of their being consecrated to
some Deity. The Greeks did not consider that this was a borrowed appellation, which belonged
to the Gods and their Priests; and was from them extended to many things held sacred. Hence
they have continually referred this term to one object only: by which means they have misrepresented
many curious pieces of history: and a number of idle fables have been devised to the disparagement
of all that was true.

       *       *       *       *       *

OF

CHUS;

STYLED

ΧΡYΣΟΣ AND ΧΡYΣΑΩΡ.

Among the different branches of the great Amonian family which spread themselves abroad, the
sons of Chus were the most considerable, and at the same time the most enterprising. They got
access into countries widely distant; where they may be traced under different denominations,
but more particularly by their family title. This we might expect the Greeks to have rendered
Chusos, and to have named the people Χυσαιοι, Chusæi. But, by a fatal misprision, they uniformly
changed these terms to words more familiar to their ear, and rendered them Χρυσος, and Χρυσειος,
as if they had a reference to gold. I have before mentioned the various parts of the world
where the Amonians settled, and especially this branch of that family. Their most considerable
colonies westward were in Iönia and Hellas; and about Cuma and Liguria in Italy; and upon the
coast of Iberia in Spain. They were likewise to be found in Cyrene; and still farther in Mauritania,
and in the islands opposite to that coast. In the north they were to be met with at Colchis,
towards the foot of Mount Caucasus, and in most regions upon the coast of the Euxine sea. In
the histories of these countries the Grecians have constantly changed Chusos, the Gentile name,
to Chrusos, Χρυσος; and Chus-Or, Chusorus, to Χρυσωρ, Chrusor: and, in consequence of this
alteration, they have introduced in their accounts of these places some legend about gold.
Hence we read of a golden fleece at Colchis; golden apples at the Hesperides; at [105]Tartessus,
a golden cup; and, at Cuma, in Campania, a golden branch:

  Aureus et foliis, et lento vimine, ramus.

Something similar is observable in the history of Cyrene. The natives were not remarkable for
either mines or merchandize: yet, Palæphatus, having mentioned that they were κατα γενος Αιθιοπες,
Ethiopians by extraction, that is, Cuseans, subjoins: [106]Εισι δε σφοδρα χρυσοι. Pindar, in
celebrating each happy circumstance of the Insulæ Fortunatæ, mentions, that there were trees
with branches of gold: [107]Ανθεμα δε χρυσου φλεγει. The river Phasis, in Colchis, was supposed
to have abounded with gold; and the like was pretended of the Hermus and Pactolus in Iönia.
Not only the Poets, but many of the graver [108]historians, speak of their golden sands. Yet
there is reason to doubt of the fact: for not one of them produces any good voucher for what
they suppose. They do not mention any trade carried on, nor riches accruing from this lucky
circumstance: so that there is no reason to think that one grain of gold was gathered from
these celebrated streams. Among the several islands occupied by this people were Rhodes and
Delos. In the former, the chief city is said to have been blessed with showers of gold. [109]Ενθα
ποτε βρεχε θεον Βασιλευς ὁ μεγας χρυσαις νιφαδεσσι πολιν. At Delos every thing was golden,
even the slippers of the God.

  [110]Χρυσεα και τα πεδιλα, πολυχρυσος γαρ Απολλων.

And this not only in aftertimes, when the island was enriched with offerings from different
nations, but even at the birth of the God; by which is meant the foundation of his temple,
and introduction of his rites.

  [111]Χρυσεα τοι τοτε παντα θεμειλια γεινατο, Δηλε,
  Χρυσῳ δε τροχοεσσα πανημερος εῤῥεε λιμνη,
  Χρυσειον δ' εκομισσε γενεθλιον ερνος ελαιης,
  Χρυσῳ δε πλημμυρε βαθυς Ινωπος ἑλιχθεις,
  Αυτη δε χρυσοιο απ' ουδεος ἑιλεο παιδα,
  Εν δ' εβαλευ κολποισιν.

We find that the very soil and foundations of the island were golden: the lake floated with
golden waves: the olive tree vegetated with golden fruit: and the river Inopus, deep as it
was, swelled with gold. Homer, in a hymn to the same personage, represents the whole more compendiously,
by saying, that the island was weighed down with treasure:

              [112]Χρυσῳ δ' αρα Δηλος ἁπασα
  Βεβριθει.

I have before mentioned that the Amonians settled in Liguria: and, in consequence of it, the
Heliadæ are represented as weeping, not only amber, but gold. Philostratus, speaking of a particular
species of fir-trees in Bœtica, says, that they dropped blood, just as the Heliadæ upon the
Padus did[113] gold.

Chus, by the Egyptians and Canaanites, was styled Or-Chus, and[114] Chus-Or: the latter of
which was expressed by the Greeks, analogous to the examples above, Χρυσωρ, Chrusor: and we
learn in Eusebius, from Philo, that Chrusor was one of the principal Deities of the Phenicians,
a great benefactor to mankind; and by some supposed to have been the same as Hephaistus. Both
the Tyrians and Sidonians were undoubtedly a mixed race, and preserved the memory of Ham, and
Chus, equally with that of Canaan.

This name, so often rendered Chrusos, and Chrusor, was sometimes changed to Χρυσαωρ, Chrusaor:
and occurs in many places where the Cuthites were known to have settled. We have been shewn
that they were a long time in Egypt; and we read of a Chrusaor in those parts, who is said
to have arisen from the blood of Medusa.

    [115]Εξεθορε Χρυσαωρ τε μεγας, και Πηγασος ἱππος.

We meet with the same Chrusaor in the regions of Asia Minor, especially among the Carians.
In these parts he was particularly worshipped, and said to have been the first deified mortal.
The great Divan of that nation was called Chrusaorium; and there was a city [116]Chrusaoris,
and a temple of the same name. [117]Εγγυς δε της πολεως το του Χρυσαορεως Διος κοινον ἁπαντων
Καρων, εις ὁ συνιασι θυσαντες τε και βουλευσαμενοι. This city was properly called Chus-Or,
and built in memory of the same person; as the city Chusora, called also [118]Cerchusora, in
Egypt. It was undoubtedly founded by some of the same family, who in aftertimes worshipped
their chief ancestor; as the Sidonians and Syrians did likewise. For this we have the testimony
of Sanchoniathon; who, having mentioned the various benefits bestowed upon mankind by Chrusaor,
says, at the conclusion, [119]Διο και ὡς θεον αυτον μετα θανατον εσεβασθησαν· for which reason,
after his death, they worshipped him as a God. The first king of Iberia was named Chrusaor,
the reputed father of [120]Geryon; and he is said to have been πολυχρυσος, a person of great
wealth: all which is an Egyptian history, transferred from the Nile to the Bœtis.

  [121]Χρυσαωρ δ' ετεκε τρικαρηνον Γηρυονηα,
  Μιχθεις Χαλλιροῃ κουρῃ κλυτου Ωκεανοιο.

Geryon of Spain was, according to this mythology of the poet, the son of Chrusaor; and Chrusaor
was confessedly of Egyptian original: so that, whatever the fable may allude to, it must have
been imported into Bœtica from Egypt by some of the sons of Chus. The Grecians borrowed this
term, and applied it to Apollo; and from this epithet, Chrusaor, he was denominated the God
of the golden sword. Homer accordingly styles him, [122]Απολλωνα Χρυσαορα: and, speaking of
Apollo's infancy, he says, [123]Ουδ' αρ' Απολλωνα Χρυσαορα θησατο μητηρ: and Diana is termed
[124]Αυτοκασιγνητη Χρυσαορος Απολλωνος.

This title cannot possibly relate to the implement supposed: for it would be idle to style
an infant the God of the golden sword. It was a weapon, which at no time was ascribed to him:
nor do I believe, that he is ever represented with one either upon a gem, or a marble. He is
described as wishing for a harp, and for a bow.

  [125]Ειη μοι κιθαρις τε φιλη, και καμπυλα τοξα.

And his mother is said to have been pleased that she produced him to the world an archer:

                  [126]Χαιρε δε Λετω,
  Ὁυνεκα τοξοφορον και καρτερον ὑιον ετικτεν.

These habiliments are often specified: but I do not recollect any mention made of a sword,
nor was the term Chrusaor of Grecian etymology.

Since then we may be assured that Chus was the person alluded to under the name of Chrusos,
Chrubor, and Chrusaor; we need not wonder that his substitute Apollo is so often styled Χρυσοκομης,
and Χρυσολυρος: that the harp, called by the Amonians [127] Chan-Or, and Cuth-Or, from the
supposed inventor, should by the Grecians be denominated Χρυσεα φορμιγξ [128]Απολλωνος: that
so many cities, where Apollo was particularly worshipped, should be called Chruse, and Chrusopolis,
the number of which was of no small [129]amount. Nor is this observable in cities only, but
in rivers, which were named in the same manner. For it was usual, in the first ages, to consecrate
rivers to Deities, and to call them after their names. Hence many were denominated from Chusorus,
which by the Greeks was changed to Χρυσοῤῥοας; and from this mistake they were supposed to
abound with gold. The Nile was called Chrusorrhoas[130], which had no pretensions to gold:
and there was a river of this name at [131]Damascus. Others too might be produced, none of
which had any claim to that mineral. There was a stream Chrusorrhoas near the Amazonian city
Themiscura in [132]Pontus: and the river Pactolus was of old so called, whence probably came
the notion of its abounding with gold. [133]Πακτωλος ποταμος εστι της Λυδιας----εκαλειτο δε
προτερον Χρυσοῤῥοας. It was named Chrusorrhoas first, and in aftertimes Pactolus: whence we
may conclude, in respect to gold, that the name was not given on account of any such circumstance;
but the notion was inferred from the name.

It is apparent that this repeated mistake arose in great measure from the term Chusus and Chrusus
being similar: whence the latter was easily convertible into the former; which to the Grecians
appeared a more intelligible, and at the same time a more splendid, title. But there was still
another obvious reason for this change. Chus was by many of the eastern nations expressed Cuth;
and his posterity the Cuthim. This term, in the antient Chaldäic, and other Amonian languages,
signified [134]gold: hence many cities and countries, where the Cuthites settled, were described
as golden, and were represented by the terms Chrusos and Chruse. These, as I have shewn, had
no relation to gold, but to Chus, who was reverenced as the Sun, or Apollo; and was looked
upon as Dionusus; but may more truly be esteemed Bacchus. Hence, when the poet Dionysius mentions
the island Chruse in [135]India, his commentator observes; Χρυση νησος, λεγομενη ὁυτως, η δια
το χρυσον φερειν, η κατα τον Διονυσον· and at last concludes, [136]Χρυσους ειναι πως δοκει ὁ ἡλιος.

In a former dissertation concerning the Shepherd Kings in Egypt, I have shewn that they were
the sons of Chus, who came into that country under the title of Auritæ. They settled in a province
named from them Cushan, which was at the upper part of Delta; and in aftertimes called Nomos
Arabicus. It was in the vicinity of Memphis, and Aphroditopolis, which places they likewise
[137]occupied. I have mentioned that Chusos was often expressed Chrusos, and the country of
the Cuthim rendered the golden country. If then there be that uniformity in error which I maintain,
it may be expected that, in the history of these places, there should be some reference to
gold. It is remarkable that all this part of Egypt, conformably to what I have said, was called
Χρυση, Chruse. Here was the campus aureus, and Aphrodite Aurea of the Romans: and all the country
about Memphis was styled golden. To this Diodorus, among others, bears witness: [138]Την τε
Αφροδιτην ονομαζεσθαι παρα τοις εγχωριοις Χρυσην ΕΚ ΠΑΛΑΙΑΣ ΠΑΡΑΔΟΣΕΩΣ, και πεδιον ειναι καλουμενον
Χρυσης Αφροδιτης περι την ονομαζομενην Μεμφιν. When the Cuthite shepherds came into Egypt,
they made Memphis the seat of royal [139]residence: and hard by was the nome of Aphrodite,
and the Arabian nome, which they particularly possessed: and which, in consequence of it, were
both styled the regions of the Cuthim. Hence came the title of [140]Aphrodite Chruse: and hence
the country had the name of the Golden District. The island at the point of Delta, where stood
the city Cercusora, is called Gieserat [141]Eddahib, or the Golden Island, at this day. Diodorus
mentions, that this appellation of Chruse was derived from a very antient tradition. This tradition
undoubtedly related to the shepherds, those sons of Chus, who were so long in possession of
the country; and whose history was of the highest antiquity.

The Cuthites in the west occupied only some particular spots: but from Babylonia eastward the
greatest part of that extensive sea-coast seems to have been in their possession. In the history
of these parts, there is often some allusion to gold, as may be seen in the island Chruse,
above-mentioned; and in the Chersonesus Aurea, which lay beyond the Ganges: and not only of
gold, but sometimes a reference to brass; and this from a similar mistake. For as Chusus was
changed to Chrusus, Χρυσος, gold; so was Cal-Chus, the hill, or place of Chus, converted to
Chalcus, Χαλκος, brass. Colchis was properly Col-Chus; and therefore called also Cuta, and
Cutaia. But what was Colchian being sometimes rendered Chalcion, Καλκιον, gave rise to the
fable of brazen bulls; which were only Colchic Tor, or towers. There was a region named Colchis
in [142]India: for where the Cuthites settled, they continually kept up the memory of their
forefathers, and called places by their names. This being a secret to Philostratus, has led
him into a deal of mysterious error. It is well known that this people were styled Oreitæ,
and Auritæ, both in Egypt and in other parts. Philostratus says that [143]Apollonius came to
a settlement of the Oreitæ upon the Indian Ocean. He also visited their Pegadæ; and, what is
remarkable, he met with a people whose very rocks were brazen; their sand was brazen: the rivers
conveyed down their streams fine filaments of brass: and the natives esteemed their land golden
on account of the plenty of brass. Now what is this detail, but an abuse of terms, ill understood,
and shamefully misapplied? Philostratus had heard of a region in India; the history of which
he would fain render marvellous. The country, whither Apollonius is supposed to go, was a province
of the Indo-Cuthites, who were to be met with in various parts under the title of Oreitæ. They
were worshippers of fire, and came originally from the land of Ur; and hence had that name.
The Pegadæ of the country are what we now call Pagodas; and which are too well known to need
describing. There were in this part of the world several cities, and temples, dedicated to
the memory of Chus. Some of these are famous at this day, though denominated after the Babylonish
dialect Cutha, and Cuta; witness Calcutta, and Calecut. The latter seems to have been the capital
of the region called of old Colchis. This was more truly expressed Cal-Chus; which Philostratus
has mistaken for Χαλκος, brass; and made the very [144]rocks and rivers abound with that mineral.
And yet, that the old mistake about gold may not be omitted, he concludes with a strange antithesis,
by saying, that the natives esteemed their country Chrusitis, or golden, from the quantity
of [145]brass.

It has been my endeavour to prove that what the Grecians represented by Chrusos, Chrusor, and
Chrusaor, should have been expressed Chus, Chusos, and Chusor, called also Chus-Orus. Chus
was the son of Ham; and though the names of the Grecian Deities are not uniformly appropriated,
yet Ham is generally looked upon as Ἑλιος, the Sun; and had the title Dis, and Dios: hence
the city of Amon in Egypt was rendered Diospolis. If then Chrusos, and Chrusor, be, as I have
supposed, Chus; the person so denominated must have been, according to the more antient mythology,
the son of Helius, and Dios. We find accordingly that it was so. The Scholiast upon Pindar
expressly says, [146]Διος παις ὁ Χρυσος. And in another place he is said to have been the offspring
of Helius, who was no other than Cham. [147]Εκ θειας και Ὑπεριονος Ἡλιος, εκ δε Ἡλιου ὁ Χρυσος.
Magic and incantations are attributed to Chus, as the inventor; and they were certainly first
practised among his sons: hence it is said by Sanchoniathon, [148]Τον Χρυσωρ λογους ασκησαι
και επῳδας, και μαντειας. He was however esteemed a great benefactor; and many salutary inventions
were ascribed to him. He had particularly the credit of being the first who ventured upon the
seas: [149]Πρωτον τε παντων ανθρωπων πλευσαι. Whether this can be said truly of Chus himself,
is uncertain: it agrees full well with the history of his sons; who, as we have the greatest
reason to be assured, were the first great navigators in the world.

       *       *       *       *       *

OF

CANAAN, CNAAN,

AND

ΧΝΑΣ;

AND OF THE

DERIVATIVE ΚΥΚΝΟΣ.

Lucian tells us, that, reflecting upon the account given of Phaëthon, who fell thunderstruck
into the Eridanus, and of his sisters, who were changed to poplars weeping amber, he took a
resolution, if he should ever be near the scene of these wonderful transactions, to inquire
among the natives concerning the truth of the [150]story. It so happened, that, at a certain
time, he was obliged to go up the river above mentioned: and he says, that he looked about
very wistfully; yet, to his great amazement, he saw neither amber nor poplar. Upon this he
took the liberty to ask the people, who rowed him, when he should arrive at the amber-dropping
trees: but it was with some difficulty that he could make them understand what he meant. He
then explained to them the story of Phaëthon: how he borrowed the chariot of the Sun; and being
an awkward charioteer, tumbled headlong into the Eridanus: that his sisters pined away with
grief; and at last were transformed to trees, the same of which he had just spoken: and he
assured them, that these trees were to be found somewhere upon the banks, weeping amber. Who
the deuce, says one of the boatmen, could tell you such an idle story? We never heard of any
charioteer tumbling into the river; nor have we, that I know of, a single poplar in the country.
If there were any trees hereabouts dropping amber, do you think, master, that we would sit
here, day after day, tugging against stream for a dry groat, when we might step ashore, and
make our fortunes so easily? This affected Lucian a good deal: for he had formed some hopes
of obtaining a little of this precious commodity; and began to think that he must have been
imposed upon. However, as Cycnus, the brother of Phaëthon, was here changed to a swan, he took
it for granted that he should find a number of those birds sailing up and down the stream,
and making the groves echo with their melody. But not perceiving any in a great space, he took
the liberty, as he passed onward, to put the question again to the boatmen; and to make inquiry
about these birds. Pray, gentlemen, says he, at what particular season is it that your swans
hereabouts sing so sweetly? It is said, that they were formerly men, and always at Apollo's
side; being in a manner of his privy council. Their skill in music must have been very great:
and though they have been changed into birds, they retain that faculty, and, I am told, sing
most melodiously. The watermen could not help smiling at this account. Why, sir, says one of
them, what strange stories you have picked up about our country, and this river? We have plied
here, men and boys, for years; and to be sure we cannot say that we never saw a swan: there
are some here and there towards the fens, which make a low dull noise: but as for any harmony,
a rook or a jackdaw, in comparison of them, may be looked upon as a nightingale.

Such are the witty strictures of Lucian upon the story of Phaëthon and Cycnus, as described
by the poets. Whatever may have been the grounds upon which this fiction is founded, they were
certainly unknown to the Greeks; who have misinterpreted what little came to their hands, and
from such misconstruction devised these fables. The story, as we have it, is not uniformly
told. Some, like Lucian, speak of swans in the plural; and suppose them to have been the ministers,
and attendants of Apollo, who assisted at his concerts. Others mention one person only, called
Cycnus; who was the reputed brother of Phaëthon, and at his death was transformed to the bird
of that name. The fable is the same whichever way it may be related, and the purport of it
is likewise the same. There is one mistake in the story, which I must set right before I proceed;
as it may be of some consequence in the process of my inquiry. Phaëthon is represented by many
of the poets as the offspring of the Sun, or Apollo: [151]Sole satus Phaëthon. But this was
a mistake, and to be found chiefly among the Roman poets. Phaëthon was the Sun. It was a title
of Apollo; and was given to him as the God of light. This is manifest from the testimony of
the more early Greek poets, and particularly from Homer, who uses it in this acceptation.

              [152]Ουδεποτ' αυτους
  Ηελιος Φαεθον επιδερκεται ακτινεσσιν.

In respect to Cycnus and his brotherhood, those vocal ministers of Apollo, the story, which
is told of them, undoubtedly alludes to Canaan, the son of Ham; and to the Canaanites, his
posterity. They sent out many colonies; which colonies, there is great reason to think, settled
in those places, where these legends about swans particularly prevailed. The name of Canaan
was by different nations greatly varied, and ill expressed: and this misconstruction among
the Greeks gave rise to the fable. To shew this, it will be proper to give an account of the
rites and customs of the Canaanites, as well as of their extensive traffic. Among the many
branches of the Amonian family, which settled in various parts of the world, and carried on
an early correspondence, the Canaanites were not the least respectable. They traded from Sidon
chiefly, before that city was taken by the king of Ascalon: and upon their commerce being interrupted
here, they [153]removed it to the strong hold of Tyre. This place was soon improved to a mighty
city, which was very memorable in its day. The Canaanites, as they were a sister tribe of the
Mizraïm, so were they extremely like them in their rites and religion. They held a heifer,
or cow, in high veneration, agreeably with the [154]customs of Egypt. Their chief Deity was
the Sun, whom they worshipped together with the Baalim, under the titles Ourchol, Adonis, Thamuz.
It was a custom among the Grecians, at the celebration of their religious festivals, to crown
the whole with hymns of praise, and the most joyful exclamations. But the Egyptians were of
a gloomy turn of mind, which infected the whole of their worship. Their hymns were always composed
in melancholy affecting airs, and consisted of lamentations for the loss of Osiris, the mystic
flight of Bacchus, the wanderings of Isis, and the sufferings of the Gods. Apuleius takes notice
of this difference in the rites and worship of the two nations: [155]Ægyptiaca numinum fana
plena plangoribus: Græca plerumque choreis. Hence the author of the Orphic Argonautica, speaking
of the initiations in Egypt, mentions,

  [156]Θρενους τ' Αιγυπτιον, και Οσιριδος ἱερα χυτλα.

The Canaanites at Byblus, Berytus, Sidon, and afterwards at Tyre, used particularly mournful
dirges for the loss of Adonis, or Thamuz; who was the same as Thamas, and Osiris in Egypt.
The Cretans had the like mournful hymns, in which they commemorated the grief of Apollo for
the loss of Atymnius.

                  [157]Αιλινα μελπειν,
  Ὁια παρα Κρητεσσιν αναξ ελιγαινεν Απολλων
  Δακρυχεων ερατεινον Ατυμνιον.

The measures and harmony of the Canaanites seem to have been very affecting, and to have made
a wonderful impression on the minds of their audience. The infectious mode of worship prevailed
so far, that the children of Israel were forbidden to weep, and make lamentation upon a festival:
[158]Ειναι γαρ ἑορτην, και μη δειν εν αυτῃ κλαιειν, ου γαρ εξειναι. And Nehemiah gives the
people a caution to the same purpose: [159]This day is holy unto the Lord your God: mourn not,
nor weep. And Esdras counsels them in the same manner: [160]This day is holy unto the Lord:
be not sorrowful. Such was the prohibition given to the Israelites: but among the Canaanites
this shew of sorrow was encouraged, and made part of their [162]rites.

The father of this people is represented in the Mosaic history, according to our version, Canaan:
but there is reason to think that by the Egyptians and other neighbouring nations it was expressed
Cnaan. This by the Greeks was rendered Χναας, and Χνας; and in later times Χνα, Cna. [163]Χνα,
ὁυτος ἡ Φοινικη εκαλειτο--το εθνικον Χναος. We are told by Philo from Sanchoniathon, that [164]Isiris
the Egyptian, who found out three letters, was the brother of Cna: by which is meant, that
Mizraïm was the brother of Canaan. I have taken notice more than once of a particular term,
Υκ, Uc; which has been passed over unnoticed by most writers: yet is to be found in the composition
of many words; especially such as are of Amonian original. The tribe of Cush was styled by
Manethon, before the passage was depraved, Υκκουσος. Uch, says this author, in the sacred language
of Egypt, signifies a [165]king. Hence it was conferred as a title upon the God Sehor, who,
as we may infer from Manethon and [166]Hellanicus, was called Ucsiris, and Icsiris; but by
the later Greeks the name was altered to Isiris and Osiris. And not only the God Sehor, or
Sehoris was so expressed; but Cnas, or Canaan, had the same title, and was styled Uc-Cnas,
and the Gentile name or possessive was Uc-cnaos, Υκ-κναος: το εθνικον γαρ Χναος, as we learn
from Stephanus. The Greeks, whose custom it was to reduce every foreign name to something similar
in their own language, changed Υκκναος to Κυκνειος, Uc Cnaus to Cucneus; and from Υκ Κνας formed
Κυκνος. Some traces of this word still remain, though almost effaced; and may be observed in
the name of the Goddess Ichnaia. Instead of Uc-Cnaan the son of Ham, the Greeks have substituted
this personage in the feminine, whom they have represented as the daughter of the Sun. She
is mentioned in this light by Lycophron: [167]Της Ἡλιου θυγατρος Ιχναιας βραβευς. They likewise
changed Thamuz and Thamas of Canaan and Egypt to Themis a feminine; and called her Ichnaia
Themis. She is so styled by Homer.

              [168]Θεαι δ' εσαν ενδοθι πασαι,
  Ὁσσαι αρισται εσαν, Διωνη τε, Ῥειη τε,
  Ιχναιη τε Θεμις, και αγαστονος Αμφιτριτη.

Ιχναια is here used adjectively. Ιχναια Θεμις signifies Themis, or Thamuz, of [169]Canaan.

There was another circumstance, which probably assisted to carry on the mistake: a Canaanitish
temple was called both Ca-Cnas, and Cu-Cnas; and adjectively[170] Cu-Cnaios; which terms there
is reason to think were rendered Κυκνος, and Κυκνειος. Besides all this, the swan was undoubtedly
the insigne of Canaan, as the eagle and vulture were of Egypt, and the dove of Babylonia. It
was certainly the hieroglyphic of the country. These were the causes which contributed to the
framing many idle legends, such as the poets improved upon greatly. Hence it is observable,
that wherever we may imagine any colonies from Canaan to have settled and to have founded temples,
there is some story about swans: and the Greeks, in alluding to their hymns, instead of Yκκναον
ασμα, the music of Canaan, have introduced κυκνειον ασμα, the singing of these birds: and,
instead of the death of Thamuz, lamented by the Cucnaans, or priests, they have made the swans
sing their own dirge, and foretell their own funeral. Wherever the Canaanites came, they introduced
their national worship; part of which, as I have shewn, consisted in chanting hymns to the
honour of their country God. He was the same as Apollo of Greece: on which account, Lucian,
in compliance with the current notion, says, that the Cycni were formerly the assessors and
ministers of that Deity. By this we are to understand, that people of this denomination were
in antient times his priests. One part of the world, where this notion about swans prevailed,
was in Liguria, upon the banks of the Eridanus. Here Phaëthon was supposed to have met with
his downfal; and here his brother Cycnus underwent the metamorphosis, of which we have spoken.
In these parts some Amonians settled very early; among whom it appears that there were many
from Canaan. They may be traced by the mighty works which they carried on; for they drained
the river towards its mouth, and formed some vast canals, called Fossæ Philistinæ. Pliny, speaking
of the entrance into the Eridanus, says, [171]Indé ostia plana, Carbonaria, ac fossiones Philistinæ,
quod alii Tartarum vocant: omnia ex Philistinæ fossæ abundatione nascentia. These canals were,
undoubtedly the work of the Canaanites, and particularly of some of the Caphtorim, who came
from Philistim: and hence these outlets of the river were named Philistinæ. The river betrays
its original in its name; for it has no relation to the Celtic language, but is apparently
of Egyptian or Canaanitish etymology. This is manifest from the terms of which it is made up;
for it is compounded of Ur-Adon, sive Orus Adonis; and was sacred to the God of that name.
The river, simply, and out of composition, was Adon, or Adonis: and it is to be observed, that
this is the name of one of the principal rivers in Canaan. It ran near the city Biblus, where
the death of Thamuz was particularly lamented. It is a circumstance taken notice of by many
authors, and most pathetically described by Milton.

It is said that the Eridanus was so called first by [173]Pherecydes Syrus: and that my etymology
is true, may in great measure be proved from the [174]Scholiast upon Aratus. He shews that
the name was of Egyptian original, at least consonant to the language of Egypt; for it was
the same as the Nile. It is certain that it occurred in the antient sphere of Egypt, whence
the Grecians received it. The great effusion of water in the celestial sphere, which, Aratus
says, was the Nile, is still called the Eridanus: and, as the name was of oriental original,
the purport of it must be looked for among the people of those parts. The river Strymon, in
Thrace, was supposed to abound with swans, as much as the Eridanus; and the antient name of
this river was Palaestinus. It was so called from the Amonians, who settled here under the
name of Adonians, and who founded the city Adonis. They were by the later Greeks styled, after
the Iönic manner, Edonians, and their city Edonis. [175]Στρυμων ποταμος εστι της Θρακης κατα
πολιν Ηδωνιδα, προσηγορευετο δε προτερον Παλαιστινος. The Strymon is a river of Thrace, which
runs by the city Edonis: it was of old called the river Palæstinus. In these places, and in
all others where any of the Canaanites settled, the Grecians have introduced some story about
swans.

Some of them seem to have gained access at Delphi; as did likewise others from Egypt: and by
such was that oracle first founded. Egypt, among other names, was called Ait, and Ai Ait, by
the Greeks expressed Αετια: [176]Εκληθη δε--και ΑΕΤΙΑ. The natives, in consequence of it, were
called Αετιοι, and Αεται; which was interpreted eagles. Hence, we are told by Plutarch, that
some of the feathered kind, either eagles or swans, came from the remote parts of the earth,
and settled at Delphi. [177]Αετους τινας, η Κυκνους, ω Τερεντιανε Πρισκε, μυθολογουσιν απο
των ακρων της γης επι το μεσον φερομενους εις ταυτο συμπεσειν Πυθοι περι τον καλουμενον ομφαλον.
These eagles and swans undoubtedly relate to colonies from Egypt and Canaan. I recollect but
one philosopher styled Cygnus; and, what is remarkable, he was of Canaan. Antiochus, the Academic,
mentioned by Cicero in his philosophical works, and also by [178]Strabo, was of Ascaloun, in
Palestine; and he was surnamed Cygnus, the Swan: which name, as it is so circumstanced, must,
I think, necessarily allude to this country.

As in early times colonies went by the name of the Deity whom they worshipped, or by the name
of the insigne and hieroglyphic under which their country was denoted, every depredation made
by such people was placed to the account of the Deity under such a device. This was the manner
in which poets described things: and, in those days, all wrote in measure. Hence, instead of
saying that the Egyptians, or Canaanites, or Tyrians, landed and carried off such and such
persons; they said, that it was done by Jupiter, in the shape of an eagle, or a swan, or a
bull: substituting an eagle for Egypt, a swan for Canaan, and a bull for the city of [179]Tyre.
It is said of the Telchines, who were Amonian priests, that they came to Attica under the conduct
of Jupiter in the shape of an eagle.

  [180]Αιετος ἡγεμονευε δι αιθερος αντιτυπος Ζευς.

By which is meant, that they were Egyptian priests; and an eagle was probably the device in
their standard, as well as the insigne of their nation.

Some of the same family were to be found among the Atlantes of Mauritania, and are represented
as having the shape of swans. Prometheus, in Æschylus, speaks of them in the commission which
he gives to Io: [181]You must go, says he, as far as the city Cisthene in the Gorgonian plains,
where the three Phorcides reside; those antient, venerable ladies, who are in the shape of
swans, and have but one eye, of which they make use in common. This history relates to an Amonian
temple founded in the extreme parts of Africa; in which there were three priestesses of Canaanitish
race; who, on that account, are said to be in the shape of swans. The notion of their having
but one eye among them took its rise from an hieroglyphic very common in Egypt, and probably
in Canaan: this was the representation of an eye, which was said to be engraved upon the pediment
of their [182]temples. As the land of Canaan lay so opportunely for traffic, and the emigrants
from most parts went under their conduct, their history was well known. They navigated the
seas very early, and were necessarily acquainted with foreign regions; to which they must at
one time have betaken themselves in great numbers, when they fled before the sons of Israel.
In all the places where they settled they were famous for their hymns and music; all which
the Greeks have transferred to birds, and supposed that they were swans who were gifted with
this harmony. Yet, sweet as their notes are said to have been, there is not, I believe, a person
upon record who was ever a witness to it. It is, certainly, all a fable. When, therefore, Plutarch
tells us that Apollo was pleased with the music of swans, [183]μουσικῃ τε ἡδεται, και κυκνων
φωναις; and when Æschylus mentions their singing their own dirges; they certainly allude to
Egyptian and Canaanitish priests, who lamented the death of Adon and Osiris. And this could
not be entirely a secret to the Grecians, for they seem often to refer to some such notion.
Socrates termed swans his fellow-servants: in doing which he alluded to the antient priests,
styled Cycni. They were people of the choir, and officiated in the temples of the same Deities;
whose servant he professed himself to be. Hence Porphyry assures us, [184]Ὁυ παιζων ὁμοδουλους
αυτου ελεγεν τους κυκνους (Σοκρατης), that Socrates was very serious when he mentioned swans
as his fellow-servants. When, therefore, Aristophanes speaks of the [185]Delian and Pythian
swans, they are the priests of those places, to whom he alludes. And when it is said by Plato,
that the soul of Orpheus, out of disgust to womankind, led the life of a [186]swan, the meaning
certainly is, that he retired from the world to some cloister, and lived a life of celibacy,
like a priest. For the priests of many countries, but particularly of Egypt, were recluses,
and devoted themselves to [187]celibacy: hence monkery came originally from Egypt. Lycophron,
who was of Egypt, and skilled in antient terms, styles Calchas, who was the priest of Apollo,
a swan. [188]Μολοσσου κυπεως κοιτου κυκνον. These epithets, the Scholiast tells us, belong
to Apollo; and Calchas is called a swan, δια το γηραιον, και μαντικον: because he was an old
prophet and priest. Hence, at the first institution of the rites of Apollo, which is termed
the birth of the Deity, at Delos, it is said that many swans came from the coast of Asia, and
went round the island for the space of seven days.

              [189]Κυκνοι δε θεου μελποντες αοιδοι
  Μηονιον Πακτωλον εκυκλωσαντο λιποντες
  Ἑβδομακις περι Δηλον· επηεισαν δε λοχειῃ
  Μουσαων ορνιθες, αοιδοτατοι πετεηνων.

The whole of this relates to a choir of priests, who came over to settle at Delos, and to serve
in the newly erected temple. They circled the island seven times; because seven, of old, was
looked upon as a mysterious and sacred number.

  [190]Ἑβδομη ειν αγαθοις, και ἑβδομη εστι γενεθλη.
  Ἑβδομη εν πρωτοισι, και ἑβδομη εστι τελειη.
  Ἑβδοματῃ δη ὁι τετελεσμενα παντα τετυκται.
  Ἑπτα δε παντα τετυκται εν ουρανῳ αστεροεντι.

The birds in the island of Diomedes, which were said to have been originally companions of
that hero, were undoubtedly priests, and of the same race as those of whom I have been treating.
They are represented as gentle to good men, and averse to those who are bad. Ovid describes
their shape and appearance: [191]Ut non cygnorum, sic albis proxima cygnis; which, after what
has been said, may, I think, be easily understood.

If then the harmony of swans, when spoken of, not only related to something quite foreign,
but in reality did not of itself exist, it may appear wonderful that the antients should so
universally give into the notion. For not only the poets, but [192]Plato, Plutarch, Cicero,
Pliny, with many others of high rank, speak of it as a circumstance well known. But it is to
be observed, that none of them speak from their own experience: nor are they by any means consistent
in what they say. Some mention this singing as a general faculty; which was exerted at all
times: others limit it to particular seasons, and to particular places. Aristotle seems to
confine it to the seas of [193]Africa: [194]Aldrovandus says, that it may be heard upon the
Thames near London. The account given by Aristotle is very remarkable. He says, that mariners,
whose course lay through the Libyan sea, have often met with swans, and heard them singing
in a melancholy strain: and upon a nearer approach, they could perceive that some of them were
dying, from whom the harmony proceeded. Who would have expected to have found swans swimming
in the salt sea, in the midst of the Mediterranean? There is nothing that a Grecian would not
devise in support of a favourite error. The legend from beginning to end is groundless: and
though most speak of the music of swans as exquisite; yet some absolutely deny [195]the whole
of it; and others are more moderate in their commendations. The watermen in Lucian give the
preference to a jackdaw: but Antipater in some degree dissents, and thinks that the swan has
the advantage.

  [196]Λωιτερος κυκνων μικρος θροος, ηε κολοιων
  Κρωγμος.

And Lucretius confesses, that the screaming of a crane is not quite so pleasing:

  [197]Parvus ut est, Cygni melior canor, ille gruum quam
  Clamor:

Which however is paying them no great compliment. To these respectable personages I must add
the evidence of a modern; one too of no small repute, even the great Scaliger. He says, that
he made a strict scrutiny about this affair, when in Italy; and the result of his observations
was this: [198]Ferrariæ multos (cygnos) vidimus, sed cantores sane malos, neque melius ansere
canere.

       *       *       *       *       *

OF

TEMPLE SCIENCE.

The Egyptians were very famous for geometrical knowledge: and as all the flat part of their
country was annually overflowed, it is reasonable to suppose that they made use of this science
to determine their lands, and to make out their several claims, at the retreat of the waters.
Many indeed have thought, that the confusion of property, which must for a while have prevailed,
gave birth to practical [199]geometry, in order to remedy the evil: and in consequence of it,
that charts and maps were first delineated in this country. These, we may imagine, did not
relate only to private demesnes: but included also the course of the Nile in its various branches;
and all the sea coast, and its inlets, with which lower Egypt was bounded.

It is very certain, that the people of Colchis, who were a colony from Egypt, had charts of
this sort, with written descriptions of the seas and shores, whithersoever they traded: and
they at one time carried on a most extensive commerce. We are told, says the [200]Scholiast
upon Apollonius, that the Colchians still retain the laws and customs of their forefathers:
and they have pillars of stone, upon which are engraved maps of the continent, and of the ocean:
Εισι δε, φησι, και νομοι παρ' αυτοις των Προγωνον, και Στηλαι, εν ἁις γης και θαλασσης αναγραφαι
εισι. The poet, upon whom the above writer has commented, calls these pillars, κυρβεις: which,
we are told, were of a square figure, like obelisks: and on these, he says, were delineated
all the passages of the sea; and the boundaries of every country upon the earth.

  [201]Ὁι δη τοι γραπτας πατερων ἑθεν ειρυονται
  Κυρβεας, ὁις ενι πασαι ὁδοι, και πειρατ' εασιν
  Ὑγρης τε, τραφερης τε, περιξ επινεισσομενοισιν.

These delineations had been made of old, and transmitted to the Colchians by their forefathers;
which forefathers were from [202]Egypt.

If then the Colchians had this science, we may presume that their mother country possessed
it in as eminent a degree: and we are assured, that they were very knowing in this article.
Clemens Alexandrinus [203]mentions, that there were maps of Egypt, and charts of the Nile very
early. And we are moreover told, that Sesostris (by which is meant the Sethosians) drew upon
boards schemes of all the countries, which he had traversed: and copies of these were given
both to [204]the Egyptians, and to the Scythians, who held them in high estimation. This is
a curious account of the first delineation of countries, and origin of maps; which were first
described upon [205]pillars. We may from hence be enabled to solve the enigma concerning Atlas,
who is said to have supported the heavens upon his shoulders. This took its rise from some
verses in Homer, which have been strangely misconstrued. The passage is in the Odyssey; where
the poet is speaking of Calypso, who is said to be the daughter of Atlas, ολοοφρονος, a person
of deep and recondite knowledge:

  [206]Ατλαντος θυγατηρ ολοοφρονος, ὁστε θαλασσης
  Πασης βενθεα οιδεν, εχει δε τε ΚΙΟΝΑΣ αυτος
  Μακρας, ἁι Γαιαν τε και Ουρανον αμφις εχουσιν.

It is to be observed, that when the antients speak of the feats of Hercules, we are to understand
the Herculeans; under the name of Cadmus is meant the Cadmians; under that of Atlas, the Atlantians.
With this allowance how plain are the words of Homer! The [207]Atlantians settled in Phrygia
and Mauritania; and, like the Colchians, were of the family of Ham. They had great experience
in sea affairs: and the poet tells us, that they knew all the soundings in the great deep.

                  Εχει δε τε Κιονας αυτος
  Μακρας, ἁι Γαιην τε και Ουρανον αμφις εχουσιν.

They had also long pillars, or obelisks, which referred to the sea; and upon which was delineated
the whole system both of heaven and earth; αμφις, all around, both on the front of the obelisk,
and on the other sides. Κιονες Κοσμου were certainly maps, and histories of the universe; in
the knowledge of which the Atlantians seem to have instructed their brethren the Herculeans.
The Grecians, in their accounts, by putting one person for a people, have rendered the history
obscure; which otherwise would be very intelligible. There is a passage in Eusebius, which
may be rendered very plain, and to the purpose, if we make use of the clue above-mentioned.
[208]Ἡροδοτος δε λεγει τον Ηρακλεα μαντιν και φυσικον γενομενον παρα Ατλαντος του Βαρβαρου
του Φρυγος διαδεχεσθαι τας του Κοσμου Κιονας. This may be paraphrased in the following manner;
and with such latitude will be found perfectly consonant to the truth. The Herculeans were
a people much given to divination, and to the study of nature. Great part of their knowledge
they are thought to have had transmitted to them from those Atlantians, who settled in Phrygia,
especially the history of the earth and heavens; for all such knowledge the Atlantians had
of old consigned to pillars and obelisks in that country: and from them it was derived to the
Herculeans, or Heraclidæ, of Greece. The Atlantians were esteemed by the Grecians as barbarous:
but they were in reality of the same family. Their chief ancestor was the father of the Peleiadæ,
or Ionim; of whom I shall hereafter have much to say: and was the supposed brother of Saturn.
The Hellenes, though they did not always allow it, were undoubtedly of his race. This may be
proved from Diodorus Siculus, who gives this curious history of the Peleiadæ, his offspring.
[209]Ταυτας δε μιγεισας τοις ευφυεστατοις Ἡρωσι και Θεοις αρχηγους καταστηναι του πλειστου
γενους τον ανθρωπων, τεκουσας τους δι' αρετην Θεους και Ἡρωας ονομασθεντας.--Παραπλησεως δε
και τας αλλας Ατλαντιδας γεννησαι παιδας επιφανεις, ὡν τους μεν εθνων, τους δε πολεων γενεσθαι
κτιστας· διοπερ ου μονον παρ' ενιοις των Βαρβαρων, αλλα και παρα τοις Ἑλλησι τους πλειστους
των αρχαιοτατων Ἡρωων εις ταυτας αναφερειν το γενος. These daughters of Atlas, by their connections
and marriages with the most illustrious heroes, and divinities, may be looked up to as the
heads of most families upon earth. And from them proceeded all those, who upon account of their
eminence were in aftertimes esteemed Gods and Heroes. And having spoken of Maia, and her offspring,
the author proceeds to tell us, that the other Atlantides in like manner gave birth to a most
noble race: some of whom were the founders of nations; and others the builders of cities: insomuch
that most of the more antient heroes, not only of those abroad, who were esteemed Barbari,
but even of the Helladians, claimed their ancestry from them. And they received not only their
ancestry, but their knowledge also, του κοσμου κιονας; all the celestial and terrestrial phenomena,
which had been entrusted to the sacred pillars of the Atlantes, ἁι γαιην τε και ουρανον αμφις
εχουσιν, which contained descriptions both of the heavens, and the earth. From Phrygia they
came at last to Hellas, where they were introduced by Anaximander, who is said, [210]Εσδουναι
πρωτον γεωγραφικον πινακα, to have been the first who introduced a geographical chart: or,
as Laertius expresses it, [211]Γης και Θαλαττης περιμετρον, the circumference of the terraqueous
globe delineated.

Though the origin of maps may be deduced from Egypt, yet they were not the native Egyptians,
by whom they were first constructed. Delineations of this nature were the contrivance of the
Cuthites, or Shepherds. They were, among other titles, styled Saïtæ; and from them both astronomy
and geometry were introduced in those parts. They, with immense labour, drained the lower provinces;
erected stupendous buildings; and raised towers at the mouths of the river, which were opportunely
situated for navigation. For, though the Mizraim were not addicted to commerce, yet it was
followed by other families besides the Cuthites, who occupied the lower provinces towards the
sea. The towers which were there raised served for lighthouses, and were, at the same time,
temples, denominated from some title of the Deity, such as Canoph, Caneph, Cneph; also Perses,
Proteus, Phanes, and Canobus. They were on both accounts much resorted to by mariners, and
enriched with offerings. Here were deposited charts of the coast, and of the navigation of
the Nile, which were engraved on pillars, and in aftertimes sketched out upon the Nilotic Papyrus.
There is likewise reason to think that they were sometimes delineated upon walls. This leads
me to take notice of a passage from Pherecydes Syrus, which seems to allude to something of
this nature: though, I believe, in his short detail that he has misrepresented the author from
whom he copied. He is said, by Theopompus, [212]πρωτον περι της φυσεως, και Θεων, Ἑλλησι γραφειν,
to have been the first who wrote for the benefit of his countrymen about nature and the Gods.
Suidas [213]mentions, that he composed a theogony; all which knowledge, we are assured, came
from Egypt. It is certain that he studied in that[214] country; whence we may conclude, that
the following history is Egyptian. He says, that Zas, or Jupiter, composed a large and curious
robe, upon which he described the earth, and the ocean, and the habitations upon the ocean.
[215]Ζας ποιει φαρος μεγα τε, και καλον, και εν αυτῳ ποικιλλει Γην, και Ωγηνον, και τα Ωγηνου
δωματα. Now, Zas, or, as it should be rendered, Zan, was the Dorian title of Amon. And Ogenus,
the Ocean, was the most antient name of the Nile; whence the Grecians borrowed their Oceanus.
[216]Ὁι γαρ Αιγυπτιοι νομιζουσιν ωκεανον ειναι τον παρ' αυτοις ποταμον Νειλον. The Egyptians,
by the term Oceanus, understand their own river Nilus. The same author, in another place, calls
this river Oceames[217]. Τον δε ποταμον αρχαιοτατον μεν ονομα σχειν Ωκεαμην, ὁς εστιν Ἑλλενιστι
ωκεανος. The former term, Ogenus, whence the Greeks borrowed their Oceanus, was a compound
of Oc-Gehon, and Avas originally rendered Ogehonus. It signifies the noble Gehon, and is a
name taken from one of the rivers of Paradise. The Nile was sometimes called simply Gehon,
as we learn from the author of the Chronicon Paschale. [218]Εχει δε (ἡ Αιγυπτος) ποταμον Γηων--Νειλον
καλουμενον. It was probably a name given by the Cuthites, from whom, as will be hereafter shewn,
the river Indus had the name of Phison. [219]Ποταμοι ονομαστοι Ινδος, ὁ και Φεισων, Νειλος,
ὁ και Γηων. The two most celebrated rivers are the Indus, the same as the Phison, and the Nile,
which is called the Gehon. The river, also, of Colchis, rendered Phasis, and Phasin, was, properly,
the Phison. The Nile, being of old styled Oc-Gehon, and having many branches, or arms, gave
rise to the fable of the sea monster Ægeon, whom Ovid represents as supporting himself upon
the whales of the ocean.

              [220]Balænarumque prementem
  Ægæona suis immania terga lacertis.

The Scholiast upon Lycophron informs us farther, that the river had three names; and imagines
that upon this account it was called Triton. [221]Τριτων ὁ Νειλος, ὁτι τρις μετωνομασθη· προτερον
γαρ Ωκεανος αν εκαλειτο, δευτερον Αετος·--το δε Νειλος νεον εστι. I shall not at present controvert
his etymology. Let it suffice, that we are assured, both by this author and by others, that
the Nile was called Oceanus: and what is alluded to by Pherecydes is certainly a large map
or chart. The robe of which he speaks was indeed a Pharos, Φαρος; but a Pharus of a different
nature from that which he describes. It was a building, a temple, which was not constructed
by the Deity, but dedicated to him. It was one of those towers of which I have before treated;
in which were described upon the walls, and otherwise delineated, Ωγηνος και Ωγηνου δωματα,
the course of the Gehon, or Nile; and the towns and houses upon that river.

I imagine that the shield of Achilles, in Homer, was copied from something of this sort which
the poet had seen in Egypt: for Homer is continually alluding to the customs, as well as to
the history, of that kingdom. And, it is evident, that what he describes on the central part
of the shield, is a map of the earth, and of the celestial appearances.

  [222]Εν μεν Γαιαν ετευξ', εν δ' Ουρανον, εν δε θαλασσαν.
  Εν δ' ετιθει ΠΟΤΑΜΟΙΟ μεγα σθενος ΩΚΕΑΝΟΙΟ.

The antients loved to wrap up every thing in mystery and fable: they have therefore described
Hercules, also, with a robe of this sort:

  [223]Ποικιλον ἑιμα φερων, τυπον Αιθερος, εικονα Κοσμου:

He was invested with a robe, which was a type of the heavens, and a representation of the whole
world.

The garment of Thetis, which the poets mention as given her upon her supposed marriage with
Peleus, was a Pharos of the same kind as that described above. We may learn, from Catullus,
who copied the story, that the whole alluded to an historical picture preserved in some tower;
and that it referred to matters of great antiquity, though applied by the Greeks to later times,
and ascribed to people of their own nation.

  [224]Pulvinar vero Divæ geniale locatur
  Sedibus in mediis; Indo quod dente politum
  Tincta tegit roseo conchylis purpura fuco.
  Hæc vestis priscis hominum variata figuris
  Heroum mirâ virtutes indicat arte.

It contained a description of some notable achievements in the first ages; and a particular
account of the Apotheosis of Ariadne, who is described, whatever may be the meaning of it,
as carried by Bacchus to heaven. The story is said to have been painted on a robe, or coverlet;
because it was delineated upon a Pharos: that word being equivocal, and to be taken in either
sense. And here I cannot but take notice of the inconsistency of the Greeks, who make Theseus
a partaker in this history; and suppose him to have been acquainted with Ariadne. If we may
credit Plutarch[225], Theseus, as soon as he was advanced towards manhood, went, by the advice
of his mother Æthra, from Trœzen, in quest of his father Ægeus at Athens. This was some years
after the Argonautic expedition; when Medea had left Jason, and put herself under the protection
of this same Ægeus. After having been acknowledged by his father, Theseus went upon his expedition
to Crete; where he is said to have first seen Ariadne, and to have carried her away. All this,
I say, was done after Jason had married Medea, and had children by her; and after she had left
him and was come to Athens. But the story of Ariadne, in the above specimen, is mentioned as
a fact of far older date. It was prior to the arrival of Medea in Greece, and even to the Argonautic
expedition. It is spoken of as a circumstance of the highest antiquity: consequently, [226]Theseus
could not any ways be concerned in it.

There, is an account in Nonnus of a robe, or Pharos, which Harmonia is supposed to have worn
when she was visited by the Goddess of beauty. There was delineated here, as in some above
mentioned, the earth, and the heavens, with all the stars. The sea, too, and the rivers, were
represented; and the whole was, at the bottom, surrounded by the ocean.

  [227]Πρωτην Γαιαν επασσε μεσομφαλον, αμφι δε γαιῃ
  Ουρανον εσφαιρωσε τυπῳ κεχαραγμενον αστρων.
  Συμφερτην δε θαλασσαν εφηρμοσε συζυγι Γαιῃ,
  Και ποταμους ποικιλλεν· επ' ανδρομεῳ δε μετωπῳ
  Ταυροφυης μορφουτο κερασφορος εγχλοος εικων.
  Και πυματην παρα πεζαν εϋκλωστοιο χιτωνος
  Ωκεανος κυκλωσε περιδρομον αντυγα Κοσμου.

All this relates to a painting, either at Sidon or Berytus; which was delineated in a tower,
or temple, sacred to Hermon.

Orpheus alludes to a Pharos of this sort, and to the paintings and furniture of it, in his
description of the robes with which Apollo, or Dionusus, is invested. He speaks of them as
the same Deity.

  [228]Ταυτα δε παντα τελειν ἱερᾳ σκευῃ πυκασαντα,
  Σωμα θεου πλαττειν περιαυγους Ηελιοιο.
  Πρωτα μεν αργυφεαις εναλιγκιον ακτινεσσι
  Πεπλον φοινικεον, πυρι εικελον, αμφιβαλεσθαι.
  Αυταρ ὑπερθε νεβροιο παναιολου ἑυρυ καθαψαι
  Δερμα πολυστικτον θηρος κατα δεξιον ωμον,
  Αστρων δαιδαλεων μιμημ', ἱερου τε πολοιο.
  Ειτα δ' ὑπερθε νεβρης χρυσεον ζωστηρα βαλεσθαι,
  Παμφανοωντα, περιξ στερνων φορεειν, μεγα σημα.
  Ευθυς, ὁτ' εκ περατων γαιης Φαεθων ανορουσων
  Χρυσειαις ακτισι βαλῃ ῥοον Ωκεανοιο,
  Αυγη δ' ασπετος ῃ, ανα δε δροσῳ αμφιμιγεισα,
  Μαρμαιρῃ δινῃσιν ἑλισσομενη κατα κυκλον
  Προσθε θεου, ζωνε δ' αρ' ὑπο στερνων αμετρητων
  Φαινετ' αρ' ωκεανου κυκλος, μεγα θαυμ' εσιδεσθαι.

When the poet has thus adorned the Deity, we find, towards the conclusion, that these imaginary
robes never shew to such advantage as in the morning. When the sun, says he, rises from the
extremities of the earth, and enlightens the ocean with his horizontal rays; then they appear
in great splendour, which is increased by the morning dew. All this investiture of the Deity
relates to the earth and the heavens, which were delineated upon a [229]skin, δερμα πολυστικτον
θηρος, styled πεπλον. This is described, Αστρων δαιδαλεων μιμημ', ἱερου τε πολοιο: as a copy
and imitation of all the celestial appearances. The whole was deposited in a Pharos upon the
sea shore, upon which the sun, at his rising, darted his early rays; and whose turrets glittered
with the dew: Ὑπο στερνων αμετρητων φαινετ' αρ' ωκεανου κυκλος: from the upper story of the
tower, which was of an unmeasurable height, there was an unlimited view of the ocean. This
vast element surrounded the edifice like a zone; and afforded a wonderful phænomenon. Such,
I imagine, is the solution of the enigma.

       *       *       *       *       *

TAR, TOR, TARIT.

I have taken notice of the fears and apprehensions, under which the first navigators must necessarily
have been, when they traversed unknown seas; and were liable to be entangled among the rocks,
and shelves of the deep: and I mentioned the expedients of which they made use to obviate such
difficulties, and to render the coast less dangerous. They built upon every hill, and promontory,
where they had either commerce or settlement, obelisks, and towers, which they consecrated
to some Deity. These served in a twofold capacity, both as seamarks by day, and for beacons
by night. And as people in those times made only coasting voyages, they continually went on
shore with offerings, in order to gain the assistance of the God, whoever there presided; for
these towers were temples, and oftentimes richly furnished and endowed. They were built sometimes
on artificial mounds; but generally on natural eminences, that they might be seen at a great
distance. They were called by the Amonians, who first erected them, [230]Tar, and Tor; the
same as the תור of the Chaldees, which signified both a hill and tower. They were oftentimes
compounded, and styled Tor-Is, or fire towers: on account of the light which they exhibited,
and the fires which were preserved in them. Hence came the turris of the Romans; and the τυρις,
τυῤῥις, τυρσις, τυρσος, of the Greeks. The latter, when the word Tor occurred in antient history,
often changed it to ταυρος, a bull; and invented a number of idle stories in consequence of
this change. The Ophite God Osiris, the same as Apollo, was by the Amonians styled Oph-El,
and Ope-El: and there was upon the Sinus Persicus a city Opis, where his rites were observed.
There seems likewise to have been a temple sacred to him, named Tor-Opel; which the Greeks
rendered Ταυροπολος. Strabo speaks of such an oracular temple; and says, that it was in the
island Icaria, towards the mouth of the Tigris: [231]Νησον Ικαριον, και ἱερον Απολλωνος ἁγιον
εν αυτῃ, και μαντειον Ταυροπολου. Here, instead of Osiris, or Mithras, the serpent Deity, the
author presents us with Apollo, the manager of bulls.

One of the principal and most antient settlements of the Amonians upon the ocean was at Gades;
where a prince was supposed to have reigned, named Geryon. The harbour at Gades was a very
fine one; and had several Tor, or Towers to direct shipping: and as it was usual to imagine
the Deity, to whom the temple was erected, to have been the builder, this temple was said to
have been built by Hercules. All this the Grecians took to themselves: they attributed the
whole to the hero of Thebes: and as he was supposed to conquer wherever he came, they made
him subdue Geryon; and changing the Tor, or Towers, into so many head of cattle, they [232]describe
him as leading them off in triumph over the Pyranees and Alpes, to Hetruria, and so on to Calabria.
From thence, for what reason we know not, he swims them over to Messana in Sicily: and after
some stay he swims with them through the sea back again, all the while holding by one of their
horns. The bulls of Colchis, with which Jason was supposed to have engaged, were probably of
the same nature and original. The people of this country were Amonians, and had once a [233]mighty
trade; for the security of which they erected at the entrance of the Phasis towers. These served
both as light-houses, and temples; and were sacred to Adorus. They were on this account called
Tynador, whence the Greeks formed Tyndarus, Tyndaris, and Tyndaridæ. They were built after
some, which stood near the city [234]Parætonium of Egypt; and they are alluded to by the geographer
Dionysius:

  [235]Παρ δε μυχον Ποντοιο, μετα χθονα Τυνδαριδαων,
  Κολχοι ναιεταουσιν επηλυδες Αιγυπτοιο.

Colchis was styled Cutaia, and had been early occupied by the sons of Chus. The chief city,
whence the country has been in general denominated, was from its situation called Cal-Chus,
and Col-Chus, the hill, or place of Chus. This by the Greeks was rendered Colchis: but as travellers
are not uniform in expressing foreign terms, some have rendered what was Colchian, Chalcian,
and from Colchus they have formed Χαλκος, brass. The Chalcian towers being moreover interpreted
ταυροι, bulls, a story took its rise about the brazen bulls of Colchis. Besides this, there
was in these towers a constant fire kept up for the direction of ships by night: whence the
bulls were said to breath fire.

We however sometimes meet with sacred towers, which were really denominated Tauri from the
worship of the mystic bull, the same as the Apis, and Mneuis of Egypt. Such was probably the
temple of Minotaurus in Crete, where the [236]Deity was represented under an emblematical figure;
which consisted of the body of a man with the head of a bull. In Sicily was a promontory Taurus,
mentioned by Diodorus Siculus; which was called also Tauromenium. He acquaints us, that Hanno
the Carthaginian sent his Admiral with orders παραπλειν επι τον λοφον καλουμενον Ταυρον, to
sail along the coast to the promontory named Taurus. This Taurus, he thinks, was afterwards
named Ταυρομενιον, Tauromenium, from the people who settled, and [237]remained there: as if
this were the only place in the world where people settled and remained. It was an antient
compound, and no part of it of Grecian [238]original. Tauromenium is the same as Menotaurium
reversed: and the figure of the Deity was varied exactly in the same manner; as is apparent
from the coins and engravings which have been found in Sicily. The Minotaur is figured as a
man with the head of a bull; the Tauromen as a bull with the face of a [239]man.

Among the [240]Hetrurians this term seems to have been taken in a more enlarged sense; and
to have signified a city, or town fortified. When they settled in Italy, they founded many
places of strength; and are reputed to have been the first who introduced the art of fortification.
[241]Τυρσηνοι πρωτον εφευρον την τειχοποιϊαν. Hence the word Tar, and Tur, is often found in
the composition of names, which relate to people of this country. They worshipped the Sun,
styled Zan, and Zeen; whose temples were called Tur-Zeen: and in consequence of it one of the
principal names by which their country was distinguished, was Turzenia. The Scholiast upon
Lycophron mentions it as [242]Χωραν απο Τυρσηνου κληθεισαν Τυρσηνιαν, a region, which from
Tur-Seen was named Tursenia. The Poet above takes notice of two persons by the names of Tarchon,
and Turseen. [243]Ταρχων τε, και Τυρσηνος, αιθωνες λυκοι. From Tarchon there was a city and
district named [244]Tarcunia; from whence came the family of the Tarquins, or Tarquinii, so
well known in the history of [245]Rome. The Amonians esteemed every emanation of light a fountain;
and styled it Ain, and Aines: and as they built lighthouses upon every island and insular promontory,
they were in consequence of it called Aines, Agnes, Inis, Inesos, Nesos, Nees: and this will
be found to obtain in many different countries and languages. The Hetrurians occupied a large
tract of sea-coast; on which account they worshipped Poseidon: and one of their principal cities
was Poseidonium. They erected upon their shores towers and beacons for the sake of their navigation,
which they called Tor-ain: whence they had a still farther denomination of Tur-aini, and their
country was named Tur-ainia; the Τυῤῥηνια of the later Greeks. All these appellations are from
the same object, the edifices which they erected: even Hetruria seems to have been a compound
of Ai-tur; and to have signified the land of Towers. Another name for buildings of this nature
was Turit, or Tirit; which signified a tower or turret. I have often mentioned that temples
have been mistaken for Deities, and places for persons. We have had an instance of this above;
where Tarchon, and Tursenus are supposed to have been founders of colonies. Torone was a place
in Macedonia; and signifies literally the Tower of the Sun. The Poets have formed out of it
a female personage; and supposed her to have been the wife of [246]Proteus. So Amphi-Tirit
is merely an oracular tower. This too has by the Poets been changed to a female, Amphitrite;
and made the wife of Neptune. The name of Triton is a contraction of Tirit-On; and signifies
the tower of the Sun, like Torone: but a Deity was framed from it, who was supposed to have
had the appearance of a man upwards, but downwards to have been like a fish. From this emblematical
representation we may judge of the figure of the real Deity; and be assured that it could be
no other than that of Atargatis and Dagon. The [247]Hetrurians were thought to have been the
inventors of trumpets: and in their towers upon the sea-coast there were people appointed to
be continually upon the watch both by day and night; and to give a proper signal, if any thing
happened extraordinary. This was done by a blast from the trumpet; and Triton was hence feigned
to have been Neptune's trumpeter. He is accordingly described by Nonnus,

  [248]Τυρσηνης Βαρυδουπον εχων σαλπιγγα θαλασσης·

as possessing the deep toned trumpet of the Hetrurian main. However in early times these brazen
instruments were but little known: and people were obliged to make use of what was near at
hand, the conchs of the sea, which every strand afforded. By sounding these, they gave signals
from the top of the towers when any ship appeared: and this is the implement with which Triton
is more commonly furnished. The antients divided the night into different watches; the last
of which was called cockcrow: and in consequence of this they kept a cock in their Tirat, or
Towers, to give notice of the dawn. Hence this bird was sacred to the Sun, and named Alector,
Αλεκτωρ: which seems to be a compound out of the titles of that Deity, and of the tower set
apart for his service: for all these towers were temples. Those styled Tritonian were oracular;
as we may infer from the application made by the Argonauts. What Homer attributes to Proteus,
Pindar ascribes to Triton. [249]Μαντευεται δε ὡς παρ' Ομηρῳ Πρωτευς, και παρα Πινδαρῳ Τριτων
τοις Αργοναυταις. Pausanias mentions a tradition of a [250]Triton near Tanagra, who used to
molest women, when they were bathing in the sea; and who was guilty of other acts of violence.
He was at last found upon the beach overpowered with wine; and there slain. This Triton was
properly a Tritonian, a priest of one of these temples: for the priests appear to have been
great tyrants, and oftentimes very brutal. This person had used the natives ill; who took advantage
of him, when overpowered with liquor, and put him to death.

The term Tor, in different parts of the world, occurs sometimes a little varied. Whether this
happened through mistake, or was introduced for facility of utterance, is uncertain. The temple
of the Sun, Tor Heres, in Phenicia was rendered Τριηρης, Trieres; the promontory Tor-Ope-On,
in Caria, Triopon; Tor-Hamath, in Cyprus, Trimathus; Tor-Hanes, in India, Trinesia; Tor-Chom,
or Chomus, in Palestine, Tricomis. In antient times the title of Anac was often conferred upon
the Deities; and their temples were styled Tor-Anac, and Anac-Tor. The city Miletus was named
[251]Anactoria: and there was an Heroüm at Sparta called Ανακτορον, Anactoron; where Castor
and Pollux had particular honours, who were peculiarly styled Anactes. It was from Tor-Anac
that Sicily was denominated Trinacis and Trinacia. This, in process of time, was still farther
changed to Trinacria; which name was supposed to refer to the triangular form of the island.
But herein was a great mistake; for, the more antient name was Trinacia, as is manifest from Homer:

  [252]Ὁπποτε δη πρωτον πελασῃς ευεργεα νηα
  Τρινακιῃ νησῳ.

And the name, originally, did not relate to the island in general, but to a part only, and
that a small district near Ætna. This spot had been occupied by the first inhabitants, the
Cyclopians, Lestrygons, and Sicani: and it had this name from some sacred tower which they
built. Callimachus calls it, mistakenly, Trinacria, but says that it was near Ætna, and a portion
of the antient Sicani.

                  [253]Αυε δ' αρ' Αιτνα,
  Αυε δε Τρινακριη Σικανων ἑδος.

The island Rhodes was called [254]Trinacia, which was not triangular: so that the name had
certainly suffered a variation, and had no relation to any figure. The city Trachin, Τραχιν,
in Greece, was properly Tor-chun, turris sacra vel regia, like Tarchon in Hetruria. Chun and
Chon were titles, said peculiarly to belong to Hercules: [255]Τον Ἡρακλην φησι κατα τον Αιγυπτιων
διαλεκτον Κωνα λεγεσθαι. We accordingly find that this place was sacred to Hercules; that it
was supposed to have been [256]founded by him; and that it was called [257]Heraclea.

I imagine that the trident of Poseidon was a mistaken implement; as it does not appear to have
any relation to the Deity to whom it has been by the Poets appropriated. Both the towers on
the sea-coast, and the beacons, which stood above them, had the name of Tor-ain. This the Grecians
changed to Triaina, Τριαινα, and supposed it to have been a three-pronged fork. The beacon,
or Torain, consisted of an iron or brazen frame, wherein were three or four tines, which stood
up upon a circular basis of the same metal. They were bound with a hoop; and had either the
figures of Dolphins, or else foliage in the intervals between them. These filled up the vacant
space between the tines, and made them capable of holding the combustible matter with which
they were at night filled. This instrument was put upon a high pole, and hung sloping sea-ward
over the battlements of the tower, or from the stern of a ship: with this they could maintain,
either a smoke by day, or a blaze by night. There was a place in Argos named [258]Triaina,
which was supposed to have been so called from the trident of Neptune. It was undoubtedly a
tower, and the true name Tor-ain; as may be shewn from the history with which it is attended.
For it stood near a fountain, though a fountain of a different nature from that of which we
have been speaking. The waters of Amumone rose here: which Amumone is a variation from Amim-On,
the waters of the Sun. The stream rose close to the place, which was named Tor-ain, from its
vicinity to the fountain.

Cerberus was the name of a place, as well as Triton and Torone, though esteemed the dog of
hell. We are told by [259]Eusebius, from Plutarch, that Cerberus was the Sun: but the term
properly signified the temple, or place, of the Sun. The great luminary was styled by the Amonians
both Or and Abor; that is, light, and the parent of light: and Cerberus is properly Kir-Abor,
the place of that Deity. The same temple had different names, from the diversity of the God's
titles who was there worshipped. It was called TorCaph-El; which was changed to τρικεφαλος,
just as Cahen-Caph-El was rendered κυνοκεφαλος: and Cerberus was hence supposed to have had
three heads. It was also styled Tor-Keren, Turris Regia; which suffered a like change with
the word above, being expressed τρικαρηνος: and Cahen Ades, or Cerberus, was hence supposed
to have been a triple-headed monster. That these idle figments took their rise from names of
places, ill expressed and misinterpreted, may be proved from Palæphatus. He abundantly shews
that the mistake arose hence, though he does not point out precisely the mode of deviation.
He first speaks of Geryon, who was supposed to have had three heads, and was thence styled
τρικεφαλος. [260]Ην δε τοιονδε τουτο· πολις εστιν εν τῳ Ευξινῳ ποντῳ Τρικαρηνια καλουμενη κλ.
The purport of the fable about Geryones is this: There was, upon the Pontus Euxinus, a city
named Tricarenia; and thence came the history Γηρυονου του Τρικαρηνου, of Geryon the Tricarenian;
which was interpreted, a man with three heads. He mentions the same thing of Cerberus. [261]Λεγουσι
περι Κερβερου, ὡς κυων ην, εχων τρεις κεφαλας· δηλον δε ὁτι και ὁυτος απο της πολεως εκληθη
Τρικαρηνος, ὡσπερ ὁ Γηρυονης. They say of Cerberus, that he was a dog with three heads: but
it is plain that he was so called from a city named Tricaren, or Tricarenia, as well as Geryones.
Palæphatus says, very truly, that the strange notion arose from a place. But, to state more
precisely the grounds of the mistake, we must observe, that from the antient Tor-Caph-El arose
the blunder about τρικεφαλος; as, from Tor-Keren, rendered Tricarenia, was formed the term
τρικαρηνος: and these personages, in consequence of it, were described with three heads.

As I often quote from Palæphatus, it may be proper to say something concerning him. He wrote
early: and seems to have been a serious and sensible person; one, who saw the absurdity of
the fables, upon which the theology of his country was founded. In the purport of his name
is signified an antiquarian; a person, who dealt in remote researches: and there is no impossibility,
but that there might have casually arisen this correspondence between his name and writings.
But, I think, it is hardly probable. As he wrote against the mythology of his country, I should
imagine that Παλαιφατος, Palæphatus, was an assumed name, which he took for a blind, in order
to screen himself from persecution: for the nature of his writings made him liable to much
ill will. One little treatise of [262]Palæphatus about Orion is quoted verbatim by the Scholiast
upon [263]Homer, who speaks of it as a quotation from Euphorion. I should therefore think,
that Euphorion was the name of this writer: but as there were many learned men so called, it
may be difficult to determine which was the author of this treatise.

Homer, who has constructed the noblest poem that was ever framed, from the strangest materials,
abounds with allegory and mysterious description. He often introduces ideal personages, his
notions of which he borrowed from the edifices, hills, and fountains; and from whatever savoured
of wonder and antiquity. He seems sometimes to blend together two different characters of the
same thing, a borrowed one, and a real; so as to make the true history, if there should be
any truth at bottom, the more extraordinary and entertaining.

I cannot help thinking, that Otus and Ephiâltes, those gigantic youths, so celebrated by the
Poets, were two lofty towers. They were building to Alohim, called [264]Aloëus; but were probably
overthrown by an earthquake. They are spoken of by Pindar as the sons of Iphimedeia; and are
supposed to have been slain by Apollo in the island Naxos.

                  [265]Εν δε Ναξῳ
  Φαντι θανειν λιπαρᾳ Ιφιμεδειας παιδας
  Ωτον, και σε, τολμαεις Εφιαλτα αναξ.

They are also mentioned by Homer, who styles them γηγενεις, or earthborn: and his description
is equally fine.

  [266]Και ῥ' ετεκεν δυο παιδε, μινυνθαδιω δε γενεσθην,
  Ωτον τ' αντιθεον, τηλεκλειτον τ' Εφιαλτην·
  Ὁυς δη μηκιστους θρεψε ζειδωρος αρουρα,
  Και πολυ καλλιστους μετα γε κλυτον Ωριωνα.
  Εννεωροι γαρ τοι γε, και εννεαπηχεες ησαν
  Ευρος, αταρ μηκος γε γενεσθην εννεοργυιοι.

Homer includes Orion in this description, whom he mentions elsewhere; and seems to borrow his
ideas from a similar object, some tower, or temple, that was sacred to him. Orion was Nimrod,
the great hunter in the Scriptures, called by the Greeks Nebrod. He was the founder of Babel,
or Babylon; and is represented as a gigantic personage. The author of the Paschal Chronicle
speaks of him in this light. [267]Νεβρωδ Γιγαντα, τον την Βαβυλωνιαν κτισαντα--ὁντινα καλουσιν
Ωριωνα. He is called Alorus by Abydenus, and Apollodorus; which was often rendered with the
Amonian prefix Pelorus. Homer describes him as a great hunter; and of an enormous stature,
even superior to the Aloeidæ above mentioned.

  [268]Τον δε μετ' Ωριωνα Πελωριον εισενοησα,
  Θηρας ὁμου ειλευντα κατ' ασφοδελον λειμωνα.

The Poet styles him Pelorian; which betokens something vast, and is applicable to any towering
personage, but particularly to Orion. For the term Pelorus is the name by which the towers
of Orion were called. Of these there seems to have been one in Delos; and another of more note,
to which Homer probably alluded, in Sicily; where Orion was particularly reverenced. The streight
of Rhegium was a dangerous pass: and this edifice was erected for the security of those who
were obliged to go through it. It stood near Zancle; and was called [269]Pelorus, because it
was sacred to Alorus, the same as [270]Orion. There was likewise a river named from him, and
rendered by Lycophron [271]Elorus. The tower is mentioned by Strabo; but more particularly
by Diodorus Siculus. He informs us that, according to the tradition of the place, Orion there
resided; and that, among other works, he raised this very mound and promontory, called Pelorus
and Pelorias, together with the temple, which was situated upon it. [272]Ωριωνα προσχωσαι το
κατα την Πελωριαδα κειμενον ακρωτηριον, και το τεμενος του Ποσειδωνος κατασκευασαι, τιμωμενον
ὑπο των εγχωριων διαφεροντως. We find from hence that there was a tower of this sort, which
belonged to Orion: and that the word Pelorion was a term borrowed from these edifices, and
made use of metaphorically, to denote any thing stupendous and large. The description in Homer
is of a mixed nature: wherein he retains the antient tradition of a gigantic person; but borrows
his ideas from the towers sacred to him. I have taken notice before, that all temples of old
were supposed to be oracular; and by the Amonians were called Pator and Patara. This temple
of Orion was undoubtedly a Pator; to which mariners resorted to know the event of their voyage,
and to make their offerings to the God. It was on this account styled Tor Pator; which being
by the Greeks expressed τριπατωρ, tripator, gave rise to the notion, that this earthborn giant
had three fathers.

  [273]Ωριων τριπατωρ απο μητερος ανθορε γαιης.

These towers, near the sea, were made use of to form a judgment of the weather, and to observe
the heavens: and those which belonged to cities were generally in the Acropolis, or higher
part of the place. This, by the Amonians, was named Bosrah; and the citadel of Carthage, as
well as of other cities, is known to have been so denominated. But the Greeks, by an unavoidable
fatality, rendered it uniformly [274]βυρσα, bursa, a skin: and when some of them succeeded
to Zancle [275]in Sicily, finding that Orion had some reference to Ouran, or Ouranus, and from
the name of the temple (τριπατωρ) judging that he must have had three fathers, they immediately
went to work, in order to reconcile these different ideas. They accordingly changed Ouran to
ουρειν; and, thinking the misconstrued hide, βυρσα, no improper utensil for their purpose,
they made these three fathers co-operate in a most wonderful manner for the production of this
imaginary person; inventing the most slovenly legend that ever was devised. [276]Τρεις (θεοι)
του σφαγεντος βοος βυρσῃ ενουρησαν, και εξ αυτης Ωριων εγενετο. Tres Dei in bovis mactati pelle
minxerunt, et inde natus est Orion.

       *       *       *       *       *

TIT AND TITH.

When towers were situated upon eminences fashioned very round, they were by the Amonians called
Tith; which answers to תד in Hebrew, and to [277]τιτθη, and τιτθος, in Greek. They were so
denominated from their resemblance to a woman's breast; and were particularly sacred to Orus
and Osiris, the Deities of light, who by the Grecians were represented under the title of Apollo.
Hence the summit of Parnassus was [278]named Tithorea, from Tith-Or: and hard by was a city,
mentioned by Pausanias, of the same name; which was alike sacred to Orus and Apollo. The same
author takes notice of a hill, near Epidaurus, called [279]Τιτθειον ορος Απολλωνος. There was
a summit of the like nature at Samos, which, is by Callimachus styled the breast of Parthenia:
[280]Διαβροχον ὑδατι μαστον Παρθενιης. Mounds of this nature are often, by Pausanias and Strabo,
termed, from their resemblance, [281]μαστοειδεις. Tithonus, whose longevity is so much celebrated,
was nothing more than one of these structures, a Pharos, sacred to the sun, as the name plainly
shews. Tith-On is μαστος ἑλιου, the mount of the [282]Sun. As he supplied the place of that
luminary, he is said to have been beloved by Aurora, and through her favour to have lived many
ages. This, indeed, is the reverse of that which is fabled of the [283]Cyclopes, whose history
equally relates to edifices. They are said to have raised the jealousy of Apollo, and to have
been slain by his arrows: yet it will be found at bottom of the same purport. The Cyclopian
turrets upon the Sicilian shore fronted due east: and their lights must necessarily have been
extinguished by the rays of the rising Sun. This, I imagine, is the meaning of Apollo's slaying
the Cyclopes with his arrows. Tethys, the antient Goddess of the sea, was nothing else but
an old tower upon a mount; of the same shape, and erected for the same purposes, as those above.
On this account it was called Tith-Is, μαστος πυρος. Thetis seems to have been a transposition
of the same name, and was probably a Pharos, or Fire-tower, near the sea.

These mounts, λοφοι μαστοειδεις, were not only in Greece; but in Egypt, Syria, and most parts
of the world. They were generally formed by art; being composed of earth, raised very high;
which was sloped gradually, and with great exactness: and the top of all was crowned with a
fair tower. The situation of these buildings made them be looked upon as places of great safety:
and the reverence in which they were held added to the security. On these accounts they were
the repositories of much wealth and treasure: in times of peril they were crowded with things
of value. In Assyria was a temple named Azara; which the Parthian plundered, and is said to
have carried off ten thousand talents: [284]Χαι ηρε παλαντων μυριων γαζαν. The same author
mentions two towers of this sort in Judea, not far from Jericho, belonging to Aristobulus and
Alexander, and styled [285]Γαζοφυλακια των Τυραννων: which were taken by Pompeius Magnus in
his war with the Jews. There were often two of these mounds of equal height in the same inclosure;
such as are described by Josephus at Machærus, near some warm fountains. He mentions here a
cavern and a rock; [286]σπηλαιον--τῃ πετρᾳ προυχουσῃ σκεπομενον· ταυτης ανωθεν ὡσανει μαστοι
δυο ανεχουσιν, αλληλων ολιγῳ διεστωτες: and above it two round hills like breasts, at no great
distance from each other. To such as these Solomon alludes, when he makes his beloved say,
[287]I am a wall, and my breasts like towers. Though the word חומה, Chumah, or Comah, be generally
rendered a wall; yet I should think that in this place it signified the ground which the wall
surrounded: an inclosure sacred to Cham, the Sun, who was particularly worshipped in such places.
The Mizraïm called these hills Typhon, and the cities where they were erected, Typhonian. But
as they stood within inclosures sacred to Chom, they were also styled Choma. This, I imagine,
was the meaning of the term in this place, and in some others; where the text alludes to a
different nation, and to a foreign mode of worship. In these temples the Sun was principally
adored, and the rites of fire celebrated: and this seems to have been the reason why the judgment
denounced against them is uniformly, that they shall be destroyed by fire. If we suppose Comah
to mean a mere wall, I do not see why fire should be so particularly destined against a part,
which is the least combustible. The Deity says, [288]I will kindle a fire in the wall of Damascus.
[289]I will send a fire on the wall of Gaza. [290]I will send a fire on the wall of Tyrus.
[291]I will kindle a [292]fire in the wall of Rabbah. As the crime which brought down this
curse was idolatry, and the term used in all these instances is Chomah; I should think that
it related to a temple of Chom, and his high places, called by the Greeks λοφοι μαστοειδεις:
and to these the spouse of Solomon certainly alludes, when she Says, εγω τειχος, και ὁι μαστοι
μου ὡς πυργοι. This will appear from another passage in Solomon, where he makes his beloved
say, [293]We have a little sister, and she hath no breasts. If she be a Comah, we will build
upon her a palace of silver. A palace cannot be supposed to be built upon a wall; though it
may be inclosed with one. The place for building was a Comah, or eminence. It is said of Jotham,
king of Judah, that [294]on the wall of Ophel he built much. Ophel is literally Pytho Sol,
the Ophite Deity of Egypt and Canaan. What is here termed a wall, was a Comah, or high place,
which had been of old erected to the sun by the Jebusites. This Jotham fortified, and turned
it to advantage; whereas before it was not used, or used for a bad purpose. The ground set
apart for such use was generally oval; and towards one extremity of the long diameter, as it
were in the focus, were these mounds and towers erected. As they were generally royal edifices,
and at the same time held sacred; they were termed Tarchon, like Tarchonium in Hetruria: which
by a corruption was in later times rendered Trachon, Τραχων. There were two hills of this denomination
near Damascus; from whence undoubtedly the Regio Trachonitis received its name: [295]ὑπερκεινται
δε αυτης (Δαμασκου) δυο λεγομενοι Τραχωνες. These were hills with towers, and must have been
very fair to see to. Solomon takes notice of a hill of this sort upon [296]Lebanon, looking
toward Damascus; which he speaks of as a beautiful structure. The term Trachon seems to have
been still farther sophisticated by the Greeks, and expressed Δρακων, Dracon: from whence in,
great measure arose the notion of treasures being guarded by [297]Dragons. We read of the gardens
of the Hesperides being under the protection of a sleepless serpent: and the golden fleece
at Colchis was entrusted to such another guardian; of which there is a fine description in
Apollonius.

  [298]Πυργους εισοψεσθε Κυταεος Αιηταο,
  Αλσος τε σκιοεν Αρεος, τοθι κωας επ' ακρης
  Πεπταμενον φηγοιο Δρακων, τερας αινον ιδεσθαι,
  Αμφις οπιπτευει δεδοκημενος· ουδε ὁι ημαρ,
  Ου κνεφας ἡδυμος ὑπνος αναιδεα δαμναται οσσε.

Nonnus often introduces a dragon as a protector of virginity; watching while the damsel slumbered,
but sleepless itself: [299]Ὑπναλεης αγρυπνον οπιπτευτηρα κορειης: and in another place he mentions
[300]Φρουρον εχεις απελεθρον Οφιν. Such an one guarded the nymph Chalcomeda, [301]Παρθενικης
αγαμοιο βοηθοος. The Goddess Proserpine had two [302]dragons to protect her, by the appointment
of her mother Demeter.

Such are the poetical representations: but the history at bottom relates to sacred towers,
dedicated to the symbolical worship of the serpent; where there was a perpetual watch, and
a light ever burning. The Titans, Τιτανες, were properly Titanians; a people so denominated
from their worship, and from the places where it was celebrated. They are, like Orion and the
Cyclopians, represented as gigantic persons: and they were of the same race, the children of
Anak. The Titanian temples were stately edifices, erected in Chaldea, as well as in lower Egypt,
upon mounds of earth, λοφοι μαστοειδεις, and sacred to Hanes; Τιτανις and Τιτανες are compounds
of Tit-Hanes; and signify literally μαστος ἡλιου, the conical hill of Orus. They were by their
situation strong, and probably made otherwise defensible.

In respect to the legends about dragons, I am persuaded that the antients sometimes did wilfully
misrepresent things, in order to increase the wonder. Iphicrates related, that in Mauritania
there were dragons of such extent, that grass grew upon their backs: [303]Δρακοντας τε λεγει
μεγαλους, ὡστε και ποαν επιπεφυκεναι. What can be meant under this representation but a Dracontium,
within whose precincts they encouraged verdure? It is said of Taxiles, a mighty prince in India,
and a rival of Porus, that, upon the arrival of Alexander the Great, he shewed him every thing
that was in his country curious, and which could win the attention of a foreigner. Among other
things he carried him to see a [304]Dragon, which was sacred to Dionusus; and itself esteemed
a God. It was of a stupendous size, being in extent equal to five acres; and resided in a low
deep place, walled round to a great height. The Indians offered sacrifices to it: and it was
daily fed by them from their flocks and herds, which it devoured at an amazing rate. In short
my author says, that it was treated rather as a tyrant, than a benevolent Deity. Two Dragons
of the like nature are mentioned by [305]Strabo; which are said to have resided in the mountains
of Abisares, or Abiosares, in India: the one was eighty cubits in length, the other one hundred
and forty. Similar to the above is the account given by Posidonius of a serpent, which he saw
in the plains of Macra, a region in Syria; and which he styles [306]δρακοντα πεπτωκοτα νεκρον.
He says, that it was about an acre in length; and of a thickness so remarkable, as that two
persons on horseback, when they rode on the opposite sides, could not see one another. Each
scale was as big as a, shield; and a man might ride in at its mouth. What can this description
allude to, this δρακων πεπτωκως, but the ruins of an antient Ophite temple; which is represented
in this enigmatical manner to raise admiration? The plains of Macra were not far from Mount
Lebanon and Hermon; where the Hivites resided; and where serpent-worship particularly prevailed.
The Indian Dragon above mentioned seems to have been of the same nature. It was probably a
temple, and its environs; where a society of priests resided, who were maintained by the public;
and who worshipped the Deity under the semblance of a serpent. Tityus must be ranked among
the monsters of this class. He is by the Poets represented as a stupendous being, an earthborn
giant:

          [307]Terræ omniparentis alumnum,
  ---- per tota novem cui jugera corpus
  Porrigitur.

By which is meant, that he was a tower, erected upon a conical mount of earth, which stood
in an inclosure of nine acres. He is said to have a vulture preying upon his heart, or liver;
immortale jecur tondens. The whole of which history is borrowed from Homer, who mentions two
vultures engaged in tormenting him.

  [308]Και Τιτυον ειδον Γαιης ερικυδεος ὑιον,
  Κειμενον εν δαπεδῳ· ὁδ' επ' εννεα κειτο πελεθρα·
  Γυπε δε μιν ἑκατερθε παρημενοι ηπαρ εκειρον,
  Δερτρον εσω δυνοντες, ὁδ' ουκ απαμυνετο χερσι.

The same story is told of Prometheus, who is said to have been exposed upon Mount Caucasus,
near Colchis; with this variation, that an eagle is placed over him, preying upon his heart.
These strange histories are undoubtedly taken from the symbols and devices which were carved
upon the front of the antient Amonian temples; and especially those of Egypt. The eagle and
the vulture were the insignia of that country: whence it was called Ai-Gupt, and [309]Aetia,
from Ait and Gupt, which signified an eagle and vulture. Ait was properly a title of the Deity,
and signified heat: and the heart, the centre of vital heat, was among the Egyptians styled
[310]Ait: hence we are told by [311]Orus Apollo, that a heart over burning coals was an emblem
of Egypt. The Amonians dealt much in hieroglyphical representations. Nonnus mentions one of
this sort, which seems to have been a curious emblem of the Sun. It was engraved upon a jasper,
and worn for a bracelet. Two serpents entwined together, with their heads different ways, were
depicted in a semicircular manner round the extreme part of the gem. At the top between their
heads was an eagle; and beneath a sacred carriage, called Cemus.

  [312]Αιετος εν χρυσειος, ἁτε πλατυν ηερα τεμνων,
  Ορθος, εχιδναιων διδυμων μεσσηγυ καρηνων,
  Ὑψιφανης πτερυγων πισυρων τετραζυγι κημῳ.
  Τῃ μεν ξανθος ιασπις επετρεχε.

The history of Tityus, Prometheus, and many other poetical personages, was certainly taken
from hieroglyphics misunderstood, and badly explained. Prometheus was worshipped by the Colchians
as a Deity; and had a temple and high place, called [313]Πετρα Τυφαονια, upon Mount Caucasus:
and the device upon the portal was Egyptian, an eagle over a heart. The magnitude of these
personages was taken from the extent of the temple inclosures. The words, per tota novem cui
jugera corpus Porrigitur, relate to a garden of so many acres. There were many such inclosures,
as I have before taken notice: some of them were beautifully planted, and ornamented with pavilions
and fountains, and called Paradisi. One of this sort stood in Syria upon the river [314]Typhon,
called afterwards Orontes. Places of this nature are alluded to under the description of the
gardens of the Hesperides, and Alcinous; and the gardens of Adonis. Such were those at Phaneas
in Palestine; and those beautiful gardens of Daphne upon the Orontes above mentioned; and in
the shady parts of Mount Libanus. Those of Daphne are described by Strabo, who mentions, [315]Μεγα
τε και συνηρεφες αλσος, διαῤῥεομενον πηγαιοις ὑδασιν· εν μεσῳ δε Ασυλον τεμενος, και νεως Απολλωνοι
και Αρτεμιδος. There was a fine wide extended grove, which sheltered the whole place; and which
was watered with numberless fountains. In the centre of the whole was a sanctuary and asylum,
sacred to Artemis and Apollo. The Groves of Daphne upon the mountains Heræi in Sicily, and
the garden and temple at bottom were very noble; and are finely described by [316]Diodorus.

I have taken notice that the word δρακων, draco, was a mistake for Tarchon, Ταρχων: which was
sometimes expressed Τραχων; as is observable in the Trachones at Damascus. When the Greeks
understood that in these temples people worshipped a serpent Deity, they concluded that Trachon
was a serpent: and hence came the name of Draco to be appropriated to such an animal. For the
Draco was an imaginary being, however afterwards accepted and understood. This is manifest
from Servius, who distributes the serpentine species into three tribes; and confines the Draco
solely to temples: [317]Angues aquarum sunt, serpentes terrarum, Dracones templorum. That the
notion of such animals took its rise from the temples of the Syrians and Egyptians, and especially
from the Trachones, Τραχωνες, at Damascus, seems highly probable from the accounts above: and
it may be rendered still more apparent from Damasenus, a supposed hero, who took his name from
the city Damasene, or Damascus. He is represented as an earthborn giant, who encountered two
dragons: [318]Και χθονος απλετον ὑια, δρακοντοφονον Δαμασηνα. One of the monsters, with which
he fought, is described of an enormous size, πεντηκονταπελεθρος Οφις, a serpent in extent of
fifty acres: which certainly, as I have before insinuated, must have a reference to the grove
and garden, wherein such Ophite temple stood at Damascus. For the general measurement of all
these wonderful beings by [319]jugera or acres proves that such an estimate could not relate
to any thing of solid contents; but to an inclosure of that superficies. Of the same nature
as these was the gigantic personage, supposed, to have been seen at Gades by Cleon Magnesius.
He made, it seems, no doubt of Tityus and other such monsters having existed. For being at
Gades, he was ordered to go upon a certain expedition by Hercules: and upon his return to the
island, he saw upon the shore a huge sea-man, who had been thunderstruck, and lay extended
upon the ground: [320]τουτον πλεθρα μεν πεντε μαλιστα επεχειν; and his dimensions were not
less than five acres. So Typhon, Caanthus, Orion, are said to have been killed by lightning.
Orpheus too, who by some is said to have been torn to pieces by the Thracian women, by others
is represented as slain by the bolt of Jupiter: and his epitaph imports as much.

  [321]Θρηϊκα χρυσολυρην τηδ' Ορφεα Μουσαι εθαψαν,
  Ὁν κτανεν ὑψιμεδων Ζευς ψολοεντι βελει.

All these histories relate to sacred inclosures; and to the worship of the serpent, and rites
of fire, which were practised within them. Such an inclosure was by the Greeks styled [322]τεμενος,
and the mound or high place ταφος and τυμβος; which had often a tower upon it, esteemed a sanctuary
and asylum. Lycophron makes Cassandra say of Diomedes, [323]ΤYΜΒΟΣ δ' αυτον εκσωσει: the temple,
to which he shall fly, shall save him. In process of time both the word τυμβος, as well as
ταφος, were no longer taken in their original sense; but supposed uniformly to have been places
of sepulture. This has turned many temples into tombs: and the Deities, to whom they were sacred,
have been represented as there buried. There was an Orphic Dracontium at Lesbos; where a serpent
was supposed to have been going to devour the remains of Orpheus: and this temple being of
old styled Petra, it was fabled of the serpent, that he was turned into stone.

  [324] Hic ferus expositum peregrinis anguis arenis
  Os petit, et sparsos stillanti rore capillos.
  Tandem Phœbus adest: morsusque inferre parantem
  Arcet; et in lapidem rictus serpentis apertos
  Congelat; et patulos, ut erant, indurat hiatus.

All the poetical accounts of heroes engaging with dragons have arisen from a misconception
about these towers and temples; which those persons either founded, or else took in war. Or,
if they were Deities of whom the story is told, these buildings were erected to their honour.
But the Greeks made no distinction. They were fond of heroism; and interpreted every antient
history according to their own prejudices: and in the most simple narrative could find out
a martial achievement. No colony could settle any where, and build an Ophite temple, but there
was supposed to have been a contention between a hero and a dragon. Cadmus, as I have shewn,
was described in conflict with such an one near Thebes, whose teeth he sowed in the earth:

                                [325]οδοντας
  Αονιοιο δρακοντος, ὁν ωγυγιῃ ενι Θηβῃ
  Καδμος, ὁτ' Ευρωπην διζημενος εισαφικανε,
  Πεφνε.

Serpents are said to have infested [326]Cyprus, when it was occupied by its first inhabitants:
and there was a fearful dragon in the isle of [327]Salamis. The Python of Parnassus is well
known, which Apollo was supposed to have slain, when he was very young; a story finely told
by Apollonius.

  [328]Ὡς ποτε πετραιῃ ὑπο δειραδι Παρνησσοιο
  Δελφυνην τοξοισι πελωριον εξεναριξε,
  Κουρος εων ετι γυμνος, ετι πλοκαμοισι γεγηθως.

After all, this dragon was a serpent temple; a tumbos, τυμβος, formed of earth, and esteemed
of old oracular. To this, Hyginus bears witness. [329]Python, Terræ filius, Draco ingens. Hic
ante Apollinem ex oraculo in monte Parnasso responsa dare solitus est. Plutarch says, that
the dispute between Apollo and the Dragon was about the privilege of the place. [330]Ὁι Δελφων
θεολογοι νομιζουσιν ενταυθα ποτε προς οφιν τῳ Θεῳ περι του χρηστηριου μαχην γενεσθαι. Hence
we may perceive, that he was in reality the Deity of the temple; though the Greeks made an
idle distinction: and he was treated with divine honours. [331]Πυθοι μεν ουν ὁ Δρακων ὁ Πυθιος
θρησκευεται, και του Οφεως ἡ πανηγυρις καταγγελλεται Πυθια. It is said, moreover, that the
seventh day was appointed for a festival in the temple, and celebrated with a Pæan to the [332]serpent.

We often read of virgins, who were exposed to dragons and sea-monsters; and of dragons which
laid waste whole provinces, till they were at length, by some person of prowess, encountered
and slain. These histories relate to women, who were immured in towers by the sea-side; and
to banditti, who got possession of these places, whence they infested the adjacent country.
The [333]author of the Chronicon Paschale supposes, that Andromeda, whom the poets describe
as chained to a rock, and exposed to a sea-monster, was in reality confined in a temple of
Neptune, a Petra of another sort. These dragons are represented as sleepless; because, in such
places there were commonly lamps burning, and a watch maintained. In those more particularly
set apart for religious service there was a fire, which never went out.

  [334]Irrestincta focis servant altaria flammas.

The dragon of Apollonius is ever watchful.

What the Poet styles the eyes of the Dragon, were undoubtedly windows in the upper part of
the building, through which the fire appeared. Plutarch takes notice, that in the temple of
Amon there was a [335]light continually burning. The like was observable in other temples of
the [336]Egyptians. Pausanias mentions the lamp of Minerva [337]Polias at Athens, which never
went out: the same custom was kept up in most of the [338]Prutaneia. The Chaldeans and Persians
had sacred hearths; on which they preserved a [339]perpetual fire. In the temple of [340]Apollo
Carneus at Cyrene, the fire upon the altar was never suffered to be extinguished. A like account
is given by Said Ebn Batrick of the sacred fire, which was preserved in the great temple at
[341]Aderbain in Armenia. The Nubian Geographer mentions a nation in India, called [342]Caimachitæ,
who had large Puratheia, and maintained a perpetual fire. According to the Levitical law, a
constant fire was to be kept up upon the altar of God. [343]The fire shall be ever burning
upon the altar: it shall never go out.

From what has preceded, we may perceive, that many personages have been formed out of places.
And I cannot help suspecting much more of antient history, than I dare venture to acknowledge.
Of the mythic age I suppose almost every circumstance to have been imported, and adopted; or
else to be a fable. I imagine, that Chiron, so celebrated for his knowledge, was a mere personage
formed from a tower, or temple, of that name. It stood in Thessaly; and was inhabited by a
set of priests, called Centauri. They were so denominated from the Deity they worshipped, who
was represented under a particular form. They styled him Cahen-Taur: and he was the same as
the Minotaur of Crete, and the Tauromen of Sicilia; consequently of an emblematical and mixed
figure. The people, by whom this worship was introduced, were many of them Anakim; and are
accordingly represented as of great strength and stature. Such persons among the people of
the east were styled [344]Nephelim: which the Greeks in after times supposed to relate to νεφελη,
a cloud. In consequence of this, they described the Centaurs as born of a cloud: and not only
the Centaurs, but Ixion, and others, were reputed of the same original. The chief city of the
Nephelim stood in Thessaly, and is mentioned by [345]Palæphatus: but through the misconception
of his countrymen it was expressed Νεφελη, Nephele, a cloud. The Grecians in general were of
this race; as will be abundantly shewn. The Scholiast upon Lycophron mentions, that the descendants
of Hellen were by a woman named Nephele, whom Athamas was supposed to have married. [346]Αθαμας
ὁ Αιολου του Ἑλληνος παις εκ Νεφελης γεννᾳ Ἑλλην, και Φριξον. The author has made a distinction
between Helle, and Hellen; the former of which he describes in the feminine. By Phrixus is
meant Φρυξ, Phryx, who passed the Hellespont, and settled in Asia minor. However obscured the
history may be, I think the purport of it is plainly this, that the Hellenes, and Phrygians
were of the Nephelim or Anakim race. Chiron was a temple, probably at Nephele in Thessalia,
the most antient seat of the Nephelim. His name is a compound of Chir-On, in purport the same
as Kir-On, the tower and temple of the Sun. In places of this sort people used to study the
heavenly motions: and they were made use of for seminaries, where young people were instructed;
on which account they were styled παιδοτροφοι. Hence Achilles was supposed to have been taught
by [347]Chiron, who is reported to have had many disciples. They are enumerated by Xenophon
in his treatise upon hunting, and amount to a large number. [348]Εγενοντο αυτῳ μαθηται κυνηγεσιων
τε, και ἑτερων καλων, Κεφαλος, Ασκληπιος, Μελανιων, Νεστωρ, Αμφιαραος, Πηλευς, Τελαμων, Μελεαγρος,
Θησευς, Ἱππολυτος, Παλαμηδης, Οδυσσευς, Μενεσθευς, Διομηδης, Καστωρ, Πολυδευκης, Μαχαων, Ποδαλειριος,
Αντιλοχος, Αινειας, Αχιλλευς. Jason is by Pindar made to say of himself, [349]Φαμι διδασκαλιαν
Χειρωνος οισειν: and the same circumstance is mentioned in another place; [350]Κρονιδᾳ δε τραφεν
Χειρωνι δωκαν (Ιασονα). These histories could not be true of Chiron as a person: for, unless
we suppose him to have been, as the Poets would persuade us, of a different species from the
rest of mankind, it will be found impossible for him to have had pupils in such different ages.
For not only Æsculapius, mentioned in this list, but Apollo likewise learnt of him the medicinal
arts. [351]Ασκληπιος και Απολλων παρα Χειρωνι τῳ Κενταυρῳ ιασθαι διδασκονται. Xenophon indeed,
who was aware of this objection, says, that the term of Chiron's life was sufficient for the
performance of all that was attributed to him: [352]Ὁ Χειρωνος βιος πασιν εξηρκει· Ζευς γαρ
και Χειρων αδελφοι: but he brings nothing in proof of what he alleges. It is moreover incredible,
were we to suppose such a being as Chiron, that he should have had pupils from so many different
[353]countries. Besides many of them, who are mentioned, were manifestly ideal personages.
For not to speak of Cephalus and Castor, Apollo was a Deity; and Æsculapius was the [354]like:
by some indeed esteemed the son of the former; by others introduced rather as a title, and
annexed to the names of different Gods. Aristides uses it as such in his invocation of [355]Hercules:
Ιω, Παιαν, Ἡρακλες, Ασκληπιε: and he also speaks of the temple of Jupiter Æsculapius, Διος
Ασκληπιου νεως. It was idle therefore in the Poets to suppose that these personages could have
been pupils to Chiron. Those that were instructed, whoever they may have been, partook only
of Chironian education; and were taught in the same kind of academy: but not by one person,
nor probably in the same place. For there were many of these towers, where they taught astronomy,
music, and other sciences. These places were likewise courts of judicature, where justice was
administered: whence Chiron was said to have been φιλοφρονεων, και δικαιοτατος:

  [356]Ὁν Χειρων εδιδαξε δικαιοτατος Κενταυρων.

The like character is given of him by Hermippus, of Berytus.

                                [357]Ὁυτος
  Εις τε δικαιοσυνην θνητων γενος ηγαγε, δειξας
  Ὁρκον, και θυσιας ἱλαρας, και σχηματ' Ολυμπου.

Right was probably more fairly determined in the Chironian temples, than in others. Yet the
whole was certainly attended with some instances of cruelty: for human sacrifices are mentioned
as once common, especially at Pella in Thessaly; where, if they could get a person, who was
an Achean by birth, they used to offer him at the altars of Peleus and [358]Chiron.

There were many edifices denominated Chironian, and sacred to the Sun. Charon was of the same
purport, and etymology; and was sacred to the same Deity. One temple of this name, and the
most remarkable of any, stood opposite to Memphis on the western side of the Nile. It was near
the spot where most people of consequence were buried. There is a tower in this province, but
at some distance from the place here spoken of, called [359]Kiroon at this day. As Charon was
a temple near the catacombs, or place of burial; all the persons who were brought to be there
deposited, had an offering made on their account, upon being landed on this shore. Hence arose
the notion of the fee of Charon, and of the ferryman of that name. This building stood upon
the banks of a canal, which communicated with the Nile: but that which is now called Kiroon,
stands at some distance to the west, upon the lake [360]Mœris; where only the kings of Egypt
had a right of sepulture. The region of the catacombs was called the Acheronian and [361]Acherusian
plain, and likewise the Elysian: and the stream, which ran by it, had the name of Acheron.
They are often alluded to by Homer, and other Poets, when they treat of the region of departed
souls. The Amonians conferred these names upon other places, where they settled, in different
parts of the world. They are therefore to be met with in [362]Phrygia, [363]Epirus, [364]Hellas,
[365]Apulia, [366]Campania, and other countries. The libri [367]Acherontii in Italy, mentioned
by Arnobius, were probably transcripts from some hieroglyphical writings, which had been preserved
in the Acherontian towers of the Nile. These were carried by Tages to Hetruria; where they
were held in great veneration.

As towers of this sort were seminaries of learning, Homer from one of them has formed the character
of sage Mentor; under whose resemblance the Goddess of wisdom was supposed to be concealed.
By Mentor, I imagine, that the Poet covertly alludes to a temple of Menes. It is said, that
Homer in an illness was cured by one [368]Mentor, the son of Αλκιμος, Alcimus. The person probably
was a Mentorian priest, who did him this kind office, if there be any truth in the story. It
was from an oracular temple styled Mentor; and Man-Tor, that the sacred cakes had the name
of Amphimantora. [369]Αμφιμαντορα, αλφιτα μελιτι δεδευμενα.

Castor, the supposed disciple of Chiron, was in reality the same as Chiron; being a sacred
tower, a Chironian edifice, which served both for a temple and Pharos. As these buildings for
the most part stood on strands of the sea, and promontories; Castor was esteemed in consequence
of it a tutelary Deity of that element. The name seems to be a compound of Ca-Astor, the temple
or place of Astor; who was rendered at different times Asterius, Asterion, and Astarte. Ca-Astor
was by the Greeks abbreviated to Castor; which in its original sense I should imagine betokened
a fire-tower: but the Greeks in this instance, as well as in innumerable others, have mistaken
the place and temple for the Deity, to whom it was consecrated. The whole history of Castor
and Pollux, the two Dioscuri, is very strange and inconsistent. Sometimes they are described
as two mortals of Lacedæmon, who were guilty of violence and rapine, and were slain for their
wickedness. At other times they are represented as the two principal Deities; and styled Dii
Magni, Dii Maximi, Dii Potentes, Cabeiri. Mention is made by Pausanias of the great regard
paid to them, and particularly by the Cephalenses. [370]Μεγαλους γαρ σφας ὁι ταυτῃ Θεους ονομαζουσιν.
The people there style them by way of eminence the Great Gods. There are altars extant, which
are inscribed [371]CASTORI ET POLLUCI DIIS MAGNIS. In [372]Gruter is a Greek inscription to
the same purport. Γαιος Γαιου Αχαρνευς Ἱερευς γενομενος Θεων Μεγαλων Διοσκορων Καβειρων. But
though Castor was enshrined, as a God, he was properly a Tarchon, such as I have before described;
and had all the requisites which are to be found in such buildings. They were the great repositories
of treasure; which people there entrusted, as to places of great security. The temple of Castor
vas particularly famous on this account, as we may learn from Juvenal:

              [373]Æratâ multus in arcâ
  Fiscus, et ad vigilem ponendi Castora nummi.

The Deity, who was alluded to under the name of Castor, was the Sun: and he had several temples
of that denomination in Laconia, and other parts of Greece. His rites were first introduced
by people from Egypt and Canaan. This we may infer, among other circumstances, from the title
of Anac being so particularly conferred on him and his brother Pollux: whence their temple
was styled Ανακειον in Laconia; and their festival at Athens ανακεια, anakeia. For Anac was
a Canaanitish term of honour; which the Greeks changed to αναξ and [374]ανακτες. I have before
mentioned, that in these places were preserved the Archives of the cities and provinces in
which they stood: and they were often made use of for courts of judicature, called πρυτανεια,
and prætoria; whither the antient people of the place resorted, to determine about right and
wrong. Hence it is that Castor and Pollux, two names of the same personage, were supposed to
preside over judicial affairs. This department does but ill agree with the general and absurd
character, under which they are represented: for what has horsemanship and boxing to do with
law and equity? But these were mistaken attributes, which arose from a misapplication of history.
Within the precincts of their temples was a parade for boxing and wrestling; and often an Hippodromus.
Hence arose these attributes, by which the Poets celebrated these personages:

  [375]Καστορα θ' Ἱπποδαμον, και πυξ αγαθον Πολυδευκεα.

The Deity, originally referred to, was the Sun: As he was the chief Deity, he must necessarily
have been esteemed the supervisor and arbitrator of all sublunary things:

  [376]Ηελιος, ὁς παντ' εφορᾳ, και παντ' επακουει.

On this account the same province of supreme judge was conferred on his substitute Castor,
in conjunction with his brother Pollux: and they were accordingly looked upon as the conservators
of the rights of mankind. Cicero makes a noble appeal to them in his seventh oration against
Verres; and enlarges upon the great department, of which they were presumed to be possessed:
at the same time mentioning the treasures, which were deposited in their temples. Thus we find
that they are at the close joined with Ceres, and Libera; and spoken of as the civilizers of
the world: but their peculiar province was law and judicature.

Many instances to the same purpose might be produced; some few of which I will lay before the
reader. Trophonius, like Chiron and Castor, was a sacred tower; being compounded of Tor-Oph-On,
Solis Pythonis turris, rendered Trophon, and Trophonius. It was an oracular temple, situated
near a vast cavern: and the responses were given by dreams. Tiresias, that antient prophet,
was an edifice of the same nature: and the name is a compound of Tor-Ees, and Tor-Asis; from
whence the Greeks formed the word Tiresias. He is generally esteemed a diviner, or soothsayer,
to whom people applied for advice: but it was to the temple that they applied, and to the Deity,
who was there supposed to reside. He was, moreover, said to have lived nine ages: till he was
at last taken by the Epigoni, when he died. The truth is, there was a tower of this name at
Thebes, built by the Amonians, and sacred to the God Orus. It stood nine ages, and was then
demolished. It was afterwards repaired, and made use of for a place of augury: and its situation
was close to the temple of Amon. [378]Θηβαιοις δε μετα του Αμμωνος το Ἱερον, οιωνοσκοπειον
τε Τειρεσιου καλουμενον. Tiresias, according to Apollodorus, was the son of Eueres, [379]Ευηρης,
or, according to the true Dorian pronunciation, Euares, the same as the Egyptian Uc Arez, the
Sun. He is by Hyginus styled [380]Eurimi filius; and in another place Eurii filius, Pastor.
Eurius, Eurimus, Euarez, are all names of the Sun, or places sacred to him; but changed to
terms of relation by not being understood. Tiresias is additionally styled Pastor; because
all the Amonian Deities, as well as their princes, were called Shepherds: and those, who came
originally from Chaldea, were styled the children of Ur, or Urius.

By the same analogy we may trace the true history of Terambus, the Deity of Egypt, who was
called the Shepherd Terambus. The name is a compound of Tor-Ambus, or Tor-Ambi, the oracular
tower of Ham. He is said to have been the son of Eusires, [381]Ευσειρου του Ποσειδωνος; and
to have come over, and settled in Thessaly, near mount Othrys. According to Antonius Liberalis,
he was very rich in flocks, and a great musician, and particularly expert in all pastoral measure.
To him they attributed the invention of the pipe. The meaning of the history is, I think, too
plain, after what has preceded, to need a comment. It is fabled of him, that he was at last
turned into a bird called Cerambis, or Cerambix. Terambus and Cerambis are both antient terms
of the same purport: the one properly expressed is Tor-Ambi; the other Cer-Ambi, the oracular
temple of the Sun.

I have taken notice that towers of this sort were the repositories of much treasure; and they
were often consecrated to the Ophite Deity, called Opis and Oupis. It is the same which Callimachus
addresses by the title of [382]Ουπι, Ανασσ' ευωπι: and of whom Cicero speaks, and styles Upis;
[383]quam Græci Upim paterno nomine appellant. The temple was hence called Kir-Upis; which
the Grecians abridged to Γρυπες: and finding many of the Amonian temples in the north, with
the device of a winged serpent upon the frontal, they gave this name to the hieroglyphic. Hence,
I imagine, arose the notion of Γρυπες, or Gryphons; which, like the dragons abovementioned,
were supposed to be guardians of treasure, and to never sleep. The real conservators of the
wealth were the priests. They kept up a perpetual fire, and an unextinguished light in the
night. From Kir Upis, the place of his residence, a priest was named Grupis; and from Kir-Uph-On,
Gryphon. The Poets have represented the Grupes as animals of the serpentine kind; and supposed
them to have been found in countries of the Arimaspians, Alazonians, Hyperboreans, and other
the most northern regions, which the Amonians possessed. In some of the temples women officiated,
who were denominated from the Deity they served. The Scholiast upon Callimachus calls the chief
of them Upis; and styles her, and her associates, Κορας [384]Ὑπερβορεους, Hyperborean young
women. The Hyperboreans, Alazonians, Arimaspians, were Scythic nations of the same family.
All the stories about Prometheus, Chimæra, Medusa, Pegasus, Hydra, as well as of the Grupes,
or Gryphons, arose, in great measure, from the sacred devices upon the entablatures of temples.

       *       *       *       *       *

TAPH, TUPH, TAPHOS.

There was another name current among the Amonians, by which they called their λοφοι, or high
places. This was Taph; which at times was rendered Tuph, Toph, and Taphos. Lower Egypt being
a flat, and annually overflowed, the natives were forced to raise the soil, on which they built
their principal edifices, in order to secure them from the inundation: and many of their sacred
towers were erected upon conical mounds of earth. But there were often hills of the same form
constructed for religious purposes, upon which there was no building. These were very common
in Egypt. Hence we read of Taphanis, or Taph-Hanes, Taph-Osiris, Taph-Osiris parva, and contra
Taphias, in Antoninus; all of this country. In other parts were Taphiousa, Tape, Taphura, Tapori,
Taphus, Taphosus, Taphitis. All these names relate to high altars, upon which they used oftentimes
to offer human sacrifices. Typhon was one of these; being a compound of Tuph-On, which signifies
the hill or altar of the Sun. Tophet, where the Israelites made their children pass through
fire to [385]Moloch, was a mount of this form. These cruel operations were generally performed
upon mounts of this sort; which, from their conical figure, were named Tuph and Tupha. It seems
to have been a term current in many countries. The high Persian [387]bonnet had the same name
from its shape: and Bede mentions a particular kind of standard in his time; which was made
of plumes in a globular shape, and called in like manner, [388]Tupha, vexilli genus, ex consertis
plumarum globis. There was probably a tradition, that the calf, worshipped by the Israelites
in the wilderness near Horeb, was raised upon a sacred mound, like those described above: for
Philo Judæus says, that it was exhibited after the model of an Egyptian Tuphos: [389]Αιγυπτιακου
μιμημα Τυφου. This I do not take to have been a Grecian word; but the name of a sacred orbicular
mount, analogous to the Touphas of Persis.

The Amonians, when they settled in Greece, raised many of these Tupha, or Tapha, in different
parts. These, beside their original name, were still farther denominated from some title of
the Deity, to whose honour they were erected. But as it was usual, in antient times, to bury
persons of distinction under heaps of earth formed in this fashion; these Tapha came to signify
tombs: and almost all the sacred mounds, raised for religious purposes, were looked upon as
monuments of deceased heroes. Hence [390]Taph-Osiris was rendered ταφος, or the burying place
of the God Osiris: and as there were many such places in Egypt and Arabia, sacred to Osiris
and Dionusus; they were all by the Greeks esteemed places of sepulture. Through this mistake
many different nations had the honour attributed to them of these Deities being interred in
their country. The tumulus of the Latines was mistaken in the same manner. It was originally
a sacred hillock; and was often raised before temples, as an altar; such as I have before described.
It is represented in this light by Virgil:

  [391]Est urbe egressis tumulus, templumque vetustum
  Desertæ Cereris; juxtaque antiqua cupressus.

In process of time the word tumulus was in great measure looked upon as a tomb; and tumulo
signified to bury. The Greeks speak of numberless sepulchral monuments, which they have thus
misinterpreted. They pretended to shew the tomb of [392]Dionusus at Delphi; also of Deucalion,
Pyrrha, Orion, in other places. They imagined that Jupiter was buried in Crete: which Callimachus
supposes to have been a forgery of the natives.

  [393]Κρητες αει ψευσται· και γαρ ταφον, ω Ανα, σειο
  Κρητες ετεκτῃναντο, συ δ' ου θανες, εσσι γαρ αιει.

I make no doubt, but that there was some high place in Crete, which the later Greeks, and especially
those who were not of the country, mistook for a tomb. But it certainly must have been otherwise
esteemed by those who raised it: for it is not credible, however blind idolatry may have been,
that people should enshrine persons as immortal, where they had the plainest evidences of their
mortality. An inscription Viro Immortali was in a style of flattery too refined for the simplicity
of those ages. If divine honours were conferred, they were the effects of time, and paid at
some distance; not upon the spot, at the vestibule of the charnel-house. Besides, it is evident,
that most of the deified personages never existed: but were mere titles of the Deity, the Sun;
as has been, in great measure, proved by Macrobius. Nor was there ever any thing of such detriment
to antient history, as the supposing that the Gods of the Gentile world had been natives of
the countries, where they were worshipped. They have by these means been admitted into the
annals of times: and it has been the chief study of the learned to register the legendary stories
concerning them; to conciliate absurdities, and to arrange the whole in a chronological series.
A fruitless labour, and inexplicable: for there are in all these fables such inconsistences,
and contradictions, as no art, nor industry, can remedy. Hence, all who have expended their
learning to this purpose, are in opposition to one another, and often at variance with themselves.
Some of them by these means have rendered their works, which might have been of infinite use
to the world, little better than the reveries of Monsieur Voltaire. The greatest part of the
Grecian theology arose from misconceptions and blunders: and the stories concerning their Gods
and Heroes were founded on terms misinterpreted and abused. Thus from the word ταφος, taphos,
which they adopted in a limited sense, they formed a notion of their gods having been buried
in every place, where there was a tumulus to their honour. This misled bishop Cumberland, Usher,
Pearson, Petavius, Scaliger, with numberless other learned men; and among the foremost the
great Newton. This extraordinary genius has greatly impaired the excellent system, upon which
he proceeded, by admitting these fancied beings into chronology. We are so imbued in our childhood
with notions of Mars, Hercules, and the rest of the celestial outlaws, that we scarce ever
can lay them aside. We absolutely argue upon Pagan principles: and though we cannot believe
the fables, which have been transmitted to us; yet we forget ourselves continually; and make
inferences from them, as if they were real. In short, till we recollect ourselves, we are semi-pagans.
It gives one pain to see men of learning, and principle, debating which was the Jupiter who
lay with Semele; and whether it was the same that outwitted Amphitryon. This is not, says a
critic, the Hermes, who cut off Argus's head; but one of later date, who turned Battus into
a stone. I fancy, says another, that this was done, when Iö was turned into a cow. It is said
of Jupiter, that he made the night, in which he enjoyed Alcmena, as long as [394]three; or,
as some say, as long as nine. The Abbe [395]Banier with some phlegm excepts to this coalition
of nights; and is unwilling to allow it. But he is afterwards more complying; and seems to
give it his sanction, with this proviso, that chronological verity be not thereby impeached.
I am of opinion, says he, that there was no foundation for the fable of Jupiter's having made
the night, on which he lay with Alcmena, longer than others: at least this event put nothing
in nature out of order; since the day, which followed, was proportionably shorter, as Plautus
[396]remarks.

  Atque quanto nox fuisti longior hâc proximâ,
  Tanto brevior dies ut fiat, faciam; ut æque disparet,
  Et dies e nocte accedat.

Were it not invidious, I could subjoin names to every article, which I have alleged; and produce
numberless instances to the same purpose.

It may be said, that I run counter to the opinions of all antiquity: that all the fathers who
treated of this subject, and many other learned men, supposed the Gods of the heathen to have
been deified mortals, who were worshipped in the countries, where they died. It was the opinion
of Clemens, Eusebius, Cyril, Tertullian, Athenagoras, Epiphanius, Lactantius, Arnobius, Julius
Firmicus, and many others. What is more to the purpose, it was the opinion of the heathen themselves;
the very people, by whom these gods were honoured: yet still it is a mistake. In respect to
the fathers, the whole of their argument turns upon this point, the concessions of the Gentiles.
The more early writers of the church were not making a strict chronological inquiry: but were
labouring to convert the heathen. They therefore argue with them upon their own principles;
and confute them from their own testimony. The Romans had their Dii Immortales; the Greeks
their Θεοι Αθανατοι: yet acknowledged that they had been men; that they died, and were buried.
Cicero owns; [397]ab Euhemero et mortes, et sepulturæ demonstrantur deorum. It matters not
whether the notion were true; the fathers very fairly make use of it. They avail themselves
of these concessions; and prove from them the absurdity of the Gentile worship, and the inconsistency
of their opinions. Even Maximus Tyrius, the Platonic, could not but smile, at being shewn in
the same place the temple, and tomb of the deity[398]; ἱερον Θεου, και ταφον Θεου. These supposed
places of sepulture were so numerous, that Clemens Alexandrinus tells us, they were not to
be counted. [399]Αλλα γαρ επιοντι μοι τους προσκυνουμενους ὑμιν ταφους, εμοι μεν ουδ' ὁ πας
αν αρκεσῃ χρονος. But, after all, these Ταφοι were not tombs, but λοφοι μαστοειδεις, conical
mounds of earth; on which in the first ages offerings were made by fire. Hence τυφω, tupho,
signified to make a smoke, such as arose from incense upon these Tupha, or eminences. Besides,
if these were deified men, who were buried under these hills; how can we explain the difficulty
of the same person being buried in different places, and at different times? To this it is
answered, that it was another Bacchus, and another Jupiter. Yet this still adds to the difficulty:
for it is hard to conceive, that whoever in any country had the name of Jupiter, should be
made a God. Add to this, that Homer and Hesiod, and the authors of the Orphic poetry, knew
of no such duplicates. There is no hint of this sort among the antient writers of their nation.
It was a refinement in after ages; introduced to obviate the difficulties, which arose from
the absurdities in the pagan system. Arnobius justly ridicules the idle expedients, made use
of to render a base theology plausible. Gods, of the same name and character, were multiplied
to make their fables consistent; that there might be always one ready at hand upon any chronological
emergency. Hence no difficulty could arise about a Deity, but there might be one produced,
adapted to all climes, and to every age. [400]Aiunt Theologi vestri, et vetustatis absconditæ
conditores, tres in rerum naturâ Joves esse--quinque Soles, et Mercurios quinque. Aiunt iidem
Theologi quatuor esse Vulcanos, et tres Dianas; Æsculapios totidem, et Dionysos quinque; ter
binos Hercules, et quatuor Veneres; tria genera Castorum, totidemque Musarum. But Arnobius
is too modest. Other writers insist upon a greater variety. In respect to Jupiters, Varro according
to Tertullian makes them in number three hundred. [401]Varro trecentos Joves, sive Jupiteres,
dicendum, ---- introducit. The same writer mentions forty heroes of the name of Hercules; all
which variety arose from the causes above assigned: and the like multiplicity may be found
both of kings and heroes; of kings, who did not reign; of heroes, who never existed. The same
may be observed in the accounts transmitted of their most early prophets, and poets: scarce
any of them stand single: there are duplicates of every denomination. On this account it is
highly requisite for those, who suppose these personages to have been men, and make inferences
from the circumstances of their history, to declare explicitly which they mean; and to give
good reasons for their determination. It is said of Jupiter, that he was the son of Saturn;
and that he carried away Europa, before the arrival of Cadmus. He had afterwards an amour with
Semele, the supposed daughter of Cadmus: and they mention his having a like intimacy with Alcmena
an age or two later. After this he got acquainted with Leda, the wife of Tyndarus: and he had
children at the siege of Troy. If we may believe the poets, and all our intelligence comes
originally from the poets, Jupiter was personally interested in that war. But this interval
contains little less than two hundred years. These therefore could not be the actions of one
man: on which account I want to know, why Sir Isaac Newton [402]in his chronological interpretations
chooses to be determined by the story of Jupiter and Europa, rather than by that of Jupiter
and Leda. The learned [403]Pezron has pitched upon a Jupiter above one thousand years earlier,
who was in like manner the son of Saturn. But Saturn, according to some of the best mythologists,
was but four generations inclusive before the æra of Troy. Latinus, the son of Faunus, was
alive some years after that city had been taken; when Æneas was supposed to have arrived in
Italy. The poet tells us, [404]Fauno Picus pater: isque parentem Te, Saturne, refert; Tu sanguinis
ultimus auctor. The series amounts only to four, Latinus, Faunus, Picus, Saturn. What authority
has Pezron for the anticipation of which he is guilty in determining the reign of Jupiter?
and how can he reconcile these contradictory histories? He ought to have given some good reason
for setting aside the more common and accepted accounts; and placing these events so [405]early.
Shall we suppose with the critics and commentators that this was a prior Jupiter? If it were
a different person, the circumstances of his life should be different: but the person, of whom
he treats, is in all respects similar to the Jupiter of Greece and Rome. He has a father Saturn;
and his mother was Rhea. He was nursed in Crete; and had wars with the Titans. He dethrones
his father, who flies to Italy; where he introduces an age of gold. The mythology concerning
him we find to be in all respects uniform. It is therefore to little purpose to substitute
another person of the same name by way of reconciling matters, unless we can suppose that every
person so denominated had the same relations and connexions, and the same occurrences in life
reiterated: which is impossible. It is therefore, I think, plain, that the Grecian Deities
were not the persons [406]supposed: and that their imputed names were titles. It is true, a
very antient and respectable writer, [407]Euhemerus, of whom I have before made mention, thought
otherwise. It is said, that he could point out precisely, where each god departed: and could
particularly shew the burying-place of Jupiter. Lactantius, who copied from him, says, that
it was at Cnossus in [408]Crete. Jupiter, ætate pessum actâ, in Cretâ vitam commutavit.--Sepulchrum
ejus est in Cretâ, et in oppido Cnosso: et dicitur Vesta hanc urbem creavisse: inque sepulchro
ejus est inscriptio antiquis literis Græcis, Ζαν Κρονου. If Jupiter had been buried in Crete,
as these writers would persuade us, the accounts would be uniform about the place where he
was deposited. Lactantius, we find, and some others, say, that it was in the city Cnossus.
There are writers who mention it to have been in a cavern upon [409]Mount Ida: others upon
Mount [410]Jasius. Had the Cretans been authors of the notion, they would certainly have been
more consistent in their accounts: but we find no more certainty about the place of his burial,
than of his birth; concerning which Callimachus could not determine.

  [411]Ζευ, σε μεν Ιδαιοισιν εν ουρεσι φασι γενεσθαι,
  Ζευ, σε δ' εν Αρκαδιῃ.

He was at times supposed to have been a native of Troas, of Crete, of Thebes, of Arcadia, of
Elis: but the whole arose from the word ταφος being, through length of time, misunderstood:
for there would have been no legend about the birth of Jupiter, had there been no mistake about
his funeral. It was a common notion of the Magnesians, that Jupiter was buried in their country
upon Mount Sipylus. Pausanias says, that he ascended the mountain, and beheld the tomb, which
was well worthy of [412]admiration. The tomb of [413]Isis in like manner was supposed to be
at Memphis, and at Philæ in Upper Egypt: also at Nusa in Arabia. Osiris was said to have been
buried in the same places: likewise at Taphosiris, which is thought by Procopius to have had
its name, [414]because it was the place of sepulture of Osiris. The same is said of another
city, which was near the mouth of the Nile, and called Taphosiris parva. But they each of them
had their name from the worship, and not from the interment of the Deity. This is plain from
the account given of the ταφος Οσιριδος, or high altar of Osiris, by Diodorus; from whom we
learn that Busiris and Osiris were the same. [415]The Grecians, says this author, have a notion,
that Busiris in Egypt used to sacrifice strangers: not that there was ever such a king as Busiris;
but the ταφος, or altar, of Osiris had this name in the language of the natives. In short,
Busiris was only a variation for Osiris: both were compounded of the Egyptian term [416]Sehor,
and related to the God of day. Hence the altars of the same Deity were called indifferently
the altars of Osiris, or Busiris, according as custom prevailed.

I have in a former chapter taken notice of the Tarchons and Dracontia in Syria, and other parts:
which consisted of sacred ground inclosed with a wall, and an altar or two at the upper part.
Such an inclosure is described by Pausanias, which must have been of great antiquity: hence
the history of it was very imperfectly known in his time. He is speaking of Nemea in Argolis;
[417]near which, says he, stands the temple of Nemean Jupiter, a structure truly wonderful,
though the roof is now fallen in. Round the temple is a grove of cypress; in which there is
a tradition that Opheltes was left by his nurse upon the grass, and in her absence killed by
a serpent.--In the same place is the tomb of Opheltes, surrounded with a wall of stone; and
within the inclosure altars. There is also a mound of earth said to be the tomb of Lycurgus,
the father of Opheltes. Lycurgus is the same as Lycus, Lycaon, Lycoreus, the Sun: and Opheltes,
his supposed offspring, is of the same purport. To say the truth, [418]Opheltes, or, as it
should be expressed, Ophel-tin is the place; and Ophel the Deity, Sol Pytho, whose symbol was
a serpent. Ophel-tin was a Taphos with a τεμενος, or sacred inclosure: it was a sacred mound
to the Ophite Deity; like that which was inclosed and fortified by [419]Manasseh king of Judah;
and which had been previously made use of to the same purpose by [420]Jotham. A history similar
to that of Opheltes is given of Archemorus; who was said to have been left in a garden by his
nurse Hypsipyle, and in her absence slain by a serpent. Each of them had festivals instituted,
together with sacred games, in memorial of their misfortune. They are on this account by many
supposed to have been the same person. But in reality they were not persons, but places. They
are, however, so far alike, as they are terms which relate to the same worship and Deity. Opheltin
is the place, and altar of the Ophite God above-mentioned: and Archemorus was undoubtedly the
antient name of the neighbouring town, or city. It is a compound of Ar-Chemorus; and signifies
the city of Cham-Orus, the same who is styled Ophel. In many of these places there was an antient
tradition of some person having been injured by a serpent in the beginning of life; which they
have represented as the state of childhood. The mythology upon this occasion is different:
for sometimes the personages spoken of are killed by the serpent: at other times they kill
it: and there are instances where both histories are told of the same person. But whatever
may have been the consequence, the history is generally made to refer to a state of childhood.
Hercules has accordingly a conflict with two serpents in his cradle: and Apollo, who was the
same as Python, was made to engage a serpent of this name at Parnassus, when he was a child;

  [421]Κουρος, εων, ΕΤΙ ΓYΜΝΟΣ, ετι πλοκαμοισι γεγηθως.

Near mount Cyllene in Arcadia was the sacred Taphos of [422]Æputus, who was supposed to have
been stung by a serpent. Æputus was the same as Iapetus, the father of mankind. In the Dionusiaca
the priests used to be crowned with serpents; and in their frantic exclamations to cry out
[423]Eva, Eva; and sometimes Evan, Evan: all which related to some history of a serpent. Apollo,
who is supposed by most to have been victor in his conflict with the Pytho, is by Porphyry
said to have been slain by that serpent: Pythagoras affirmed, that he saw his tomb at Tripos
in [424]Delphi; and wrote there an epitaph to his honour. The name of Tripos is said to have
been given to the place, because the daughters of Triopus used to lament there the fate of
Apollo. But Apollo and the Python were the same; and Tripus, or Triopus, the supposed father
of these humane sisters, was a variation for Tor-Opus, the serpent-hill, or temple; where neither
Apollo, nor the Python were slain, but where they were both worshipped, being one and the same
Deity. At Python (the same as Delphi) the Pythian Dragon is worshipped; and the celebrity of
the serpent is styled Pythian. The daughters of Triopus were the priestesses of the temple;
whose business it was to chant hymns in memory of the serpent: and what is very remarkable,
the festival was originally observed upon the seventh [426]day.

The Greeks had innumerable monuments of the sort, which I have been describing. They were taken
for the tombs of departed heroes, but were really consecrated places: and the names by which
they were distinguished, shew plainly their true history. Such was the supposed tomb of [427]Orion
at Tanagra, and of Phoroneus in [428]Argolis; the tomb of [429]Deucalion in Athens; and of
his wife [430]Pyrrha in Locris: of [431]Endymion in Elis: of Tityus in [432]Panopea: of Asterion
in the island [433]Lade: of the Egyptian [434]Belus in Achaia. To these may be added the tombs
of Zeus in Mount Sipylus, Mount Iasius, and Ida: the tombs of Osiris in various parts: and
those of Isis, which have been enumerated before. Near the Æaceum at Epidaurus was a hill,
reputed to have been the tomb of the hero [435]Phocus. This Æaceum was an inclosure planted
with olive trees of great antiquity; and at a small degree above the surface of the ground
was an altar sacred to Æacus. To divulge the traditions relative to this altar would, it seems,
be an high profanation. The author, therefore, keeps them a secret. Just before this sacred
septum was the supposed tomb of Phocus, consisting of a mound of raised earth, fenced round
with a border of stone work: and a large rough stone was placed upon the top of all. Such were
the rude monuments of Greece, which were looked upon as so many receptacles of the dead: but
were high altars, with their sacred τεμενη, which had been erected for divine worship in the
most early times. The Helladians, and the Persians, were of the same [436]family: hence we
find many similar rites subsisting among the two nations. The latter adhered to the purer Zabaïsm,
which they maintained a long time. They erected the same sacred Tupha, as the Grecians: and
we may be assured of the original purpose, for which these hills were raised, from the use
to which they put them. They were dedicated to the great fountain of light, called by the Persians,
Anaït: and were set apart as Puratheia, for the celebration of the rites of fire. This people,
after they had defeated the Sacæ in Cappadocia, raised an immense Comah in memorial of their
victory. [437]Strabo, who describes it very minutely, tells us, that they chose a spot in an
open plain; where they reared a Petra, or high place, by heaping up a vast mound of earth.
This they fashioned to a conical figure; and then surrounded it with a wall of stone. In this
manner they founded a kind of temple in honour of Anaït, Omanus, and Anandrates, the Deities
of their country. I have mentioned that the Egyptians had hills of this nature: and from them
the custom was transmitted to Greece. Typhon, or more properly Tuphon, Τυφων, who was supposed
to have been a giant, was a compound of Tuph-On, as I have before mentioned; and signified
a sacred [438]mount of the sun. Those cities in Egypt, which had a high place of this sort,
and rites in consequence of it, were styled Typhonian. Upon such as these they sacrificed red
haired men, or men with hair of a light colour; in other words strangers. For both the sons
of Chus, and the Mizraïm were particularly dark and woolly: so that there could be no surer
mark than the hair to distinguish between a native and a foreigner. These sacrifices were offered
in the city [439]Idithia, [440]Abaris, [441]Heliopolis, and Taphosiris; which in consequence
of these offerings were denominated Typhonian cities. Many writers say, that these rites were
performed to Typhon at the [442]tomb of Osiris. Hence he was in later times supposed to have
been a person, one of immense size: and he was also esteemed a [443]God. But this arose from
the common mistake by which places were substituted for the Deities there worshipped. Typhon
was the Tupha, or altar, the supposed tomb of the God: and the offerings were made to the Sun,
styled On; the same as Osiris, and Busiris. As there were Typhonian mounts in many parts, he
was in consequence of it supposed to have been buried in different places: near mount Caucasus
in Colchis; near the river Orontes in Syria; and under lake Serbonis. Typhon, or rather Typhonian
worship, was not unknown in the region of [444]Troas, near which were the Scopuli Typhonis.
Plutarch mentions that in the Phrygian Theology Typhon was esteemed the grandson of Isaac or
Isæac: and says that he was so spoken of εν τοις Φρυγιοις [445]γραμμασιν. But all terms of
relation are to be disregarded. The purport of the history was this. The altar was termed Tuphon
Isiac, sive Βωμος Ισιακος, from the sacra Isiaca, which were performed upon it. The same Isaac
or Isæac was sometimes rendered Æsacus, and supposed to have been a son of the river Granicus.

  [446]Æsacon umbrosâ furtim peperisse sub Idâ
  Fertur Alexirhoë Granico nata bicorni.

The antient Arcadians were said to have been the offspring of [447]Typhon, and by some the
children of Atlas; by which was meant, that they were people of the Typhonian, and Atlantian
religion. What they called his tombs were certainly mounds of earth, raised very high, like
those which have been mentioned before: only with this difference, that some of these had lofty
towers adorned with pinnacles, and battlements. They had also carved upon them various symbols;
and particularly serpentine hieroglyphics, in memorial of the God to whom they were sacred.
In their upper story was a perpetual fire, which was plainly seen in the night. I have mentioned,
that the poets formed their notions about Otus and Ephialtes from towers: and the idea of Orion's
stupendous bulk taken from the Pelorian edifice in Sicily. The gigantic stature of Typhon was
borrowed from a like object: and his character was formed from the hieroglyphical representations
in the temples styled Typhonian. This may be inferred from the allegorical description of Typhœus,
given by Hesiod. Typhon and Typhœus, were the same personage: and the poet represents him of
a mixed form, being partly a man, and partly a monstrous dragon, whose head consisted of an
assemblage of smaller serpents.

                  [448]Εκ δε ὁι ωμων
  Ην ἑκατον κεφαλαι οφιος, δεινοιο Δρακοντος.

As there was a perpetual fire kept up in the upper story, he describes it as shining through
the apertures in the building.

                  [449]Εκ δε ὁι οσσων
  Θεσπεσιῃς κεφαλῃσιν ὑπ' οφρυσι πυρ αμαρυσσε·
  Πασεων δ' εκ κεφαλεων πυρ καιετο δερκομενοιο.

But the noblest description of Typhon is given in some very fine poetry by Nonnus. He has taken
his ideas from some antient tower situated near the sea upon the summit of an high mountain.
It was probably the Typhonian temple of Zeus upon mount Casius, near the famed Serbonian lake.
He mentions sad noises heard within, and describes the roaring of the surge below: and says
that all the monsters of the sea stabled in the cavities at the foot of the mountain, which
was washed by the ocean.

                  [450]Εν ιχθυοεντι δε ποντῳ
  Ἱσταμενου Τυφωνος εσω βρυοεντος εναυλου
  Βενθεϊ ταρσα πεπηκτο, και ηερι μιγνυτο γαστηρ
  Θλιβομενη νεφεεσσι· Γιγαντειου δε καρηνου
  Φρικτον αερσιλοφων αϊων βρυχημα λεοντων,
  Ποντιος ειλυοεντι λεων εκαλυπτετο κολπῳ. κτλ.

We may perceive, that this is a mixed description, wherein, under the character of a gigantic
personage, a towering edifice is alluded to; which was situated upon the summit of a mountain,
and in the vicinity of the sea.

       *       *       *       *       *

OB, OUB, PYTHO,

SIVE DE

OPHIOLATRIA.

    Παρα παντι των νομιζομενων παρ' ὑμιν Θεων Οφις συμβολον μεγα και
    μυστηριον αναγραφεται. Justin. Martyr. Apolog. l. 1. p. 60.

It may seem extraordinary, that the worship of the serpent should have ever been introduced
into the world: and it must appear still more remarkable, that it should almost universally
have prevailed. As mankind are said to have been ruined through the influence of this being,
we could little expect that it would, of all other objects, have been adopted, as the most
sacred and salutary symbol; and rendered the chief object of [451]adoration. Yet so we find
it to have been. In most of the antient rites there is some allusion to the [452]serpent. I
have taken notice, that in the Orgies of Bacchus, the persons who partook of the ceremony used
to carry serpents in their hands, and with horrid screams called upon Eva, Eva. They were often
crowned with [453]serpents, and still made the same frantic exclamation. One part of the mysterious
rites of Jupiter Sabazius was to let a snake slip down the bosom of the person to be initiated,
which was taken out below[454]. These ceremonies, and this symbolic worship, began among the
Magi, who were the sons of Chus: and by them they were propagated in various parts. Epiphanius
thinks, that the invocation, Eva, Eva, related to the great [455]mother of mankind, who was
deceived by the serpent: and Clemens of Alexandria is of the same opinion. He supposes, that
by this term was meant [456]Ευαν εκεινην, δι' ἡν ἡ πλανη παρηκολουθησε. But I should think,
that Eva was the same as Eph, Epha, Opha, which the Greeks rendered Οφις, Ophis, and by it
denoted a serpent. Clemens acknowledges, that the term Eva properly aspirated had such a signification.
[457]Το ονομα το Ευια δασυνομενον ἑρμηνευεται Οφις. Olympias, the mother of [458]Alexander,
was very fond of these Orgies, in which the serpent was introduced. Plutarch mentions, that
rites of this sort were practised by the Edonian women near mount Hæmus in Thrace; and carried
on to a degree of madness. Olympias copied them closely in all their frantic manœuvres. She
used to be followed with many attendants, who had each a thyrsus with [459]serpents twined
round it. They had also snakes in their hair, and in the chaplets, which they wore; so that
they made a most fearful appearance. Their cries were very shocking: and the whole was attended
with a continual repetition of the words, [460]Evoe, Saboe, Hues Attes, Attes Hues, which were
titles of the God Dionusus. He was peculiarly named Ὑης; and his priests were the Hyades, and
Hyantes. He was likewise styled Evas. [461]Ευας ὁ Διονυσος.

In Egypt was a serpent named Thermuthis, which was looked upon as very sacred; and the natives
are said to have made use of it as a royal tiara, with which they ornamented the statues of
[462]Isis. We learn from Diodorus Siculus, that the kings of Egypt wore high bonnets, which
terminated in a round ball: and the whole was surrounded with figures of [463]asps. The priests
likewise upon their bonnets had the representation of serpents. The antients had a notion,
that when Saturn devoured his own children, his wife Ops deceived him by substituting a large
stone in lieu of one of his sons, which stone was called Abadir. But Ops, and Opis, represented
here as a feminine, was the serpent Deity, and Abadir is the same personage under a different
denomination. [464]Abadir Deus est; et hoc nomine lapis ille, quem Saturnus dicitur devorâsse
pro Jove, quem Græci βαιτυλον vocant.--Abdir quoque et Abadir βαιτυλος. Abadir seems to be
a variation of Ob-Adur, and signifies the serpent God Orus. One of these stones, which Saturn
was supposed to have swallowed instead of a child, stood, according to [465]Pausanias, at Delphi.
It was esteemed very sacred, and used to have libations of wine poured upon it daily; and upon
festivals was otherwise honoured. The purport of the above history I imagine to have been this.
It was for a long time a custom to offer children at the altar of Saturn: but in process of
time they removed it, and in its room erected a στυλος, or stone pillar; before which they
made their vows, and offered sacrifices of another nature. This stone, which they thus substituted,
was called Ab-Adar, from the Deity represented by it. The term Ab generally signifies a [466]father:
but, in this instance, it certainly relates to a serpent, which was indifferently styled Ab,
Aub, and [467]Ob. I take Abadon, or, as it is mentioned in the Revelations, Abaddon, to have
been the name of the same Ophite God, with whose worship the world had been so long infected.
He is termed by the Evangelist [468]Αβαδδων, τον Αγγελον της Αβυσσου, the angel of the bottomless
pit; that is, the prince of darkness. In another place he is described as the [469]dragon,
that old serpent, which is the devil, and Satan. Hence I think, that the learned Heinsius is
very right in the opinion, which he has given upon this passage; when he makes Abaddon the
same as the serpent Pytho. Non dubitandum est, quin Pythius Apollo, hoc est spurcus ille spiritus,
quem Hebræi Ob, et Abaddon, Hellenistæ ad verbum Απολλυωνα, cæteri Απολλωνα, dixerunt, sub
hâc formâ, quâ miseriam humano generi invexit, primo cultus[470].

It is said, that, in the ritual of Zoroaster, the great expanse of the heavens, and even nature
itself, was described under the symbol of a serpent[471]. The like was mentioned in the Octateuch
of Ostanes: and moreover, that in Persis and in other parts of the east they erected temples
to the serpent tribe, and held festivals to their honour, esteeming them [472]Θεους τους μεγιστους,
και αρχηγους των ὁλων, the supreme of all Gods, and the superintendants of the whole world.
The worship began among the people of Chaldea. They built the city Opis upon the [473]Tigris,
and were greatly addicted to divination, and to the worship of the serpent[474]. Inventi sunt
ex iis (Chaldeis) augures, et magi, divinatores, et sortilegi, et inquirentes Ob, et Ideoni.
From Chaldea the worship passed into Egypt, where the serpent Deity was called Can-oph, Can-eph,
and C'neph. It had also the name of Ob, or Oub, and was the same as the Basiliscus, or Royal
Serpent; the same also as the Thermuthis: and in like manner was made use of by way of ornament
to the statues of their [475]Gods. The chief Deity of Egypt is said to have been Vulcan, who
was also styled Opas, as we learn from [476]Cicero. He was the same as Osiris, the Sun; and
hence was often called Ob-El, sive Pytho Sol: and there were pillars sacred to him with curious
hieroglyphical inscriptions, which had the same name. They were very lofty, and narrow in comparison
of their length; hence among the Greeks, who copied from the Egyptians, every thing gradually
tapering to a point was styled Obelos, and Obeliscus. Ophel (Oph-El) was a name of the same
purport: and I have shewn, that many sacred mounds, or Tapha, were thus denominated from the
serpent Deity, to whom they were sacred.

Sanchoniathon makes mention of an history, which he once wrote upon the worship of the serpent.
The title of this work, according to Eusebius was, [477]Ethothion, or Ethothia. Another treatise
upon the same subject was written by Pherecydes Syrus, which was probably a copy of the former;
for he is said to have composed it, [478]παρα Φοινικων λαβων τας αφορμας, from some previous
accounts of the Phenicians. The title of his book was the Theology of Ophion, styled Ophioneus;
and of his worshippers, called Ophionidæ. Thoth, and Athoth, were certainly titles of the Deity
in the Gentile world: and the book of Sanchoniathon might very possibly have been from hence
named Ethothion, or more truly Athothion. But from the subject, upon which it was written,
as well as from the treatise of Pherecydes, I should think, that Athothion, or Ethothion, was
a mistake for Ath-ophion, a title which more immediately related to that worship, of which
the writer treated. Ath was a sacred title, as I have shewn: and I imagine, that this dissertation
did not barely relate to the serpentine Deity; but contained accounts of his votaries, the
Ophitæ, the principal of which were the sons of Chus. The worship of the Serpent began among
them; and they were from thence denominated Ethopians, and Aithopians, which the Greeks rendered
Αιθιοπες. It was a name, which they did not receive from their complexion, as has been commonly
surmised; for the branch of Phut, and the Lubim, were probably of a deeper die: but they were
so called from Ath-Ope, and Ath-Opis, the God which they worshipped. This may be proved from
Pliny. He says that the country Æthiopia (and consequently the people) had the name of Æthiop
from a personage who was a Deity--ab [479]Æthiope Vulcani filio. The Æthiopes brought these
rites into Greece: and called the island, where they first established them, [480]Ellopia,
Solis Serpentis insula. It was the same as Eubœa, a name of the like purport; in which island
was a region named Æthiopium. Eubœa is properly Oub-Aia; and signifies the Serpent Island.
The same worship prevailed among the Hyperboreans, as we may judge from the names of the sacred
women, who used to come annually to Delos. They were priestesses of the Tauric Goddess, and
were denominated from her titles.

  [481]Ουπις τε, Λοξω τε, και Ευαιων Ἑκαεργη.

Hercules was esteemed the chief God, the same as Chronus; and was said to have produced the
Mundane egg. He was represented in the Orphic Theology under the mixed symbol of a [482]lion
and serpent: and sometimes of a [483]serpent only. I have before mentioned, that the Cuthites
under the title of Heliadæ settled at Rhodes: and, as they were Hivites or Ophites, that the
island in consequence of it was of old named Ophiusa. There was likewise a tradition, that
it had once swarmed with [484]serpents. The like notion prevailed almost in every place, where
they settled. They came under the more general titles of Leleges and Pelasgi: but more particularly
of Elopians, Europians, Oropians, Asopians, Inopians, Ophionians, and Æthiopes, as appears
from the names, which they bequeathed; and in most places, where they resided, there were handed
down traditions, which alluded to their original title of Ophites. In Phrygia, and upon the
Hellespont, whither they sent out colonies very early, was a people styled Οφιογενεις, or the
serpent-breed; who were said to retain an affinity and correspondence with [485]serpents. And
a notion prevailed, that some hero, who had conducted them, was changed from a serpent to a
man. In Colchis was a river Ophis; and there was another of the same name in Arcadia. It was
so named from a body of people, who settled upon its banks, and were said to have been conducted
by a serpent: [486]Τον ἡγεμονα γενεσθαι δρακοντα. These reptiles are seldom found in islands,
yet Tenos, one of the Cyclades, was supposed to have once swarmed with them. [487]Εν τῃ Τηνῳ,
μιᾳ των Κυκλαδων νησῳ, οφεις και σκορπιοι δεινοι εγινοντο. Thucydides mentions a people of
Ætolia called [488]Ophionians: and the temple of Apollo at Patara in Lycia seems to have had
its first institution from a priestess of the same [489]name. The island of Cyprus was styled
Ophiusa, and Ophiodes, from the serpents, with which it was supposed to have [490]abounded.
Of what species they were is no where mentioned; excepting only that about Paphos there was
said to have been a [491]kind of serpent with two legs. By this is meant the Ophite race, who
came from Egypt, and from Syria, and got footing in this [492]island. They settled also in
Crete, where they increased greatly in numbers; so that Minos was said by an unseemly allegory,
[493]οφεις ουρησαι, serpentes minxisse. The island Seriphus was one vast rock, by the Romans
called [494]saxum seriphium; and made use of as a larger kind of prison for banished persons.
It is represented as having once abounded with serpents; and it is styled by Virgil serpentifera,
as the passage is happily corrected by Scaliger.

  [495]Æginamque simul, serpentiferamque Seriphon.

It had this epithet not on account of any real serpents, but according to the Greeks from [496]Medusa's
head, which was brought hither by Perseus. By this is meant the serpent Deity, whose worship
was here introduced by people called Peresians. Medusa's head denoted divine wisdom: and the
island was sacred to the serpent as is apparent from its name[497]. The Athenians were esteemed
Serpentigenæ; and they had a tradition, that the chief guardian of their Acropolis was a [498]serpent.
It is reported of the Goddess Ceres, that she placed a dragon for a guardian to her temple
at [499]Eleusis; and appointed another to attend upon Erectheus. Ægeus of Athens, according
to Androtion, was of the [500]serpent breed: and the first king of the country is said to have
been [501]Δρακων, a Dragon. Others make Cecrops the first who reigned. He is said to have been
[502]διφυης, of a twofold nature; συμφυες εχων σωμα ανδρος και δρακοντος, being formed with
the body of a man blended with that of a serpent. Diodorus says, that this was a circumstance
deemed by the Athenians inexplicable: yet he labours to explain it, by representing Cecrops,
as half a man, and half a [503]brute; because he had been of two different communities. Eustathius
likewise tries to solve it nearly upon the same principles, and with the like success. Some
had mentioned of Cecrops, that he underwent a metamorphosis, [504]απο οφεως εις ανθρωπον ελθειν,
that he was changed from a serpent to a man. By this was signified according to Eustathius,
that Cecrops, by coming into Hellas, divested himself of all the rudeness and barbarity of
his [505]country, and became more civilized and humane. This is too high a compliment to be
payed to Greece in its infant state, and detracts greatly from the character of the Egyptians.
The learned Marsham therefore animadverts with great justice. [506]Est verisimilius ilium ex
Ægypto mores magis civiles in Græciam induxisse. It is more probable, that he introduced into
Greece, the urbanity of his own country, than that he was beholden to Greece for any thing
from thence. In respect to the mixed character of this personage, we may, I think, easily account
for it. Cecrops was certainly a title of the Deity, who was worshipped under this [507]emblem.
Something of the like nature was mentioned of Triptolemus, and [508]Ericthonius: and the like
has been said above of Hercules. The natives of Thebes in Bœotia, like the Athenians above,
esteemed themselves of the serpent race. The Lacedæmonians likewise referred themselves to
the same original. Their city is said of old to have swarmed with [509]serpents. The same is
said of the city Amyclæ in Italy, which was of Spartan original. They came hither in such abundance,
that it was abandoned by the [510]inhabitants. Argos was infested in the same manner, till
Apis came from Egypt, and settled in that city. He was a prophet, the reputed son of Apollo,
and a person of great skill and sagacity. To him they attributed the blessing of having their
country freed from this evil.

  [511]Απις γαρ ελθων εκ περας Ναυπακτιας,
  Ιατρομαντις, παις Απολλωνος, χθονα
  Την δ' εκκαθαιρει κνωδαλον βροτοφθορων.

Thus the Argives gave the credit to this imaginary personage of clearing their land of this
grievance: but the brood came from the very quarter from whence Apis was supposed to have arrived.
They were certainly Hivites from Egypt: and the same story is told of that country. It is represented
as having been of old over-run with serpents; and almost depopulated through their numbers.
Diodorus Siculus seems to understand this [512]literally: but a region, which was annually
overflowed, and that too for so long a season, could not well be liable to such a calamity.
They were serpents of another nature, with which it was thus infested: and the history relates
to the Cuthites, the original Ophitæ, who for a long time possessed that country. They passed
from Egypt to Syria, and to the Euphrates: and mention is made of a particular breed of serpents
upon that river, which were harmless to the natives, but fatal to every body else. [513]This,
I think, cannot be understood literally. The wisdom of the serpent may be great; but not sufficient
to make these distinctions. These serpents were of the same nature as the [514]birds of Diomedes,
and the dogs in the temple of Vulcan: and these histories relate to Ophite priests, who used
to spare their own people, and sacrifice strangers, a custom which prevailed at one time in
most parts of the world. I have mentioned that the Cuthite priests were very learned: and as
they were Ophites, whoever had the advantage of their information, was said to have been instructed
by serpents. Hence there was a tradition, that Melampus was rendered prophetic from a communication
with these [515]animals. Something similar is said of Tiresias.

As the worship of the serpent was of old so prevalent, many places, as well as people from
thence, received their names. Those who settled in Campania were called Opici; which some would
have changed to Ophici; because they were denominated from serpents. [516]Οι δε (φασιν) ὁτι
Οφικοι απο των οφιων. But they are, in reality, both names of the same purport, and denote
the origin of the people. We meet with places called Opis, Ophis, Ophitæa, Ophionia, Ophioëssa,
Ophiodes, and Ophiusa. This last was an antient name, by which, according to Stephanus, the
islands Rhodes, Cythnus, Besbicus, Tenos, and the whole continent of Africa, were distinguished.
There were also cities so called. Add to these places denominated Oboth, Obona, and reversed
Onoba, from Ob, which was of the same purport. Clemens Alexandrinus says, that the term Eva
signified a serpent, if pronounced with a proper [517]aspirate. We find that there were places
of this name. There was a city Eva in [518]Arcadia: and another in [519]Macedonia. There was
also a mountain Eva, or Evan, taken notice of by [520]Pausanias, between which and Ithome lay
the city Messene. He mentions also an Eva in [521]Argolis, and speaks of it as a large town.
Another name for a serpent, of which I have as yet taken no notice, was Patan, or Pitan. Many
places in different parts were denominated from this term. Among others was a city in [522]Laconia;
and another in [523]Mysia, which Stephanus styles a city of Æolia. They were undoubtedly so
named from the worship of the serpent, Pitan: and had probably Dracontia, where were figures
and devices relative to the religion which prevailed. Ovid mentions the latter city, and has
some allusions to its antient history, when he describes Medea as flying through the air from
Attica to Colchis.

  [524]Æoliam Pitanem lævâ de parte relinquit,
  Factaque de saxo longi simulacra Draconis.

The city was situated upon the river Eva or Evan, which the Greeks rendered [525]Evenus. It
is remarkable, that the Opici, who are said to have been denominated from serpents, had also
the name of Pitanatæ: at least one part of that family were so called. [526]Τινας δε και Πιτανατας
λεγεσθαι. Pitanatæ is a term of the same purport as Opici, and relates to the votaries of Pitan,
the serpent Deity, which was adored by that people.

Menelaus was of old styled [527]Pitanates, as we learn from Hesychius: and the reason of it
may be known from his being a Spartan, by which was intimated one of the serpentigenæ, or Ophites.
Hence he was represented with a serpent for a device upon his shield. It is said that a brigade,
or portion of infantry, was among some of the Greeks named [528]Pitanates; and the soldiers,
in consequence of it, must have been termed Pitanatæ: undoubtedly, because they had the Pitan,
or serpent, for their [529]standard. Analogous to this, among other nations, there were soldiers
called [530]Draconarii. I believe, that in most countries the military standard was an emblem
of the Deity there worshipped.

From what has been said, I hope, that I have thrown some light upon the history of this primitive
idolatry: and have moreover shewn, that wherever any of these Ophite colonies settled they
left behind from their rites and institutes, as well as from the names, which they bequeathed
to places, ample memorials, by which they may be clearly traced out. It may seem strange, that
in the first ages there should have been such an universal defection from the truth; and above
all things such a propensity to this particular mode of worship, this mysterious attachment
to the serpent. What is scarce credible, it obtained among Christians; and one of the most
early heresies in the church was of this sort, introduced by a sect, called by [531]Epiphanius
Ophitæ, by [532]Clemens of Alexandria Ophiani. They are particularly described by Tertullian,
whose account of them is well worth our notice. [533]Accesserunt his Hæretici etiam illi, qui
Ophitæ nuncupantur: nam serpentem magnificant in tantum, ut illum etiam ipsi Christo præferant.
Ipse enim, inquiunt, scientiæ nobis boni et mali originem dedit. Hujus animadvertens potentiam
et majestatem Moyses æreum posuit serpentem: et quicunque in eum aspexerunt, sanitatem consecuti
sunt. Ipse, aiunt, præterea in Evangelio imitatur serpentis ipsius sacram potestatem, dicendo,
et sicut Moyses exaltavit serpentem in deserto, ita exaltari oportet filium hominis. Ipsum
introducunt ad benedicenda Eucharistia sua. In the above we see plainly the perverseness of
human wit, which deviates so industriously; and is ever after employed in finding expedients
to countenance error, and render apostasy plausible. It would be a noble undertaking, and very
edifying in its consequences, if some person of true learning, and a deep insight into antiquity,
would go through with the history of the [534]serpent. I have adopted it, as far as it relates
to my system, which is, in some degree, illustrated by it.

       *       *       *       *       *

CUCLOPES OR CYCLOPES.

    Παλαιοτατοι μεν λεγονται εν μερει τινι της χωρας (της Σικελιας)
    Κυκλωπες, και Λαιστρυγονες οικησαι· ὡν εγω ουτε γενος εχω ειπειν, ουτε
    ὁποθεν εισηλθον, η ὁποι απεχωρησαν. Thucydides. l. 6. p. 378.

Thucydides acquaints us concerning the Cyclopes and Læstrygones, that they were the most antient
inhabitants of Sicily, but that he could not find out their race: nor did he know from what
part of the world they originally came, nor to what country they afterwards betook themselves.
I may appear presumptuous in pretending to determine a history so remote and obscure; and which
was a secret to this learned Grecian two thousand years ago. Yet this is my present purpose:
and I undertake it with a greater confidence, as I can plainly shew, that we have many lights,
with which the natives of Hellas were unacquainted; besides many advantages, of which they
would not avail themselves.

The gigantic Cyclopes were originally Ophitæ, who worshipped the symbolical serpent. They have
been represented by the poets, as persons of an enormous [535]stature, rude and savage in their
demeanour, and differing from the rest of mankind in countenance. They are described as having
only one large eye; which is said to have been placed, contrary to the usual situation of that
organ, in the middle of their foreheads. Their place of residence was upon mount Ætna, and
in the adjacent district at the foot of that [536]mountain, which was the original region styled
Trinacia. This is the common account, as it has been transmitted by the Poets, as well as by
the principal mythologists of Greece: and in this we have been taught to acquiesce. But the
real history is not so obvious and superficial. There are accounts of them to be obtained,
that differ much from the representations which are commonly exhibited. The Poets have given
a mixed description: and in lieu of the Deity of the place have introduced these strange personages,
the ideas of whose size were borrowed from sacred edifices, where the Deity was worshipped.
They were Petra, or temples of Cœlus; of the same nature and form as the tower of Orion, which
was at no great distance from them. Some of them had the name of [537]Charon, and Tarchon:
and they were esteemed Pelorian, from the God Alorus, the same as Cœlus and Python. The Grecians
confounded the people, who raised these buildings, with the structures themselves. Strabo places
them near [538]Ætna, and Leontina: and supposes, that they once ruled over that part of the
island. And it is certain that a people styled Cyclopians did possess that [539]province. Polyphemus
is imagined to have been the chief of this people: and Euripides describes the place of his
residence as towards the foot of the mountain: [540]Οικεις ὑπ' Αιτνῃ τῃ πυροστακτῳ Πετρᾳ. They
are represented as a people savage, and lawless, and delighting in human flesh. Hence it is
prophesied by Cassandra, as a curse upon Ulysses, that he would one day be forced to seek for
refuge in a Cyclopian [541]mansion. And when he arrives under the roof of Polyphemus, and makes
inquiry about his host, and particularly upon what he fed; he is told, that the Cyclops above
all things esteemed the flesh of strangers. [542]Chance never throws any body upon this coast,
says Silenus, but he is made a meal of; and it is looked upon as a delicious repast. This character
of the Cyclopians arose from the cruel custom of sacrificing strangers, whom fortune brought
upon their coast. This was practised in many parts of the world, but especially here, and upon
the coast of the Lamii in Italy; and among all the Scythic nations upon the Euxine sea: into
all which regions it was introduced from Egypt and Canaan.

But we must not consider the Cyclopians in this partial light: nor look for them only in the
island of Sicily, to which they have been by the Poets confined. Memorials of them are to be
found in many parts of Greece, where they were recorded as far superior to the natives in science
and ingenuity. The Grecians, by not distinguishing between the Deity, and the people, who were
called by his titles, have brought great confusion upon this history. The Cyclopians were denominated
from Κυκλωψ, Cyclops, the same as Cœlus. According to Parmeno Byzantinus, he was the God [543]Nilus
of Egypt, who was the same as [544]Zeus, and Osiris. The history both of the Deity, and of
the people, became in time obsolete: and it has been rendered more obscure by the mixed manner
in which it has been represented by the Poets.

It is generally agreed by writers upon the subject, that the Cyclopians were of a size superior
to the common race of mankind. Among the many tribes of the Amonians, which went abroad, were
to be found people, who were styled [545]Anakim, and were descended from the sons of Anac:
so that this history, though carried to a great excess, was probably founded in truth. They
were particularly famous for architecture; which they introduced into Greece, as we are told
by [546]Herodotus: and in all parts, whither they came, they erected noble structures, which
were remarkable for their height and beauty: and were often dedicated to the chief Deity, the
Sun, under the name of Elorus, and P'elorus. People were so struck with their grandeur, that
they called every thing great and stupendous, Pelorian. And when they described the Cyclopians
as a lofty towering race, they came at last to borrow their ideas of this people from the towers,
to which they alluded. They supposed them in height to reach to the clouds; and in bulk to
equal the promontories, on which they were founded. Homer says of Polyphemus,

  [547]Και γαρ θαυμ' ετετυκτο πελωριον, ουδε εῳκει
  Ανδρι γε σιτοφαγῳ, αλλα ῥιῳ ὑληεντι.

Virgil says of the same person,

  [548]Ipse arduus, altaque pulsat sidera.

As these buildings were oftentimes light-houses, and had in their upper story one round casement,
Argolici clypeï, aut Phœbeæ lampadis instar, by which they afforded light in the night-season;
the Greeks made this a characteristic of the people. They supposed this aperture to have been
an eye, which was fiery, and glaring, and placed in the middle of their foreheads. Hence Callimachus
describes them as a monstrous race:

                  [549]αινα Πελωρα,
  Πρηοσιν Οσσειοισιν εοικοτα· πασι δ' ὑπ' οφρυν
  Φαεα μουνογληνα σακει ισα τετραβοειῳ.

The Grecians have so confounded the Cyclopian Deity with his votaries, that it is difficult
to speak precisely of either. They sometimes mention him as a single person; the same as Nilus
of Egypt, who was esteemed the father of the Gods. At other times they introduce a plurality,
whom they still represent as of the highest antiquity, and make the brethren of Cronus: [550]Κυκλωπες--ὁι
αδελφοι ησαν του Κρονου, του πατρος του Διος. Proclus in Photius informs us, that, according
to the antient mythology of the Auctores Cyclici, the giants with an hundred hands, and the
Cyclopes, were the first born of the [551]Earth and Cœlus. But in these histories every degree
of relation has been founded upon idle surmises: and is uniformly to be set aside. The Cyclopian
Deity was [552]Ouranus, and the Cyclopians were his priests and votaries: some of whom had
divine honours paid to them, and were esteemed as Gods. Upon the Isthmus of Corinth was an
antient temple; which seems to have been little more than a ταφος or high altar, where offerings
were made to the Cyclopian [553]Deities. People of this family settled upon the southern coast
of Sicily at Camarina; which some have supposed to have been the Hupereia of Homer, where the
Pheacians once resided.

  [554]Ὁι πριν μεν ποτ' εναιον εν ευρυχορῳ Ὑπερειᾳ,
  Αγχου Κυκλωπων ανδρων ὑπερηνορεοντων.

But there is no reason to think, that the city Hupereia was in Sicily; or that the Pheacians
came from that country. The notion arose from a common mistake. All the Greek and Roman Poets,
and even Strabo, with other respectable writers, have taken it for granted, that the Cyclopians
of Homer were near Ætna in Sicily. Others except to their being near Ætna; and insist, that
they were in the vicinity of Eryx upon the opposite part of the island. But Homer does not
once mention the island during his whole account of the Cyclopes: nor does Ulysses arrive in
Sicily, till after many subsequent adventures. That there were Cyclopians near Ætna is certain:
but those mentioned by Homer were of another country, and are represented as natives of the
continent though his account is very indeterminate and obscure. There were probably people
of this family in many parts of Sicily, especially about the city Camarina. They seem to have
been of the Anakim race, and worshippers of the Sun. Hence they were styled Camarin, and their
chief city Camarina, which was so called from a city of the same name in [555]Chaldea, the
Ur of the Scriptures. Polyphemus is mentioned as a musician and a shepherd; but of a savage
and brutal disposition: which character arose from the cruel rites practised by the Cyclopians.
According to [556]Bacchylides it was said, that Galatus, Illyrius, and Celtus were the sons
of Polyphemus. By this was certainly signified, that the Galatæ, Illyrii, and Celtæ, were of
Cyclopian original, and of the Anakim race; all equally Amonians. Lycophron mentions the cave
of this personage, by which was meant an antient temple; and he calls it [557]μονογληνου στεγας
Χαρωνος: the habitation of Charon, a personage with one eye. But here, as I have often observed,
the place is mistaken for a person; the temple for the Deity. Charon was the very place; the
antient temple of the Sun. It was therefore styled Char-On from the God, who was there worshipped;
and after the Egyptian custom an eye was engraved over its portal. These temples were sometimes
called Charis, [558]Χαρις; which is a compound of Char-Is, and signifies a prutaneion, or place
sacred to Hephastus. As the rites of fire were once almost universally practised, there were
many places of this name, especially in [559]Parthia, Babylonia, and Phrygia. The Grecians
rendered Char-Is by Χαρις, a term in their own language, which signified grace and elegance.
And nothing witnesses their attachment to antient terms more than their continually introducing
them, though they were strangers to their true meaning. The Arimaspians were Hyperborean Cyclopians;
and had temples named Charis, or Charisia, in the top of which were preserved a perpetual fire.
They were of the same family as those of [560]Sicily, and had the same rites; and particularly
worshipped the Ophite Deity under the name of [561]Opis. Aristeas Proconnesius wrote their
history; and among other things mentioned that they had but one eye, which was placed in their
graceful forehead.

  [562]Οφθαλμον δ' ἑν' ἑκαστος εχει χαριεντι μετωπῳ.

How could the front of a Cyclopian, one of the most hideous monsters that ever poetic fancy
framed, be styled graceful? The whole is a mistake of terms: and what this writer had misapplied,
related to Charis, a tower; and the eye was the casement in the top of the edifice, where a
light, and fire were kept up. What confirmed the mistake was the representation of an eye,
which, as I have mentioned, was often engraved over the entrance of these temples. The chief
Deity of Egypt was frequently represented under the symbol of an eye, [563]and a sceptre. I
have observed, that Orion was supposed to have had three fathers, merely because a tower, sacred
to him in Sicily, and called Tor-Pator, was altered to Τριπατωρ; which change seemed to countenance
such an opinion. The Cyclopians were of the same region in that island; and their towers had
undoubtedly the same name: for the Cyclopians were styled [564]Τριτοπατερες, and were supposed
to have been three in number. Some such mistake was made about the towers styled Charis: whence
the Grecians formed their notion of the Graces. As Charis was a tower sacred to fire; some
of the Poets have supposed a nymph of that name, who was beloved by Vulcan. Homer speaks of
her as his wife: [565]Χαρις--Καλη, ἡν ωπυιε περικλυτος Αμφιγυνεις. But Nonnus makes her his
mistress; and says, that he turned her out of doors for her jealousy.

  [566]Εκ δε δομων εδιωκε Χαριν ζηλημονα νυμφην.

The Graces were said to be related to the Sun who was in reality the same as Vulcan. The Sun
among the people of the east was called Hares, and with a guttural, Chares: and his temple
was styled Tor-Chares. But as Tor-Pator was changed to Tripator; so Tor-Chares was rendered
Trichares, which the Greeks expressed Τριχαρις; and from thence formed a notion of three Graces.
Cicero says, that they were the daughters of night, and Erebus: but Antimachus, more agreeably
to this etymology, maintained, that they were the offspring of the Sun and light; [567]Αιγλης
και Ἡλιου θυγατερας. These seeming contradictions are not difficult to be reconciled.

The Amonians, wherever they settled, were celebrated for their superiority in science; and
particularly for their skill in building. Of this family were Trophonius, and his brother Agamedes,
who are represented as very great in the profession. They were truly wonderful, says [568]Pausanias,
for the temples, which they erected to the Gods; and for the stately edifices, which they built
for men. They were the architects, who contrived the temple of Apollo at Delphi, and the treasury
constructed to Urius. They were, I make no doubt, some of those, who were styled Cyclopians;
as the people under this appellation were far the most eminent in this way. When the Sibyl
in Virgil shews Æneas the place of torment in the shades below, and leads him through many
melancholy recesses, we find that the whole was separated from the regions of bliss by a wall
built by the Cyclopians. The Sibyl accordingly at their exit tells him,

          [569]Cyclopum educta caminis
  Mœnia conspicio.

From hence we find that they were the reputed builders of the infernal mansions; which notion
arose from the real buildings, which they erected. For all the ideas of the antients about
the infernal regions, and the torments of hell, were taken from the temples in each country;
and from the rites and inquisition practised in them. But the Cyclopians were not merely imaginary
operators. They founded several cities in Greece; and constructed many temples to the Gods,
which were of old in high repute. They were so much esteemed for their skill, that, as the
Scholiast upon Statius observes, every thing great and noble was looked upon as Cyclopian:
[570]quicquid magnitudine suâ nobile est, Cyclopum manu dicitur fabricatum. Nor was this a
fiction, as may be surmised; for they were in great measure the real architects. And if, in
the room of those portentous beings the Cyclopes, Κυκλωπες, we substitute a colony of people
called Cyclopians, we shall find the whole to be true, which is attributed to them; and a new
field of history will be opened, that was before unknown. They were, undoubtedly, a part of
the people styled Academians, who resided in Attica; where they founded the Academia, and Ceramicus,
and introduced human sacrifices. Hence we are informed, that the Athenians, in the time of
a plague, sacrificed three virgin daughters of Hyacinthus at the tomb Geræstus, the [571]Cyclops.
But Geræstus was not a person, but a place. Γεραιστος is a small variation for Ker-Astus; and
signifies the temple of Astus the God of fire. It was certainly the antient name of the place
where these sacrifices were exhibited: and the Taphos was a Cyclopian altar, upon which they
were performed. The Cyclopians are said to have built the antient city Mycene, which Hercules
in Seneca threatens to ruin.

      ----[572]quid moror? majus mihi
  Bellum Mycenis restat, ut Cyclopea
  Eversa manibus mœnia nostris concidant.

Nonnus speaks of the city in the same light:

  [573]Στεμματι τειχιοεντι περιζωσθεντα Μυκηνη,
  Κυκλωπων κανονεσσι.

The gate of the city, and the chief tower were particularly ascribed to them: [574]Κυκλωπων
δε και ταυτα εργα ειναι λεγουσιν. These too are represented as the work of the Cyclopians.
They likewise built Argos; which is mentioned by Thyestes in Seneca as a wonderful performance.

          [575]Cyclopum sacras
  Turres, labore majus humano decus.

All these poetical histories were founded in original truths. Some of them built Hermione,
one of the most antient cities in Greece. The tradition was, that it was built by [576]Hermion
the son of Europs, or Europis, a descendant of Phoroneus, and Niobe; and was inhabited by Dorians,
who came from Argos: in which history is more than at first appears. The city stood near a
stagnant lake, and a deep cavern; where was supposed to be the most compendious passage to
the shades below: [577]την εις ἁδου καταβασιν συντομον. The lake was called the pool of Acherusia;
near to which and the yawning cavern the Cyclopians chose to take up their habitation. They
are said to have built [578]Tiryns; the walls of which were esteemed no less a wonder than
the [579]pyramids of Egypt. They must have resided at Nauplia in Argolis; a place in situation
not unlike Hermione above-mentioned. Near this city were caverns in the earth, and subterraneous
passages, consisting of [580]labyrinths cut in the rock, like the syringes in Upper Egypt,
and the maze at the lake Mæris: and these too were reputed the work of Cyclopians. Pausanias
thinks very truly, that the Nauplians were from Egypt. [581]Ησαν δε ὁι Ναυπλιεις, εμοι δοκειν,
Αιγυπτιοι τα παλαιοτερα. The Nauplians seem to me to have been a colony from Egypt in the more
early times. He supposes that they were some of those emigrants, who came over with Danaüs.
The nature of the works, which the Cyclopians executed, and the lake, which they named Acherusia,
shew plainly the part of the world from whence they came. The next city to Nauplia was Trœzen,
where Orus was said to have once reigned, from whom the country was called Oraia: but Pausanias
very justly thinks, that it was an Egyptian history; and that the region was denominated from
[582]Orus of Egypt, whose worship undoubtedly had been here introduced. So that every circumstance
witnesses the country, from whence the Cyclopians came. Hence when [583]Euripides speaks of
the walls of antient Mycene, as built by the Cyclopians after the Phenician rule and method:
the Phenicians alluded to were the Φοινικες of Egypt, to which country they are primarily to
be referred. Those who built Tiryns are represented as seven in number; and the whole is described
by Strabo in the following manner. [584]Τιρυνθι ὁρμητηριῳ χρησασθαι δοκει Προιτος, και τειχισαι
δια Κυκλωπων· ὁυς ἑπτα μεν ειναι, καλεισθαι δε Γαστεροχειρας, τρεφομενους εκ της τεχνης. Prœtus
seems to have been the first who made use of Tiryns as an harbour; which place he walled round
by the assistance of the Cyclopians. They were seven in number, styled Gastrocheirs; and lived
by their labour. Hesychius in some degree reverses this strange name, and says, that they were
called Εγχειρογαστερες. The Grecians continually mistook places for persons, as I have shewn.
These seven Cyclopes were, I make no doubt, seven Cyclopian towers built by the people, of
whom I have been treating. Some of them stood towards the harbour to afford light to ships,
when they approached in the night. They were sacred to Aster, or [585]Astarte; and styled Astro-caer,
and Caer-Aster; out of which the Greeks formed Γαστροχειρ, and Εγχειρογαστηρ; a strange medley
made up of hands, and bellies. Strabo in particular having converted these building's into
so many masons, adds, [586]Γαστεροχειρας, τρεφομενους εκ της τεχνης. They were honest bellyhanded
men, industrious people, who got their livelihood by their art. These towers were erected likewise
for Purait, or Puratheia, where the rites of fire were performed: but Purait, or Puraitus,
the Greeks changed to Προιτος; and gave out that the towers were built for [587]Prœtus, whom
they made a king of that country.

I imagine, that not only the common idea of the Cyclopians was taken from towers and edifices;
but that the term Κυκλωψ, and Κυκλωπις, Cuclops, and Cuclopis, signified a building or temple;
and from thence the people had their name. They were of the same family as the Cadmians, and
Phœnices; and as the Hivites, or Ophites who came from Egypt, and settled near Libanus and
Baal Hermon, upon the confines of Canaan. They worshipped the Sun under the symbol of a serpent:
hence they were styled in different parts, where they in time settled, Europians, Oropians,
Anopians, Inopians, Asopians, Elopians; all which names relate to the worship of the Pytho
Ops, or Opis. What may be the precise etymology of the term Κυκλωψ, Cuclops, I cannot presume
to determine. Cuclops, as a personage, was said to have been the son of [588]Ouranus and the
earth: which Ouranus among the Amonians was often styled Cœl, or Cœlus; and was worshipped
under the forementioned emblem of a serpent. Hence the temple of the Deity may have been originally
called Cu-Cœl-Ops, Domus Cœli Pythonis; and the priests and people Cucelopians. But whatever
may have been the purport of the name, the history of these personages is sufficiently determinate.

There was a place in Thrace called [589]Cuclops, where some of the Cyclopian race had settled;
for many of the Amonians came hither. Hence Thrace seems at one time to have been the seat
of science: and the Athenians acknowledged, that they borrowed largely from them. The natives
were very famous; particularly the Pierians for their music, the Peonians for pharmacy, and
the Edonians for their rites and worship. Those, who went under the name of Cyclopes, probably
introduced architecture; for which art they seem to have been every where noted. There was
a fountain in these parts, of which Aristotle takes notice, as of a wonderful nature. [590]Εν
δε Κυκλωψι τοις Θραξι κρηνιδιον εστιν, ὑδωρ εχων, ὁ τῃ μεν οψει καθαρον, και διαφανες, και
τοις αλλοις ὁμοιον· ὁταν δε πιῃ τι ζωον εξ αυτου, παραχρημα διαφθειρεται. In the region of
the Cyclopians of Thrace is a fountain, clear to the eye, and pure, and in no wise differing
from common water: of which, however, if an animal drinks, it is immediately poisoned. There
is another account given by Theopompus; who speaks of the people by the name of the Chropes,
which is a contraction for Charopes. He says, that even going into the water was fatal. [591]Θεοπομπος
ἱστορει κρηνην εν Χρωψι της Θρακης, εξ ἡς τους λουσαμενους παραχρημα μεταλλασσειν. Theopompus
mentions a fountain among the Charopes of Thrace, in which, if a person attempts to bathe,
he immediately loses his life. I have taken notice of this history, because we find, that the
persons who are called [592]Cuclopes by one writer, are styled Char-opes by another, and very
justly: for the terms are nearly of the same purport. The Charopes were denominated from a
temple, and place called Char-Ops, or Char-Opis, locus Dei Pythonis: and the Cyclopes were,
as I have before supposed, denominated from Cu-Coel-Ops, or Cu-Coel-Opis, the temple of the
same Deity. They were both equally named from the Ophite God, the great object of their adoration,
and from the temple where he was worshipped.

The head of Medusa in Argolis is said to have been the work of the [593]Cyclopians. This seems
to have been an antient hieroglyphical representation upon the temple of Caphisus. It was usual
with the Egyptians, and other Amonians, to describe, upon the Architrave of their temples,
some emblem of the Deity, who there presided. This representation was often an eagle, or vulture;
a wolf, or a lion; also an heart, or an eye. The last, as I have shewn, was common to the temples
of [594]Osiris, and was intended to signify the superintendency of Providence, from whom nothing
was hid. Among others the serpent was esteemed a most salutary emblem: and they made use of
it to signify superior skill and knowledge. A beautiful female countenance, surrounded with
an assemblage of serpents, was made to denote divine wisdom, which they styled Meed, and Meet,
the Μητις of the Greeks. Under this characteristic they represented an heavenly personage,
and joined her with Eros, or divine love: and by these two they supposed that the present mundane
system was produced. Orpheus speaks of this Deity in the masculine gender:

  [595]Και Μητις, πρωτος γενετωρ, και Ερως πολυτερπης.

On this account many antient temples were ornamented with this curious hieroglyphic: and among
others the temple of Caphisus [596]in Argolis. Caphisus is a compound of Caph-Isis, which signifies
Petra Isidis, and relates to the same Deity as Metis. For we must not regard sexes, nor difference
of appellations, when we treat of antient Deities.

  [597]Αρσην μεν και θηλυς εφυς, πολεματοκε Μητι.
  [598]Παντοφυης, γενετωρ παντων, πολυωνυμε Δαιμον.

I have taken notice that the Cyclopians of Thrace were styled Charopes; which name they must
have received from their rites, and place of worship. Char-Opis signifies the temple of the
Python, or serpent: and we find that it was situated near a poisonous pool. It was sacred to
the Sun: and there were many temples of this name in [599]Egypt, and other countries. The Sun
was called Arez; and the lion, which was an emblem of the Sun, had the same denomination: and
there is reason to think, that the device upon Charopian temples was sometimes a lion. Homer,
undoubtedly, had seen the fierce figure of this animal upon some sacred portal in Egypt; to
which he often alludes, when he speaks of a Charopian lion.

  [600]Αρκτοιτ', αγροτεροι τε Συες, χαροποι τε Λεοντες.

The devices upon temples were often esteemed as talismans, and supposed to have an hidden and
salutary influence, by which the building was preserved. In the temple of Minerva, at Tegea,
was some sculpture of Medusa, which the Goddess was said to have given, [601]αναλωτον ες τον
παντα κρονον ειναι (την πολιν); to preserve the city from ever being taken in war. It was probably
from this opinion, that the [602]Athenians had the head of Medusa represented upon the walls
of their acropolis: and it was the insigne of many cities, as we may find from antient coins.
The notion of the Cyclopes framing the thunder and lightning for Jupiter arose chiefly from
the Cyclopians engraving hieroglyphics of this sort upon the temples of the Deity. Hence they
were represented as persons,

  [603]Ὁι Ζηνι βροντην τ' εδοσαν, τευξαν τε κεραυνον.

The Poets considered them merely in the capacity of blacksmiths, and condemned them to the
anvil. This arose from the chief Cyclopian Deity being called Acmon, and Pyracmon. He was worshipped
under the former title in Phrygia; where was a city and district called Acmonia, mentioned
by Alexander [604]Polyhistor. The Amazonians paid the like reverence: and there was a sacred
grove called Acmonium upon the [605]Thermodon, which was held in great repute. He was by some
looked upon as the offspring of heaven; by others worshipped as Ouranus, and Cœlus, the heaven
itself; and Acmonides was supposed to have been his [606]son, whom some of the mythologists
made the ruling spirit of the earth. Hence Simmias Rhodius introduces Divine Love displaying
his influence, and saying, that he produced Acmonides, that mighty monarch of the earth, and
at the same time founded the sea. [607]Λευσσε με τον Γας τε βαρυστερνου Ανακτ' Ακμονιδαν, ταν
ἁλα θ' ἑδρασαντα.

Acmon seems to have been worshipped of old at Tiryns, that antient city of Greece, whose towers
were said to have been built by the Cyclopians. For Acmon was the Cyclopian Deity; and is represented
by Callimachus as the tutelary God of the place, though the passage has been otherwise interpreted.

          [608]Τοιος γαρ αει Τιρυνθιος Ακμων
  Ἑστηκε προ πυλεων.

The term has commonly been looked upon as an adjective; and the passage has been rendered Talis
Tirynthius indefessus, which is scarce sense. Callimachus was very knowing in mythology, and
is here speaking of the Cyclopian God Acmon, whom he makes the θεος προπυλαιος, or guardian
Deity of the place. It was the same God, that was afterwards called Hercules, and particularly
styled Tirynthius, to whom Callimachus here alludes, under a more antient name.

As the Cyclopians were great artists, they probably were famous for works in brass, and iron:
and that circumstance in their history may have been founded in truth. The Idæi Dactyli were
Cyclopians: and they are said to have first forged metals, and to have reduced them to common
[609]use; the knowledge of which art they obtained from the fusion of minerals at the burning
of mount [610]Ida. Whether this was an eruption of fire from the internal part of the mountain,
or only a fire kindled among the forests, which crowned its summit, cannot be determined. It
was an event of antient date; and admitted, as a remarkable epocha, in the most early series
of chronology. From this event the Curetes, and Corybantes, who were the same as the [611]Idæi
Dactyli, are supposed to have learned the mystery of fusing and forging metals. From them it
was propagated to many countries westward, particularly to the Pangæan mountains, and the region
Curetis, where the Cyclopians dwelt in Thrace: also to the region Trinacia and Leontina, near
Ætna, which they occupied in Sicily.

Thus have I endeavoured to shew the true history [612]and antiquity of this people: and we
may learn from their works, [613]that there was a time, when they were held in high estimation.
They were denominated from their worship: and their chief Deity among other titles was styled
Acmon, and Pyracmon. They seem to have been great in many sciences: but the term Acmon signifying
among the Greeks an anvil, the Poets have limited them to one base department, and considered
them as so many blacksmiths. And as they resided near Ætna, they have made the burning mountain
their forge:

  [614]Ferrum exercebant vasto Cyclopes in antro,
  Brontesque, Steropesque, et nudus membra Pyracmon.

       *       *       *       *       *

OF

TEMPLE RITES

IN THE

FIRST AGES.

I must continually put the reader in mind how common it was among the Greeks, not only out
of the titles of the Deities, but out of the names of towers, and other edifices, to form personages,
and then to invent histories to support what they had done. When they had created a number
of such ideal beings, they tried to find out some relation: and thence proceeded to determine
the parentage, and filiation of each, just as fancy directed. Some colonies from Egypt, and
Canaan, settled in Thrace; as appears from numberless memorials. The parts which they occupied
were upon the Hebrus, about Edonia, Sithonia, and Mount Hæmus. They also held Pieria, and Peonia,
and all the sea coast region. It was their custom, as I have before mentioned, in all their
settlements to form puratheia; and to introduce the rites of fire, and worship of the Sun.
Upon the coast, of which I have been speaking, a temple of this sort was founded, which is
called Torone. The name is a compound of Tor-On, as I have before taken notice. The words purathus,
and puratheia, were, in the language of Egypt, Pur-Ath, and Por-Ait, formed from two titles
of the God of fire. Out of one of these the Grecians made a personage, which they expressed
Προιτος, Prœtus, whose daughters, or rather priestesses, were the Prœtides. And as they followed
the Egyptian rites, and held a Cow sacred, they were, in consequence of it, supposed to have
been turned into [615]cows; just as the priestesses of Hippa were said to have been changed
into mares; the Œnotropæ and Peleiadæ into pigeons. Proteus of Egypt, whom Menelaus was supposed
to have consulted about his passage homeward, was a tower of this sort with a purait. It was
an edifice, where both priests and pilots resided to give information; and where a light was
continually burning to direct the ships in the night. The tower of Torone likewise was a Pharos,
and therefore styled by Lycophron φλεγραια Τορωνη, the flaming Torone. The country about it
was, in like manner, called [616]Φλεγρα, Phlegra, both from these flaming Towers, and from
the worship there introduced. There seems to have been a fire-tower in this region named Proteus;
for, according to the antient accounts, Proteus is mentioned as having resided in these parts,
and is said to have been married to Torone. He is accordingly styled by the Poet,

  [617]φλεγραιας ποσις
  Στυγνος Τορωνης, ᾡ γελως απεχθεται,
  Και δακρυ.

The epithet στυγνος, gloomy, and sad, implies a bad character, which arose from the cruel rites
practised in these places. In all these temples they made it a rule to sacrifice strangers,
whom fortune brought in their way. Torone stood near [618]Pallene, which was styled [619]Γηγενων
τροφος, the nurse of the earth-born, or giant brood. Under this character both the sons of
Chus, and the Anakim of Canaan are included. Lycophron takes off from Proteus the imputation
of being accessary to the vile practices, for which the place was notorious; and makes only
his sons guilty of murdering strangers. He says, that their father left them out of disgust,

  [620]Τεκνων αλυξας τας ξενοκτονας παλας.

In this he alludes to a custom, of which I shall take notice hereafter. According to Eustathius,
the notion was, that Proteus fled by a subterraneous passage to Egypt, in company with his
daughter Eidothea. [621]Αποκατεστη εις Φαρον μετα της θυγατρος Ειδοθεας. He went, it seems,
from one Pharos to another; from Pallene to the mouth of the Nile. The Pharos of Egypt was
both a watch-tower, and a temple, where people went to inquire about the success of their voyage;
and to obtain the assistance of pilots. Proteus was an Egyptian title of the Deity, under which
he was worshipped, both in the Pharos, and at [622]Memphis. He was the same as Osiris, and
Canobus: and particularly the God of mariners, who confined his department to the [623]sea.
From hence, I think, we may unravel the mystery about the pilot of Menelaus, who is said to
have been named Canobus, and to have given name to the principal seaport in Egypt. The priests
of the country laughed at the idle [624]story; and they had good reason: for the place was
far prior to the people spoken of, and the name not of Grecian original. It is observable,
that Stephanus of Byzantium gives the pilot another name, calling him, instead of Canobus,
Φαρος, Pharus. His words are Φαρος ὁ Πρωρευς Μεναλαου, which are scarce sense. I make no doubt,
from the history of Proteus above, but that in the original, whence Stephanus copied, or at
least whence the story was first taken, the reading was Φαρος ὁ Πρωτευς Μενελαου; that is,
the Proteus of Menelaus, so celebrated by Homer, who is represented, as so wise, and so experienced
in navigation, whom they esteemed a great prophet, and a Deity of the sea, was nothing else
but a Pharos. In other words, it was a temple of Proteus upon the Canobic branch of the Nile,
to which the Poet makes Menelaus have recourse. Such was the original history: but Πρωτευς
Μενελαου has been changed to πρωρευς; and the God Canobus turned into a Grecian pilot. As these
were Ophite temples, a story has been added about this person having been stung by a serpent.
[625]Πρωρευς εν τῃ νησῳ δηχθεις ὑπο οφεως εταφη. This Pilot was bitten by a serpent, and buried
in the island. Conformable to my opinion is the account given by Tzetzes, who says, that Proteus
resided in the [626]Pharos: by which is signified, that he was the Deity of the place. He is
represented in the Orphic poetry as the first-born of the world, the chief God of the sea,
and at the same time a mighty [627]prophet.

The history then of Menelaus in Egypt, if such a person ever existed, amounts to this. In a
state of uncertainty he applied to a temple near Canobus, which was sacred to Proteus. This
was one title out of many, by which the chief Deity of the country was worshipped, and was
equivalent to On, Orus, Osiris, and Canobus. From this place Menelaus obtained proper advice,
by which he directed his voyage. Hence some say, that he had Φροντις, Phrontis, for his pilot.
[628]Κυβερνητης αριστος Μενελαου ὁ Φροντις, ὑιος Ονητορος. Menelaus had an excellent pilot,
one Phrontis, the son of Onetor. This, I think, confirms all that I have been saying: for what
is Phrontis, but advice and experience? and what is Onetor, but the Pharos, from whence it
was obtained? Onetor is the same as Torone, Τορωνη, only reversed. They were both temples of
Proteus, the same as On, and Orus: both Φλεγραιαι, by which is meant temples of fire, or light-houses.
Hence we may be pretty certain, that the three pilots, Canobus, Phrontis, Pharos, together
with Onetor, were only poetical personages: and that the terms properly related to towers,
and sanctuaries, which were of Egyptian original.

These places were courts of justice, where the priests seem to have practised a strict inquisition;
and where pains and penalties were very severe. The notion of the Furies was taken from these
temples: for the term Furia is from Ph'ur, ignis, and signifies a priest of fire. It was on
account of the cruelties here practised, that most of the antient judges are represented as
inexorable; and are therefore made judges in hell. Of what nature their department was esteemed
may be learned from Virgil,

  [629]Gnossius hæc Rhadamanthus habet durissima regna:
  Castigatque, auditque dolos, subigitque fateri, &c.

The temple at Phlegya in Bœotia was probably one of these courts; where justice was partially
administered, and where great cruelties were exercised by the priests. Hence a person, named
Phlegyas, is represented in the shades below, crying out in continual agony, and exhorting
people to justice.

  [630]--Phlegyasque miserrimus omnes
  Admonet, et tristi testatur voce per umbras,
  Discite justitiam moniti, et non temnere Divos.

Excellent counsel, but introduced rather too late. Phlegyas was in reality the Sun; so denominated
by the Æthiopes, or Cuthites, and esteemed the same as Mithras of Persis. They looked up to
him as their great benefactor, and lawgiver: for they held their laws as of divine original.
His worship was introduced among the natives of Greece by the Cuthites, styled Ethiopians,
who came from Egypt. That this was the true history of Phlegyas we may be assured from Stephanus,
and Phavorinus. They mention both Phlegyas, and Mithras, as men deified; and specify, that
they were of Ethiopian original. [631]Μιθραν, και Φλεγυαν, ανδρας Αιθιοπας το γενος. Minos
indeed is spoken of, as an upright judge: and the person alluded to under that character was
eminently distinguished for his piety, and justice. But his priests were esteemed far otherwise,
for they were guilty of great cruelties. Hence we find, that Minos was looked upon as a judge
of hell, and styled Quæsitor Minos. He was in reality a Deity, the same as Menes, and Menon
of Egypt: and as Manes of Lydia, Persis, and other countries. And though his history be not
consistently exhibited, yet, so much light may be gained from the Cretans, as to certify us,
that there was in their island a temple called Men-Tor, the tower of Men, or Menes. The Deity,
from a particular [632]hieroglyphic, under which the natives worshipped him, was styled Minotaurus.
To this temple the Athenians were obliged annually to send some of their prime youth to be
sacrificed; just as the people of Carthage used to send their children to be victims at [633]Tyre.
The Athenians were obliged for some time to pay this tribute, as appears from the festival
in commemoration of their deliverance. The places most infamous for these customs were those,
which were situated upon the seacoast: and especially those dangerous passes, where sailors
were obliged to go on shore for assistance, to be directed in their way. Scylla upon the coast
of Rhegium was one of these: and appears to have been particularly dreaded by mariners. Ulysses
in Homer says, that he was afraid to mention her name to his companions, lest they should through
astonishment have lost all sense of preservation.

  [634]Σκυλλην δ' ουκετ' εμυθεομην απρηκτον ανιην,
  Μηπως μοι δεισαντες απολληξειαν ἑταιροι,
  Ειρεσιης, εντος δε πυκαζοιεν σφεας αυτους.

Some suppose Scylla to have been a dangerous rock; and that it was abominated on account of
the frequent shipwrecks. There was a rock of that name, but attended with no such peril. We
are informed by Seneca, [635]Scyllam saxum esse, et quidem non terribile navigantibus. It was
the temple, built of old upon that [636]eminence, and the customs which prevailed within, that
made it so detested. This temple was a Petra: hence Scylla is by Homer styled Σκυλλη Πετραιη;
and the dogs, with which she was supposed to have been surrounded, were Cahen, or priests.

As there was a Men-tor in Crete, so there was a place of the same name, only reversed, in Sicily,
called Tor-men, and Tauromenium. There is reason to think, that the same cruel practices prevailed
here. It stood in the country of the Lamiæ, Lestrygons, and Cyclopes, upon the river On-Baal,
which the Greeks rendered Onoballus. From hence we may conclude, that it was one of the Cyclopian
buildings. Homer has presented us with something of truth, though we receive it sadly mixed
with fable. We find from him, that when Ulysses entered the dangerous pass of Rhegium, he had
six of his comrades seized by Scylla: and he loses the same number in the cavern of the Cyclops,
which that monster devoured. Silenus, in a passage before taken notice of, is by Euripides
made to say, that the most agreeable repast to the Cyclops was the flesh of strangers: nobody
came within his reach, that he did not feed upon.

  [637]Γλυκυτατα, φησι, τα κρεα τους ξενους φερειν·
  Ουδεις μολων δευρ', ὁστις ου κατεσφαγη.

From these accounts some have been led to think, that the priests in these temples really fed
upon the flesh of the persons sacrificed: and that these stories at bottom allude to a shocking
depravity; such, as one would hope, that human nature could not be brought to. Nothing can
be more horrid, than the cruel process of the Cyclops, as it is represented by Homer. And though
it be veiled under the shades of poetry, we may still learn the detestation, in which these
places were held.

  [638]Συν δε δυω μαρψας ὡστε σκυλακας ποτι γαιῃ
  Κοπτ', εκ δ' εγκεφαλος χαμαδις ῥεε, δευε δε γαιαν.
  Τους τε διαμελεϊστι ταμων ὡπλισσατο δορπον·
  Ησθιε δ' ωστε λεων ορεσιτροφος, ουδ' απελειπεν
  Εγκατα τε, σαρκας τε, και οστεα μυελοεντα.
  Ἡμεις δε κλαιοντες ανεσχεθομεν Διι χειρας,
  Σκετλια εργ' ὁροωντες, αμηχανιη δ' εχε θυμον.

One would not be very forward to strengthen an imputation, which disgraces human nature: yet
there must certainly have been something highly brutal and depraved in the character of this
people, to have given rise to this description of foul and unnatural feeding. What must not
be concealed, Euhemerus, an antient writer, who was a native of these parts, did aver, that
this bestial practice once prevailed. Saturn's devouring his own children is supposed to allude
to this custom. And we learn from this writer, as the passage has been transmitted by [640]Ennius,
that not only Saturn, but Ops, and the rest of mankind in their days, used to feed upon human
flesh.--[641]Saturnum, et Opem, cæterosque tum homines humanam carnem solitos esitare. He speaks
of Saturn, and Ops, as of persons, who once lived in the world, and were thus guilty. But the
priests of their temples were the people to be really accused; the Cyclopians, Lamiæ, and Lestrygons,
who officiated at their altars. He speaks of the custom, as well known: and it had undoubtedly
been practised in those parts, where in aftertimes hie was born. For he was a native [642]of
Zancle, and lived in the very country, of which we have been speaking, in the land of the Lestrygons,
and Cyclopians. The promontory of Scylla was within his sight. He was therefore well qualified
to give an account of these parts; and his evidence must necessarily have weight. Without doubt
these cruel practices left lasting impressions; and the memorials were not effaced for ages.

It is said of Orpheus by Horace, Cædibus, et victu fœdo deterruit: by which one should be led
to think, that the putting a stop to this unnatural gratification was owing to him. Others
think, that he only discountenanced the eating of raw flesh, which before had been usual. But
this could not be true of Orpheus: for it was a circumstance, which made one part of his institutes.
If there were ever such a man, as Orpheus, he enjoined the very thing, which he is supposed
to have prohibited. For both in the [643]orgies of Bacchus and in the rites of Ceres, as well
as of other Deities, one part of the mysteries consisted in a ceremony styled ωμοφαγια; at
which time they eat the flesh quite crude with the blood. In Crete at the [644]Dionusiaca they
used to tear the flesh with their teeth from the animal, when alive. This they did in commemoration
of Dionusus. [645]Festos funeris dies statuunt, et annuum sacrum trietericâ consecratione componunt,
omnia per ordinem facientes, quæ puer moriens aut fecit, aut passus est. Vivum laniant dentibus
Taurum, crudeles epulas annuis commemorationibus excitantes. Apollonius Rhodius speaking of
persons like to Bacchanalians, represents them [646]Θυασιν ωμοβοροις ικελαι, as savage as the
Thyades, who delighted in bloody banquets. Upon this the Scholiast observes, that the Mænadas,
and Bacchæ, used to devour the raw limbs of animals, which they had cut or torn asunder. [647]Πολλακις
τῃ μανιᾳ κατασχισθεντα, και ωμοσπαρακτα, εσθιουσιν. In the island of Chios it was a religious
custom to tear a man limb from limb by way of sacrifice to Dionusus. The same obtained in Tenedos.
It is Porphyry, who gives the account. He was a staunch Pagan, and his evidence on that account
is of consequence. He quotes for the rites of Tenedos Euelpis the Carystian. [648]Εθυοντο δε
και εν Χιω τῳ Ωμαδιῳ Διονυσῳ ανθρωπον διεσπωντες· και εν Τενεδῳ, φησιν Ευελπις ὁ Καρυστιος.
From all which we may learn one sad truth, that there is scarce any thing so impious and unnatural,
as not at times to have prevailed.

We need not then wonder at the character given of the Lestiygones, Lamiæ, and Cyclopians, who
were inhabitants of Sicily, and lived nearly in the same part of the island. They seem to have
been the priests, and priestesses, of the Leontini, who resided at Pelorus, and in the Cyclopian
towers: on which account the Lamiæ are by Lucilius termed [649]Turricolæ. They are supposed
to have delighted in human blood, like the Cyclopians, but with this difference, that their
chief repast was the flesh of young persons and children; of which they are represented as
very greedy. They were priests of Ham, called El Ham; from whence was formed ’Lamus and ’Lamia.
Their chief city, the same probably, which was named Tauromenium, is mentioned by Homer, as
the city of Lamus.

  [650]Ἑβδοματῃ δ' ἱκομεσθα Λαμου αιπυ πτολιεθρον.

And the inhabitants are represented as of the giant race.

  [651]Φοιτων δ' ιφθιμοι Λαιστρυγονες, αλλοθεν αλλος,
  Μυριοι, ουκ ανδρεσσιν εοικοτες, αλλα Γιγασι.

Many give an account of the Lestrygons, and Lamiæ, upon the Liris in Italy; and also upon other
parts of that coast: and some of them did settle there. But they were more particularly to
be found in [652]Sicily near Leontium, as the Scholiast upon Lycophron observes. [653]Λαιστρυγονες,
ὁι νυν Λεοντινοι. The antient Lestrygons were the people, whose posterity are now called Leontini.
The same writer takes notice of their incivility to strangers: [654]Ουκ ησαν ειθισμενοι ξενους
ὑποδεχεσθαι. That they were Amonians, and came originally from Babylonia, is pretty evident
from the history of the Erythrean Sibyl; who was no other than a Lamian priestess. She is said
to have been the daughter of Lamia, who was the daughter of Poseidon. [655]Σιβυλλαν--Λαμιας
ουσαν θυγατερα του Ποσειδωνος. Under the character of one person is to be understood a priesthood:
of which community each man was called Lamus, and each priestess Lamia. By the Sibyl being
the daughter of Lamia, the daughter of Poseidon, is meant, that she was of Lamian original,
and ultimately descended from the great Deity of the sea. Who is alluded to under that character,
will hereafter be shewn. The countries, to which the Sibyl is referred, point out her extraction:
for she is said to have come from Egypt, and Babylonia. [656]Ὁι δε αυτην Βαβυλωνιαν, ἑτεροι
δε Σιβυλλαν καλουσιν Αιγυπτιαν. If the Sibyl came from Babylonia and Egypt, her supposed parent,
Lamia, must have been of the same original.

The Lamiæ were not only to be found in Italy, and Sicily, but Greece, Pontus, and [657]Libya.
And however widely they may have been separated, they are still represented in the same unfavourable
light. Euripides says, that their very name was detestable.

  [658]Τις τ' ουνομα τοδ' επονειδιστον βροτοις
  Ουκ οιδε Λαμιας της Λιβυστικης γενος.

Philostratus speaks of their bestial appetite, and unnatural gluttony. [659]Λαμιας σαρκων,
και μαλιστα ανθρωπειων ερᾳν. And Aristotle alludes to practices still more shocking: as if
they tore open the bodies big with child, that they might get at the infant to devour it. I
speak, says he, of people, who have brutal appetites. [660]Λεγω δε τας θηριωδεις, ὁιον την
ανθρωπον, την λεγουσι τας κυουσας ανασχιζουσαν τα παιδια κατεσθεειν. These descriptions are
perhaps carried to a great excess; yet the history was founded in truth: and shews plainly
what fearful impressions were left upon the minds of men from the barbarity of the first ages.

One of the principal places in Italy, where the Lamia seated themselves, was about Formiæ;
of which Horace takes notice in his Ode to Ælius Lamia.

  [661]Æli, vetusto nobilis ab Lamo, &c.
  Authore ab illo ducis originem,
  Qui Formiarum mœnia dicitur
    Princeps, et innantem Maricæ
    Littoribus tenuisse Lirim.

The chief temple of the Formians was upon the sea-coast at Caiete. It is said to have had its
name from a woman, who died here: and whom some make the nurse of Æneas, others of Ascanius,
others still of [662]Creusa. The truth is this: it stood near a cavern, sacred to the God Ait,
called Ate, Atis, and Attis; and it was hence called Caieta, and Caiatta. Strabo says, that
it was denominated from a cave, though he did not know the precise [663]etymology. There were
also in the rock some wonderful subterranes, which branched out into various apartments. Here
the antient Lamii, the priests of Ham, [664]resided: whence Silius Italicus, when he speaks
of the place, styles it [665]Regnata Lamo Caieta. They undoubtedly sacrificed children here;
and probably the same custom was common among the Lamii, as prevailed among the Lacedæmonians,
who used to whip their children round the altar of Diana Orthia. Thus much we are assured by
Fulgentius, and others, that the usual term among the antient Latines for the whipping of children
was Caiatio. [666]Apud Antiquos Caiatio dicebatur puerilis cædes.

The coast of Campania seems to have been equally infamous: and as much dreaded by mariners,
as that of Rhegium, and Sicily. Here the Sirens inhabited, who are represented, as the bane
of all, who navigated those seas. They like the Lamii were Cuthite, and Canaanitish priests,
who had founded temples in these parts; and particularly near three small islands, to which
they gave name. These temples were rendered more than ordinary famous on account of the women,
who officiated. They were much addicted to the cruel rites, of which I have been speaking;
so that the shores, upon which they resided, are described, as covered with the bones of men,
destroyed by their artifice.

  [667]Jamque adeo scopulos Sirenum advecta subibat,
  Difficiles quondam, multorumque ossibus albos.

They used hymns in their temples, accompanied with the music of their country: which must have
been very enchanting, as we may judge from the traditions handed down of its efficacy. I have
mentioned, that the songs of the Canaanites and Cretans were particularly plaintive, and pleasing:

  [668]They sang in sweet but melancholy strains;
  Such as were warbled by the Delian God,
  When in the groves of Ida he bewail'd
  The lovely lost Atymnius.

But nothing can shew more fully the power of antient harmony than the character given of the
Sirens. Their cruelty the antients held in detestation; yet always speak feelingly of their
music. They represent their songs as so fatally winning, that nobody could withstand their
sweetness. All were soothed with it; though their life was the purchase of the gratification.
The Scholiast upon Lycophron makes them the children of the muse [669]Terpsichore. Nicander
supposes their mother to have been Melpomene: others make her Calliope. The whole of this is
merely an allegory; and means only that they were the daughters of harmony. Their efficacy
is mentioned by [670]Apollonius Rhodius: and by the Author of the Orphic [671]Argonautica:
but the account given by Homer is by far the most affecting.

  [672]Σειρηνας μεν πρωτον αφιξεαι, ἁι ῥα τε παντας
  Ανθρωπους θελγουσιν, ὁτις σφεας εισαφικανει.
  Ὁστις αϊδρειῃ πελασει, και φθογγον ακουσει
  Σειρηνων, τῳ δ' ουτι γυνη, και νηπια τεκνα
  Οικαδε νοστησαντι παρισταται, ουδε γανυνται·
  Αλλα τε Σειρηνες λιγυρῃ θελγουσιν αοιδῃ,
  Ἡμενοι εν λειμωνι· πολυς τ' αμφ' οστεοφιν θις
  Ανδρων πυθομενων, περι δε ῥινοι φθινυθουσιν.

They are the words of Circe to Ulysses, giving him an account of the dangers which he was to
encounter.

The story at bottom relates to the people above-mentioned; who with their music used to entice
strangers into the purlieus of their temples, and then put them to death. Nor was it music
only, with which persons were seduced to follow them. The female part of their choirs were
maintained for a twofold purpose, both on account of their voices and their beauty. They were
accordingly very liberal of their favours, and by these means enticed seafaring persons, who
paid dearly for their entertainment. Scylla was a personage of this sort: and among the fragments
of Callimachus we have a short, but a most perfect, description of her character.

  [674]Σκυλλα, γυνη κατακασα, και ου ψυθος ουνομ' εχουσα.

Κατακασα is by some interpreted malefica: upon which the learned Hemsterhusius remarks very
justly--κατακασα cur Latine vertatur malefica non video. Si Grammaticis obtemperes, meretricem
interpretabere: erat enim revera Νησιωτις καλη ἑταιρα, ut Heraclitus περι απις: c. 2. Scylla
then, under which character we are here to understand the chief priestess of the place, was
no other than a handsome island strumpet. Her name it seems betokened as much, and she did
not belie it: ου ψυθος ουνομ' εχουσα. We may from these data decipher the history of Scylla,
as given by Tzetzes. Ην δε πρωτον Σκυλλα γυνη ευπρεπης· Ποσειδωνι δε συνουσα απεθηριωθη. Scylla
was originally a handsome wench: but being too free with seafaring people she made herself
a beast. She was, like the Sibyl of Campania, said by Stesichorus to have been the daughter
of [675]Lamia. Hence we may learn, that all, who resided in the places, which I have been describing,
were of the same religion, and of the same family; being the descendants of Ham, and chiefly
by the collateral branches of Chus, and Canaan.

The like rites prevailed in Cyprus, which had in great measure been peopled by persons of these
[676]families. One of their principal cities was Curium, which was denominated from [677]Curos,
the Sun, the Deity, to whom it was sacred. In the perilous voyages of the antients nothing
was more common than for strangers, whether shipwrecked, or otherwise distressed, to fly to
the altar of the chief Deity, Θεου φιλιου, και ξενιου, the God of charity and hospitality,
for his protection. This was fatal to those who were driven upon the western coast of Cyprus.
The natives of Curium made it a rule to destroy all such, under an appearance of a religious
rite. Whoever laid their hands upon the altar of Apollo, were cast down the precipice, upon
which it stood. [678]Ευθυς εστιν ακρα, αφ' ἡς ῥιπτουσι τους ἁψαμενους του βωμου του Απολλωνος.
Strabo speaks of the practice, as if it subsisted in his time. A like custom prevailed at the
Tauric Chersonesus, as we are informed by Herodotus. [679]Θυουσι μεν τῃ Παρθενῳ τους τε ναυηγους,
και τους αν λαβωσι Ἑλληνων επαναχθεντας, τροπῳ τοιῳδε. Καταρξαμενοι ῥοπαλῳ παιουσι την κεφαλην.
Ὁι μεν δη λεγουσι, ὡς το σωμα απο του κρημνου διωθεουσι κατω· επι γαρ κρημνου ἱδρυται το Ἱρον.
κτλ. The people of this place worship the virgin Goddess Artemis: at whose shrine they sacrifice
all persons, who have the misfortune to be shipwrecked upon their coast: and all the Grecians,
that they can lay hold of, when they are at any time thither driven. All these they without
any ceremony brain with a club. Though others say, that they shove them off headlong from a
high precipice: for their temple is founded upon a cliff.

The den of Cacus was properly Ca-Chus, the cavern or temple of Chus, out of which the poets,
and later historians have formed a strange personage, whom they represent as a shepherd, and
the son of Vulcan. Many antient Divinities, whose rites and history had any relation to Ur
in Chaldea, are said to have been the children of Vulcan; and oftentimes to have been born
in fire. There certainly stood a temple of old upon the Aventine mountain in Latium, which
was the terror of the neighbourhood. The cruelties of the priests, and their continual depredations,
may be inferred from the history of Cacus. Virgil makes Evander describe the place to Æneas;
though it is supposed in his time to have been in ruins.

  [680]Jam primum saxis suspensam hanc aspice rupem,
  Disjectæ procul ut moles, desertaque montis
  Stat domus, et scopuli ingentem traxere ruinam.
  Hic spelunca fuit, vasto submota recessu,
  Semihominis Caci, facies quam dira tegebat,
  Solis inaccessum radiis: semperque recenti
  Cæde tepebat humus; foribusque affixa superbis
  Ora virûm tristi pendebant pallida tabo.
  Huic monstro Vulcanus erat pater.

Livy mentions Cacus as a shepherd, and a person of great strength, and violence. [681]Pastor,
accola ejus loci, Cacus, ferox viribus. He is mentioned also by Plutarch, who styles him Caccus,
Κακκος. [682]Τον μεν γαρ Ἡφαιστου παιδα Ρωμαιοι Κακκον ἱστορουσι πυρ και φλογας αφιεναι δια
του στοματος εξω ῥεουσας. As there were both priests, and priestesses, in temples of this sort,
persons styled both Lami, and Lamiæ; so we read both of a Cacus, and a Caca. The latter was
supposed to have been a Goddess, who was made a Deity for having betrayed her brother to Hercules.
[683]Colitur et Caca, quæ Herculi fecit indicium boum; divinitatem consecuta, quia perdidit
fratrem. In short, under the characters of Caca, and Cacus, we have a history of Cacusian priests,
who seem to have been a set of people devoted to rapine and murder.

What we express Cocytus, and suppose to have been merely a river, was originally a temple in
Egypt called Co-Cutus: for rivers were generally denominated from some town, or temple, near
which they ran. Co-Cutus means the Cuthite temple, the house of Cuth. It was certainly a place
of inquisition, where great cruelties were exercised. Hence the river, which was denominated
from it, was esteemed a river of hell; and was supposed to have continual cries, and lamentations
resounding upon its waters.

  [684]Cocytus, named of lamentation loud
  Heard on its banks.

Milton supposes the river to have been named from the Greek word κωκυτος: but the reverse is
the truth. From the baleful river and temple Co-cutus came the Greek terms κωκυτος, and κωκυω.
Acheron, another infernal river, was properly a temple of Achor, the θεος απομυιος of Egypt,
Palestine, and Cyrene. It was a temple of the Sun, called Achor-On: and it gave name to the
river, on whose banks it stood. Hence like Cocutus it was looked upon as a melancholy stream,
and by the Poet Theocritus styled [685]Αχεροντα πολυστονον, the river of lamentations. Aristophanes
speaks of an eminence of this name, and calls it [686]Αχεροντιος σκοπελος ἁιματοσταγης, the
rock of Acheron, dropping blood.

       *       *       *       *       *

OF

MEED OR ΜΗΤΙΣ,

AND THE

GODDESS HIPPA.

One of the most antient Deities of the Amonians was named Meed, or Meet; by which was signified
divine wisdom. It was rendered by the Grecians Μητις in the masculine: but seems to have been
a feminine Deity; and represented under the symbol of a beautiful female countenance surrounded
with serpents. The author of the Orphic Poetry makes Metis the origin of all [687]things: which
Proclus expresses [688]την δημιουργικην αιτιαν: and supposes this personage to be the same
as Phanes, and Dionusus, from whom all things proceeded. By Timotheus Chronographus, in his
account of the creation, this divinity was described as that vivifying light, which first broke
forth upon the infant world, and produced life and motion. His notion is said to have been
borrowed from Orpheus: Εφρασε δε (ὁ [689] Ορφευς) ὁτι το φως ῥηξαν τον αιθερα εφωτισε πασαν
την κτισιν· ειπων, εκεινο ειναι το φως το ῥηξαν τον αιθερα το προειρημενον, το ὑπερτατον παντων,
ὁυ ονομα ὁ αυτος Ορφευς ακουσας εκ Μαντειας εξειπε ΜΗΤΙΣ, ὁπερ ἑρμηνευεται ΒΟΥΛΗ, ΦΩΣ, ΖΩΟΔΟΤΗΡ.
Ειπεν εν τῃ αυτου εκθεσει ταυτας τας τρεις θειας των ονοματων δυναμεις μιαν ειναι δυναμιν,
και ἑν κρατος τουτων Θεον, ὁν ουδεις ὁρᾳ. The account is remarkable. Hippa was another Goddess,
of the like antiquity, and equally obsolete. Some traces however are to be still found in the
Orphic verses above-mentioned, by which we may discover her original character and department.
She is there represented as the nurse of [690]Dionusus, and seems to have been the same as
Cybele, who was worshipped in the mountains of [691]Phrygia, and by the Lydians upon Tmolus.
She is said to have been the soul of the [692]world: and the person who received and fostered
Dionusus, when he came from the thigh of his father. This history relates to his second birth,
when he returned to a second state of childhood. Dionusus was the chief God of the Gentile
world, and worshipped under various titles; which at length came to be looked upon as different
Deities. Most of these secondary Divinities had the title of Hippius, and Hippia: and as they
had female attendants in their temples, these too had the name of Hippai. What may have been
the original of the term Hippa, and Hippus, will be matter of future disquisition. Thus much
is certain, that the Greeks, who were but little acquainted with the purport of their antient
theology, uniformly referred it to [693]horses. Hence it was often prefixed to the names of
Gods, and of Goddesses, when it had no relation to their department; and seemed inconsistent
with their character. We have not only an account of Αρης Ἱππιος, Mars the horseman; but of
Poseidon Hippius, though a God of the sea. He is accordingly complimented upon this title by
the Poet Aristophanes.

  [694]Ἱππι' Αναξ Ποσειδον, ᾡ
  Χαλκοκροτων ἱππων κτυπος
  Και χρεμετισμος ἁνδανει.

Ceres had the title of Hippia: and the Goddess of wisdom, Minerva, had the same. We read also
of Juno Hippia, who at Olympia partook of joint rites and worship, with those equestrian Deities
Neptune, and Mars. Pausanias mentions [695]Ποσειδωνος Ἱππιου, μαι Ἡρας Ἱππιου βωμοι: and hard-by
τῃ μεν Αρεως Ἱππιου, τῃ δε Αθηνας Ἱππιου βωμος. In Arcadia, and Elis, the most antient rites
were preserved: and the Grecians might have known, that the terms Hippa and Hippia were of
foreign purport from the other titles given to Juno at Olympia. For they sacrificed here to
[696]Amonian Juno, and to Juno Paramonian; which were also titles of Hermes. Hippa was a sacred
Egyptian term, and as such was conferred upon Arsinoë, the wife of Ptolemy Philadelphus: for
the princes of Egypt always assumed to themselves sacred appellations. [697]Ἱππια Αρσινοη,
ἡ του Φιλαδελφου γυνη. As the Grecians did not inquire into the hidden purport of antient names,
they have continually misrepresented the histories of which they treated. As Ceres was styled
Hippa, they have imagined her to have been turned into a [698]mare: and Hippius Poseidon was
in like manner changed to a horse, and supposed in that shape to have had an intimate acquaintance
with the Goddess. Of this Ovid takes notice.

  [699]Et te, flava comas, frugum mitissima mater
  Sensit equum: te sensit avem crinita colubris
  Mater equi volucris.

The like is mentioned of the nymph [700]Ocuroë: also of Philyra, who was so changed by Saturn.
He is said to have taken upon himself the same shape, and to have followed her neighing over
the mountains of Thessaly.

  [701]Talis et ipse jubam cervice effudit equinâ
  Conjugis adventu pernix Saturnus, et altum
  Pelion hinnitu fugiens implevit acuto.

All these legendary stories arose from this antient term being obsolete, and misapplied. Homer
makes mention of the mares of Apollo, which the God was supposed to have bred in Pieria:

  [702]Τας εν Πιεριῃ θρεψ' αργυροτοξος Απολλων.

And he has accordingly put them in harness, and given them to the hero Eumelus. Callimachus
takes notice of the same mares in his hymn to the Shepherd God Apollo.

  [703]Φοιβον και Νομιον κικλησκομεν, εξετ' εκεινου,
  Εξετ' επ' Αμφρυσῳ ζευγητιδας ετρεφεν ἱππας,
  Ηιθεου ὑπ' ερωτι κεκαυμενος Αδμητοιο.

These Hippai, misconstrued mares, were priestesses of the Goddess Hippa, who was of old worshipped
in Thessaly, and Thrace, and in many different regions. They chanted hymns in her temples,
and performed the rites of fire: but the worship growing obsolete, the very terms were at last
mistaken. How far this worship once prevailed may be known from the many places denominated
from Hippa. It was a title of Apollo, or the Sun, and often compounded Hippa On, and contracted
Hippon: of which name places occur in Africa near Carthage[704]. Ἡτε δη Κιρτα πολις ενταυθα
και ὁι δυο Ἱππωνες. Argos was of old called Hippeion; not from the animal Ἱππος, but [705]απο
Ἱππης του Δαναου, from Hippa the daughter of Danaus. That is from a priestess, who founded
there a temple, and introduced the rites of the Goddess whom she served. As it was a title
of the Sun, it was sometimes expressed in the masculine gender Hippos: and Pausanias takes
notice of a most curious, and remarkable piece of antiquity, though he almost ruins the purport
of it by referring it to an horse. It stood near mount Taygetus in Laconia, and was called
the monument of Hippos. The author tells us, [706]that at particular intervals from this monument
stood seven pillars, κατα τροπον οιμαι αρχαιον, placed, says he, as I imagine, according to
some antient rule and method; which pillars were supposed to represent the seven planets. If
then these exterior stones related to the [707]seven erratic bodies in our sphere, the central
monument of Hippos must necessarily have been designed for the Sun. And however rude the whole
may possibly have appeared, it is the most antient representation upon record, and consequently
the most curious, of the planetary system.

It is from hence, I think, manifest, that the titles Hippa, and Hippos, related to the luminary
Osiris; and betokened some particular department of that Deity, who was the same as Dionusus.
He was undoubtedly worshipped under this appellation in various regions: hence we read of Hippici
Montes in Colchis: Ἱππου κωμη in Lycia: Ἱππου ακρα in Libya: Ἱππου ορος in Egypt: and a town
Hippos in Arabia Felix. There occur also in composition[708], Hippon, Hipporum, Hippouris,
Hippana, Hipponesus, Hippocrene. This last was a sacred fountain, denominated from the God
of light, who was the patron of verse, and science: but by the Greeks it was referred to an
animal, and supposed to have been produced by the hoof of an horse. The rites of Dionusus Hippius
were carried into Thrace, where the horses of Diomedes were said to have been fed with human
flesh. Deianira is introduced by Ovid, as asking Hercules, if he did not well remember this
practice.

  [709]Non tibi succurrit crudi Diomedis imago,
  Efferus humanâ qui dape pavit equos?

Abderus, the founder of Abdera, is supposed to have been a victim to these animals: of which
Scymnus Chius gives the following account.

  [710]Των δ' επι θαλαττῃ κειμενων εστιν πολις
  Αβδηρ', απ' Αβδηρου μεν ωνομασμενη,
  Του και κτισαντος προτερον αυτην· ὁς δοκει
  Ὑπο των Διομηδους ὑστερον ξενοκτονων
  Ἱππων φθαρηναι.

These horses, ξενοκτονοι, which fed upon the flesh of strangers, were the priests of Hippa,
and of Dionusus, styled Hippus, or more properly Hippius. They seem to have resided in an island,
and probably in the Thracian Chersonese: which they denominated [711]Diu-Medes, or the island
of the Egyptian Deity Medes. From hence the Grecian Poets have formed a personage Diomedes,
whom they have made king of the country. There were opposite to Apulia islands of the same
name, where similar rites prevailed. The priests were here Cycneans, and described as a species
of swans, who were kind to people of their own race, but cruel to [712]strangers. A Diomedes
is supposed to have been a king in these parts, and to have given name to these islands. It
is said by Scymnus Chios above, that Abderus, who was devoured by the horses of Diomedes in
Thrace, built the city, which bore his name. The Grecians continually supposed the personage,
in whose honour a city was built, to have been the founder. I have mentioned, that Abderus
signifies the place of Abdir, which is a contraction of Abadir, the serpent Deity Ad-Ur, or
Adorus. And it is plain from many passages in antient writers, that human sacrifices were common
at his shrine; and particularly those of infants. By Abdera being a victim to the horses of
Diomedes is meant that the natives of that place, which stood in the vicinity of the Chersonesus,
were obliged to submit to the cruel rites of the Diomedean [713]priests. The very name must
have come from them; for they worshipped the Deity under the titles of Meed, Hippa, and Abadir;
and various other appellations.

There is an account given by [714]Palæphatus of one Metra, who in the more authentic manuscripts
is called Μηστρα, Meestra. It is said of her, that she could change herself into various forms,
particularly εκ κορης γενεσθαι βουν, και αυθις κυνα, και ορνεον, that she would instead of
a young woman appear an ox, or a cow; or else be in the shape of a dog, or of a bird. She is
represented as the daughter of Eresicthon: and these uncommon properties are mentioned by Ovid[715],
who sets them off with much embellishment. The story at bottom is very plain. Egypt, the land
of the Mizraim, was by the Greeks often styled [716]Mestra and [717]Mestraia: and by the person
here called Mestra we are certainly to understand a woman of that country. She was sometimes
mentioned simply as a Cahen, or priestess, which the Grecians have rendered κυνα, a dog. Women
in this sacred capacity attended at the shrine of Apis, and Mneuis; and of the sacred heifer
at Onuphis. Some of them in different countries were styled Cygneans, and also Peleiadæ, of
whom the principal were the women at [718]Dodona. Many of them were priestesses of Hippa, and
upon that account styled Hippai, as I have shewn. Hence the mythologists under the character
of Meestra have represented an Egyptian priestess, who could assume many departments, which
were misconstrued different shapes. She could become, if we may credit Ovid,

  Nunc equa, nunc ales, modo bos.

or according to Palæphatus, βουν, κυνα, και ορνεον: a cow, a dog, and a bird. The whole of
this related to the particular service of the priestess; and to the emblem under which the
Deity was worshipped.

       *       *       *       *       *

RITES

OF

DAMATER, OR CERES.

I shall now proceed to the rites of Ceres: and the general character of this Goddess is so
innocent, and rural, that one would imagine nothing cruel could proceed from her shrine. But
there was a time, when some of her temples were as much dreaded, as those of Scylla, and the
Cyclops. They were courts of justice; whence she is often spoken of as a lawgiver.

  [719]Prima Ceres unco terram dimovit aratro,
  Prima dedit leges. The Deity, to whom she was a substitute, was El, the Sun. He was
primarily worshipped in these temples: and I have shewn, that they were
from Achor denominated Acherontian; also temples of Ops, and Oupis, the
great serpent God. Hence it is said by Hesychius, that Acheron, and Ops,
and Helle, and [721]Gerys, and Terra, and Demeter, were the same. Ἡ
[722]Αχερω, και Ωπις, και Ἑλλη, και Γηρυς, και Γη, και Δημητηρ, [723]το
αυτο. Ceres was the Deity of fire: hence at Cnidus she was called Κυρα,
[724]Cura, a title of the Sun. Her Roman name Ceres, expressed by Hesychius
Gerys, was by the Dorians more properly rendered [725]Garys. It was
originally a name of a city, called Χαρις: for many of the Deities were
erroneously called by the names of the places where they were worshipped.
Charis is Char-Is, the [726]city of fire; the place where Orus and
Hephastus were worshipped. Hence as a personage she is made the wife of
[727]Vulcan, on account of her relation to fire. Her title of Damater was
equally foreign to Greece; and came from Babylonia, and the east. It may
after this seem extraordinary, that she should ever be esteemed the Goddess
of corn. This notion arose in part from the Grecians not understanding
their own theology: which bad originally, became continually more depraved,
through their ignorance. The towers of Ceres were P'urtain, or Πρυτανεια;
so called from the fires, which were perpetually there preserved. The
Grecians interpreted this πυρου ταμειον; and rendered, what was a temple of
Orus, a granary of corn. In consequence of this, though they did not
abolish the antient usage of the place, they made it a repository of grain,
from whence they gave largesses to the people upon any act of merit.
[728]Τοπος ην παρ' Αθηναιοις, εν ᾡ κοιναι σιτησεις τοις δημοσιοις
ευεργεταις εδιδοντο· ὁθεν και Πρυτανειον εκαλειτο, ὁιονει πυροταμειον·
πυρος γαρ ὁ σιτος· In early times the corn there deposited seems to have
been for the priests and [729]diviners. But this was only a secondary use,
to which these places were adapted. They were properly sacred towers, where
a perpetual fire was preserved. Pausanias takes notice of such a one in
Arcadia. [730]Δημητρος, και Κορης ἱερον, πυρ δε ενταυθα καιουσι, ποιουμενοι
φροντιδα, μη λαθῃ σφισιν αποσβεσθεν. He mentions a like circumstance at the
Prutaneion in Elis[731]: Εστι δε ᾑ Ἑστια τεφρας και αυτη πεποιημενη, και
επ' αυτης πυρ ανα πασαν τε ἡμεραν, και εν πασῃ νυκτι ὡσαυτως καιεται.
Attica at first was divided into separate and independent hamlets: each of
which had its own Prutaneion, and Archon. These Archons were priests of the
[732]Prutaneia; and were denominated from their office. Archon is the same
as Orchon, and like Chon-Or signifies the God of light, and fire; from
which title the priests had their name. In Babylonia, and Chaldea, they
were called Urchani.

As in these temples there was always a [733]light, and a fire burning on the hearth, some of
the Grecians have varied in their etymology, and have derived the name from πυρ, Pur. Suidas
supposes it to have been originally called Πυρος ταμειον. [734]Πρυτανειον, πυρος ταμειον, ενθα
ην ασβεστον πυρ. The Scholiast upon Thucydides speaks to the same purpose. [735]Αλλοι δε φασιν,
ὁτι το Πρυτανειον πυρος ην ταμειον, ενθα ην ασβεστον πυρ. Others tell us, that the Prutaneion
was of old called Puros Tameion, from πυρ, pur: because it was the repository of a perpetual
fire. It was sacred to Hestia, the Vesta of the Romans; which was only another title for Damater:
and the sacred hearth had the same name. [736]Ἑστιαν δ' αν κυριωτατα καλοιης την εν Πρυτανειῳ,
εφ' ἡς το πυρ το ασβεστον αναπτεται. I have mentioned, that these places were temples, and
at the same time courts of justice: hence we find, that in the Prutaneion at Athens, the laws
of Solon were [737]engraved. These laws were described upon wooden cylinders: some of which
remained to the time of [738]Plutarch.

Many of these temples were dedicated to the Deity under the name of Persephone, or Proserpine,
the supposed daughter of Ceres. They were in reality the same personage. Persephone was styled
Κορα, Cora; which the Greeks misinterpreted Παρθενος, the virgin, or damsel. How could a person,
who according to the received accounts had been ravished by Pluto, and been his consort for
ages; who was the reputed queen of hell, be styled by way of eminence Παρθενος? Κορα, Cora,
which they understood was the same as Cura, a feminine title of the sun: by which Ceres also
was called at Cnidos. However mild and gentle Proserpine may have been represented in her virgin
state by the Poets; yet her tribunal seems in many places to have been very formidable. In
consequence of this we find her with Minos, and Rhadamanthus, condemned to the shades below,
as an infernal inquisitor. Nonnus says,

    [739]Περσεφονη θωρηξεν Εριννυας.

Proserpine armed the furies. The notion of which Furies arose from the cruelties practised
in these Prutaneia. They were called by the Latines, Furiæ; and were originally only priests
of fire: but were at last ranked among the hellish tormentors. Ceres the benefactress, and
lawgiver, was sometimes enrolled in the list of these dæmons. This is manifest from a passage
in Antimachus, quoted by Pausanias, where her temple is spoken of as the shrine of a Fury.

    [740]Δημητρος, τοθι φασιν Εριννυος ειναι εδεθλον.

The like is mentioned by the Scholiast upon Lycophron, [741]Εριννυς ἡ Δημητηρ εν Ογκαις πολει
της Αρκαδιας τιμᾳται. Her temple stood upon the river Ladon, and she had this name given to
her by the people of the place. Καλουσι δε Εριννυν ὁι Θελπουσιοι την Θεον. The Thelpusians
call the Goddess Demeter a Fury. Herodotus speaks of a Prutaneion in Achaia Pthiotic, called
Leïtus; of which he gives a fearful account. No person, he says, ever entered the precincts,
who returned. Whatever person ever strayed that way, was immediately seized upon by the priests,
and sacrificed. The custom so far prevailed, that many, who thought they were liable to suffer,
fled away to foreign parts. And he adds, that after a long time, when any of them ventured
to return, if they were caught, they were immediately led to the Prutaneion. Here they were
crowned with garlands. and in great parade conducted to the altar. I shall quote the author's
words. [742]Ληιτον δε καλεουσι το Πρυτανηιον ὁι Αχαιοι· ην δε εσελθῃ, ουκ εστι, ὁκως εξεισι,
πριν η θυσεσθαι μελλῃ· ὡστε τι προς τουτοισι πολλοι ηδε των μελλοντων τουτεων θυσεσθαι, δεισαντες
οιχοντο αποδραντες ες αλλην χωρην. Χρονου δε προϊοντος, οπισω κατελθοντες, ην αλισκωνται, εστελλοντο
ες το Πρυτανηιον, ὡς θυεται τε εξηγεοντο, στεμμασι πας πυκασθεις, και ὡς συν πομπῃ εξαχθεις.
The people of Leïtus are said to have been the sons of Cutissorus. Herodotus speaks of the
temple, as remaining in his time: and of the custom still subsisting. He farther mentions,
that when Xerxes was informed of the history of this place, as he passed through Thessaly,
he withheld himself from being guilty of any violation. And he moreover ordered his army to
pay due regard to its sanctity; so very awful, it seems, was mysterious cruelty.

I imagine, that the story of the Harpies relates to priests of the Sun. They were denominated
from their seat of residence, which was an oracular temple called Harpi, and Hirpi, analogous
to Orphi, and Urphi in other places. I have shewn, that the antient name of a priest was Cahen,
rendered mistakenly κυν, and canis. Hence the Harpies, who were priests of Ur, are styled by
Apollonius, the Dogs of Jove. His accosting Calais, and Zethus, tells them, that it would be
a profanation to offer any injury to those personages.

  [743]Ου θεμις, ω ὑιεις Βορεου ξιφεεσιν ελασσαν
  Ἁρπυιας, μεγαλοιο Διος ΚYΝΑΣ.

This term in the common acceptation is not applicable to the Harpies, either as birds, for
so they are represented; or as winged animals. But this representation was only the insigne
of the people, as the vulture, and eagle were of the Egyptians: a lion of the Persians. The
Harpies were certainly a [744]college of priests in Bithynia; and on that account called Cahen.
They seem to have been a set of rapacious persons, who, for their repeated acts of violence,
and cruelty, were driven out of the country. Their temple was styled Arpi; and the environs
Arpi-ai: hence the Grecians formed [745]Ἁρπυιαι. There was a region in Apulia named Arpi; and
in its neighbourhood were the islands of Diomedes, and the birds, which were fabled to have
been like swans. I have before shewn, that they were Amonian priests: so likewise were the
Hirpi near Soracte in Latium. They were priests of fire: of whose customs I have taken notice.

The persons who resided in these temples are represented as persons of great strength and stature:
for many of them were of the race of Anac. There is reason to think, that a custom prevailed
in these places of making strangers engage in fight with some of the priests trained up for
that purpose. The manner of contention was either with the cæstus, or by wrestling. And as
the priest appointed for the trial was pretty sure of coming off the conqueror, the whole was
looked upon as a more specious kind of sacrifice. Amycus, who was king of Bithynia, is represented
as of a [746]gigantic size, and a great proficient with the cæstus. He was in consequence of
it the terror of all strangers who came upon the coast. Cercyon of [747]Megara was equally
famed for wrestling; by which art he slew many, whom he forced to the unequal contention. But
Cercyon was the name of the [748]place; and they were the Cercyonians, the priests of the temple,
who were noted for these achievements. Pausanias gives an account of them under the character
of one person. [749]Ειναι δε ὁ Κερκυων λεγεται και τα αλλα αδικος εις τους ξενους, και παλαιειν
ου βουλομενοις. Cercyon was in other respects lawless in his behaviour towards strangers; but
especially towards those who would not contend with him in wrestling. These Cercyonians were
undoubtedly priests of Ceres, or Damater: who seems to have been tired of their service, and
glad to get rid of them, as we are informed by the poet.

  [750]Quæque Ceres læto vidit pereuntia vultu
    Corpora Theseâ Cercyonea manu.

Before most temples of old were areas, which were designed for Gumnasia, where these feats
of exercise were performed. Lucian speaks of one before the temple of [751]Apollo Lucius. And
Pausanias mentions that particular [752]parade, where Cercyon was supposed to have exhibited
his art. It stood before the tomb of Alope, and was called the Palæstra of Cercyon even in
the time of this writer, who takes notice of many others. He styles it ταφος Αλοπης, as if
it were a tomb. But it was a Taph, or high altar, sacred to Al-Ope, Sol Pytho, who was the
Deity of the place called Cer-Cuon. Before this altar was the palæstra; where the Cercyonian
priests obliged people to contend with them. I have taken notice of a Pharos at [753]Torone,
which Proteus is said to have quitted, that he might not be witness to the cruelties of his
sons. He fled, it seems, to Egypt, Τεκνων αλυξας τας ξενοκτονας παλας, to shun their wicked
practices: for they were so skilled in the Palæstric art, that they slew all strangers whom
they forced to engage with them. Taurus, called Minotaurus, was a temple in Crete: but by the
Grecians is spoken of as a person. Under this character Taurus is represented as a [754]renowned
wrestler, and many persons are said to have been sent from Athens to be victims to his prowess.
Eusebius styles him, [755]ωμος και ανημερος, a man of a cruel and sour disposition. After he
had done much mischief, Theseus at length Ταυρον κατεπαλαισε, foiled him in his own art, and
slew him. He is supposed to have done the like by Cercyon. [756]Λεγεται δε ὁ Κερκυων τους διασταντας
παντας ες παλην [757]διαφθειραι πλην Θησεως. For it is said of Cercyon, that he slew every
person who ventured to cope with him in wrestling, except Theseus. In all these instances the
place is put for the persons who resided in it: of which mistake I have been obliged often
to take notice.

Antient history affords numberless instances of this ungenerous and cruel practice. The stranger,
who stood most in need of courtesy, was treated as a profest enemy: and the rites of hospitality
were evaded under the undue sanction of a sacrifice to the Gods. In the history of Busiris
we have an account of this custom prevailing in Egypt. [758]Βουσιριν δε κατα την Αιγυπτον τῳ
Διι καλλιερειν σφαγιαζοντα τους παρεπιδημουντας ΞΕΝΟΥΣ. It is said of Busiris, that he used
to offer to Jupiter, as the most acceptable sacrifice, all the strangers, whom chance brought
into his country. There was a tradition concerning Antæus, that he covered the roof of a temple,
sacred to Poseidon, with the sculls of foreigners, whom he forced to engage with him. The manner
of the engagement was by [759]wrestling. Eryx in Sicily was a proficient in this art, and did
much mischief to strangers: till he was in his turn slain. The Deity was the same in these
parts, as was alluded to under the name of Taurus, and Minotaurus, in Crete; and the rites
were the same. Hence Lycophron speaks of Eryx by the name of Taurus; and calls the place of
exercise before the temple,

              [760]Ταυρου γυμναδας κακοξενου
  Παλης κονιστρας.

This the Scholiast interprets παλαιστραν του Ερυκος του ξενοκτονου, The Gymnasium of Eryx,
who used to murder strangers. Androgeos the son of Minos came to the [761]like end, who had
been superior to every body in this art. Euripides styles the hero Cycnus [762]ξενοδαικταν,
on account of his cruelty to strangers. He resided it seems near the sea-coast; used to oblige
every person, who travelled that way, or whom ill fortune brought on shore to contend with
him. And his ambition was to be able with the skulls of the victims, which he slew, to build
a temple to Apollo. [763]Κακοξενος ὁ Κυκνος, και εν παροδῳ της θαλασσης οικων, επεκερτομει
τους παριοντας, ναον τῳ Απολλωνι βουλομενος εκ των κεφαλων οικοδομησαι. Mention is made of
Lycaon, qui advenas et hospites trucidavit. He is said to have founded the temple of Jupiter
[764]Lycæus, and to have first introduced human sacrifices, particularly those of infants.
Λυκαων δε επι τον βωμον τον [765]Λυκαιου Διος βρεφος ηνεγκεν ανθρωπου, και εθυσε το βρεφος,
και εσπεισεν επι του βωμου το ἁιμα. Lycaon was the person, who brought an infant, the offspring
of a man, to the altar of Zeus Lucaios: and he slew the infant, and he sprinkled the altar
with the blood which issued from it. Antinous in Homer threatens to send Irus to one Echetus,
a king in Epirus, who was the dread of that country. The same threat is uttered against [766]Ulysses,
if he should presume to bend the bow, which Penelope had laid before the suitors. Under the
character of Lycaon, Cycnus, &c. we are to understand Lycaonian and Cycnean priests; which
latter were from Canaan: and this method of interpretation is to be observed all through these
histories. Echetus, Εχετος, was a title of Apollo, rendered more commonly [767]Ἑκατος by the
Greeks, as if it came from the word ἑκας. It was an Amonian title by which Orus, and Osiris,
were called: and this king Echetus was a priest of that family, who was named from the Deity,
whom he served. The Poet styles him βροτων δηλημονα, from his cruelty to strangers.

  [768]Πεμψω σ' Ηπειρονδε βαλων εν νηι μελαινῃ
  Εις Εχετον βασιληα, βροτων δηλημονα παντων.
  Ὁς κ' απο ῥινα ταμῃσι, και ουατα νηλεϊ χαλκῳ,
  Μηδεα τ' εξερυσας δωῃ κυσιν ωμα δασασθαι.

  I'll send thee, caitiff, far beyond the seas,
  To the grim tyrant Echetus, who mars
  All he encounters; bane of human kind.
  Thine ears he'll lop, and pare the nose away
  From thy pale ghastly visage: dire to tell!
  The very parts, which modesty conceals,
  He'll tear relentless from the seat of life,
  To feed his hungry hounds.

When the Spaniards got access to the western world, there were to be observed many rites, and
many terms, similar to those, which were so common among the sons of Ham. Among others was
this particular custom of making the person, who was designed for a victim, engage in fight
with a priest of the temple. In this manner he was slaughtered: and this procedure was esteemed
a proper method of [769]sacrifice.

The histories of which I have been speaking were founded in truth, though the personages are
not real. Such customs did prevail in the first ages: and in consequence of these customs we
find those beggarly attributes of wrestling and boxing conferred upon some of the chief Divinities.
Hercules and Pollux were of that number, who were as imaginary beings, as any mentioned above:
yet represented upon earth as sturdy fellows, who righted some, and [770]wronged many. They
were in short a kind of honourable Banditti, who would suffer nobody to do any mischief, but
themselves. From these customs were derived the Isthmian, Nemean, Pythic, and Olympic games,
together with those at Delos. Of these last Homer gives a fine description in his Hymn to Apollo.

  [771]Αλλα συ Δηλῳ, Φοιβε, μαλιστ' επιτερπεαι ητορ.
  Ενθα τοι ἑλκεχιτωνες Ιαονες ηγερεθονται,
  Αυτοις συν παιδεσσι, και αιδοιῃς αλοχοισι.
  Ὁιδε σε ΠYΓΜΑΧΙΗι τε, και ορχηθμῳ, και αοιδῃ
  Μνησαμενοι τερπουσιν, ὁταν στησωνται αγωνα.

These contentions had always in them something cruel, and savage: but in later times they were
conducted with an appearance of equity. Of old the whole ceremony was a most unfair and barbarous
process.

       *       *       *       *       *

CAMPE AND CAMPI.

Another name for those Amonian temples was Campi, of the same analogy, and nearly of the same
purport, as Arpi above-mentioned. It was in after times made to signify the parade before the
temples, where they wrestled, and otherwise celebrated their sacred games; and was expressed
Campus. When chariots came in fashion, these too were admitted within the precincts; and races
of this sort introduced. Among the Latines the word Campus came to mean any open and level
space; but among the Sicilians the true meaning was in some degree preserved. Καμπος--Ιπποδρομος,
Σικυλοι. Hesychius. It was properly a place of exercise in general, and not confined to races.
Hence a combatant was styled [772]Campio, and the chief persons, who presided, [773]Campigeni.
The exercise itself was by the Greeks styled αγων, αεθλος, ἁμιλλα; all Amonian terms, taken
from the titles of the Deity, in whose honour the games were instituted. These temples partly
from their symbols, and partly from their history, being misinterpreted, were by the antient
mythologists represented as so many dragons and monsters. Nonnus mentions both Arpe, and Campe
in this light, and says that the latter had fifty heads, each of some different beast,

              [774]Ης απο δειρης
  Ηνθεε πεντηκοντα καρηατα ποικιλα θηρων.

But Campe was an oracular temple and inclosure, sacred to Ham or Cham: where people used to
exercise. The fifty heads related to the number of the priests, who there resided; and who
were esteemed as so many wild beasts for their cruelty. Nonnus makes Jupiter kill Campe: but
Diodorus Siculus gives the honour to Dionusus; who is supposed to have slain this monster at
Zaborna in Libya; and to have raised over her, χωμα παμμεγεθες, a vast mound of earth. This
heap of soil was in reality a high place or altar; which in after times was taken for a place
of burial. These inclosures grew by degrees into disrepute; and the history of them obsolete.
In consequence of which the ταφοι, or mounds, were supposed to be the tombs of heroes. The
Grecians, who took every history to themselves, imagined, that their Jupiter and Dionusus,
and their Hercules had slain them. But what they took for tombs of enemies were in reality
altars to these very Gods; who were not confined to Greece, nor of Grecian original. The Campanians
in Italy were an antient Amonian colony; and they were denominated from Campe or Campus, which
was probably the first temple, they erected. Stephanus Byzantinus shews, that there was of
old such a place: Καμπος--κτισμα Καμπανου: but would insinuate that it took its name from a
person the head of the colony. Eustathius more truly makes it give name to the people: though
he is not sufficiently determinate. [775]Καμπανοι απο των ὑποκαθημενων εκει Καμπων ωνομασθησαν,
η απο Καμπου πολεως. There were many of these Campi in Greece, which are styled by Pausanias
ὑπαιθρα, in contradistinction to the temples, which were covered. They are to be found in many
parts of the world, where the Amonian religion obtained, which was propagated much farther
than we are aware. In our island the exhibition of those manly sports in vogue among country
people is called Camping: and the inclosures for that purpose, where they wrestle and contend,
are called Camping closes. There are many of them in Cambridgeshire, as well as in other parts
of the kingdom. In Germany we meet with the name of Kæmpenfelt; in which word there is no part
derived from the Latin language: for the terms would then be synonymous, and one of them redundant.
Kæmpenfelt was, I imagine, an antient name for a field of sports, and exercise, like the gymnasium
of the Greeks: and a Camping place in Britain is of the like purport.

       *       *       *       *       *

ANTIENT HEROES.

    Καθολου δε φασιν (ὁι Αιγυπτιοι) τους Ἑλληνας εξιδιαζεσθαι τους
    επιφανεστατους Ἡρωας τε, και Θεους, ετι δε και αποικιας τας παρ'
    ἑαυτων. Diodorus Sicul. l. 1. p. 21.

It has been my uniform purpose, during the whole process, which I have made in my system, to
shew, that the Grecians formed Deities out of titles; and that they often attributed to one
person, what belonged to a people. And when they had completed the history, they generally
took the merit of it to themselves. By means of this clue we may obtain an insight into some
of the most remote, and the most obscure parts of antiquity. For many and great achievements
have been attributed to heroes of the first ages, which it was not possible for them singly
to have performed. And these actions, though in some degree diversified, and given to different
personages, yet upon examination will be found to relate to one people or family; and to be
at bottom one and the same history.

OSIRIS.

If we consider the history of Osiris, he will appear a wonderful conqueror, who travelled over
the face of the whole [776]earth, winning new territories, wherever he came; yet always to
the advantage of those whom he subdued. He is said to have been the son of Rhea: and his chief
attendants in his peregrinations were Pan, Anubis, Macedo, with Maro, a great planter of vines;
also Triptolemus much skilled in husbandry. The people of India claimed Osiris, as their own;
and maintained, that he was born at Nusa in their [777]country. Others supposed his birth-place
to have been at Nusa in [778]Arabia, where he first planted the vine. Many make him a native
of Egypt: and mention the rout of his travels as commencing from that country through Arabia,
and Ethiopia; and then to India, and the regions of the east. When he was arrived at the extremities
of the ocean, he turned back, and passed through the upper provinces of Asia, till he came
to the Hellespont, which he crossed. He then entered [779]Thrace, with the King of which he
had a severe encounter: yet he is said to have persevered in his rout westward, till he arrived
at the fountains of the Ister. He was also in Italy, and Greece: from the former of which he
expelled the giants near Phlegra in Campania. He visited many places upon the ocean: and though
he is represented as at the head of an army; and his travels were attended with military operations;
yet he is at the same time described with the Muses, and Sciences in his retinue. His march
likewise was conducted with songs, and dances, and the sound of every instrument of music.
He built cities in various parts; particularly [780]Hecatompulos, which he denominated Theba,
after the name of his mother. In every region, whither he came, he is said to have instructed
the people in [781]planting, and sowing, and other useful arts. He particularly introduced
the vine: and where that was not adapted to the soil, he taught the natives the use of ferment,
and shewed them the way to make [782]wine of barley, little inferior to the juice of the grape.
He was esteemed a great blessing to the Egyptians both as a [783]Lawgiver, and a King. He first
built temples to the Gods: and was reputed a general benefactor of [784]mankind. After many
years travel they represent him as returning to Egypt in great triumph, where after his death
he was enshrined as a Deity. His Taphos, or high altar, was shewn in many places: in all which
he in aftertimes was supposed to have been buried. The people of Memphis shewed one of them;
whereon was a sacred pillar, containing a detail of his life, and great actions, to the following
purport. [785]My father was Cronus, the youngest of all the Gods. I am the king Osiris, who
carried my arms over the face of the whole earth, till I arrived at the uninhabited parts of
India. From thence I passed through the regions of the north to the fountain-head of the Ister.
I visited also other remote countries; nor stopped till I came to the western ocean. I am the
eldest son of Cronus; sprung from the genuine and respectable race of (Σωος) Sous, and am related
to the fountain of day. There is not a nation upon earth, where I have not been; and to whose
good I have not contributed.

This is a very curious piece of antient history: and it will be found to be in great measure
true, if taken with this allowance, that what is here said to have been achieved by one person,
was the work of many. Osiris was a title conferred upon more persons than one; by which means
the history of the first ages has been in some degree confounded. In this description the Cuthites
are alluded to, who carried on the expeditions here mentioned. They were one branch of the
posterity of Ham; who is here spoken of as the eldest son of Cronus. How justly they conferred
upon him this rank of primogeniture, I will not determine. By [786]Cronus we are here to understand
the same person, as is also represented under the name of Soüs. This would be more truly expressed
Σωον, Soön; by which is meant the Sun: All the Amonian families affected to be styled Heliadæ,
or the offspring of the Sun: and under this title they alluded to their great ancestor the
father of all: as by Osiris they generally meant Ham. Σωον, Soön, is the same as [787]Zoon,
and Zoan, the fountain of day. The land of Zoan in Egypt was the nome of Heliopolis: and the
city Zoan the place of the Sun. The person then styled here Soüs can be no other than the great
Patriarch under a title of the Sun. He is accordingly by Philo Biblius called Ousoüs in an
extract from Sanchoniathon. He makes him indeed reside, where Tyre was afterwards built; but
supposes him to have lived at a time, when there were great rains and storms; and to have been
the first constructor of a ship, and the first who ventured upon the [788]seas. In respect
to the travels of Osiris we shall find that the posterity of Ham did traverse at different
times the regions above-mentioned: and in many of them took up their abode. They built the
city Memphis in Egypt; also Hecatompulos, which they denominated Theba, after the name of their
reputed mother. They also built Zoan, the city of the Sun.

Osiris is a title often conferred upon the great patriarch himself: and there is no way to
find out the person meant but by observing the history, which is subjoined. When we read of
Osiris being exposed in an ark, and being afterward restored to day; of his planting the vine,
and teaching mankind agriculture; and inculcating religion, and justice; the person alluded
to stands too manifest to need any farther elucidation. And when it is said of Osiris, that
he went over most parts of the habitable globe, and built cities in various regions; this too
may be easily understood. It can allude to nothing else, but a people called Osirians, who
traversed the regions mentioned. They were principally the Cuthites, who went abroad under
various denominations: and the histories of all the great heroes, and heroïnes of the first
ages will be found of the same purport, as the foregoing. Osiris is supposed to have been succeeded
in Egypt by Orus. After Orus came Thoules; who was succeeded by [789]Sesostris.

PERSEUS.

Perseus was one of the most antient heroes in the mythology of Greece: the merit of whose supposed
achievements the Helladians took to themselves; and gave out that he was a native of Argos.
He travelled to the temple of [790]Ammon; and from thence traversed the whole extent of Africa.
He subdued the [791]Gorgons, who lived in Mauritania, and at Tartessus in Bœtica; and defeated
the Ethiopians upon the western ocean, and the nations about mount Atlas: which [792]mountain
he only and Hercules are said to have passed. Being arrived at the extremity of the continent,
he found means to pass over, and to get possession of all the western islands. He warred in
the East; where he freed [793]Andromeda, the daughter of Cepheus king of the eastern Ethiopia,
who was exposed to a sea-monster. Some imagine this to have happened at [794]Joppa in Palestine,
where the [795]bones of this monster of an extraordinary size are supposed to have been for
a long time preserved. He is said to have built [796]Tarsus in Cilicia, reputed the most antient
city in the world; and to have planted the peach tree at [797]Memphis. The Persians were supposed
to have been his descendants. He travelled through Asia Minor, to the country of the [798]Hyperboreans
upon the Ister, and the lake Mæotis; and from thence descended to Greece. Here he built Mycene,
and Tiryns, said by many to have been the work of the Cyclopians. He established a seminary
at Helicon: and was the founder of those families, which were styled Dorian, and Herculean.
It is a doubt among writers, whether he came into Italy. Some of his family were there; who
defeated the giant race in Campania, and who afterwards built Argiletum, and Ardea in Latium.
Virgil supposes it to have been effected by Danae, the mother of this Hero:

  [799]Ardea ---- quam dicitur olim
  Acrisioneïs Danäe fundâsse colonis.

But [800]Servius says, that Perseus himself in his childhood was driven to the coast of Daunia.
He is represented as the ancestor of the Grecian Hercules, supposed to have been born at Thebes
in Bœotia. In reality neither [801]Hercules, nor Perseus, was of Grecian original; notwithstanding
the genealogies framed in that country. The history of the latter came apparently from Egypt,
as we may learn from Diodorus[802]: Φασι δε και τον Περσεα γεγονεναι κατ' Αιγυπτον. Herodotus
more truly represents him as an [803]Assyrian; by which is meant a Babylonian: and agreeably
to this he is said to have married [804]Asterie, the daughter of Belus, the same as Astaroth
and Astarte of Canaan; by whom he had a daughter Hecate. This, though taken from an idle system
of theology, yet plainly shews, that the history of Perseus had been greatly misapplied and
lowered, by being inserted among the fables of Greece. Writers speak of him as a great [805]Astronomer,
and a person of uncommon knowledge. He instructed mariners to direct their way in the sea by
the lights of heaven; and particularly by the polar constellation. This he first observed,
and gave it the name of Helice. Though he was represented as a Babylonian; yet he resided in
Egypt, and is said to have reigned at Memphis. To say the truth, he was worshipped at that
place: for Perseus was a title of the Deity; [806]Περσευς, ὁ Ἡλιος; Perseus was no other than
the Sun, the chief God of the Gentile world. On this account he had a temple of great repute
at [807]Chemmis, as well as at Memphis, and in other parts of Egypt. Upon the Heracleotic branch
of the Nile, near the sea, was a celebrated watch-tower, denominated from him. His true name
was Perez, or Parez, rendered Peresis, Perses, and Perseus: and in the account given of this
personage we have the history of the Peresians, Parrhasians, and Perezites, in their several
peregrinations; who were no other than the Heliadæ, and Osirians abovementioned. It is a mixed
history, in which their forefathers are alluded to; particularly their great progenitor, the
father of mankind. He was supposed to have had a renewal of life: they therefore described
Perseus as inclosed in an [808]ark, and exposed in a state of childhood upon the waters, after
having been conceived in a shower of gold.

Bochart thinks that the name both of Persis and Perseus was from פרס, Paras, an Horse: because
the Persians were celebrated horsemen, and took great delight in that animal. But it must be
considered that the name is very antient, and prior to this use of horses. P'aras, P'arez,
and P'erez, however diversified, signify the Sun; and are of the same analogy as P'ur, P'urrhos,
P'oros, which betoken fire. Every animal, which was in any degree appropriated to a Deity,
was called by some sacred [809]title. Hence an horse was called P'arez: and the same name,
but without the prefix, was given to a lion by many nations in the east. It was at first only
a mark of reference, and betokened a solar animal, specifying the particular Deity to whom
it was sacred. There were many nations, which were distinguished in the same manner; some of
whom the Greeks styled Parrhasians. Hence the antient Arcadians, those Selenitæ, who were undoubtedly
an Amonian colony, had this appellation. A people in Elis had the same. The Poets described
the constellation of Helice, or the Bear, by the title of Parrhasis, Arctos, and Parrhasis
Ursa. This asterism was confessedly first taken notice of by Perez or Perseus, by which is
meant the Persians.

  [810] Versaque ab axe suo Parrhasis Arctos erat.

In the east, where the worship of Arez greatly prevailed, there were to be found many nations
called after this manner. Part of Media, according to [811]Polybius, had the name of Parrhasia.
There were also Parrhasii and Parrhasini in [812]Sogdiana; and [813]the like near Caucasus:
also a town named [814]Parasinum in the Tauric Chersonesus. The people styled [815]Parrhasians
in Greece were the same as the Dorians and Heraclidæ; all alike Cuthites, as were the antient
Persians. Hence it is truly said by Plato, that the Heraclidæ in Greece, and the Achæmenidæ
among the Persians were of the same stock: [816]Το δε Ἡρακλεους τε γενος και το Αχαιμενεους
εις Περσεα τον Διος αναφερεται. On this account [817]Herodotus makes Xerxes claim kindred with
the Argives of Greece, as being equally of the posterity of Perses, the same as Perseus, the
Sun: under which character the Persians described the patriarch, from whom they were descended.
Perseus was the same as Mithras, whose sacred cavern was styled Perseüm.

  [818]Phœbe parens--seu te roseum Titana vocari
  Gentis Achæmeniæ ritu; seu præstat Osirin
  Frugiferum; seu Persëi sub rupibus antri
  Indignata sequi torquentem cornua Mithram.

OF MYRINA,

AND THE

AMAZONIANS OF LIBYA.

From a notion that the Amazons were a community of women, historians have represented the chief
personage of their nation as a [819]female. She is mentioned by some as having flourished long
before the æra of [820]Troy: and it is by others said more precisely, that she lived in the
time of Orus, the son of Isis and Osiris. This removes her history far back; so as to make
it coeval with the first annals of time. Her dominions lay in the most western parts of [821]Africa,
at the extremity of Atlas; where the mountain terminated in the ocean, to which it gave name.
This country was called Mauritania; and was supposed to have been possessed by the Atlantes
and Gorgons. The Grecian writers, who did not know that the same family went under different
titles, have often made the same nation at variance with itself. And as they imagined every
migration to have been a warlike expedition, they have represented Myrina as making great conquests;
and what is extraordinary, going over the same ground, only in a retrograde direction, which
Osiris had just passed before. Her first engagement was with the Atlantes of Cercene: against
whom she marched with an army of 30,000 foot, and 2,000 horse; whom she completely armed with
the skins of serpents. Having defeated the Atlantes, she marched against the Gorgons, whom
she likewise [822]conquered; and proceeding forward, subdued the greater part of Africa, till
she arrived at the borders of Egypt. Having entered into an alliance with Orus, she passed
the Nile, and invaded the Arabians, whom she defeated. She then conquered the Syrians, and
Cilicians, and all the nations about Mount Taurus; till she arrived at Phrygia, and the regions
about the river Caïcus. Here she built many cities, particularly Cuma, Pitane, and Priene.
She also got possession of several islands; and among others, of Lesbos and Samothracia, in
which last she founded an asylum. After these transactions, Myrina, accompanied with Mopsus
the diviner, made an expedition into Thrace, which was the ultimate of her progress; for she
was supposed to have been here slain. According to Homer she died in Phrygia: for he takes
notice of her tomb in the plains of Troas; and represents it as a notable performance.

  [823]Εστι δε τις προπαροιθε πολεως αιπεια κολωνη,
  Εν πεδιῳ απανευθε, περιδρομος ενθα και ενθα·
  Την ητοι ανδρες Βατιειαν κικλησκουσιν,
  Αθανατοι δε τε σημα πολυσκαρθμοιο Μυρινης.

The tomb of this heroïne was in reality a sacred mound, or high altar; and Myrina a Gentile
divinity. In her supposed conquests we may in great measure see the history of Osiris, and
Perseus, reversed, and in some degree abridged; yet not so far varied, but that the purport
may be plainly discerned. Indeed there is no other way to obtain the hidden meaning, but by
collating the different histories, and bringing them in one view under the eye of the reader.

HERCULES.

Similar to the foregoing are the expeditions of Hercules, and the conquests which he is supposed
to have performed. After many exploits in Greece, the reputed place of his nativity, he travelled
as far as mount Caucasus near Colchis, to free Prometheus, who was there exposed to an eagle
or vulture. Upon the Thermodon he engaged with the Amazons, whom he utterly defeated; and then
passed over into Thrace. Upon his return into Greece he was ordered to make an expedition into
Iberia, a region in the farthest part of Spain; where Chrusaor, a prince of great wealth, resided.
Hercules accepts of the commission; but, I know not for what reason, goes first to Crete, and
from thence to [824]Libya; and what is extraordinary, proceeds to Egypt. This makes the plan
of his supposed rout somewhat irregular and unaccountable. After some time spent in these parts,
he builds the city Hecatompulos, said before to have been built by Osiris: and then traverses
the whole of Africa westward, till he arrives at the Fretum Gaditanum. Here he erects two pillars;
which being finished, he at last enters Iberia. He defeats the sons of Chrusaor, who were in
arms to oppose him; and bestows their kingdom upon others. He likewise seizes upon the oxen
of Geryon. He then marches into the country of the Celtæ, and [825]founds the city Corunna,
and likewise [826]Alesia in Gaul. He afterwards fights with the giants Albion and Bergion near
Arelate, in the plain styled Campus Lapideus; where are the salt waters of Salona. He then
passes the [827]Alpes; and upon the banks of the Eridanus encounters a person of shepherd race;
whom he kills, and seizes his [828]golden flocks. In his way homeward he visits Hetruria, and
arrives at the mountain Palatinus upon the Tiber. From thence he goes to the maritime part
of Campania, about Cuma, Heraclea, and the lake Aornon. Not far from hence was an adust and
fiery region; supposed to have been the celebrated Phlegra, where the giants warred against
heaven: in which war Hercules is said to have [829]assisted. Here was an antient oracular temple;
and hard by the mountain Vesuvius, which in those days flamed violently, though it did not
for many ages afterwards. During his residence here he visited the hot fountains near Misenus
and Dicæarchea; and made a large causeway, called in aftertimes Via Herculanea, and Agger Puteolanus.
After having visited the Locrians, and the people of Rhegium, he crossed the sea to Sicily;
which sea he swam over, holding by the horn of an ox. At his arrival some warm springs burst
forth miraculously, to give him an opportunity of bathing. Here he boxed with Eryx; defeated
the Sicani; and performed many other exploits. What is remarkable, having in Spain seized upon
the cattle of Geryon, he is said to have made them travel over the Pyrenean mountains, and
afterwards over the Alpes, into Italy; and from thence cross the sea into Sicily; and being
now about to leave that island, he swims with them again to Rhegium: and ranging up the coast
of the Adriatic, passes round to Illyria, from thence to Epirus; and so descends to Greece.
The whole of these travels is said to have been completed in ten years.

He was also reported, according to [830]Megasthenes and others, to have made an expedition
into [831]India, and to have left many memorials of his transactions in those parts. He travelled
likewise into the region called afterwards Scythia; the natives of which country were his [832]descendants.
He also visited the Hyperboreans. In all these peregrinations he is generally described as
proceeding alone: at least we have no intimation of any army to assist in the performance of
these great enterprises. He is indeed supposed to have sailed with six ships to [833]Phrygia:
but how he came by them is not said; nor whence he raised the men, who went with him. At other
times he is represented with a club in his hand, and the skin of an animal upon his shoulders.
When he passed over the ocean, he is said to have been wafted in a golden [834]bowl. In Phrygia
he freed Hesione from a Cetus, or sea monster, just as Perseus delivered Andromeda. He is mentioned
as founding many cities in parts very remote: the sea-coast of Bœtica, and Cantabria, was,
according to some writers, peopled by [835]him. By Syncellus he is said to have resided in
Italy, and to have reigned in [836]Latium. The Grecians supposed that he was burnt upon Mount
Œta: but the people of Gades shewed his Taphos in their [837]city, just as the Egyptians shewed
the Taphos of Osiris at Memphis, and elsewhere. Hence it was imagined by many, that Hercules
was buried at Gades. The philosopher Megaclides could not be brought to give the least assent
to the histories of this [838]hero: and Strabo seems to have thought a great part of them to
have been a [839]fable. In short, the whole account of this personage is very inconsistent:
and though writers have tried to compromise matters by supposing more persons than one of this
name, yet the whole is still incredible, and can never be so adjusted as to merit the least
belief. How they multiplied the same Deity, in order to remedy their faulty mythology, may
be seen in the following extract from Cicero. [840]Quanquam, quem potissimum Herculem colamus,
scire velim: plures enim nobis tradunt ii, qui interiores scrutantur et reconditas literas.
Antiquissimum Jove natum, sed item Jove antiquissimo: nam Joves quoque plures in priscis Græcorum
literis invenimus. Ex eo igitur et Lysito est is Hercules, quem concertâsse cum Apolline de
tripode accepimus. Alter traditur Nilo natus, Ægyptius; quem aiunt Phrygias literas conscripsisse.
Tertius est ex Idæis Dactylis, cui inferias afferunt. Quartus Jovis est, et Asteriæ, Latonæ
sororis, quem Tyrii maxime colunt; cujus Carthaginem filium ferunt. Quintus in [841]Indiâ,
qui Belus dicitur. Sextus hic, ex Alcumenâ quem Jupiter genuit; sed tertius Jupiter: quoniam,
ut docebo, plures Joves accepimus.

Hercules was a title given to the chief deity of the Gentiles, who have been multiplied into
almost as many personages, as there were countries, where he was worshipped. What has been
attributed to this god singly, was the work of Herculeans; a people who went under this title
among the many which they assumed; and who were the same as the Osirians, Peresians, and Cuthites.
They built Tartessus in Bœtica, and occupied great part of Iberia. They likewise founded [842]Corunna
in Cantabria, and [843]Alesia in Gaul: of which there are traditions to this day. Some of them
settled near [844]Arelate; others among the [845]Alpes: also at Cuma, and Heraclea in Campania.
They were also to be found at Tyre, and in Egypt; and even in the remotest parts of [846]India.
In short, wherever there were Heraclidæ, or Herculeans, an Hercules has been supposed. Hence
his character has been variously represented. One, while he appears little better than a sturdy
vagrant; at other times he is mentioned as a great benefactor; also as the patron of science,
the [847]God of eloquence, with the Muses in his train. On this account he had the title of
[848]Musagetes; and the Roman general Fulvius dedicated a temple which he had erected to his
honour, and inscribed it [849]Herculi Musarum. There are gems, upon which he is represented
as presiding among the Deities of [850]Science. He is said to have been swallowed by a Cetus,
or large fish, from which he was after some time delivered. This history will hereafter be
easily decyphered. He was the chief deity of the [851]Gentile world; the same as Hermes, Osiris,
and Dionusus; and his rites were introduced into various parts by the Cuthites. In the detail
of his peregrinations is contained, in great measure, an history of that people, and of their
settlements. Each of these the Greeks have described as a warlike expedition; and have taken
the glory of it to themselves. He is said to have had many sons. One of these was [852]Archemagoras;
by which is meant the father or chief of the Magi. There are many others enumerated: the principal
of whom are said to have been; [853]Sardus, or Sardon; Cyrnus, Gelonus, Olynthus, Scythus,
Galathus, Lydus, Iberus, Celtus, Poimen. As these are all manifestly the names of nations,
we may perceive by the purport of this history, that the Sardinians, Corsicans, Iberians, Celtæ,
Galatæ, Scythæ, &c. &c. together with those styled Shepherds, were Herculeans; all descended
from that [854]Hercules, who was the father of Archemagoras the chief of the Magi.

DIONUSUS.

The history of Dionusus is closely connected with that of Bacchus, though they were two distinct
persons. It is said of the former, that he was born at [855]Nusa in Arabia: but the people
upon the Indus insisted, that he was a native of their [856]country; and that the city Nusa,
near mount Meru, was the true place of his birth. There were, however, some among them, who
allowed, that he came into their parts from the west; and that his arrival was in the most
antient times. He taught the nations, whither he came, to build and to plant, and to enter
into societies. To effect this, he collected the various families out of the villages in which
they dwelt, and made them incorporate in towns and cities, which he built in the most commodious
situations. After they were thus established, he gave them laws, and instructed them in the
worship of the Gods. He also taught them to plant the Vine, and to extract the juice of the
grape; together with much other salutary knowledge. This he did throughout all his [857]travels,
till he had conquered every region in the East. Nor was it in these parts only, that he shewed
himself so beneficent a conqueror; but over all the habitable [858]world. The account given
by the Egyptians is consonant to that of the Indians: only they suppose him to have been of
their own country; and to have set out by the way of Arabia and the Red Sea, till he arrived
at the extremities of the East. He travelled also into [859]Lybia, quite to the Atlantic; of
which performance Thymætes is said to have given an account in an antient Phrygian poem. After
his Indian expedition, which took him up three years, he passed from Asia by the Hellespont
into Thrace, where Lycurgus withstood him, and at last put him to flight. He came into Greece;
and was there adopted by the people, and represented as a native of their country. He visited
many places upon the Mediterranean; especially Campania, and the coast of Italy, where he was
taken prisoner by the Hetrurian pirates. Others say, that he conquered all [860]Hetruria. He
had many attendants; among whom were the Tityri, Satyri, Thyades, and Amazons. The whole of
his history is very inconsistent in respect both to time and place. Writers therefore have
tried to remedy this by introducing different people of the same name. Hence Dionusus is multiplied
into as many [861]personages as Hercules. His history was looked upon as very interesting;
and therefore was the chief theme of all the antient [862]bards. His flight, styled φυγη Διονυσου,
was particularly [863]recorded. He was the same as Osiris; and many of the later mythologists
acknowledged this truth. Αιγυπτιοι μεν γαρ τον παρ' αυτοις θεον Οσιριν ονομαζομενον φασιν ειναι
τον παρ' Ἑλλησι Διονυσον τουτον δε μυθολογουσιν επελθειν πασαν την οικουμενην--Ὁμοιως δε και
τους Ινδους τον θεον τουτον παρ' ἑαυτοις αποφανεσθαι γεγονεναι. The Egyptians, says [864]Diodorus,
maintain that their God Osiris is no other than the Dionusus of Greece: And they farther mention,
that he travelled over the face of the whole earth--In like manner the Indi assure us, that
it is the same Deity, who wan conversant in their [865]country.

Dionusus, according to the Grecian mythology, is represented as having been twice born: and
is said to have had two fathers and two mothers. He was also exposed in an [866]ark, and wonderfully
preserved. The purport of which histories is plain. We must however for the most part consider
the account given of Dionusus, as the history of the Dionusians. This is twofold. Part relates
to their rites and religion; in which the great events of the infant world, and the preservation
of mankind in general, were recorded. In the other part, which contains the expeditions and
conquests of this personage, are enumerated the various colonies of the people, who were denominated
from him. They were the same as the Osirians and Herculeans; all of one family, though under
different appellations. I have shewn, that there were many places which claimed his birth;
and as many, where was shewn the spot of his interment. Of these we may find samples in Egypt,
Arabia, and India; as well as in Africa, Greece, and its islands. For the Grecians, wherever
they met with a grot or a cavern sacred to him, took it for granted that he was born there:
and wherever he had a taphos, or high altar, supposed that he was there [867]buried. The same
is also observable in the history of all the Gods.

From what has been said we may perceive that the same history has been appropriated to different
personages: and if we look farther into the annals of the first ages, we shall find more instances
to the same purpose. It is said of [868]Cronus, and Astarte, that they went over the whole
earth; disposing of the countries at their pleasure, and doing good wherever they came. Cronus
in consequence of it is represented as an universal [869]benefactor; who reclaimed men from
their savage way of life, and taught them to pass their days in innocence and truth. A like
account is given of Ouranus, the great king of the [870]Atlantians, who observing mankind in
an unsettled and barbarous state, set about building cities for their reception; and rendered
them more humane and civilized by his institutions and laws. His influence was very extensive;
as he is supposed to have had the greater part of the world under his rule. All this, and what
was above done by Cronus and Astarte, the Grecians attributed to Apollo and Themis. Strabo
mentions from the historian, Ephorus, that the oracle at Delphi was founded by these two [871]deities
at the time, when Apollo was going over the world doing good to all mankind. He taught the
nations, where he came, to be more [872]gentle and humane in their manners; and to abstain
from their wild fruits, and foul banquets: affording them instructions how to improve themselves
by cultivation.

Some of these persons are mentioned as proceeding in a pacific manner: but these peregrinations
in general are represented as a process of war; and all that was effected, was supposed to
have been by conquest. Thus Osiris, Hercules, Perseus, Dionusus, displayed their benevolence
sword in hand: and laid every country under an obligation to the limits of the earth. The like
is said of Zeuth, the Zeus of Greece, who was an universal conqueror and benefactor: [873]Τον
Δια κυριον γενομενον τον ὁλων επελθειν ἁπασαν την οικουμενην, ευεργετουντα το γενος των ανθρωπων·
διενεγκειν δε αυτον και σωματος ῥωμῃ και ταις αλλαις ἁπασαις αρεταις, και δια τουτο ταχυ κυριον
γενεσθαι του συμπαντος κοσμου. Zeus (or Jupiter) having got the entire supremacy marched over
the whole earth, benefiting mankind wherever he came. And as he was a person of great bodily
strength, and at the same time had every princely quality, he very soon subdued the whole world.

No mention is made of any conquests achieved by Orus: and tho reason is, because he was the
same as Osiris. Indeed they were all the same personage: but Orus was more particularly Osiris
in his second state; and therefore represented by the antient Egyptians as a child. What is
omitted by him, was made up by his immediate successor Thoules; who like those, who preceded,
conquered every country which was inhabited. [874]Ειτα Οσιρις, μεθ' ὁν Ωρος, και μετα αυτον
Θουλης, ὁς και ἑως του ωκεανου πασαν την γην παρειληφεν. After him (that is, Söus, or Sosis,)
came Osiris; and then Orus: to whom succeeded Thoules, who conquered the whole earth quite
to the ocean. The like history is given of him by [875]Suidas, and by the author of the [876]Chronicon
Paschale.

These accounts I have collated, and brought in succession to one another; that we may at a
view see the absurdity of the history, if taken in the common acceptation. And however numerous
my instances may have been, I shall introduce other examples before I quit the subject. I must
particularly speak of an Egyptian hero, equally ideal with those abovementioned; whose history,
though the most romantic and improbable of any, has been admitted as credible and true. The
person to whom I allude, is the celebrated Sesostris. Most of the antient historians speak
of his great achievements; and the most learned of the modern chronologists have endeavoured
to determine his æra, and point out the time of his reign. But their endeavours have been fruitless;
and they vary about the time when he lived not less than a thousand years: nay, some differ
even more than this in the æra, which they assign to him.

SESOSTRIS.

Among the writers who have written concerning this extraordinary personage, Diodorus Siculus
is the most uniform and full; and with his evidence I will begin my account. He[877] informs
us, that, when this prince was a youth, he was entrusted by his father with a great army. He
upon this invaded Arabia: and though he was obliged to encounter hunger and thirst in the wilds,
which he traversed; yet he subdued the whole of that large tract of country. He was afterwards
sent far into the west; where he conquered all the legions of Lybia, and annexed great part
of that country to the kingdom of Egypt. After the death of his father he formed a resolution
to subdue all the nations upon earth. He then built a fleet of ships upon the Red sea: and
he is recorded as the first person who constructed vessels fit for distant navigation. With
these, by means of his generals, he subdued all the sea-coast of Arabia, and all the coast
upon the ocean as far as India. In the mean time he marched in person, with a puissant army,
by land, and conquered the whole continent of Asia. He not only overran the countries, which
Alexander afterwards invaded; but crossed both the Indus and the Ganges; and from thence penetrated
to the eastern ocean. He then turned to the north, and attacked the nations of Scythia; till
he at last arrived at the Tanäis, which divides Europe and Asia. Here he founded a colony;
leaving behind him some of his people, as he had just before done at [878]Colchis. These nations
are said to the last to have retained memorials of their original from Egypt. About the same
time Asia Minor, and most of the islands near it, fell into his hands. He at last passed into
[879]Thrace, where he is said to have been brought into some difficulties. He however persisted,
and subdued all the regions of Europe. In most of these countries he erected pillars with hieroglyphical
inscriptions; denoting that these parts of the world had been subdued by the great Sesostris,
or, as [880]Diodorus expresses his name, Sesoosis. He likewise erected statues of himself,
formed of stone, with a bow and a lance: which statues were in length four cubits and four
palms, according to the dimensions of his own height and stature. Having thus finished his
career of [881]victory, he returned laden with spoils to Egypt, after an absence of [882]nine
years; which is one year less than was attributed to the expeditions of Hercules.

The detail given by this historian is very plain and precise: and we proceed very regularly
and minutely in a geographical series from one conquest to another: so that the story is rendered
in some degree plausible. But we may learn from Diodorus himself, that little credit is to
be paid to this narration, after all the pains he may have taken to win upon our credulity.
He ingenuously owns, that not only the Grecian writers, but even the priests of Egypt, and
the bards of the same country varied in the accounts which they gave of this hero; and were
guilty of great inconsistence. It was therefore his chief labour to collect what he thought
most credible, and what appeared most consonant to the memorials in Egypt, which time had spared:
[883]Τα πιθανωτατα, και τοις υπαρχουσιν ετι κατα την χωραν σημειοις τα μαλιστα συμφωνουντα
διελθειν. But, as these memorials consisted chiefly in hieroglyphics, I do not see how it was
possible for Diodorus to understand what the bards and priests could not decypher. The adjustment
of this history, had it been practicable, should have been the work of a native Egyptian, and
not of a person either from Greece or Sicily. This writer afterwards mentions the mighty [884]works
of Sesostris upon his return into Egypt: the temples which he built, and the great entrenchments
which he made to the east, to guard the country from the Arabians: and having enumerated the
whole of his actions, he concludes with an ingenuous confession, that [885]little could be
obtained that was precisely true. He has, without doubt, culled the most probable achievements
of this hero; and coloured and arranged them to the best advantage: yet they still exceed belief.
And if, after this care and disposition, they seem incredible, how would they appear in the
garb, in which he found them? Yet the history of this personage has been admitted as credible
by the most learned [886]writers and chronologists: though, as I before mentioned, they cannot
determine the æra of his reign within a thousand years. Sir John Marsham and Sir Isaac Newton
suppose him to have been the Sesac of the scriptures; and consequently bring his reign down
to the time of Rehoboam king of Judah. But the only reason for this, as far as I can perceive,
seems to be, that Sesostris is represented as a great conqueror; and Sesac is presumed, from
his large [887]army, to have been so likewise. But there is nothing more said of Sesac, than
that he formed a plan of conquering the king of Judah; and accordingly came with the army before
mentioned, to put his design in execution. But the [888]capital being delivered into his hands
without the least resistance, and the king intirely submitting himself to his will; he contented
himself with the rich plunder, which he found, and which he carried away at his departure.
We may also infer from the servitude, to which the people of Judah were reduced, that he imposed
upon them some future contributions.

This is the whole of the history of Sesac, or Shishak; by whom no other expedition was undertaken
that we know of: nor is there mention made upon record of a single battle which he fought.
Yet from a notion that Sesac was a great warrior, he is made the same as Sesostris: and the
age of the latter is brought down very many centuries beneath the æra, to which the best writers
have adjudged it. When we differ from received tradition, we should not pass over in silence
what is said on the contrary part; but give it at large, and then shew our reasons for our
departure from it. I have taken notice of the supposed conquerors of the earth: and among them
of the reputed deities of Egypt, who came under the names of Osiris, Perseus, Thoules, &c.
These are supposed, if they ever existed, to have lived in the first ages of the world, when
Egypt was in its infant state; and Sesostris is made one of their number. He is by some placed
after Orus; by others after Thoules; but still referred to the first ages. He is represented
under the name of Sethos, [889]Sethosis, Sesoosis, Sesonchosis, Sesostris; but the history,
with which these names are accompanied, shews plainly the identity of the personage. Eusebius
in reckoning up the dynasty of kings, who reigned after Hephaistus or Vulcan, mentions them
in the following order: [890]Then succeeded his son Helius; after him Sosis, then Osiris, then
Orus, then Thoules, who conquered the whole earth to the ocean; and last of all Sesostris.
The [891]Scholiast upon Apollonius Rhodius calls him Sesonchosis; and places him immediately
after Orus, and the third in succession from Osiris: giving at the same time an account of
his conquests. He adds that he was the person whom Theopompus called Sesostris. The same Scholiast
quotes a curious passage from Dicæarchus, in which Sesonchosis maintains the same rank, and
was consequently of the highest antiquity. [892]Dicæarchus in the first book of his history
mentions, that immediately after the reign of Orus, the son of Isis and Osiris, in Egypt, the
government devolved to Sesonchosis: so that from the time of Sesonchosis to Nilus were two
thousand years. Cedrenus [893]calls him Sesostris; and mentions him after Osiris, and Orus,
and Thoules; which last was by the above writer omitted. Οσιρις. Ωρος. Θουλης. μετα δε τουτον
Σεσωστρις. The author of the Chronicon Paschale makes Orus to have been succeeded by the same
personage, as is mentioned above, whom he calls Thoulis; and next to him introduces Sesostris.
He relates all his great conquests; and gives us this farther information, that this prince
was the first of the line of Ham, who reigned in Egypt; in other words, he was the first king
of the country. [894]Εν τουτοις μετα ταυτα χρονοις εβασιλευε των Αιγυπτιων πρωτος εκ τες φυλης
ΤΟΥ ΧΑΜ [895]Σεσωστρις. Aristotle speaks of Sesostris; but does not determine the time of his
reign on account of its great antiquity. He only says that it was long before the age of [896]Minos,
who was supposed to have reigned in Crete. Apollonius Rhodius, who is thought to have been
a native of Egypt, speaks of the great actions of this prince; but mentions no name: not knowing,
I imagine, by which properly to distinguish him, as he was represented under so many. He however
attributes to him every thing which is said of [897]Sesostris; particularly the settling a
Colony at Colchis, and building innumerable cities in the countries which he traversed:

                  μυρια δ' αστη
  Νασσατ' εποιχομενος.

He represents him as conquering all Asia and Europe; and this in times so remote, that many
of the cities which he built, were in ruins before the æra of the Argonauts.

From what has been said, we may perceive that if such a person as Sesostris had existed, his
reign must have been of the earliest date. He is by some represented as succeeding Thoules:
according to others he comes one degree higher, being introduced after [898]Orus, who in the
catalogue of Panodorus is placed first of the Demigods, that reigned in Egypt; but by [899]Herodotus
is ranked among the deities. According to Dicæarchus the reign of Sesostris was two thousand
five hundred years before Nilus: and the reign of the latter was four hundred and thirty-six
years before the first Olympiad. I do not place the least confidence in these computations;
but would only shew from them that the person spoken of must be referred to the mythic age,
to the æra of the Demigods of Egypt. Some of these evidences are taken notice of by Sir John
[900]Marsham; who cannot extricate himself from the difficulties with which his system is attended.
He has taken for granted, that Sesostris and Sesonchosis are the Sesac of the Scriptures; though
every circumstance of their history is repugnant to that notion. [901]I know not, says he,
what to make of this Sesonchosis; who is represented as five thousand years before Menes, and
who is referred to the time of the Demigods. In another place: Sesostris, who is in the twelfth
Dynasty of Africanus, and whose æra extends higher, than the Canon of Eusebius reaches, reigned
according to Scaliger's computation in the 1392d year of the Julian Period. By this calculation
Sesostris is made prior to Sesostris; and this too by no less than 2355 years: for it is manifest,
as I will shew from Scripture, that Sesostris undertook his expedition into Asia, and got possession
of Jerusalem in the 3747th year of the Period abovementioned. What is said in the sacred writings,
I have taken notice of before. Not a word occurs about Sesostris, nor of any such Asiatic expedition.
I am obliged to say, that through the whole of this learned writer's process, instead of a
proof, we find nothing else but the question begged, and some inferences of his own in consequence
of this assumption. He indeed quotes the authority of Manethon from Josephus to prove that
the great actions of Sesostris were the same as were performed by Sesac. But Manethon says
no such thing: nor does Josephus attribute any such exploits to Sesac: but expressly says more
than once, that Sesac, and Sesostris were two different [902]persons. It is no where said of
Sesac, that he made an expedition into Asia; much less that he conquered it, as is supposed
of Sesostris. Sesac went up against Jerusalem, and took it, αμαχητι, without meeting with any
opposition. Upon this he departed, and carried with him the treasures which he had there seized:
in other words, he went home again. There is not the least mention made of his invading [903]Samaria,
or the country about Libanus, and Sidon; or of his marching to Syria: all which made but a
small part of the great Continent, called in aftertimes Asia: much less did he visit the countries
of the Assyrians, and Babylonians; or the regions of Elam and the Medes. All this, and much
more he must have done, to have come up to the character, to which they would fain entitle him.

I will not enter into any farther discussion of the great conquests attributed to this supposed
monarch Sesostris. They are as ideal as those of Sesac, and sufficiently confute themselves.
First Osiris is said to have conquered the whole earth: then Zeus, then Perseus, then [904]Hercules,
all nearly of the same degree of antiquity, if we may believe the best Mythologists. Myrina
comes in for a share of conquest in the time of Orus. After her Thoules subdues the whole from
the Eastern Ocean, to the great Atlantic: and as if nothing had been performed before, Sesostris
immediately succeeds, and conquers it over again. [905]Herodotus informs us, as a token of
these victories, that Sesostris erected pillars and obelisks with emblematical inscriptions:
and that he saw some of them in Phrygia, and in other countries, which had been conquered.
He without doubt saw pillars: but how did he know for certain, by whom they were erected? and
who taught him to interpret the symbols? Pausanias takes [906]notice of a colossal statue in
the Thebäis, and says that the history given of it was not satisfactory. He tells us, that
it stood near the Syringes, in upper Egypt; and he viewed it with great admiration. It was
the figure of a man in a sitting posture; which some said was the representation of Memnon
the Ethiopian: others maintained, that it was the statue of Phamenophis: and others again,
that it related to Sesostris. There were here emblems, and symbols; yet a diversity of opinions.
I want therefore to know, how Herodotus could interpret in Phrygia, what a native could not
decypher in Egypt. The same question may be asked about the people of Syria, among whom were
obelisks attributed to the same person. How came they to be so determinate about an Egyptian
work; when people of that country in the same circumstances were so utterly at a loss? the
whole undoubtedly was matter of surmise. I shall not therefore say any thing more of Sesostris;
as I must again speak of him, when I come to the kings of Egypt.

If we compare the above histories, we may perceive that they bear a manifest similitude to
one another; though they are attributed to different persons. They contain accounts of great
achievements in the first ages: in effecting which these antient heroes are represented as
traversing immense regions, and carrying their arms to the very limits of the known world:
the great Tartarian ocean to the east, and the Atlantic westward, being the boundaries of their
travel. Some of them seem to have been of the same age; and to have carried on these conquests
at nearly the same time: and those, whose æra may possibly differ, have this in common with
the others; that they visit the same countries, march for the most part by the same rout; and
are often joined by the same allies, and are followed by the like attendants. They are in general
esteemed benefactors, wherever they go: and carry the sciences with them, as well as their
religious rites; in which they instruct the natives in different parts of the world. These
are to be sure noble occurrences; which however could not possibly have happened, as they are
represented above. It is not to be supposed, that any person in those early ages, or in any
age, could go over such a tract of country; much less that he should subdue it. It is still
more improbable, that such extensive conquests should be so immediately repeated: and that
they should in some instances be carried on by different people at nearly the same time. They,
who speak of mighty empires being founded in those early days, know little of true history;
and have formed a very wrong judgment of the politics, which then universally prevailed. The
whole earth, as far as we can learn, was divided into little coördinate states: every city
seems to have been subservient to its own Judge and Ruler, and independent of all others. In
the land of [907]Canaan thirty-one kings were subdued by Joshua, between Jordan and the sea:
and some were still left by him unconquered. In those days, says the learned Marsham, quot
urbes, tot regna. The like was for many ages after observable in Greece, as well as in Latham,
Samnium, and Hetruria. A powerful enemy made Egypt unite under one head: and the necessities
of the people in a time of dearth served to complete that system. The Israelites too, when
settled in Canaan, formed a large kingdom. Excepting these two nations we know of none of any
considerable extent, that were thus united. The [908]Syrians and the Philistim were in separate
states, and under different governors. The kingdoms of Nineve and Babylonia consisted each
of one mighty city, with its environs; in which were perhaps included some subordinate villages.
They were properly walled [909]Provinces; and the inhabitants were in a state of rest for ages.
The Assyrian did not till about seven hundred years before Christ, begin to contend for dominion,
and make acquisition of territory: and we may form a judgment, from what he then [910]gained,
of what he was possessed before. The cities Hala, Habor, Haran in Mesopotamia, with Carchemish
upon the Euphrates, were his first conquests: to these he added the puny states Ina, Iva, and
Sepharvaim upon the same river. He then proceeded to Hamath, Damascus, and other cities of
Syria; and at last came to Samaria. The line of conquest points out the route, which he took;
and shews that there were in Mesopotamia numberless little states, independent of Babylon and
Nineve, though in their immediate vicinity. Consequently the notion of the extent, dominion,
and antiquity of those Monarchies, as delivered by Ctesias and others, is entirely void of
truth. The conquests likewise of those Heroes and Demigods, who are made coeval with the supposed
foundations of those Monarchies, must be equally groundless. To say the truth, the very personages
are ideal, and have been formed out of the titles of the Deity: and the history, with which
they are attended, related not to conquest, but to peregrinations of another nature; to Colonies
which went abroad, and settled in the countries mentioned. The antients, as I have repeatedly
said, have given to a person, what related to a people: and if we make this small allowance,
the history will be found in great measure true.

NINUS AND SEMIRAMIS.

Having given an account of the mythic heroes of Egypt, I think it necessary to subjoin an history
of two others of the like stamp, who have made no less figure in the annals of Babylon and
Assyria. The persons, to whom I allude, are Ninus and Semiramis; whose conquests, though they
did not extend so far as those above, are yet alike wonderful, and equally groundless. It is
said of Ninus, that he was the first king of [911]Assyria: and being a prince of great power,
he made war on his neighbours the Babylonians, whom he conquered. He afterwards invaded the
Armenians; whose king Barsanes, finding himself much inferior to his adversary, diverted his
anger by great presents, and a voluntary [912]submission. The next object of his ambition was
Media, which he soon subdued; and getting Phanius, the king of the country, into his hands,
together with his wife and seven children, he condemned them all to be crucified. His hopes
being greatly raised by this success, he proceeded to reduce all the nations to his obedience
between the Tanaïs and the Nile: and in seventeen years he made so great a progress, that,
excepting Bactria, all Asia submitted to him as far as the river Indus. In the series of conquered
countries Ctesias enumerates Egypt, Phenicia, Coile Syria, Cilicia, Pamphylia, Lycia, Caria,
Phrygia, Mysia, Lydia, Cappadocia, and the nations in Pontus, and those near the Tanaïs. To
these are added the Dacians, Hyrcanians, Derbicians, Carmanians, Parthians, with all Persis
and Susiana, and the numerous nations upon the Caspian sea. After these notable actions he
laid the foundation of the great city Nineve: which by mistake is said to have been built upon
the banks of the [913]Euphrates. His last expedition was against the Bactrians: at which time
he first saw Semiramis, a woman of uncommon endowments, and great personal charms. He had an
army which amounted to seven millions of foot, and two millions of horse, with two hundred
thousand chariots with scythes. For the possibility of which circumstances Diodorus tries to
account in favour of the historian, from whom he borrows. By the conduct of Semiramis the Bactrians
are subdued; and Ninus takes the capital of the country: upon which, in return for her services,
he makes Semiramis his queen. Not long after he dies, leaving only one son by this princess,
who was called Ninyas.

The history of Semiramis is variously related by different authors. Some make her a native
of Ascalon; and say that she was exposed in the desert, and nourished by pigeons. She was in
this situation discovered by a shepherd named Simma. He bred her up, and married her to Menon;
whom she deserted for Ninus. During her son's minority she assumed the regal state: and the
first work which she undertook was the interment of her husband. She accordingly buried him
with great splendor; and raised over him a mound of earth, no less than a mile and a quarter
high, and proportionally wide at bottom: after which she built Babylon. This being finished,
she made an expedition into Media; and wherever she came left memorials of her power and munificence.
This was effected by erecting vast structures, forming lakes, and laying out gardens of great
extent; particularly in Chaonia and Ecbatana. In short, she levelled hills, and raised [914]mounds
of an immense height, which retained her name for ages. After this she invaded Egypt, and conquered
Ethiopia, with the greater part of Lybia: and having accomplished her wish, and there being
no enemy to cope with her, excepting the people of India, she resolved to direct her forces
towards that quarter. She had an army of three millions of foot, five hundred thousand horse,
and one hundred thousand chariots. For the passing of rivers, and engaging with the enemy by
water, she had procured two thousand ships, to be so constructed as to be taken to pieces for
the advantage of carriage: which ships were built in Bactria by experienced persons from Phenicia,
Syria, and Cyprus. With these she entered into a naval engagement with Strabrobates king of
India; and at the first encounter sunk a thousand of his ships. Upon this she built a bridge
over the river Indus, and penetrated into the heart of the country. Here Strabrobates engaged
her; but being deceived by the numerous appearance of her elephants, at first gave way. For
being deficient in those animals, she had procured the hides of three thousand black oxen;
which being properly sewed, and stuffed with straw, formed an appearance of so many elephants.
All this was done so naturally, that the real animals could not stand the sight. But this stratagem
being at last discovered, Semiramis was obliged to retreat, after having lost a great part
of her [915]army. Soon after this she resigned the government to her son Ninyas, and died.
According to some writers, she was slain by his hand.

The history of Ninus and Semiramis, as here represented, is in great measure founded upon terms,
which have been misconstrued; and these fictions have been invented in consequence of the mistakes.
Under the character of Semiramis we are certainly to understand a people styled Semarim, a
title assumed by the antient Babylonians. They were called Semarim from their insigne, which
was a dove, expressed Semaramas, of which I shall speak hereafter more at large. It was used
as an object of worship; and esteemed the same as Rhea, the mother of the gods: [916]Σεμιραμιν
και την Ῥεαν καλουμενην παρ' Ασσυριοις.

If we take the history of Semiramis, as it is given us by Ctesias and others; nothing can be
more inconsistent. Some make her the wife of Ninus: others say that she was his [917]daughter:
and about the time of her birth they vary beyond measure. She is sometimes made cöeval with
the city Nineve: at other times she is brought down within a few centuries of [918]Herodotus.
She invades the Babylonians before the city was [919]built, from whence they were denominated:
and makes sumptuous gardens at Ecbatana. Hence that city is introduced as coëval with Nineve:
though, if the least credit may be given to [920]Herodotus, it was built many ages after by
Deïoces the Mede. The city Nineve itself is by Ctesias placed upon the [921]Euphrates; though
every other writer agrees, that it lay far to the east, and was situated upon the Tigris. This
shews how little credit is to be paid to Ctesias. The whole account of the fleet of ships built
in Bactria, and carried upon camels to the Indus, is a childish forgery. How can we suppose,
that there were no woods to construct such vessels, but in the most inland regions of Asia?
The story of the fictitious elephants, made out of the hides of black oxen, which put to flight
the real elephants, is another silly fable. Megasthenes, who wrote of India, would not allow
that Semiramis was ever in those [922]parts. Arrian seems to speak of it as a groundless [923]surmise.
Her building of Babylon was by [924]Berosus treated as a fable. Herennius Philo maintained,
that it was built by a son of Belus the wise, two thousand years before her [925]birth. Suidas
says, that she called Nineve [926]Babylon: so uncertain is every circumstance about this Heroine.
She is supposed to have sent to Cyprus, and Phenicia, for artists to construct and manage the
ships abovementioned; as if there had been people in those parts famous for navigation before
the foundation of Nineve. They sometimes give to Semiramis herself the merit of building the
[927]first ship; and likewise the invention of weaving cotton: and another invention more extraordinary,
which was that of emasculating [928]men, that they might be guardians, and overseers in her
service. Yet, it is said of her, that she took a man to her bed every night, whom she put to
death in the morning. How can it be imagined, if she was a woman of such unbridled [929]lust,
that she would admit such spies upon her actions? We may as well suppose, that a felon would
forge his own gyves, and construct his own prison. Claudian thinks, that she did it to conceal
her own sex, by having a set of beardless people about her.

              [930]Seu prima Semiramis astu
  Assyriis mentita virum, ne vocis acutæ
  Mollities, levesque genæ se prodere possent,
  Hos sibi junxisset socios: seu Parthica ferro
  Luxuries nasci vetuit lanuginis umbram;
  Servatosque diu puerili flore coegit
  Arte retardatam Veneri servire juventam.

In respect to Semiramis I do not see how this expedient could avail. She might just as well
have dressed up her maids in mens clothes, and with less trouble. In short the whole of these
histories in their common acceptation is to the last degree absurd, and improbable: but if
we make use of an expedient, which I have often recommended, and for a person substitute a
people, we shall find, when it is stripped of its false colouring, that there is much truth
in the narration.

It was a common mode of expression to call a tribe or family by the name of its founder: and
a nation by the head of the line. People are often spoken of collectively in the singular under
such a patronymic. Hence we read in Scripture, that Israel abode in tents; that Judah was put
to the worst in battle; that Dan abode in ships; and Asher remained on the sea-coast. The same
manner of speaking undoubtedly prevailed both in Egypt, and in other countries: and Chus must
have been often put for the Cuthites, or Cuseans; Amon for the Amonians; and Asur, or the Assyrian,
for the people of Assyria. Hence, when it was said, that the Ninevite performed any great action,
it has been ascribed to a person Ninus, the supposed founder of Nineve. And as none of the
Assyrian conquests were antecedent to Pul, and Assur Adon, writers have been guilty of an unpardonable
anticipation, in ascribing those conquests to the first king of the country. A like anticipation,
amounting to a great many centuries, is to be found in the annals of the Babylonians. Every
thing that was done in later times, has been attributed to Belus, Semiramis, and other, imaginary
princes, who are represented as the founders of the kingdom. We may, I think, be assured, that
under the character of Ninus, and Ninyas, we are to understand the Ninevites; as by Semiramis
is meant a people called Samarim: and the great actions of these two nations are in the histories
of these personages recorded. But writers have rendered the account inconsistent by limiting,
what was an historical series of many ages, to the life of a single person. The Ninevites and
Samarim did perform all that is attributed to Semiramis, and Ninus. They did conquer the Medes,
and Bactrians; and extended their dominions westward as far as Phrygia, and the river Tanais,
and to the Southward as far as Arabia, and Egypt. But these events were many ages after the
foundation of the two kingdoms. They began under Pul of Nineve; and were carried on by Assur
Adon, Salmanassur, Sennacherib, and other of his successors. Nineve was at last ruined, and
the kingdom of Assyria was united with that of [931]Babylonia. This is probably alluded to
in the supposed marriage of Semiramis and Ninus. Then it was, that the Samarim performed the
great works attributed to them. For, exclusive of what was performed at Babylon; There are,
says [932]Strabo, almost over the face of the whole earth, vast [933]mounds of earth, and walls,
and ramparts, attributed to Semiramis; and in these are subterraneous passages of communication,
and tanks for water, with staircases of stone. There are also vast canals to divert the course
of rivers, and lakes to receive them; together with highways and bridges of a wonderful structure.
They built the famous terraces at [934]Babylon; and those beautiful gardens at Egbatana, after
that city had fallen into their hands. To them was owing that cruel device of emasculating
their slaves, that their numerous wives, and concubines might be more securely guarded: an
invention, which cannot consistently be attributed to a woman. They found out the art of weaving
cotton: which discovery has by some been assigned to those of their family, who went into Egypt:
for there were Samarim here too. In consequence of this, the invention has been attributed
to a Semiramis, who is here represented as a man, and a king of the country: at least it is
referred to his reign. [935]Επι τε Σεμιραμεως βασιλεως Αιγυπτιων τα βυσσινα ἱματια ἑυρησθαι
ἱστορουσιν. The Samarim of Egypt and Babylonia, were of the same family, the sons of Chus.
They came and settled among the Mizraim, under the name of the shepherds, of whose history
I have often spoken. The reason of their being called Semarim, and Samarim, I shall hereafter
disclose, together with the purport of the name, and the history, with which it is attended.

ZOROASTER.

The celebrated Zoroaster seems to have been a personage as much mistaken, as any, who have
preceded. The antients, who treated of him, have described him in the same foreign light, as
they have represented Perseus, Dionusus, and Osiris. They have formed a character, which by
length of time has been separated, and estranged, from the person, to whom it originally belonged.
And as among the antients, there was not a proper uniformity observed in the appropriation
of terms, we shall find more persons than one spoken of under the character of Zoroaster: though
there was one principal, to whom it more truly related. It will be found, that not only the
person originally recorded, and reverenced; but others, by whom the rites were instituted and
propagated, and by whom they were in aftertimes renewed, have been mentioned under this title:
Priests being often denominated from the Deity, whom they served.

Of men, styled Zoroaster, the first was a deified personage, reverenced by some of his posterity,
whose worship was styled Magia, and the professors of it Magi. His history is therefore to
be looked for among the accounts transmitted by the antient Babylonians, and Chaldeans. They
were the first people styled Magi; and the institutors of those rites, which related to Zoroaster.
From them this worship was imparted to the Persians, who likewise had their Magi. And when
the Babylonians sunk into a more complicated idolatry, the Persians, who succeeded to the sovereignty
of Asia, renewed under their Princes, and particularly under Darius, the son of Hystaspes,
these rites, which had been, in a great degree, effaced, and forgotten. That king was devoted
to the religion styled Magia[936]; and looked upon it as one of his most honourable titles,
to be called a professor of those doctrines. The Persians were originally named Peresians,
from the Deity Perez, or Parez the Sun; whom they also worshipped under the title of [937]Zor-Aster.
They were at different æras greatly distressed and persecuted, especially upon the death of
their last king Yesdegerd. Upon this account they retired into Gedrosia and India; where people
of the same family had for ages resided. They carried with them some shattered memorials of
their religion in writing, from whence the Sadder, Shaster, Vedam, and Zandavasta were compiled.
These memorials seem to have been taken from antient symbols ill understood; and all that remains
of them consists of extravagant allegories and fables, of which but little now can be decyphered.
Upon these traditions the religion of the Brahmins and Persees is founded.

The person who is supposed to have first formed a code of institutes for this people, is said
to have been one of the Magi, named Zerdusht. I mention this, because Hyde, and other learned
men, have imagined this Zerdusht to have been the antient Zoroaster. They have gone so far
as to suppose the two names to have been the [938]same; between which I can scarce descry any
resemblance. There seem to have been many persons styled Zoroaster: so that if the name had
casually retained any affinity, or if it had been literally the same, yet it would not follow,
that this Persic and Indian Theologist was the person of whom antiquity speaks so loudly. We
read of persons of this name in different parts of the world, who were all of them Magi, or
Priests, and denominated from the rites of Zoroaster, which they followed. Suidas mentions
a Zoroaster, whom he styles an Assyrian; and another whom he calls Περσο-Μηδης, Perso-Medes:
and describes them both as great in science. There was a Zoroaster Proconnesius, in the time
of Xerxes, spoken of by [939]Pliny. Arnobius mentions Zoroastres Bactrianus: and Zoroastres
Zostriani nepos [940]Armenius. Clemens Alexandrinus takes notice of Zoroaster [941]Medus, who
is probably the same as the Perso-Medes of Suidas. Zoroastres Armenius is likewise mentioned
by him, but is styled the son of [942]Armenius, and a Pamphylian. It is said of him that he
had a renewal of life: and that during the term that he was in a state of death, he learned
many things of the Gods. This was a piece of mythology, which I imagine did not relate to the
Pamphylian Magus, but to the head of all the Magi, who was reverenced and worshipped by them.
There was another styled a Persian, whom Pythagoras is said to have [943]visited. Justin takes
notice of the Bactrian [944]Zoroaster, whom he places in the time of Ninus. He is also mentioned
by [945]Cephalion, who speaks of his birth, and the birth of Semiramis (γενεσιν Σεμιραμεως
και Ζωροαστρου Μαγου) as of the same date. The natives of India have a notion of a Zoroaster,
who was of Chinese original, as we are informed by [946]Hyde. This learned man supposes all
these personages, the Mede, the Medo-Persic, the Proconnesian, the Bactrian, the Pamphylian,
&c. to have been one and the same. This is very wonderful; as they are by their history apparently
different. He moreover adds, that however people may differ about the origin of this person,
yet all are unanimous about the time when he [947]lived. To see that these could not all be
the same person, we need only to cast our eye back upon the evidence which has been collected
above: and it will be equally certain, that they could not be all of the same æra. There are
many specified in history; but we may perceive, that there was one person more antient and
celebrated than the rest; whose history has been confounded with that of others who came after
him. This is a circumstance which has been observed by [948]many: but this ingenious writer
unfortunately opposes all who have written upon the subject, however determinately they may
have expressed themselves. [949]At quicquid dixerint, ille (Zoroaster) fuit tantum unus, isque
tempore Darii Hystaspis: nec ejus nomine plures unquam extitere. It is to be observed, that
the person, whom he styles Zoroaster, was one Zerdusht. He lived, it seems, in the reign of
Darius, the father of Xerxes; which was about the time of the battle of Marathon: consequently
not a century before the birth of Eudoxus, Xenophon, and Plato. We have therefore no authority
to suppose [950]this Zerdusht to have been the famous Zoroaster. He was apparently the renewer
of the Sabian rites: and we may be assured, that he could not be the person so celebrated by
the antients, who was referred to the first ages. Hyde asserts, that all writers agree about
the time, when Zoroaster made his appearance: and he places him, as we have seen above, in
the reign of Darius. But Xanthus Lydius made him above [951]six hundred years prior. And [952]Suidas
from some anonymous author places him five hundred years before the war of Troy. Hermodorus
Platonicus went much farther, and made him five thousand years before that [953]æra. Hermippus,
who professedly wrote of his doctrines, supposed him to have been of the same [954]antiquity.
Plutarch also [955]concurs, and allows him five thousand years before that war. Eudoxus, who
was a consummate philosopher, and a great traveller, supposed him to have flourished six thousand
years before the death of [956]Plato. Moses [957]Chorenensis, and [958]Cephalion, make him
only contemporary with Ninus, and Semiramis: but even this removes him very far from the reign
of Darius. Pliny goes beyond them all; and places him many thousand years before Moses. [959]Est
et alia Magices factio, a Mose, et Jamne, et Lotapea Judæis pendens: sed multis millibus annorum
post Zoroastrem. The numbers in all these authors, are extravagant: but so much we may learn
from them, that they relate to a person of the highest antiquity. And the purport of the original
writers, from whence the Grecians borrowed their evidence, was undoubtedly to shew, that the
person spoken of lived at the extent of time; at the commencement of all historical data. No
fact, no memorial upon record, is placed so high as they have carried this personage. Had Zoroaster
been no earlier than Darius, Eudoxus would never have advanced him to this degree of antiquity.
This writer was at the same distance from Darius, as Plato, of whom he speaks: and it is not
to be believed, that he could be so ignorant, as not to distinguish between a century, and
six thousand years. Agathias indeed mentions, that some of the Persians had a notion, that
he flourished in the time of one Hystaspes; but he confesses, that who the Hystaspes was, and
at what time he lived, was [960]uncertain. Aristotle wrote not long after Eudoxus, when the
history of the Persians was more known to the Grecians, and he allots the same number of years
between Zoroaster and Plato, as had been [961]before given. These accounts are for the most
part carried too far; but at the same time, they fully ascertain the high antiquity of this
person, whose æra is in question. It is plain that these writers in general extend the time
of his life to the æra of the world, according to their estimation; and make it prior to Inachus,
and Phoroneus, and Ægialeus of Sicyon.

Huetius takes notice of the various accounts in respect to his country. [962]Zoroastrem nunc
Persam, nunc Medum ponit Clemens Alexandrinus; Persomedum Suidas; plerique Bactrianuni; alii
Æthiopem, quos inter ait Arnobius ex Æthiopiâ interiore per igneam Zonam venisse Zoroastrem.
In short, they have supposed a Zoroaster, wherever there was a Zoroastrian: that is, wherever
the religion of the Magi was adopted, or revived. Many were called after him: but who among
men was the Prototype can only be found out by diligently collating the histories, which have
been transmitted. I mention among men; for the title originally belonged to the Sun; but was
metaphorically bestowed upon sacred and enlightened personages. Some have thought that the
person alluded to was Ham. He has by others been taken for Chus, also for Mizraim, and [963]Nimrod:
and by Huetius for Moses. It may be worth while to consider the primitive character, as given
by different writers. He was esteemed the first observer of the heavens; and it is said that
the antient Babylonians received their knowledge in Astronomy from him: which was afterwards
revived under Ostanes; and from them it was derived to the [964]Egyptians, and to the Greeks.
Zoroaster was looked upon as the head of all those, who are supposed to have followed his [965]institutes:
consequently he must have been prior to the Magi, and Magia, the priests, and worship, which
were derived from him. Of what antiquity they were, may be learned from Aristotle. [966]Αριστοτελης
δ' εν πρωτῳ περι φιλοσοφιας (τους Μαγους) και πρεσβυτερους ειναι των Αιγυπτιων. The Magi, according
to Aristotle, were prior even to the Egyptians: and with the antiquity of the Egyptians, we
are well acquainted. Plato styles him the son of [967]Oromazes, who was the chief Deity of
the Persians: and it is said of him, that he laughed upon the day on which he was [968]born.
By this I imagine, that something fortunate was supposed to be portended: some indication,
that the child would prove a blessing to the world. In his childhood he is said to have been
under the care of [969]Azonaces: which I should imagine was a name of the chief Deity Oromazes,
his reputed father. He was in process of time greatly enriched with knowledge, and became in
high repute for his [970]piety, and justice. He first sacrificed to the Gods, and taught men
to do the [971]same. He likewise instructed them in science, for which he was greatly [972]famed:
and was the first who gave them laws. The Babylonians seem to have referred to him every thing,
which by the Egyptians was attributed to Thoth and Hermes. He had the title of [973]Zarades,
which signifies the Lord of light, and is equivalent to Orus, Oromanes, and Osiris, It was
sometimes expressed [974]Zar-Atis, and supposed to belong to a feminine Deity of the Persians.
Moses Chorenensis styles him [975]Zarovanus, and speaks of him as the father of the Gods. Plutarch
would insinuate, that he was author of the doctrine, embraced afterwards by the Manicheans,
concerning two prevailing principles, the one good, and the other evil[976]: the former of
these was named Oromazes, the latter Areimanius. But these notions were of late [977]date,
in comparison of the antiquity which is attributed to [978]Zoroaster. If we might credit what
was delivered in the writings transmitted under his name, which were probably composed by some
of the later Magi, they would afford us a much higher notion of his doctrines. Or if the account
given by Ostanes were genuine, it would prove, that there had been a true notion of the Deity
transmitted from [979]Zoroaster, and kept up by the Magi, when the rest of the gentile world
was in darkness. But this was by no means true. It is said of Zoroaster, that he had a renewal
of [980]life: for I apply to the original person of the name, what was attributed to the Magus
of Pamphylia: and it is related of him, that while he was in the intermediate state of death,
he was instructed by the [981]Gods. Some speak of his retiring to a mountain of Armenia, where
he had an intercourse with the [982]Deity: and when the mountain burned with fire, he was preserved
unhurt. The place to which he retired, according to the Persic writers, was in the region called
[983]Adarbain; where in aftertimes was the greatest Puratheion in Asia. This region was in
Armenia: and some make him to have been born in the same country, upon one of the Gordiæan
[984]mountains. Here it was, that he first instituted sacrifices, and gave laws to his followers;
which laws are supposed to be contained in the sacred book named Zandavasta. To him has been
attributed the invention of Magic; which notion has arisen from a misapplication of terms.
The Magi Were priests, and they called religion in general Magia. They, and their rites, grew
into disrepute; in consequence of which they were by the Greeks called απατεωνες, φαρμακευται:
jugglers, and conjurers. But the Persians of old esteemed them very highly. [985]Μαγον, τον
θεοσεβη, και θεολογον, και ἱερεα, ὁι Περσαι ὁυτως λεγουσιν. By a Magus, the Persians understand
a sacred person, a professor of theology, and a Priest. Παρα Περσαις [986]Μαγοι ὁι φιλοσοφοι,
και θεοφιλοι. Among the Persians, the Magi are persons addicted to philosophy, and to the worship
of the Deity. [987]Dion. Chrysostom, and Porphyry speak to the same purpose. By Zoroaster being
the author of Magia, is meant, that he was the first promoter of religious rites, and the instructor
of men in their duty to God. The war of Ninus with Zoroaster of Bactria relates probably to
some hostilities carried on between the Ninevites of Assyria, and the Bactrians, who had embraced
the Zoroastrian rites. Their priest, or prince, for they were of old the same, was named [988]Oxuartes;
but from his office had the title of Zoroaster; which was properly the name of the Sun, whom
he adored. This religion began in Chaldea; and it is expressly said of this Bactrian king,
that he borrowed the knowledge of it from that country, and added to it largely. [989]Cujus
scientiæ sæculis priscis multa ex Chaldæorum arcanis Bactrianus addidit Zoroastres. When the
Persians gained the empire in Asia, they renewed these rites, and doctrines. [990]Multa deinde
(addidit) Hystaspes Rex prudentissimus, Darii pater. These rites were idolatrous; yet not so
totally depraved, and gross, as those of other nations. They were introduced by Chus; at least
by the Cuthites: one branch of whom were the Peresians, or Persians. The Cuthites of Chaldea
were the original Magi, and they gave to Chus the title of Zoroaster Magus, as being the first
of the order. Hence the account given by Gregorius Turonensis is in a great degree true. [991]Primogeniti
Cham filii Noë fuit Chus. Hic ad Persas transiit, quem Persæ vocitavere Zoroastrem. Chus, we
find, was called by this title; and from him the religion styled Magia passed to the Persians.
But titles, as I have shewn, were not always determinately appropriated: nor was Chus the original
person, who was called Zoroaster. There was another beyond him, who was the first deified mortal,
and the prototype in this worship. To whom I allude, may, I think, be known from the history
given above. It will not fail of being rendered very clear in the course of my procedure.

The purport of the term Zoroaster is said, by [992]the author of the Recognitions, and by others,
to be the living star: and they speak of it as if it were of Grecian etymology, and from the
words ζωον and αστηρ. It is certainly compounded of Aster, which, among many nations, signified
a star. But, in respect to the former term, as the object of the Persic and Chaldaic worship
was the Sun, and most of their titles were derived from thence; we may be pretty certain, that
by Zoro-Aster was meant Sol Asterius. Zor, Sor, Sur, Sehor, among the Amonians, always related
to the Sun. Eusebius says, that Osiris was esteemed the same as Dionusus, and the Sun: and
that he was called [993]Surius. The region of Syria was hence denominated Συρια; and is at
this day called Souria, from Sur, and Sehor, the Sun. The Dea Syria at Hierapolis was properly
Dea Solaris. In consequence of the Sun's being called Sor, and Sur, we find that his temple
is often mentioned under the name of [994]Beth-Sur, and [995]Beth-Sura, which Josephus renders
[996]Βηθ-Σουρ. It was also called Beth-Sor, and Beth-Soron, as we learn from [997]Eusebius,
and [998]Jerome. That Suria was not merely a provincial title is plain, from the Suria Dea
being worshipped at Erix in [999]Sicily; and from an inscription to her at [1000]Rome. She
was worshipped under the same title in Britain, as we may infer from an Inscription at Sir
Robert Cotton's, of Connington, in Cambridgeshire.

[1001]DEÆ SURIÆ SUB CALPURNIO LEG. AUG. &c.

Syria is called Sour, and Souristan, at this day.

The Grecians therefore were wrong in their etymology; and we may trace the origin of their
mistake, when they supposed the meaning of Zoroaster to have been vivens astrum. I have mentioned,
that both Zon and [1002]Zoan signified the Sun: and the term Zor had the same meaning. In consequence
of this, when the Grecians were told that Zor-Aster was the same as Zoan-Aster, they, by an
uniform mode of mistake, expressed the latter ζωον; and interpreted Zoroaster αστερα ζωον.
But Zoan signified the Sun. The city Zoan in Egypt was Heliopolis; and the land of Zoan the
Heliopolitan nome. Both Zoan-Aster, and Zor-Aster, signified Sol Asterius. The God Menes was
worshipped under the symbol of a bull; and oftentimes under the symbol of a bull and a man.
Hence we read of Meno-Taur, and of Taur-Men, in Crete, Sicily, and other places. The same person
was also styled simply [1003]Taurus, from the emblem under which he was represented. This Taurus
was also called Aster, and Asterius, as we learn from [1004]Lycophron, and his Scholiast. Ὁ
Αστηριος ὁυτος εστιν ὁ και Μινοταυρος. By Asterius is signified the same person as the Minotaur.
This Taur-Aster is exactly analogous to [1005]Zor-Aster above. It was the same emblem as the
Mneuis, or sacred bull of Egypt; which was described with a star between his horns. Upon some
of the [1006]entablatures at Naki Rustan, supposed to have been the antient Persepolis, we
find the Sun to be described under the appearance of a bright [1007]star: and nothing can better
explain the history there represented, than the account given of Zoroaster. He was the reputed
son of Oromazes, the chief Deity; and his principal instructor was Azonaces, the same person
under a different title. He is spoken of as one greatly beloved by heaven: and it is mentioned
of him, that he longed very much to see the Deity, which at his importunity was granted to
him. This interview, however, was not effected by his own corporeal eyes, but by the mediation
of an [1008]angel. Through this medium the vision was performed: and he obtained a view of
the Deity surrounded with light. The angel, through whose intervention this favour was imparted,
seems to have been one of those styled Zoni, and [1009]Azoni. All the vestments of the priests,
and those in which they used to apparel their Deities, had sacred names, taken from terms in
their worship. Such were Camise, Candys, Camia, Cidaris, Mitra, Zona, and the like. The last
was a sacred fillet, or girdle, which they esteemed an emblem of the orbit described by Zon,
the Sun. They either represented their Gods as girded round with a serpent, which was an emblem
of the same meaning; or else with this bandage, denominated [1010]Zona. They seem to have been
secondary Deities, who were called Zoni and [1011]Azoni. The term signifies Heliadæ: and they
were looked upon as æthereal essences, a kind of emanation from the Sun. They were exhibited
under different representations; and oftentimes like Cneph of Egypt. The fillet, with which
the Azoni were girded, is described as of a fiery nature: and they were supposed to have been
wafted through the air. Arnobius speaks of it in this light. [1012]Age, nunc, veniat, quæso,
per igneam zonam Magus ab interiore orbe Zoroastres. I imagine, that by Azonaces, Αζωνακης,
beforementioned, the reputed teacher of Zoroaster, was meant the chief Deity, the same as Oromanes,
and Oromasdes. He seems to have been the supreme of those æthereal spirits described above;
and to have been named Azon-Nakis, which signifies the great Lord, [1013]Azon. Naki, Nakis,
Nachis, Nachus, Negus, all in different parts of the world betoken a king. The temple at Istachar,
near which these representations were found, is at this day called the palace of Naki Rustan,
whoever that personage may have been.

ORPHEUS.

The character of Orpheus is in some respects not unlike that of Zoroaster, as will appear in
the sequel. He went over many regions of the earth; and in all places, whither he came, was
esteemed both as a priest, and a prophet. There seems to be more in his history than at first
sight appears: all which will by degrees be unfolded. His skill in harmony is represented as
very wonderful: insomuch that he is said to have tamed the wild beasts of the forest, and made
the trees follow him. He likewise could calm the winds, and appease the raging of the sea.
These last circumstances are taken notice of by a poet in some fine verses, wherein he laments
his death.

  [1014]Ὁυκ ετι κοιμασεις ανεμων βρομον, ουχι χαλαζαν,
    Ου νιφετων συρμους, ου παταγευσαν ἁλα.
  Ωλεο γαρ. κλ.

He is mentioned, as having been twice in a state of [1015]death; which is represented as a
twofold descent to the shades below. There is also an obscure piece of mythology about his
wife, and a serpent; also of the Rhoia or Pomegranate: which seems to have been taken from
some symbolical representation at a time, when the purport was no longer understood. The Orpheans
dealt particularly in symbols, as we learn from Proclus. [1016]Ορφικοι δια συμβολον, Πυθαγορειοι
δια εικονων, τα θεια μηνυειν εφιεμενοι. His character for science was very great; and Euripides
takes particular notice of some antient tablets, containing much salutary knowledge, which
were bequeathed to the Thracians by Orpheus: [1017]ἁς Ορφειη κατεγραψε γηρυς. Plato styles
his works [1018]βιβλων ὁμαδον, a vast lumber of learning, from the quantity, which people pretended
had been transmitted from him. He one while resided in Greece; and particularly at Thebes in
Bœotia. Here he introduced the rites of Dionusus, and celebrated his Orgies upon mount [1019]Cithæron.
He is said to have been the first who instituted those rites: and was the author of all mysterious
worship. [1020]Πρωτος Ορφευς μυστηρια Θεων παρεδωκεν. All these were accompanied with science
of another nature: for he is reputed to have been skilled in many arts.

From Thebes he travelled towards the sea-coast of Chaonia, in order to recover his lost Eurydice;
who had been killed by a serpent. According to [1021]Agatharchides Cnidius it was at Aorthon
in Epirus, that he descended for this purpose to the shades below. The same account is given
by [1022]Pausanias, who calls the place more truly Aornon. In the Orphic Argonauts it is said
to have been performed at Tænarus in [1023]Laconia. He likewise resided in Egypt, and travelled
over the regions of Libya; and every where instructed people in the rites, and religion, which
he professed. In the same manner he went over a great part of the world.

  [1024]Ως ἱκομην επι γαιαν απειρετον, ηδε ποληας,
  Αιγυπτῳ, Λιβυῃ τε, βροτοις ανα θεσφατα φαινων.

Some make Orpheus by birth a Thracian; some an Arcadian: others a Theban. Pausanias mentions
it as an opinion among the [1025]Egyptians, that both Orpheus, and Amphion, were from their
country. There is great uncertainty about his parents. He is generally supposed to have been
the son of Œagrus, and Calliope: but Asclepiades made him the son of Apollo, by that [1026]Goddess.
By some his mother was said to have been Menippe; by others [1027]Polymnia. He is also mentioned
as the son of [1028]Thamyras. Plato differs from them all, and styles both Orpheus, and Musæus,
[1029]Σεληνης και Μουσων εγγονοι, the offspring of the Moon, and the Muses: in which account
is contained some curious mythology. The principal place of his residence is thought to have
been in Pieria near mount Hæmus. He is also said to have resided among the Edonians; and in
Sithonia, at the foot of mount Pangæus; also upon the sea-coast at Zona. In all these places
he displayed his superiority in science; for he was not only a Poet, and skilled in harmony,
but a great Theologist and Prophet; also very knowing in medicine, and in the history of the
[1030]heavens. According to Antipater Sidonius, he was the author of Heroic verse. And some
go so far as to ascribe to him the invention of letters; and deduce all knowledge from [1031]him.

Many of the things, reported to have been done by Orpheus, are attributed to other persons,
such as [1032]Eetion, Musæus, Melampus, Linus, Cadmus, and Philammon. Some of these are said
to have had the same [1033]parents. Authors in their accounts of Orpheus, do not agree about
the manner of his [1034]death. The common notion is, that he was torn to pieces by the Thracian
women. But, according to Leonides, in Laërtius, he was slain by lightning: and there is an
[1035]epitaph to that purpose. The name of Orpheus is to be found in the lists of the Argonauts:
and he is mentioned in the two principal poems upon that subject. Yet there were writers who
placed him eleven generations before the war of Troy, consequently ten generations before that
expedition. [1036]Γεγονε προ ια γενεων των Τρωικων--βιωναι δε γενεας θ· ὁι δε ια φησιν. He
was born eleven ages before the siege of Troy, and he is said to have lived nine ages; and
according to some eleven. This extent of [1037]life has been given him in order to bring him
down as low as the aera of the Argonauts: though, if we may believe Pherecydes Syrus, he had
no share in that expedition.

To remedy the inconsistences, which arise in the history of Orpheus, writers have supposed
many persons of this name. Suidas takes notice of no less than four in [1038]Thrace. But all
these will not make the history consistent. Vossius therefore, with good reason, doubts whether
such a person ever existed. Nay, he asserts, [1039]Triumviros istos Poeseos, Orphea, Musæum,
Linum, non fuisse: sed esse nomina ab antiquâ Phœnicum linguâ, quâ usi Cadmus, et aliquamdiu
posteri. There is great truth in what Vossius here advances: and in respect to Orpheus, the
testimony of Aristotle, quoted by him from Cicero, is very decisive. [1040]Orpheum poetam docet
Aristoteles nunquam fuisse. Dionysius, as we learn from Suidas, affirmed the same thing. Palæphatus
indeed admits the man; but sets aside the history. [1041]Ψευδης και ὁ περι του Θρφεως μυθος.
The history too of Orpheus is nothing else but a fable. From what has been said, I think it
is plain, that under the character of this personage we are to understand a people named [1042]Orpheans;
who, as Vossius rightly intimates, were the same as the Cadmians. In consequence of this, there
will sometimes be found a great similarity between the characters of these two persons.

I have shewn, that Colonies from [1043]Egypt settled in the region of Sethon, called afterwards
Sethonia, upon the river Palæstinus. They were likewise to be found in the countries of Edonia,
Pieria, and Peonia: in one of which they founded a city and temple. The Grecians called this
city Orpheus: [1044]Ορφευς εστι πολις υπο τῃ Πιεριῃ. Orpheus is a city of Thrace, below Pieria.
But the place was originally expressed Orphi, by which is meant the oracular temple of Orus.
From hence, and from the worship here instituted, the people were styled Orphites, and Orpheans.
They were noted for the Cabiritic mysteries; and for the Dionusiaca, and worship of Damater.
They were likewise very famous for the medicinal arts; and for their skill in astronomy and
music. But the Grecians have comprehended, under the character of one person, the history of
a people. When they settled in Thrace, they introduced their arts, and their worship, among
the barbarous [1045]natives, by whom they were revered for their superior knowledge. They likewise
bequeathed many memorials of themselves, and of their forefathers, which were probably some
emblematical sculptures upon wood or stone: hence we read of the tablets of Orpheus preserved
in Thrace, and particularly upon mount [1046]Hæmus. The temple which they built upon this mountain
seems to have been a college, and to have consisted of a society of priests. They were much
addicted to celibacy, as we may judge from their history; and were, in great measure, recluses
after the mode of Egypt and Canaan. Hence it is said of Orpheus, that he secreted himself from
the world, and led the life of a [1047]Swan: and it is moreover mentioned of Aristæus, when
he made a visit to Dionusus upon mount Hæmus, that he disappeared from the sight of men, and
was never after [1048]seen. According to the most common accounts concerning the death of Orpheus,
it was owing to his principles, and manner of life. He was a solitary, and refused all commerce
with womankind: hence the Mænades, and other women of Thrace, rose upon him, and tore him to
pieces. It is said, that his head, and lyre were thrown into the Hebrus; down which they were
wafted to Lemnos. What is here mentioned of Orpheus, undoubtedly relates to the Orpheans, and
to their temple upon mount Hæmus. This temple was in process of time ruined: and there is great
reason to think, that it was demolished upon account of the cruelties practised by the priests,
and probably from a detestation of their unnatural crimes, to which there are frequent allusions.
Ovid having given a character of Orpheus, concludes with an accusation to this purpose.

  [1049]Ille etiam Thracum populis fuit auctor amores
  In teneros transferre mares: citraque juventam
  Ætatis breve ver, et primos carpere flores.

Those of the community, who survived the disaster, fled down the Hebrus to Lesbos; where they
either found, or erected, a temple similar to that which they had quitted. Here the same worship
was instituted; and the place grew into great reputation. They likewise settled at Lenmos.
This island lay at no great distance from the former; and was particularly devoted to the Deity
of fire. It is said by Hecatæus, that it received the name of Lemnos from the Magna Dea, Cybele.
She was styled by the natives Λημνος, and at her shrine they used to sacrifice young persons.
[1050]Απο μεγαλης λεγομενης Θεου· ταυτῃ δε και παρθενους εθυον. They seem to have named the
temple at Lesbos Orphi, and Orpheï caput: and it appears to have been very famous on account
of its oracle. Philostratus says, that the Ionians, and Æolians, of old universally consulted
it: and, what is extraordinary, that it was held in high estimation by the people of [1051]Babylonia.
He calls the place the head of Orpheus: and mentions, that the oracle proceeded from a cavity
in the earth; and that it was consulted by Cyrus, the Persian. That the Babylonians had a great
veneration for a temple named Orphi, I make no doubt: but it certainly could not be the temple
at Lesbos. During the Babylonish empire, Greece, and its islands, were scarcely known to people
of that country. And when the Persians succeeded, it is not credible, that they should apply
to an oracle at Lesbos, or to an oracle of Greece. They were too refined in their religious
notions to make any such application. It is notorious, that, when Cambyses, and Ochus, invaded
Egypt, and when Xerxes made his inroad into Greece, they burnt and ruined the temples in each
nation, out of abomination to the worship. It was another place of this name, an oracle of
their own, to which the Babylonians, and Persians, applied. For it cannot be supposed, in the
times spoken of, that they had a correspondence with the western world. It was Ur, in Chaldea,
the seat of the antient Magi, which was styled Urphi, and Orphi, on account of its being the
seat of an oracle. That there was such a temple is plain from Stephanus Byzantinus, who tells
us, [1052]Μαντειον εχειν αυτους (Χαλδαιους) παρα βαρβαροις, ὡς Δελφοι παρ' Ἑλλησι. The Chaldeans
had an oracle as famous among the people of those parts, as Delphi was among the Grecians.
This temple was undoubtedly styled Urphi. I do not mean, that this was necessarily a proper
name; but an appellative, by which oracular places were in general distinguished. The city
Edessa in Mesopotamia seems likewise to have had the name of Urphi, which was given on account
of the like rites, and worship. That it was so named, we may fairly presume from its being
by the natives called [1053]Urpha, at this day. It was the former temple, to which the Babylonians,
and Persians had recourse: and it was from the Magi of these parts, that the Orphic rites and
mysteries were originally derived. They came from Babylonia to Egypt, and from thence to Greece.
We accordingly find this particular in the character of Orpheus, [1054]ειναι δε τον Ορφεα μαγευσαι
δεινον, that he was great in all the mysteries of the Magi. We moreover learn from Stephanus
Monachius, that Orphon, a term of the same purport as Orpheus, was one of the appellations,
by which the Magi were called. [1055]Orphon, quod Arabibus Magum sonat. In short, under the
character of Orpheus, we have the history both of the Deity, and of his votaries. The head
of Orpheus was said to have been carried to Lemnos, just as the head of Osiris used to be wafted
to Byblus. He is described as going to the shades below, and afterwards returning to upper
air. This is similar to the history of Osiris, who was supposed to have been in a state of
death, and after a time to have come to life. There was moreover something mysterious in the
death of Orpheus; for it seems to have been celebrated with the same frantic acts of grief,
as people practised in their lamentations for Thamuz and Osiris, and at the rites of Baal.
The Bistonian women, who were the same as the Thyades, and Mænades, used to gash their arms
with knives, and besmear themselves with [1056]blood, and cover their heads with ashes. By
this display of sorrow we are to understand a religious rite; for Orpheus was a title, under
which the Deity of the place was worshipped. He was the same as Orus of Egypt, whom the Greeks
esteemed both as Apollo, and Hephaistus. That he was a deity is plain from his temple and oracle
abovementioned: which, we find, were of great repute, and resorted to by various people from
the opposite coast.

As there was an Orpheus in Thrace, so there appears to have been an Orpha in [1057]Laconia,
of whose history we have but few remains. They represent her as a Nymph, the daughter of Dion,
and greatly beloved by Dionusus. She was said, at the close of her life, to have been changed
to a tree. The fable probably relates to the Dionusiaca, and other Orphic rites, which had
been in early times introduced into the part of the world abovementioned, where they were celebrated
at a place called Orpha. But the rites grew into disuse, and the history of the place became
obsolete: hence Orpha has been converted to a nymph, favoured of the God there worshipped;
and was afterwards supposed to have been changed to one of the trees, which grew within its
precincts.

Many undertook to write the history of Orpheus; the principal of whom were Zopurus of Heraclea,
Prodicus Chius, Epigenes, and Herodorus. They seem all to have run into that general mistake
of forming a new personage from a title, and making the Deity a native, where he was inshrined.
The writings, which were transmitted under the name of Orpheus, were innumerable: and are justly
ridiculed by Lucian, both for their quantity, and matter. There were however some curious hymns,
which used to be of old sung in Pieria, and Samothracia; and which Onomacritus copied. They
contain indeed little more than a list of titles, by which the Deity in different places was
addressed. But these titles are of great antiquity: and though the hymns are transmitted in
a modern garb, the person, through whom we receive them, being as late as [1058]Pisistratus,
yet they deserve our notice. They must necessarily be of consequence, as they refer to the
worship of the first ages, and afford us a great insight into the Theology of the antients.
Those specimens also, which have been preserved by Proclus, in his dissertations upon Plato,
afford matter of great curiosity. They are all imitations, rather than translations of the
antient Orphic poetry, accompanied with a short comment. This poetry was in the original Amonian
language, which grew obsolete among the Helladians, and was no longer intelligible: but was
for a long time preserved in [1059]Samothracia, and used in their sacred rites.

CADMUS.

Although I have said so much about Dionusus, Sesostris, and other great travellers, I cannot
quit the subject till I have taken notice of Cadmus: for his expeditions, though not so extensive
as some, which I have been mentioning, are yet esteemed of great consequence in the histories
of antient nations. The time of his arrival in Greece is looked up to as a fixed æra: and many
circumstances in chronology are thereby determined. He is commonly reputed to have been a Phenician
by birth; the son of Agenor, who was the king of that country. He was sent by his father's
order in quest of his sister Europa; and after wandering about a long time to little purpose,
he at last settled in Greece. In this country were many traditions concerning him; especially
in Attica, and Bœotia. The particular spot, where he is supposed to have taken up his residence,
was in the latter province at Tanagra upon the river Ismenus. He afterwards built Thebes: and
wherever he came, he introduced the religion of his country. This consisted in the worship
of [1060]Dionusus; and in the rites, which by the later Greeks were termed the Dionusiaca.
They seem to have been much the same as the Cabyritic mysteries, which he is said to have established
in Samothracia. He fought with a mighty dragon; whose teeth he afterwards sowed, and produced
an army of men. To him Greece is supposed to have been indebted for the first introduction
of [1061]letters; which are said to have been the letters of his country Phenicia, and in number
sixteen. He married Harmonia, the daughter of Mars and Venus: and his nuptials were graced
with the presence of all the Gods, and Goddesses; each of whom conferred some gift upon the
bride. He had several children; among whom was a daughter Semele, esteemed the mother of Bacchus.
After having experienced great vicissitudes in life, he is said to have retired with his wife
Harmonia to the coast of Illyria, where they were both changed to serpents. He was succeeded
at Thebes by his son Polydorus, the father of Labdacus, the father of Laius. This last was
the husband of Jocasta, by whom he had Œdipus.

Bochart with wonderful ingenuity, and equal learning, tries to solve the ænigmas, under which
this history is represented. He supposes Cadmus to have been a fugitive Canaanite, who fled
from the face of Joshua: and that he was called Cadmus from being a Cadmonite, which is a family
mentioned by Moses. In like manner he imagines, that Harmonia had her name from mount Hermon,
which was probably in the district of the Cadmonites. The story of the dragon he deduces from
the Hevæi, or Hivites; the same people as the Cadmonites. He proceeds afterwards with great
address to explain the rest of the fable, concerning the teeth of the dragon, which were sown;
and the armed men, which from thence arose: and what he says is in many particulars attended
with a great shew of probability. Yet after all his ingenious conjectures, I am obliged to
dissent from him in some points; and particularly in one, which is of the greatest moment.
I cannot be induced to think, that Cadmus was, as Bochart represents him, a Phenician. Indeed
I am persuaded, that no such person existed. If Cadmus brought letters from Phenicia, how came
he to bring but sixteen; when the people, from whom he imported them, had undoubtedly more,
as we may infer from their neighbours? And if they were the current letters of Greece, as Herodotus
intimates; how came it to pass, that the tablet of Alcmena, the wife of Amphitryon, the third
in descent from Cadmus, could not be understood, as we are assured by [1062]Plutarch? He says,
that in the reign of Agesilaus of Sparta, a written tablet was found in the tomb of Alcmena,
to whom it was inscribed: that the characters were obsolete, and unintelligible; on which account
they sent it to Conuphis of Memphis in Egypt, to be decyphered. If these characters were Phenician,
why were they sent to a priest of a different country for interpretation? and why is their
date and antiquity defined by the reign of a king in Egypt? [1063]Τους τυπους ειναι της επι
Πρωτει βασιλευοντι γραμματικης. The form of the letters was the same as was in use when Proteus
reigned in that country. Herodotus, indeed, to prove that the Cadmians brought letters into
Greece, assures us, that he saw specimens of their writing at Thebes, in the temple of Apollo
[1064]Ismenius: that there was a tripod as antient as the reign of Laius, the son of Labdacus;
with an inscription, which imported, that it had been there dedicated by Amphitryon upon his
victory over the Teleboæ. I make no doubt, but that Herodotus saw tripods with antient inscriptions:
and there might be one with the name of Amphitryon: but how could he be sure that it was the
writing of that person, and of those times? We know what a pleasure there is in enhancing the
antiquity of things; and how often inscriptions are forged for that purpose. Is it credible
that the characters of Amphitryon should be so easy to be apprehended, when those of his wife
Alcmena could not be understood? and which of the two are we in this case to believe, Herodotus
or Plutarch? I do not mean that I give any credence to the story of Alcmena and her tablet:
nor do I believe that there was a tripod with characters as antient as Amphitryon. I only argue
from the principles of the Greeks to prove their inconsistency. The Pheneatæ in Arcadia shewed
to Pausanias an inscription upon the basis of a brazen statue, which was dedicated to [1065]Poseidon
Hippius. It was said to have been written by Ulysses, and contained a treaty made between him
and some shepherds. But Pausanias acknowledges that it was an imposition; for neither statues
of brass, nor statues of any sort, were in use at the time alluded to.

It is said of Cadmus, that he introduced the rites of [1066]Bacchus into Greece. But how is
this possible, if Bacchus was his descendant, the son of his daughter Semele? To remedy this,
the latter mythologists suppose, that there was a prior Bacchus, who was worshipped by Cadmus.
This is their usual recourse, when they are hard pressed with inconsistencies. They then create
other personages, to help them out of their difficulties. They form, with great facility, a
new Semiramis, or Ninus; another Belus, Perseus, Minos, Hermes, Phoroneus, Apis, though to
little purpose: for the mistake being fundamental, the inconveniencies cannot be remedied by
such substitutes. We are told that Cadmus was a Phenician: but Diodorus Siculus speaks of him
as assuredly of Egypt; and mentions moreover, that he was a native of the Thebaïs: [1067]Καδμον
εκ Θηβων οντα των Αιγυπτιων. Pherecydes Syrus also, from whom most of the mythology of Greece
was borrowed, makes Cadmus an [1068]Egyptian, the son of Agenor and Argiope, who was the daughter
of Nilus. By others he is said to have been the son of Antiope, the daughter of Belus: consequently
he must originally have been of Babylonish extraction. His father Agenor, from whom he is supposed
to have been instructed in the sciences, is represented by Nonnus as residing at Thebes.

  [1069]Πατρια θεσπεσιης δεδαημενος οργια τεχνης,
  Αιγυπτιης σοφιης μεταναστιος, ημος Αγηνωρ
  Μεμφιδος ενναετης ἑκατομπυλον ῳκεε Θηβην.

We learn the same from the Scholiast upon Lycophron, who styles the king Ogugus. [1070]Και
ὁ Ωγυγος Θηβων Αιγυπτιων ην Βασιλευς, ὁθεν ὁ Καδμος ὑπαρχων, ελθων εν Ἑλλαδι τας Ἑπταπυλους
εκτισε. Moreover Ogugus was king of Thebes in Egypt: of which country was Cadmus, who came
into Greece, and built the city styled Heptapulæ. It was from the same part of the world, that
the mysteries were imported, in which Cadmus is represented as so knowing: and here it was,
that he was taught hieroglyphics, and the other characters, which are attributed to him. For
he is said to have been expert [1071]Χειρος οπισθοποροιο χαραγματα λοξα χαρασσων. These arts
he carried first to the coast of Sidon, and Syria; and from thence he is supposed to have brought
them to Greece: for, before he came to Hellas, he is said to have reigned in conjunction with
Phœnix, both at Sidon and Tyre. Phœnix and Cadmus came from Thebes in Egypt, and reigned at
Tyre and Sidon.

Thus I have taken pains to shew, that Cadmus was not, as has been generally thought, a Phenician.
My next endeavour will be to prove that no such person existed. If we consider the whole history
of this celebrated hero, we shall find, that it was impossible for one person to have effected
what he is supposed to have performed. His expeditions were various and wonderful; and such
as in those early times would not have been attempted, nor could ever have been completed.
The Helladians say little more, than that he built Thebes, and brought letters into Greece:
that he slew a dragon, from the teeth of which being sowed in the ground there arose an army
of earthborn men. The writers of other countries afford us a more extensive account: among
the principal of which are to be esteemed Herodotus, Diodorus, Strabo, and Pausanias. Some
of them had their [1073]doubts about the reality of this adventurer: and from the history which
they have transmitted, we may safely infer, that no such person existed, as has been described
under the character of Cadmus.

He is said to have sailed first to [1074]Phenicia and Cyprus; and afterwards to [1075]Rhodes.
Here he instructed the people in the religion which he professed; and founded a temple at Lindus,
where he appointed an order of priests. He did the same [1076]at Thera, and afterwards was
at [1077]Thasus: and proceeding in his travels partook of the Cabiritic mysteries in [1078]Samothracia.
He visited [1079]Ionia, and all the coast upwards to the Hellespont and Propontis. He was at
Lesbos, which he named [1080]Issa: where some of his posterity were to be found long after.
He was also at Anaphe, one of the Sporades; which island was denominated Membliaros from one
of his [1081]followers. Mention is made of his being upon the [1082]Hellespont, and in Thrace.
Here he resided, and found out a mine of [1083]gold, having before found one of copper in [1084]Cyprus.
Hence he is said to have procured great wealth. [1085]Ὁδε Καδμου πλουτος περι Θρακην, και το
Παγγαιον ορος. We hear of him afterwards in [1086]Eubœa; where there are to be found innumerable
traces of him, and his followers. He was likewise at [1087]Sparta, as we may infer from the
Heroüm erected to him by Eurotas, and his brethren, the sons of Huræus. He must have resided
a great while in [1088]Attica; for there were many edifices about Athens attributed to him.
He settled at Tanagra in Bœotia; where he lost all his companions, who were slain by a dragon.
He afterwards built Thebes. Here he was king; and is said to have reigned sixty-two [1089]years.
But as if his wanderings were never to be terminated, he leaves his newly founded city, and
goes to Illyria. Here we find him again in regal state. [1090]Βασιλευει Καδμος των Ιλλυριων.
He reigns over the country which receives its name from his son. [1091]Ιλλυρια--απο Ιλλυριου
του Καδμονος παιδος. Now whoever is truly acquainted with antiquity, must know, that, in the
times here spoken of, little correspondence was maintained between nation and nation. Depredations
were very frequent; and every little maritime power was in a state of [1092]piracy: so that
navigation was attended with great peril. It is not therefore to be believed, that a person
should so often rove upon the seas amid such variety of nations, and reside among them at his
pleasure: much less that he should build temples, found cities, and introduce his religion,
wherever he listed; and this too in such transient visits. Besides, according to the Egyptian
accounts, the chief of his adventures were in Libya. He married Harmonia at the lake [1093]Tritonis;
and is said to have founded in that part of the world no less. than an hundred cities:

                  [1094]Λιβυστιδι Καδμος αρουρᾳ
  Δωμησας πολιων ἑκατονταδα.

Some of these cities seem to have been situated far west in the remoter parts of Africa.

  [1095]Και Λιβυες στρατοωντο παρ' Ἑσπεριον κλιμα γαιης,
  Αγχινεφη ναιοντες Αλημονος αστεα Καδμου.

Carthage itself was of old called [1096]Cadmeia: so that he may be ranked among the founders
of that city. Καρχηδων, Μητροπολις Λιβυης--εκαλειτο δε Καινη πολις, και Καδμεια. He is mentioned
by Moses Chorenensis to have settled in [1097]Armenia, where there was a regio Cadmeia not
far from Colchis. He reigned here; and is said to have been of the giant race, and to have
come from [1098]Babylonia. And as the city Carthage in Libya was called Cadmeia, so in this
region Cadmeia, there was a city Carthage: [1099]Καρχηδων πολις Αρμενιας.

Such are the expeditions of Cadmus. But is it credible that any person could have penetrated
into the various regions, whither he is supposed to have gone? to have founded colonies in
Phenicia, Cyprus, Rhodes, Thera, Thasus, Anaphe, Samothracia? to have twice visited the Hellespont?
to have worked the mines in the Pangean mountains, and in other places? to have made settlements
in Eubœa, Attica, Bœotia, and Illyria? and, above all, to have had such territories in Afric?
He is represented as heir to the kingdom of Egypt: this he quitted, and obtained a kingdom
in Phenicia. He leaves this too; and after much wandering arrives in Greece; where he founds
several cities, and reigns sixty-two years. After this, hard to conceive! he is made king in
Illyria. He must also have reigned in Afric: and his dominions seem to have been considerable,
as he founded an hundred cities. He is represented as a king in Armenia; and had there too
no small territory. Sure kingdoms in those times must have been very cheap, if they were so
easily attainable. But the whole is certainly a mistake; at least in respect to [1100]Cadmus.
No person could possibly have effected what is attributed to him. They were not the achievements
of one person, nor of one age. And place Cadmus at any given æra, and arrange his history,
as may appear most plausible; yet there will arise numberless inconsistencies from the connexions
he must have in respect to time, place, and people; such as no art nor disposition can remedy.

It may be asked, if there were no such man as Cadmus, what did the antients allude to under
this character? and what is the true purport of these histories? The travels of Cadmus, like
the expeditions of Perseus, Sesostris, and Osiris, relate to colonies, which at different times
went abroad, and were distinguished by this title. But what was the work of many, and performed
at various seasons, has been attributed to one person. Cadmus was one of the names of Osiris,
the chief Deity of Egypt. Both Europa, and Harmonia are of the like nature. They were titles
of the Deity: but assumed by colonies, who went out, and settled under these denominations.
The native Egyptians seldom left their country, but by force. This necessity however did occur:
for Egypt at times underwent great [1101]revolutions. It was likewise in some parts inhabited
by people of a different cast; particularly by the sons of Chus. These were obliged to retire:
in consequence of which they spread themselves over various parts of the earth. All, who embarked
under the same name, or title, were in aftertimes supposed to have been under the same leader:
and to him was attributed the honour of every thing performed. And as colonies of the same
denomination went to parts of the world widely distant; their ideal chieftain, whether Cadmus,
or Bacchus, or Hercules, was supposed to have traversed the same ground: and the achievements
of different ages were conferred upon a fancied hero of a day. This has been the cause of great
inconsistency throughout the mythology of the antients. To this they added largely, by being
so lavish of titles, out of reverence to their gods. Wherever they came they built temples
to them, and cities, under various denominations; all which were taken from some supposed attribute.
These titles and attributes, though they belonged originally to one God, the Sun; yet being
[1102]manifold, and misapplied, gave rise to a multitude of Deities, whose æra never could
be settled, nor their history rendered consistent. Cadmus was one of these. He was the same
as Hermes of Egypt, called also Thoth, Athoth, and Canathoth: and was supposed to have been
the inventor of letters. He was sometimes styled Cadmilus, another name for Hermes; under which
he was worshipped in Samothracia, and Hetruria. Lycophron speaking of the prophet Prulis, in
Lesbos, tells us, that he was the son of Cadmus, and of the race of Atlas. And he was the person,
who was supposed to give information to the Greeks, when they were upon their expedition towards
Troy.

  [1103]Ὡς μη σε Καδμος ωφελ' εν περιῤῥυτῳ
  Ισσῃ φυτευσαι δυσμενων ποδηγετην.

These are the words of Cassandra: upon which the Scholiast observes; Πρυλις, ὑιος του Καδμιλου,
και Καδμου, ητοι Ἑρμου: Prulis of Lesbos was the son of Cadmilus, or Cadmus, the same as Hermes.
And afterwards he mentions, [1104]ὁ Καδμος, ητοι Ἑρμης, Cadmus, who is the same as Hermes.
In another place he takes notice, that the name of Hermes among the Hetrurians was [1105]Cadmilus:
and it has been shewn, that Cadmilus, and Cadmus, are the same. To close the whole, we have
this further evidence from Phavorinus, that Cadmus was certainly an epithet or title of Hermes.
[1106]Καδμος, ου κυριον μονον, αλλα και Ἑρμου επιθετον.

Harmonia, the wife of Cadmus, who has been esteemed a mere woman, seems to have been an emblem
of nature, and the fostering nurse of all things. She is from hence styled [1107]παντροφος
Ἁρμονια. And when Venus is represented in the allegory as making her a visit, she is said to
go [1108]εις δομον Ἁρμονιας παμμητορος, to the house of the all-productive parent. In some
of the Orphic verses she is represented not only as a Deity, but as the light of the world.

  [1109]Ἁρμονιη, κοσμοιο φαεσφορε, και σοφε Δαιμον.

Harmonia was supposed to have been a personage, from whom all knowledge was derived. On this
account the books of science were styled [1110]κυρβιας Ἁρμονιας, the books of Harmonia, as
well as the books of Hermes. These were four in number, of which Nonnus gives a curious account,
and says, that they contained matter of wonderful antiquity.

  [1111]Ειν ἑνι θεσφατα παντα, ταπερ πεπρωμενα κοσμῳ
  Πρωτογονοιο Φανητος επιγραφε μαντιπολος χειρ.

The first of them is said to have been coeval with the world.

  [1112]Πρωτην κυρβιν οπωπεν ατερμονος ἡλικα κοσμου,
  Ειν ἑνι παντα φερουσαν, ὁσα σκηπτουχος Οφιων
  Ηνυσεν.

From hence we find, that Hermon, or Harmonia, was a Deity, to whom the first writing is ascribed.
The same is said of Hermes. [1113]Ἑρμης λεγεται Θεων εν Αιγυπτῳ γραμματα πρωτος ἑυρειν. The
invention is also attributed to Taut, or Thoth. [1114]Πρωτος εστι Τααυτος, ὁ των γραμματων
την ἑυρεσιν επινοησας,--ὁν Αιγυπτιοι μεν εκαλεσαν Θωυθ, Αλεξανδρεις δε Θωθ, Ἑρμην δε Ἑλληνες
μετεφρασαν. Cadmus is said not only to have brought letters into Greece, but to have been the
inventor of them: from whence we may fairly conclude, that under the characters of Hermon,
Hermes, Taut, Thoth, and Cadmus, one person is alluded to. The Deity called by the Greeks Harmonia,
was introduced among the Canaanites very early by people from Egypt: and was worshipped in
Sidon, and the adjacent country, by the name of [1115]Baal Hermon.

Europa likewise was a Deity; according to Lucian the same as Astarte, who was worshipped at
Hierapolis in Syria. He visited the temple, and had this information from the priests: [1116]ὡς
δε μοι τις των Ἱρεων απηγετο, Ευρωπης εστι (το αγαλμα) της Καδμου αδελφεης. He is speaking
of the statue in the temple, which the priests told him belonged to a Goddess, the same as
Europa, the sister of Cadmus. She was also esteemed the same as Rhea; which Rhea we know was
the reputed mother of the gods, and particularly the mother of Jupiter.

  [1117]Εστ' αν Ῥεια τεκοι παιδα Κρονῳ εν φιλοτητι.

Pindar speaks of Europa, as the [1118]daughter of Tityus: and by Herodotus she is made the
mother of [1119]Sarpedon and Minos.

I have mentioned, that Cadmus was the same as the Egyptian Thoth; and it is manifest from his
being Hermes, and from the invention of letters being attributed to him. Similar to the account
given of Cadmus is the history of a personage called by the Greeks Caanthus; this history contains
an epitome of the voyage undertaken by Cadmus, though with some small variation. Caanthus is
said to have been the son of Oceanus; which in the language of Egypt is the same as the son
of Ogus, and Oguges; a different name for the same [1120]person. Ogus, and with the reduplication
Ogugus, was the same as Ogyges, in whose time the flood was supposed to have happened. Ogyges
is represented both as a king of Thebes in Egypt, and of Thebes in Bœotia: and in his time
Cadmus is said to have left the former country, and to have come to the latter, being sent
in quest of his sister Europa by his father. Caanthus was sent by his father with a like commission.
His sister Melia had been stolen away; and he was ordered to search every country, till he
found her. He accordingly traversed many seas, and at last lauded in Greece, and passed into
Bœotia. Here he found, that his sister was detained by Apollo in the grove of Ismenus. There
was a fountain [1121]of the same name near the grove, which was guarded by a dragon. Caanthus
is said to have cast fire into this sacred recess; on which account he was slain by Apollo.
His ταφος, or tomb, was in aftertimes shewn by the Thebans. We may perceive, that the main
part of this relation agrees with that of Cadmus. Melie, the sister of Caanthus, is by some
spoken of as the mother of [1122]Europa: which shews, that there is a correspondence between
the two histories. The person also, who sent these two adventurers, the sister, of whom they
went in quest, and the precise place, to which they both came, exhibit a series of circumstances
so similar, that we need not doubt, but that it is one and the same history. It is said, that
Caanthus threw fire into the sacred [1123]grove: which legend, however misconstrued, relates
to the first establishment of fire-worship at Thebes in the grove of Apollo Ismenius. The term
Ismenius is compounded of Is-Men, ignis Menis. Meen, Menes, Manes, was one of the most antient
titles of the Egyptian God Osiris, the same as Apollo, and Caanthus. What has been mentioned
about Cadmus and Caanthus, is repeated under the character of a person named Curnus; who is
said to have been sent by his father Inachus in search of his sister [1124]Io. Inachus, Oceanus,
Ogugus, and Agenor, are all the same personages under different names; and the histories are
all the same.

That Cadmus was of old esteemed a Deity may be farther proved from his being worshipped at
Gortyna in Crete, as we learn from [1125]Solinus. Iidem Gortynii et Cadmum colunt, Europæ fratrem.
He had moreover an Heroum at Sparta, which was erected by people styled the sons of [1126]Huræus.
We learn from Palæphatus, that according to some of the antient mythologists, Cadmus was the
person, who slew the serpent [1127]at Lerna. And according to Nonnus he contended with the
giant Typhasus, and restored to Jupiter his lost [1128]thunder. By this is meant, that he renewed
the rites, and worship of the Deity, which had been abolished. These are circumstances, which
sufficiently shew, that Cadmus was a different personage, from what he is generally imagined.
There was a hill in Phrygia of his name, and probably sacred to him; in which were the fountains
of the river [1129]Lycus. There was also a river Cadmus, which rose in the same mountain, and
was lost underground. It soon afterwards burst forth again, and joined the principal stream.
Mountains and rivers were not denominated from ordinary personages. In short Cadmus was the
same as Hermes, Thoth, and Osiris: under which characters more than one person is alluded to,
for all theology of the antients is of a mixed nature. He may principally be esteemed Ham,
who by his posterity was looked up to as the Sun, and worshipped under his titles: a circumstance,
however, which was common to all, who were styled Baalim. That he was the same as Ham, will
appear from the etymology of his name. I have before shewn, that the Sun was styled [1130]Achad,
Achon, and Achor: and the name, of which we are treating, is a compound of [1131]Achad-Ham,
rendered by the Greeks Acadamus and Academus, and contracted Cadmus. Many learned men have
thought, that the place at Athens called Academia was founded by Cadmus, and denominated from
him: and of the latter circumstance I make no doubt. [1132]Ab hoc Cadmo Eruditi Academiam,
quasi Cadmiam deducunt: quo nomine indigitari locum musis studiisque sacratum notissimum est.
The true name of Cadmus, according to this supposition, must have been, as I have represented,
Acadamus; or, as the Ionians expressed it, Academus, to have Academia formed from it. Herodotus
informs us, that, when the Cadmians came to Attica, they introduced a new system of [1133]Architecture;
and built temples in a style different from that to which the natives had been used. And he
describes these buildings as erected at some distance from those of the country. This was the
situation of the place called Academia, which stood at the distance of a few furlongs from
[1134]Athens. It was a place of exercise and science; and by all accounts finely disposed:
being planted with a variety of trees, but particularly Olives, called here (Μοριαι) Moriæ.
There were likewise springs, and baths for the convenience of those who here took their exercise.
The tradition among the Athenians was, that one Ecademus, or Academus, founded it in antient
times; from whom it received its name. Laërtius styles him the hero Ecademus: [1135]Απο τινος
Ἡρωος ωνομασθη Εκαδημου. And Suidas to the same purpose; Απο Εκαδημου τινος Ἡρωος ονομασθεν.
But Eupolis, the comic writer, who was far prior, speaks of him as a Deity: [1136]Εν ευσκιοις
δρυμοισιν Ακαδημου Θεου. The trees, which grew within the precincts, were looked upon as very
sacred, [1137]οντως ἱεραι, and the place itself in antient times was of so great sanctity,
that it was a profanation to laugh there; [1138]προτερον εν Ακαδημιᾳ μηδε γελασαι εξουσιαν ειναι.

The Ceramicus at Athens had the same name; and it was undoubtedly given from the same personage.
Ακαδημια. καλειται δε ὁυτως ὁ Κεραμικος. Hesych. The common notion was, that it was denominated
from the hero [1139]Ceramus, the son of Dionusus. This arose from the common mistake; by which
the place was put for the person, to whom it was sacred, and whose name it bore. Ham was the
supposed hero: and Ceramus was Cer-Ham, the tower or temple of Ham, which gave name to the
inclosure. This abuse of terms is no where more apparent than in an inscription mentioned by
Gruter; where there is a mixed title of the Deity formed from his place of worship.

[1140]Malacæ Hispaniæ. MARTI CIRADINO TEMPLUM COMMUNI VOTO ERECTUM.

Cir-Adon was the temple of Adon, or Adonis; the Amonian title of the chief God. In like manner
near mount Laphystium in Bœotia, the God [1141]Charops was worshipped, and styled Hercules
Charops. But Char-Ops, or Char-Opis, signified the temple of the serpent Deity: and was undoubtedly
built of old by the people named Charopians, and Cyclopians; who were no other than the antient
Cadmians. Ceramicus was an Egyptian name; and one of the gates or towers of the gates at [1142]Naucratis
in that country was so called. It was also the name of an harbour in Caria, probably denominated
from some building at the [1143]entrance.

I may possibly be thought to proceed too far in abridging history of so many heroic personages,
upon whose names antiquity has impressed a reverence; and whose mighty actions have never been
disputed. For though the dress and colouring may have been thought the work of fancy, yet the
substance of their history has been looked upon as undeniably true. To which I answer, that
it was undoubtedly founded in truth: and the only way to ascertain what is genuine, must be
by stripping history of this unnatural veil, with which it has been obscured; and to reduce
the whole to its original appearance. This may be effected upon the principles which I have
laid down; for if instead of Perseus, or Hercules, we substitute bodies of men, who went under
such titles, the history will be rendered very probable, and consistent. If instead of one
person, Cadmus traversing so much ground, and introducing the rites of his country at Rhodes,
Samos, Thera, Thasus, Samothrace, and building so many cities in Libya, we suppose these things
to have been done by colonies, who were styled Cadmians, all will be very right, and the credibility
of the history not disputed. Many difficulties may by these means be solved, which cannot otherwise
be explained: and great light will be thrown upon the mythology of the antients.

The story then of Cadmus, and Europa, relates to people from Egypt, and Syria, who went abroad
at different times, and settled in various parts. They are said to have been determined in
their place of residence by an ox, or cow: by which this only is meant, that they were directed
by an oracle: for without such previous inquiry no colonies went abroad. An oracle by the Amonians
was termed Alphi, and Alpha, the voice of God. In Egypt the principal oracular temples were
those of the sacred animals Apis and Mneuis. These animals were highly reverenced at Heliopolis,
and Memphis, and in other cities of that country. They were of the male kind; but the honours
were not confined to them; for the cow and heifer were held in the like veneration, and they
were esteemed equally prophetic. Hence it was, that they were in common with the Apis and Mneuis
styled Alphi, and Alpha: which name was likewise current among the Tyrians, and Sidonians.
In consequence of this, Plutarch, speaking of the letter Alpha, says, [1144]Φοινικας ὁυτω καλειν
τον Βουν. The Phenicians call an ox Alpha. And Hesychius speaks to the same purpose. Αλφα,
βους. Thus we find that Alpha was both an oracle, and an oracular animal. The Grecians took
it in the latter acceptation; and instead of saying that the Cadmians acted in obedience to
an oracle, they gave out, that Cadmus followed a cow. What is alluded to in the animal, which
was supposed to have been his guide, may be known by the description given of it by Pausanias:
[1145]Επι δε ἑκατερας της βοος πλευρας σημειον επειναι λευκον, εικασμενον κυκλῳ της Σεληνης.
There was a white mark on each side of the cow like the figure of the moon. The poet quoted
by the Scholiast upon Aristophanes speaks to the same purpose. [1146]Λευκον σχημ' ἑκατερθε
περιπλοκον, ηυτε Μηνης. This is an exact description of the [1147]Apis, and other sacred kine
in Egypt: and the history relates to an oracle given to the Cadmians in that country. This
the Grecians have represented, as if Cadmus had been conducted by a cow: the term Alphi, and
Alpha, being liable to be taken in either of these acceptations. Nonnus speaks of Cadmus as
bringing the rites of [1148]Dionusus, and Osiris, from Egypt to Greece: and describes him according
to the common notion as going in quest of a bull, and as being determined in his place of residence
by a [1149]cow. Yet he afterwards seems to allude to the true purport of the history; and says,
that the animal spoken of was of a nature very different from that, which was imagined: that
it was not one of the herd, but of divine original.

  [1150]Καδμε ματην περιφοιτε, πολυπλανον ιχνος ἑλισσεις·
  Μαστευεις τινα Ταυρον, ὁν ου βοεη τεκε γαστηρ.

Under the character of Europa are to be understood people styled Europians from their particular
mode of worship. The first variation from the purer Zabaism consisted in the Ophiolatria, or
worship of the serpent. This innovation spread wonderfully; so that the chief Deity of the
Gentile world was almost universally worshipped under this symbolical representation. The serpent
among the Amonians was styled Oph, Eph, and Ope: by the Greeks expressed Οφις, Οπις, Ουπις:
which terms were continually combined with the different titles of the Deity. This worship
prevailed in Babylonia, Egypt, and Syria: from which countries it was brought by the Cadmians
into Greece. Serpentis eam venerationem acceperunt Græci a Cadmo. [1151]Vossius. It made a
part in all their [1152]mysteries; and was attended with some wonderful circumstances: of which
I have before made some mention in the treatise de Ophiolatriâ. Colonies, which went abroad,
not only went under the patronage, but under some title of their God: and this Deity was in
aftertimes supposed to have been the real conductor. As the Cadmians, and Europians, were Ophitæ,
both their temples, and cities, also the hills, and rivers, where they settled, were often
denominated from this circumstance. We read of Anopus Asopus, Oropus, Europus, Charopus, Ellopis,
Ellopia; all nearly of the same purport, and named from the same object of worship. Europa
was a [1153]Deity: and the name is a compound Eur-Ope, analogous to Canope, Canophis, and Cnuphis
of Egypt; and signifies Orus Pytho. It is rendered by the Greeks as a feminine, upon a supposition,
that it was the name of a woman; but it related properly to a country; and we find many places
of the like etymology in Media, Syria, and Babylonia: which were expressed in the masculine
Europos, and Oropus. The same also is observable in Greece.

I have shewn, that Cadmus was Taut, or Thoth; the Taautes of Sanchoniathon. It is said of this
person, that he first introduced the worship of the serpent: and this so early, that not only
the Tyrians and Sidonians, but the Egyptians received it from him. From hence we may infer,
that it came from [1154]Babylonia, [1155]Την μεν ουν του Δρακοντος φυσιν, και των οφεων, αυτος
εξεθειασεν ὁ Τααυτος, και μετ' αυτον αυθις Φοινικες τε, και Αιγυπτιοι.

The learned writers, who have treated of the Cadmians, have failed in nothing more, than in
not considering, that they were a twofold colony, which came both from Egypt, and Syria: from
Egypt first; and then from Syria, and Canaan. In their progress westward they settled in Cyprus,
Crete, Rhodes, Samos, Lesbos, Thrace: also in Eubœa, Attica, and Bœotia. In process of time
they were enabled to make settlements in other parts, particularly in Epirus and Illyria: and
to occupy some considerable provinces in Italy as high up as the Padus. Wherever they passed
they left behind them numberless memorials: but they are to be traced by none more plainly
than by their rites, and worship. As they occupied the greatest part of Syria, that country
was particularly addicted to this species of idolatry. Many temples were erected to the Ophite
God: and many cities were denominated from him. Both [1156]Appian and Stephanus Byzantinus
mention places in Syrophenicia called Oropus. Upon the Euphrates also in Mesopotamia were the
cities [1157]Amphipolis, and [1158]Dura, both called of old Oropus. The chief Syrian God had
the title of Bel, Baal, and Belial: which last the Greeks rendered Βελιαρ. Hence Clemens instead
of saying, what agreement can there be between Christ and Belial, says [1159]Τις δε συμφωνησις
Χριστου προς ΒΕΛΙΑΡ. This Belial, or Beliar, was the same as Belorus, and Osiris, who were
worshipped under the symbol of a serpent. Hence Hesychius explains the term Beliar by a serpent.
Βελιαρ--δρακων. Beliar is the same as a dragon or serpent. The Cadmians are said to have betaken
themselves to Sidon, and Biblus: and the country between these cities is called Chous at this
day. To the north is the city, and province of Hama: and a town, and castle, called by D'Anville
Cadmus; by the natives expressed Quadamus, or [1160]Chadamus. The Cadmians probably founded
the temple of Baal Hermon in Mount Libanus, and formed one of the Hivite nations in those parts.
Bochart has very justly observed, that an Hivite is the same as an [1161]Ophite: and many of
this denomination resided under Mount Libanus, and Anti-Libanus; part of which was called Baal
Hermon, as we learn from the sacred writings. [1162]Now these are the nations, which the Lord
left to prove Israel, namely, five Lords of the Philistines, and all the Canaanites, and the
Sidonians; and the Hivites that dwell in Mount Lebanon from Mount Baal Hermon unto the entering
in of Hamath. There were other Hivites, who are mentioned by Moses among the children of [1163]Canaan.
But the Cadmonites, and many of the people about Mount Libanus were of another family. The
Hivites of Canaan Proper were those, who by a stratagem obtained a treaty with [1164]Joshua.
Their chief cities were Gibeon, Cephirah, Beeroth, and Kirjath Jearim. These lay within the
the tribe of [1165]Judah, and of Benjamin, who possessed the southern parts of Canaan. But
the other Hivites, among whom were the Cadmonites, lay far to the north under Libanus, at the
very extremities of the country. The sacred writer distinguishes them from the Canaanites,
as well as from the other Hivites, by saying, the Hivites of Baal Hermon. And he seems to distinguish
the Sidonians from the genuine Canaanites, and justly: for if we may credit prophane history,
the Cadmians had obtained the sovereignty in that city: and the people were of a mixed race.
[1166]Καδμος--Τυρου και Σιδωνος εβασιλευεν. The Cadmians extended themselves in these parts
quite to the Euphrates, and westward to the coast of Greece, and Ausonia; and still farther
to the great Atlantic. They went under the name of Ellopians, Oropians, [1167]Cadmonites, Hermonians,
Ophitæ, and wherever they settled there will be always found some reference to their antient
history, and religion. As they were particularly styled Ophitæ, or Hivites, many places whither
they came, were said to swarm with [1168]serpents. Rhodes was under this predicament, and had
the name of Ophiusa: which name was given on account of the Hivites, who there settled, and
of the serpent-worship, which they introduced. But the common notion was, that it was so called
from real serpents, with which it was infested. The natives were said to have been of the giant
race, and the [1169]Heliadæ or offspring of the Sun; under which characters the antients particularly
referred to the sons of Chus, and Canaan. Their coming to the island is alluded to under the
arrival both of Danaus and Cadmus, by whom the rites, and [1170]religion of the Rhodians are
supposed to have been introduced. In Greece were several cities named Oropus, by which is signified
Ori Serpentis civitas. One of these was near [1171]Tanagia upon the border of Attica, and Bœotia.
This is the very spot where the Cadmians first resided: and the city was undoubtedly built
by them. It stood near the warm baths of Amphiaraus, whose temple belonged to the Oropians;
and who was particularly worshipped by them. We are informed by Strabo, that the temple of
Amphiaraus was built either in imitation, or in memory, of one called Cnopia at [1172]Thebes.
Cnopia is a contraction for Can-Opia; and the temple was certainly founded by people from Egypt.
It took its name from Can-ope, or Can-opus, the Ophite God of that country; and of the people
likewise, by whom the building was erected. The natives of Bœotia had many memorials of their
having been originally Ophites. The history of their country had continual references to serpents
and dragons. They seem to have been the national insigne: at least they were esteemed so by
the people of Thebes. Hence we find, that upon the tomb of Epaminondas there was figured a
shield with a serpent for a device, to signify that he was an Ophite, or [1173]Theban. The
Spartans were of the same race: and there is said to have been the same device upon the shield
of [1174]Menelaus, and of [1175]Agamemnon. The story of Cadmus, and of the serpent, with which
he engaged upon his arrival in Bœotia, relates to the Ophite worship, which was there instituted
by the Cadmians. So Jason in Colchis, Apollo in Phocis, Hercules at Lerna, engaged with serpents,
all which are histories of the same purport; but mistaken by the later Grecians.

It will not, I think, be amiss to take notice of some of those countries westward, to which
Cadmus is said to have betaken himself. From Bœotia he is supposed to have passed to Epirus
and Illyria; and it is certain, that the Cadmians settled in many places upon that coast. In
Thesprotia was a province of the Athamanes; who were denominated from their Deity Ath-Man,
or Ath-Manes. Here were the rivers Acheron, and Cocytus, the lake Acherusia, and the pestiferous
pool [1176]Aornon Here was the city Acanthus similar to one of the same name about forty miles
above [1177]Memphis: and a nation of people called [1178]Oreitæ: all which have a reference
to Egypt. The oracle at Dodona was founded by people from the same country, as we are assured
by [1179]Herodotus and others. And not only colonies from that country, but people from Canaan
must have betaken themselves to these parts, as is evident from names of places. This will
appear from the city [1180]Phœnice: and from another near Oricum, called Palæste; and from
the coast and region styled Palæstina. This was the spot where Cæsar landed, before he marched
to Pharsalia. [1181]Postridie terram attigit Cerauniorum saxa inter, et alia loca periculosa,
quietam nactus stationem. At portus omnes timens, quod teneri ab adversariis arbitrabatur,
ad eundem locum, qui adpellatur Palæste, omnibus navibus incolumibus, milites exposuit. Lucan
takes notice of the same circumstance, and the coast Palæstina.

  [1182]Inde rapi cœpere rates, atque æquora classem
  Curva sequi; quæ jam, vento fluctuque secundo
  Lapsa, Palæstinas uncis confixit arenas.

Here was the haven Comar, or [1183]Comarus, near the pool Aornus: and a city [1184]Oropus,
similar to the Oropus of Syria, and Bœotia. And higher up was a region Europa, styled Europa
Scythica by Festus Rufus. It is observable that there was a city in Epirus called [1185]Tecmon,
similar to one in Canaan, as we may infer from the chief of David's captains being styled the
[1186]Tecmonite.

Some of this family proceeded to the western part of the Adriatic gulf, and settled upon the
Eridanus, or Po. Here were the Orobians, the same as the Oropians, whose chief city was Comus:
near which the consul Marcellus overthrew the [1187]Galli Insubres. The story of Phaethon,
who was supposed to have fallen into the Eridanus, is manifestly of Egyptian original; as the
fable of Cycnus is from Canaan. Phaethon is by some represented as the first king, who reigned
in [1188]Chaonia, and Epirus. He was in reality the same as Osiris, the Sun; whose worship
was in there very early, as well as upon the Padus. The names of the Deities in every country
are generally prefixed to the list of kings, and mistaken accordingly. Cycnus is supposed to
have resided not only in Liguria, but in Ætolia, and Phocis. There was in these parts a lake
[1189]Conope, from Cycnus called also [1190]Cycnëa; which names undoubtedly came from Egypt,
and Canaan. The colonies upon the Padus left many memorials of their original; especially those,
who were from the Caphtorim of Palestina. Some of them had carried on a great work upon the
part of the river, where they settled; which from them was called [1191]Fossa Philistina; and
Fossiones Philistinæ. Of this I have made mention [1192]before.

It is said of Cadmus, that at the close of his life, he was, together with his wife Harmonia,
changed to a serpent of stone. This wonderful metamorphosis is supposed to have happened at
Encheliæ, a town in Illyria, which circumstance is taken notice of by Lucan.

  [1193]Tunc qui Dardaniam tenet Oricon, et vagus altis
  Dispersus sylvis Athamas, et nomine prisco
  Encheliæ, versi testantes funera Cadmi.

The true history is this. These two personages were here enshrined in a temple, or Petra: and
worshipped under the symbol of a serpent. Scylax Caryandensis, speaking of this part of Illyria,
says, [1194]Καδμου και Ἁρμονιας ὁι λιθοι εισιν ενταυθα, και ἱερον. In this region are two stones
sacred to Cadmus, and Harmonia: and there is likewise a temple dedicated to them. Lucan, who
calls the place Encheliæ, speaks of the name as of great antiquity. It undoubtedly was of long
standing, and a term from the Amonian language. Encheliæ, Εγχελιαι, is the place of En-Chel,
by which is signified the fountain of heaven; similar to Hanes, Anorus, Anopus in other parts.
The temple was an Ophite Petra: which terms induced people to believe, that there were in these
temples serpents petrified. It is possible, that in later times the Deity may have been worshipped
under this form: whence it might truly be said of Cadmus, and Harmonia, that they would one
day be exhibited in stone.

  [1195]Λαϊνεην ημελλον εχειν οφιωδεα μορφην.

But the notion in general arose from a mistake; and was owing to a misinterpretation of the
word Petra. On this account many personages were said to have undergone this change. Pollux,
who was of a character superior to what is generally imagined, was said to have been turned
to a stone.

  [1196]Εις λιθον αυτοτελεστον εμορφωθη Πολυδευκης.

Ariadne underwent the like [1197]change. Also Battus, Atlas, [1198]Alcmena, and others. All
these histories relate to personages, enshrined in temples styled Petra, who had a στυλος or
rude pillar erected to their honour. This was the usage in all parts, before the introduction
of images. There are allusions to these Ophite temples, and to these pillars, upon the coins
of Syria, and Tyre. Upon these the Deity is represented between two rough stones, with two
[1199]serpents on each side of him. A temple of this sort, which betrayed great antiquity,
stood in the vicinity of Thebes, and was called the serpent's head. Pausanius speaks of it
as remaining in his [1200]time. The same author affords another instance in his account of
Achaia; which is attended with some remarkable circumstances. He tells us, [1201]that at Pheræ,
a city of that region, was a fountain sacred to Hermes; and the name of it was Hama. Near this
fountain were thirty large stones, which had been erected in antient times. Each of these was
looked upon as a representative of some Deity. And Pausanias remarks, that instead of images,
the Greeks in times of old universally paid their adoration to rude unwrought [1202]stones.

That the Cadmians were the people, whom I suppose them, may I think be proved from many other
circumstances. There are some particulars in the history of these emigrants, by which they
may be as effectually distinguished, as by any national mark of feature, or complexion. I have
taken notice in a former treatise of the Cuthites, who came from Babylonia and settled in Egypt;
and who were afterwards expelled the country. They came under different titles; and were styled
Phenicians, Arabians, and Ethiopians; but they were more particularly distinguished by the
name of Oritæ, and of shepherds. These appellations must be carefully kept in remembrance,
for they will be found to occur in almost every part of the world, wherever any of this family
settled. In the histories above given of Osiris, Dionusus, and others, we find, that the sons
of Chus are represented as great travellers, and at the same time general benefactors: and
it is to be observed, that the same characters occur in every history: the great outlines are
the same in all. They appear to have been zealous worshippers of the Sun; and addicted to the
rites of fire: which mode of worship they propagated, wherever they came. They are described
as of superior stature, and were reputed the sons of Anac, and Urius, from Canaan, and Babylonia.
In respect to science, they seem to have been very eminent, if we consider the times when they
lived. They were particularly famed for their knowledge in astronomy, architecture, and music.
They had great sagacity in finding [1203]mines, and consequently were very rich. Lastly, there
continually occurs in their history some allusion to shepherds. Every one of these particulars
may be met with in the accounts given of the Cadmians: but it was the turn of the times to
make every thing centre in their imaginary leader, Cadmus. He is supposed to have found out
mines in Cyprus, and Thrace: and to have been the inventor of letters, and the introducer of
science. To him are ascribed the temples at Rhodes; and the buildings in Attica and Bœotia.
We find him celebrated as a great [1204]theologist and astronomer: and it is reported of Cadmus,
as it was also of Orpheus, that he left behind him many valuable remains, which [1205]Bion
Proconnesius is said to have translated. But all these gifts, so lavishly bestowed upon one
person, should be transferred to a people, who went under the name of Cadmians: and in whom
all these requisites are to be found. If we make this allowance, the history will be found
to be true. This people, in their migrations westward, were accompanied by others from Canaan,
and Syria. I have shewn that they settled at Rhodes, where they were called Ophites, or Hivites.
Another of their titles was Heliadæ, or children of the [1206]Sun. They were looked upon as
adepts in every branch of science, and particularly famed for their skill in astronomy. They
were the first navigators of the seas; and the division of time, with the notification of seasons,
is ascribed to them. [1207]Ὁι δε Ἡλιαδαι διαφοροι γεγονοτες των αλλων εν παιδειᾳ διηνεγκαν,
και μαλιστα εν Αστρολογιᾳ· εισηγησαντο δε και περι της ναυτιλιας πολλα, πολλα δε και περι τας
ὡρας διεταξαν. All these arts, if we may believe Herodotus, took their rise in [1208]Babylonia:
from whence they were carried by the Oritæ into Egypt: and from Egypt westward to Rhodes, and
to various parts besides. The Oritæ, or Auritæ, were the same as the Heliadæ, denominated from
the great object of their worship, the Sun. He was among other titles styled [1209]Orites:
as we learn from Lycophron: which is by his Scholiast interpreted the Sun. [1210]Ωριτην θεον,
τον αυτον Ἡλιον. The Deity, which is termed Orites, is no other than the Sun. These Heliadæ
were Ophitæ; and introduced at Rhodes, and in other places, the worship of the serpent. Hence
they occur in Greece under various titles, such as Ellopians, Europians, Oropians, Asopians,
and the like, being so denominated from places which they consecrated to Ops, and Opis, the
serpent. The Cadmians settled in Eubœa, which was called Ellopia from Ellops, a supposed brother
of [1211]Cothus. Plutarch gives an account of Cothus himself coming to Eubœa in company with
another named Arclus. [1212]Κοθος, και Αρκλος, ὁι Ξουθου παιδες εις Ευβοιαν ἡκον οικησαντες.
By Cothus and Arclus are meant Cuthites and Herculeans, people of the same family, who settled
in this island. The Oritæ of Egypt were also styled Arabians; and the Arabian nome was denominated
from them. The Cadmians, who settled in Eubœa, may be traced under the same names. Strabo calls
the people, who were supposed to attend Cadmus, Arabians, [1213]Αραβες, ὁι συν Καδμῳ. One district
in the island was denominated from them, Æthiopium: [1214]Αιθιοπιον, ονομα χωριου εν Ευβοιᾳ.
This is more particularly described by Stephanus, as the passage is happily corrected by Salmasius.
Αιθιοπιον, χωριον Ευβοιας παρα Δηλιου, πλησιον του Ευριπου. There is a part of Eubœa hard by
Delium, and near to the Euripus, called Ethiopium. But the most critical mark, by which any
of these islands were distinguished, was that of [1215]Oritæ. This is the express title of
the shepherds in Egypt; which they assumed both on account of the Deity, whom they worshipped,
and in reference to the city Ur in Chaldea, from whence they were in part derived. They founded
a city of the same name in Eubœa, which the Greeks expressed [1216]Oria: whence came the provincial
title of Oritæ. Here Orion was supposed to have been [1217]nursed, whose history we know was
from Babylonia. The natives had a tradition, that he was the son of [1218]Urieus, and of the
gigantic race: the purport of which, I think, cannot be mistaken. They passed, as I have shewn,
from Eubœa to Attica, and Bœotia. Here also was a city [1219]Ur, like that in Chaldea, and
a tradition about Orion being born in these parts. They likewise pretended to shew his [1220]tomb.
This city Ur, or Uria, was in the district of Tanagra, and stood directly opposite to the province
of Ethiopia in Eubœa, being separated only by the narrow frith of the [1221]Euripus. They settled
also at Træzen, where Orus is said to have resided: by which we are to understand his worshippers,
the Oritæ. [1222]Φασι δε Ωρον γενεσθαι σφισιν εν γῃ πρωτον· εμοι μεν ουν Αιγυπτιον φαινεται,
και ουδαμως Ἑλληνικον ονομα Ωρος ειναι. Βασιλευσαι δ' ουν φασιν αυτον, και Ωραιαν απ' αυτου
καλεισθαι την γην. The people of Træzen, says Pausanias, give out, that one Orus was the first
in their country. But the name Orus to me seems to have been of Egyptian original. They farther
relate, that this Orus was a king, and that the province was from him called Oraia. Uria above,
and Oraia here, however differently expressed, signify literally the land of Ur. In all these
places the Cuthites went under various appellations, but particularly of Cyclopians, Ellopians,
and [1223]Europians from their worship. Agreeably to the account which has been above given,
we find, that the Heroum of Cadmus at Sparta was built by Europus, and his brethren: and they
likewise are represented as the sons of [1224]Uræus. As we are acquainted with the eastern
manner of speaking; and know that by the daughter of Tyre, the daughter of Jerusalem, the children
of Moab, the children of Kedar, the children of Seir, the children of the east, are meant the
inhabitants of those places: may we not be assured that by Europus and the sons of Urius and
Uræus, are pointed out a people styled Europians of Babylonish extraction, who were ab origine
from Ur in Chaldea? And is it not plain, that the history of Cadmus is founded upon terms ill
understood, and greatly misapplied? Yet the truth is not totally defaced, as I hope, that I
have made appear. By Moses Chorenensis Cadmus is represented as of the giant race; and he is
said to have come from [1225]Babylonia. Nonnus mentions his planting in Greece a colony of giants.

  [1226]Και σταχυς αυτολοχευτος ανηεξητο Γιγαντων.

Hence the Cadmians were styled Ανακες, and [1227]Ανακτες; and the temples of their Gods, Ανακτορια,
Anactoria. These terms were imported from the Anakim of Egypt and Canaan: but as the people,
who brought them, were Oritæ, and the sons of Urius, they must ultimately have come from Babylonia.
Here astronomy, and the other sciences first commenced; and the worship of the Sun was first
instituted: where the priests, and professors were styled Oritæ, and [1228]Orchani. Lucian
indeed says, that astronomy was not derived to the Greeks either from the Egyptians, or the
Ethiopians; but from [1229]Orpheus. This however intimates, that the Ethiopians, under which
name the sons of Chus are mentioned by the [1230]Greeks, were supposed to have introduced science
into this country; otherwise this caveat had been unnecessary. But we shall in the end shew,
that Orpheus was from the same quarter. And to put the matter out of all doubt, we find Herodotus
maintaining very determinately, that the knowledge of the heavens, and every thing relating
to the distribution of time, was imported from [1231]Babylonia. As these Babylonians, these
sons of Urius, manifestly came to Greece by the way of Egypt, it appears pretty evident, that
they were the sons of Chus, of the shepherd race, who so long held the sovereignty in that
kingdom. Hence it is, that throughout the whole mythology of the Grecians there are continual
allusions to shepherds; a title, which we know was peculiar to the Auritæ of Egypt. Nonnus,
in his allegorical poem, describes Cadmus in a pastoral habit, playing upon an instrument,
and reclining himself under the shade of an oak.

  [1232]Κλινας γειτονι νωτον ὑπο δρυι φορβαδος ὑλης,
  Και φορεων αγραυλον αηθεος ἑιμα Νομηος.

He gives to him the same powers in harmony which were attributed to Orpheus. Hence Cadmus is
made to say that he could charm the woods upon the mountains, and sooth the wild beasts of
the forest: that he could even calm the ocean, and stop the course of its turbulent waters.

  [1233]Θελξω δενδρεα παντα, και ουρεα, και φρενα θηρων·
  Ωκεανον σπευδοντα παλινδινητον ερυξω.

Almost all the principal persons, whose names occur in the mythology of Greece and Italy, are
represented as shepherds. Not only the Gods Faunus, Apollo, Pan, Sylvanus, Pales, Adonis, but
Eumelus, Triptolemus, Ericthonius, Eumolpus, Aristæus, Battus, Daphnis, Terambus of Egypt,
and Osiris, are represented of that profession. Hence it is, that we find altars, and inscriptions
to the shepherd [1234]Gods. Apollo was styled Νομευς, and Ποιμνιος; and was said to have been
educated in [1235]Arabia. When Rhea produced to the world Poseidon, she gave him to the care
of a [1236]shepherd to bring him up among the flocks. Atlas, the great astronomer, is represented
as a shepherd. [1237]Ατλας μαθηματικος ην Λιβυς ανηρ.--Πολυειδος δε ὁ διθυραμβοποιος τον Ατλαντα
τουτον ΠΟΙΜΕΝΑ Λιβυν φησιν. Atlas the great mathematician, was a person of Libya. The Dithyrambic
poet Polueidos says, that Atlas was a Libyan shepherd. There was a tradition that the temple
of Ammon in Libya was built by a shepherd, from whom it received its name; [1238]απο του ἱδρυσαμενου
ποιμενος. It is reported of the Muses, that they were of shepherd extraction, and tended flocks,
which they entrusted to their favourite Aristæus.

  [1239]Και μιν ἑων μηλων θεσαν ηρανον, ὁσσ' ενεμοντο
  Αμπεδιον Φθιαν Αθαμαντιον, αμφι τ' ερυμνην
  Οθρυν, και ποταμου ἱερον ῥοον Απιδανοιο.

This is the person by Virgil styled Pastor Aristæus. Zethus and Amphion are described as of
the same profession, though kings of Thebes, [1240]Ζηθος δε και Αμφιων αδελφοι ησαν ποιμενες.
Even the monster Polyphemus is taken notice of as a musician, and a [1241]shepherd. Macrobius
mentions, that among the Phrygians the Sun was worshipped under a pastoral [1242]character,
with a pipe and a wand. Tiresias, the prophet, is by Hyginus styled Tiresias, Eueri filius,
or as some read it, Tiresias, Eurii filius, [1243]Pastor. This was also one of the titles out
of many conferred upon the Phenician Hercules, to whom they attributed the invention of purple.
He was the chief Deity, the same as Cham, and Orus, the God of light; to whom there is a remarkable
invocation in the Dionusiaca of Nonnus.

  [1244]Αστροχιτων Ἡρακλες, αναξ πυρος, Ορχαμε κοσμου,
  Ηελιε, βροτεοιο βιου δολιχοσκιε ΠΟΙΜΗΝ.

Some of the pyramids in Egypt were styled the pyramids of the shepherd [1245]Philitis; and
were said to have been built by people, whom the Egyptians held in abomination: from whence
we may form a judgment of the persons, by whom those edifices were erected. Many hills, and
places of reputed sanctity were denominated from shepherds. Caucasus, in the vicinity of Colchis,
had its name conferred by Jupiter in memory of Caucasus a shepherd. [1246]Το ορος εις τιμην
του Ποιμενος Καυκασον μετονομασας. Mount Cithæron in Bœotia was called Asterius; but received
the former name from one Cithæron, a [1247]shepherd, supposed to have been there slain. I have
mentioned from Herodotus, that the Cadmians built the temple of [1248]Damater, or Ceres, in
Attica, where they introduced her worship. And there is a remarkable circumstance mentioned
in consequence of this by Hesychius, who tells us, that the priests of this Goddess were of
a particular family, called Ποιμενιδαι, or the Shepherd race. Ποιμενιδαι, γενος, εξ ὁυ ὁ Δημητρος
ἱερευς. The Cadmians therefore, from whom this priesthood came, must have been in a peculiar
manner shepherds. The mountain Apæsantus in Argolis is said to have been named from [1249]Apæsantus,
a shepherd. The Cuthites settled in Thrace near Hæmus, in Sethonia; of whom Stephanus gives
this short but remarkable history: εκαλουντο προτερον Νομαιοι. The author does not say, that
they were shepherds; but that they antiently were so called: so that it was not so much the
profession, as the title of the people. They settled in Hetruria, and Latium; in which last
province stood the city Præneste, of which I have before spoken. It was said to have been of
high antiquity, and was founded by Cœculus,

  [1250]Vulcano genitum pecora inter agrestia Regem,
  Inventumque focis, omnis quem credidit ætas.

We find here, that the founder of this city was a shepherd, and a king, and the reputed son
of Vulcan, the same as Urius. It is said of him, that he was, inventum focis, because he was
ab origine from the land of fire; by which is meant Ur of Chaldea. So the personage, represented
under the character of Cacus upon Mount Aventine, is by Livy said to have been a shepherd.
[1251]Pastor accola ejus loci, nomine Cacus, ferox viribus. He likewise is said to have been
the son of the God of Fire: [1252]Huic monstro Vulcanus erat pater. The first city which the
Cadmians built in Bœotia was named [1253]Poimandris; or as Eustathius renders it Poimandria,
[1254]Ποιμανδρια; the same which was afterwards called Tanagra. It is said to have been so
denominated from one Poimander. This name is by interpretation a shepherd, or rather a shepherd
of men. It answers to the title of Ποιμην λαου, so frequently to be met with in Homer. That
excellent Poet was wonderfully fond of every thing, which savoured of antiquity: and has continual
references to the antient history of Egypt, and to the rites of that country. He sometimes
seems to adhere superstitiously to obsolete terms, thinking probably, that they enriched his
verse, and gave a venerable air to the narration. Of these, no one occurs more frequently than
the title of a shepherd Prince, which he bestows on many of his leaders. It is the translation
of a title, which the sons of Chus, as well as the Egyptians, gave to their Deities, and to
their kings. Hence the writings of Hermes were inscribed the works of the Shepherd Prince,
as we may infer from the Greek transcript: for that was written in imitation of the former,
and called [1255]Poimandras.

Thus have I endeavoured to state the progress of the Cuthites under their different appellations
to Greece; and to describe the rout which they took in their peregrinations, I have shewn,
that under the title of Phenicians and Cadmians, they first settled in Canaan, and in the region
about Tyre and Sidon: from whence they extended themselves towards the midland parts of Syria;
where they built Antioch. [1256]Κασος, και Βηλος, Ιναχου παιδες, προς τῳ Οροντῃ ποταμῳ την
νυν Αντιοχειαν της Συριας πολιν εκτισαν. Casus, and Belus, two sons of Inachus, built the city
in Syria, which is now called Antioch upon the river Orontes. By Casus is meant Chus; and Belus
is a Babylonish title of Ham, as well as of his immediate descendants, who are here alluded
to. From Syria they penetrated to the Euphrates, and from thence to Armenia: and that there
were colonies here of Amonians, and particularly of the Cuthites, may be known from the history
of Cadmus: but more especially from the similitude of language, person, and manners, which
subsisted among these [1257]nations. Zonaras is very explicit upon this head. He mentions the
incroachments of the sons of Ham in these parts, and shews the extent of the trespass, of which
they were guilty. [1258]Ὁιδε γε παιδες του Χαμ την απο Συριας και Αβανου και Λιβανου των ορων
γην κατεσχον, και ὁσα προς θαλασσαν αυτων ετετραπτο, μεχρις ωκεανου, κατειληφασι. In respect
to the sons of Ham, they seized upon all the inland country, which reaches from Syria, and
particularly from the mountains Albanus, and Libanus: and all the region, which from thence
extends towards the sea, even as far as the Ocean. Of these emigrants Tacitus has given a curious
account, which has never been sufficiently heeded. He takes notice of those who settled in
Canaan, as well as those who passed higher towards the north. [1259]Sunt, qui tradant Assyrios
convenas, indigum agrorum populum, parte Ægypti potitos, ac mox [1260]proprias urbes, Hebræasque
terras, et propiora Syriæ coluisse. As the Cadmians settled about Byblus and Sidon, there seems
in consequence of it to have been a religious correspondence kept up between this colony and
Egypt. It is said according to the enigmatical turn of the times, that the head of Osiris was
annually wafted by the floods to [1261]Byblus. It was reported to have been just seven days
in its passage; and the whole was performed θειῃ ναυτιλιῃ, by a voyage truly miraculous. There
are many proofs that the religion of Syria came in great measure from Egypt. The rites of Adonis,
and the lamentations upon his account at Sidon, and Byblus, were copies of the mourning for
Osiris, and represented in the same [1262]manner. Lucian, having described the pompous temple
at Hierapolis, says, that there was another in the neighbourhood, not of Assyrian, but Egyptian
original; the rites of which were received by the natives from Heliopolis in that [1263]country.
This he did not see: but speaks of it as very grand, and of high antiquity.

These particulars I have thought proper to discuss thoroughly, in order to disclose the true
history of the Cadmians, as I am hereby enabled to prove the great antiquity of this people;
and to shew who they were, and from whence they came. It has been observed by many of the learned,
that some particular race of men spread themselves abroad, and got access among numberless
nations. Some have thought that they were Scythians: others, that they were Egyptians: others
still, that they were from Phenicia, and Canaan. What they have said upon the subject, however
they may seem to differ from one another, may in some degree be allowed. But I believe, that
the true account is that which I have here given. I have endeavoured, with great pains, to
sift the history to the bottom: and it is to me manifest, that they were for the most part
the Auritæ, those shepherds of Egypt. This people had spread themselves over that country like
a deluge: but were in time forced to retreat, and to betake themselves to other parts. In consequence
of this they were dissipated over regions far remote. They were probably joined by others of
their family, as well as by the Canaanites, and the Caphtorim of Palestina. They are to be
met with in Persis, and Gedrosia, under the name of Oritæ. They are to be found in Bœtica upon
the Atlantic under the same [1264]name. They settled in Colchis, Thrace, Phrygia, Sicily, and
Hetruria; and upon the extreme parts of the Mediterranean: Diluvio ex illo tot vasta per æquora
vecti.

These are the migrations, of which the antient historian [1265]Istrus wrote in a curious treatise,
long since lost; which he inscribed περι των Αιγυπτιων αποικιας. We meet with a summary account
of them in Diodorus Siculus, who mentions, that after the death of Isis and Osiris the Egyptians
sent out many colonies, which were scattered over the face of the earth. [1266]Ὁ δε ουν Αιγυπτιοι
φασι και μετα ταυτα αποικιας πλειστας εξ Αιγυπτου κατα πασαν διασπαρηναι την οικουμενην. Of
these migrations there were two remarkable above the rest: the one of the sons of Chus, concerning
whom I have been treating; the other of the Israelites, which was somewhat later than the former.
The author above takes notice of both these occurrences, in a most valuable extract preserved
by Photius; wherein he does not sufficiently distinguish the particular families of these emigrants,
nor the different times of the migration: yet the account is very curious; and the history
of each transaction plainly delineated. [1267]Ευθυς ουν ὁι ξενολατουμενων των αλλοεθνων ὁι
επιφανεστατοι, και δραστικωτατοι συστραφεντες εξεῤῥιφησαν, ὡς τινες φασιν, εις την Ἑλλαδα,
και τινας ἑτερους τοπους, εχοντες αξιολογους ἡγεμονας· ὡν ἡγουντο Δαναος, και Καδμος, των αλλων
επιφανεστατοι. Ὁδε πολυς λεως εξεπεσεν εις την νυν καλουμενην Ιουδαιαν. Upon this, as some
writers tell us, the most eminent and enterprising of those foreigners, who were in Egypt,
and obliged to leave the country, betook themselves to the coast of Greece, and also to other
regions, having put themselves under the command of proper leaders for that purpose. Some of
them were conducted by Danaus, and Cadmus, who were the most illustrious of the whole. There
were beside these a large, but less noble, body of people, who retired into the province called
now [1268]Judea.

When therefore we speak of the history of Greece as far back as we can carry it, and of the
rites and religion introduced into that country, we may accede to the account given of them
by Zonaras. [1269]Εκ Χαλδαιων γαρ λεγεται φοιτησαι ταυτα προς Αιγυπτον κακειθεν προς Ἑλληνας.
All these things came from Chaldea to Egypt; and from thence were derived to the Greeks. The
same is attested by [1270]Josephus. What preceded the arrival of the Cadmians, and other Cuthites,
in these parts, is utterly unknown. With them commences the history of the country. It is true,
there are accounts concerning Erectheus, Ericthonius, Cecrops, and other antient kings: but
they were superadded to the history of Attica, just as the names of Inachus, Phoroneus, Apis,
were to that of Argos. It was therefore matter of great surprise to Solon, when he was informed
by the Egyptian priests of the antient occurrences of their country, and of the wars of the
Atlantians, to find the same names stand at the head of their histories, as were observable
in those of Greece: [1271]Κεκροπος τε, και Ερεχθεως, και Εριχθονιου, και Ερισιχθονος, των τε
αλλων. For instance, the names of Cecrops, Erectheus, Ericthonius, Erisicthon, and others.
Και τα των Γυναικων και ταυτα. The names also of their women were the same. In reality, they
were all titles of the Deity, as might be easily shewn. Erectheus for instance was the God
of the sea, and as such worshipped by the very people who enlisted him among their kings. This
may be proved from Athenagoras. [1272]Αθηναιος Ερεχθει Ποσειδωνι θυει. The Athenian sacrifices
to Erectheus the same as Poseidon. Strabo seems to think, that most of the antient names were
foreign; [1273]such as Cecrops, and Codrus, and Arclus, and Cothus: and he is certainly right
in his opinion.

What I have here said, may in some degree prove a basis for the history of Greece. We may indeed
talk of Xuthus, Ion, and Hellen: also of the Leleges, and Pelasgi, and thus amuse ourselves
in the dark: but no real emolument can possibly arise, till the cloud, with which history has
been so long obscured, be done away. This cannot well be effected, till some of the first principles,
upon which we are to proceed, be made out, and these great truths determined.

This inquisition I have been obliged to make concerning some of the principal personages in
the annals of Greece. For it is impossible to lay a foundation for a future history unless
what is true, and what is false, be previously determined. All those, of whom I have been treating,
stand foremost in the lists of antiquity, and have been admitted with too little consideration.
Many of the first Fathers in the Christian church, seeing the high pretensions of the Grecians,
tried to invalidate their claim, by shewing that all their antient heroes were subsequent to
Moses. This was the repeated labour of Clemens of Alexandria, Theophilus, Eusebius, Tatianus,
and others. It was a point urged by them continually in their recommendation of the Scriptures,
as if priority of time were necessarily a mark of truth. The best chronologers likewise admit
these personages in their computations; and great pains have been used to reconcile the contradictions
in their histories, and to ascertain the æra when they flourished. These learned men acted
upon a very laudable principle, but failed in the very beginning of their process. For, as
I have before taken notice, the question should not have been about the time when these persons
lived, but whether they ever existed. The fathers proceeded upon very precarious grounds, and
brought their evidence to a wrong test. They indeed state things very fairly, and have authorities
for all that they advance. But the traditions of the Greeks were not uniform. And if any Gentile
writer, instead of carrying the æra of Inachus and Phoroneus, or of Dionusus and Perseus, towards
the time of Moses, had extended it to the times of the first kings in Egypt, I do not see what
they could have done; for this person, in his turn, could have produced authorities. They might
indeed have disputed the point, and have opposed evidence to evidence, but nothing certain
could have ensued.

END OF VOL. II.

W. Marchant, Printer, 3, Greville-street, Holborn.

[1] In all antient accounts of the Romans the term was expressed Poini, and Poinicus. Poinei
stipendia pendunt. Poinei sunt soliti suos sacrificare puellos. Ennius. Annal. vii. Afterwards
it was changed to Pœnus, and Punicus.

[2] Simon the Canaanite. Matth. c. 10. v 4. Also the woman of Canaan. Matthew. c. 15. v. 22.

[3] Ausonius. Epigram. 25. Ph'Anac, the Great Lord.

[4] Apuleius. l. xi. p. 246.

[5] Zachlas adest Ægyptius, propheta primarius,--et cum dicto juvenem quempiam linteis amiculis
intectum, pedesque palmeis baxeis indutum, et adusque deraso capite, producit in medium. Apuleius.
l. 2. p. 39.

[6] Pedes ambrosios tegebant soleæ, palmæ victricis foliis intextæ. Ibid. l. 11. p. 241.

[7] Euripides in Ione. v. 920.

[8] Cantic. c. 7. v. 6.

[9] Psalm 93. v. 12.

[10] Plutarch Symposiac. l. 8. c. 4. Adversus pondera resurgit. Gellius. l. 3. c. 6.

[11] Pliny. Hist. Nat. l. 13. c. 4. Ἱερον Ἑλιου το φυτον, αγηρων τε ον. Juliani Imp. Orat.
v. p. 330.

[12] Revelations. c. 7. v. 9. Περιβεβλημενοι στολας λευκας, και Φοινικες εν ταις χερσιν αυτων.

[13] John. c. 12. v. 13.

[14] Ἑκκαιδεκατη δυναστεια Ποιμενες Ἑλληνες Βασιλεις. Syncellus. p. 61.

[15] The Lords of the Philistines; and the Princes of the Philistines. 1 Samuel. c. 29. v. 2, 3, 4.

[16] Ezekiel. c. 26. v. 16.

[17] Isaiah. c. 23. v. 8.

Ezekiel. c. 28. v. 2.

[18] Herodotus brings the Phœnicians from the Mare Erythræum; by which he means the Sinus Persicus.
l. 7. c. 89. l. 1. c. 1.

[19] Philo, mentioning the march of the Israelites towards the Red Sea, and the Amalekites,
adds: νεμονται δ' αυτην Φοινικες. De V. Mosis. vol. 2. p. 115.

Φοινικων κωμη, in Edom. Procopius. Persic. l. 1. c. 19.

[20] Phœnicus, in Crete. Steph. Byzant.

[21] Αφροι Φοινικες. Glossæ.

[22] Κατα Βουθρωτον Φοινικη. Strabo. l. 7. p. 499.

Mount Olympus, in Lycia, was styled, by way of eminence, Phoinic. Ολυμπος πολις μεγαλη και
ορος ὁμωνυμον, ὁ και Φοινικους καλειται. Strabo. l. 14. p. 982. Bochart supposes Phœnic and
Phœnices (Φοινικες) to be derived from Beni Anac, changed to Pheni Anac, i.e. the sons of Anac:
but how can this be applicable to a mountain, or to the Palm tree? I am happy, however, that
in a part of my etymology, and that a principal part, I am countenanced by that learned man.

Bishop Cumberland derives it from Anac torquis. Orig. p. 302.

[23] Hesychius.

[24] A city and mountain in Bœotia, called Phœnice: the natives, Phœnicians. Strabo. l. 9. p. 629.

[25] Chron. p. 27.

[26] Syncellus. p. 126. from Eusebius.

[27] Βηλος απ' Ευφρηταο. κτλ. Nonnus.

[28] Bochart. Hierazoican. l. 2. c. 7.

[29] Gellius. l. 2. c. 26.

[30] Gellius. Ibidem.

[31] Iliad ψ. v. 454.

[32] John. c. 12. v. 13.

[33] 1 Maccab. c. 13. v. 51.

[34] Ibidem. c. 13. v. 37.

[35] Varro apud Nonium Marcellum.

[36] Horapollo. l. 1. c. 7. p. 11.

[37] Ælian de Animalibus. l. 7. c. 60.

He cites Hermippus and Aristotle for vouchers.

[38] Εθνος ειναι φασιν Αιθιοπων, ὁπου, κυων βασιλευει, και βασιλευς προσαγορευται, και ἱερα
και τιμας εχει βασιλεων. Ανδρες δε πρασσουσιν, ἁπερ ἡγεμοσι πολεων προσηχει, και αρχουσιν.
Plutarch adversus Stoïcos. vol. 2. p. 1064.

[39] Ibid.

[40] Lycophron. v. 439.

[41] Comment. upon Lycophron. p. 68.

[42] Lucan. Pharsalia. l. 9. v. 787.

[43] Ausa Jovi nostro latrantem opponere Anubim. Propert. l. 3. El. 11.

Ἑξης δε εστιν ὁ κυνοπολιτις νομος, και Κυνων πολις, εν ᾑ Ανουβις τιμᾳται, και τοις κυσι τιμη,
και σιτις τετακται τις ἱερα. Strabo. l. 17. p. 1166.

[44] Σεληνην δε γραφοντες, Η ΟΙΚΟΥΜΕΝΗΝ, η γραμματεα, η ἱερεα, η οργην, η κολυμβον, κυνοκεφαλον
ζωγραφουσι. l. 1. c. 14. p. 26.

[45] Ἱερογραμματεα τε παλιν, η προφητην, η οσφρησιν, η πταρμον, η αρχην, η δικαστην, βουλομενοι
γραφειν κυνα ζωγραφουσιν. l. 1. c. 39. p. 52.

[46] Εω γαρ τους Αιγυπτιους, ὁιπερ και δεισιδαιμονεστατοι εισι παντων· ὁμως τοις θειοις ονομασιν
εις κορον επιχρωμενους· σχεδον γαρ τα πλειστα ΕΞ ΟΥΡΑΝΟΥ εστιν. Lucian de imaginibus.

See Observations on Antient History. p. 166.

Solebant autem Ægyptii sibi suisque Deorum patriorum nomina plerumque imponere.--Moremque hunc
gens illa servare perrexit, postquam salutari luce Evangelicâ diu fruita esset. Jablonsky.
v. 1. l. 1. c. 5. p. 105.

[47] It is possibly alluded to in Psalm 80. v. 16. and in Jeremiah. c. 6. v. 20.

[48] Plutarch. Isis et Osiris. p. 365. Χενοσιρις.

[49] The purport of the term Cahen, or Cohen, was not totally unknown in Greece. They changed
it to κοης, and κοιης; but still supposed it to signify a priest. Κοιης, ἱερευς Καβειρων, ὁ
καθαιρωμενος φονεα. Hesychius. Κοιᾳται ἱερᾳται. Ibid.

It was also used for a title of the Deity. Κοιας, ὁ στρογγυλος λιθος; scilicet Βαιτυλος. Moscopulus.
p. 5. The Bætulus was the most antient representation of the Deity. See Apollon. Rhod. Schol.
ad. l. 1. v. 919.

[50] Ου, καθαπερ τα λοιπα ζωα εν ἡμερᾳ μιᾳ τελευτᾳ, ὁυτω και τουτους: αλλα μερος αυτων καθ'
ἑκαστην ἡμεραν νεκρουμενον ὑπο των Ἱερεων θαπτεσθαι. κτλ.

Ἑως δ' αν ἁι ἑβδομηκοντα και δυο πληρωθῳσιν ἡμερας, τοτε ὁλος αποθνησκει. Horapollo. l. 1.
c. 14. p. 2.

[51] Εις ἱερον επειδαν πρωτα κομισθη Κυνοκεφαλος, δελτον αυτῳ παρατιθησιν ὁ Ἱερευς, και σχοινιον,
και μελαν, πειραζων, ει εκ της επισταμενης εστι συγγενειας γραμματα, και ει γραφει. Horapollo.
l. 1. c. 14. p. 28.

[52] Horapollo. l. 1. c. 16 p. 30. Δωδεκατις της ἡμερας καθ' ἑκαστην ὡραν ουρει· τοδε αυτο
και ταις δυσι νυξι ποιει. κτλ. Speaking of the two Equinoxes.

[53] Hoffman: Cunocephalus.

Vossius de Idol. vol. 2. l. 3. c. 78.

[54] What Orus Apollo attributes to the Cunocephalus, Damascius (in Vitâ Isidori) mentions
of the Cat. Photii Bibliotheca. c. 242. p. 1049.

[55] By Strabo expressed Κειπος, who says, that it was reverenced by the people at Babylon,
opposite to Memphis. l. 17. p. 1167. Κειπον δε Βαβυλωνιοι ὁι κατα Μεμφιν (σεβουσι).

[56] Babun, Βαβυν, of Hellanicus Lesbius. Athenæus. l. 15. p. 680. called Bebon, Βεβων, by
Manethon. Plutarch. Isis et Osiris. p. 371, 376. Babon was thought to have been the same as
Typhon: by some esteemed a female, and the wife of that personage. Plutarch. ibid.

The Ape and Monkey were held sacred, not in Egypt only, but in India, and likewise in a part
of Africa. Diodorus Sicul. l. 20. p. 793. Maffeus mentions a noble Pagoda in India, which was
called the monkeys' Pagoda. Historia Ind. l. 1. p. 25: and Balbus takes notice of Peguan temples,
called by the natives Varelle, in which monkeys were kept, out of a religious principle. See
Balbi Itinerarium.

[57] Martianus Capella. l. 4. sub initio.

Astronomia is made to speak to the same purpose.--Per immensa spatia seculorum, ne profanâ
loquacitate vulgarer, Ægyptiorum clausa adytis occulebar. Martianus Capella. l. 8.

[58] Johannes Sarisburiensis Metalogic. l. 2. p. 787. Editio Lugd. Bat. anno 1639.

He speaks of Parmenides as if he were a native of Egypt; and seems to have understood that
Parmenides took up his residence in the Egyptian seminary, in order to obtain a thorough knowledge
in science. Et licet Parmenides Ægyptius in rupe vitam egerit, ut rationem Logices inveniret,
tot et tantos studii habuit successores, ut ei inventionis suæ totam fere præripuerint gloriam.

[59] Hermes was the same as Anubis Latrator. Jablonsky. l. 5. c. 1.

Κυνα σεβεις· τυπτω δ' εγω. Anaxandrides apud Athenæum. l. 7. p. 300.

Ἑρμην κυνα. Plutarch. Isis et Osiris.

[60] Strabo. l. 17. p. 1167. Κυνοκεφαλον δε (τιμωσιν) Ἑρμοπολιται.

[61] Ἑρμοπολιτικη φυλακη. Strabo. ibid.

[62] Analogous to this we read in Herodotus, that the Persian brigade, whose deficiencies were
supplied by continual recruits, was styled αθανατος, immortalis. Herodotus. l. 7. c. 83.

It consisted of ten thousand men.

[63] Herodotus. l. 2. c. 37.

[64] Δωδεκατις ἡμερας καθ' ἑκαστην ὡραν ΟΥΡΕΙ Κυνοκεφαλος. Horapollo. l. 1. c. 16.

[65] Herodot. l. 4. c. 191.

Upon the Mare Erythræum, ἱδρυμα Κυνοσκεφαλων καλουμενον. Strabo. l. 16. p. 1120. Also Pliny.
l. 6. c. 30. and l. 7. c. 2. of Cunocephali in Ethiopia and India.

[66] Herodot. l. 4. c. 191.

[67] Many places were named Cunocephale: all which will be found upon inquiry to have been
eminences, or buildings situated on high, agreeably to this etymology. Κυνοσκεφαλη, ΛΟΦΟΣ τις
Θεσσαλιας. Stephanus Byzant. from Polybius. l. 17.

Κυνωγκεφαλαι near Scotiussa. ΛΟΦΩΝ πυκνων παραλληλων ΑΚΡΑΙ. Plutarch in Flaminino, of the same
place.

The citadel at Thebes was called Κυνοσκεφαλη by Xenophon. Those who speak of the Cunocephali
as a people, describe them as Mountaineers. Megasthenes per diversos Indiæ montes esse scribit
nationes caninis capitibus. Solinus. c. 52.

A promontory of this name upon the coast of the Red Sea, mentioned above from Strabo. Another
promontory Cunocephale in Corcyra. Procopius. Goth. l. 3. c. 27.

[68] Solinus. c. 4. and Isidorus. Origi l. 9. de Portentis.

[69] Steph. Byzantinus.

[70] Ptolemy. l. 3. c. 15.

[71] Hesychius. Also a family at Lacedæmon, Φυλη Λακωνικη: and Cunosouroi, the name of a family
at Megara. See Alexander ab Alexandro. l. 1. c. 17.

[72]

  Esse duas Arctos, quarum Cynosura petatur
  Sidoniis; Helicen Graia carina notet. Ovid. Fastor. l. 3. v. 107.

[73] L. 3. p. 207.

[74] V. 99.

[75] Palæphatus περι εφευρησεως κογχυλης.. p. 124.

[76] Cassiodorus of the purple. Cum fame canis avida in Tyrio littore projecta conchylia impressis
mandibulis contudisset, illa naturaliter humorem sanguineum diffluentia ora ejus mirabili colore
tinxerunt: et ut est mos hominibus occasiones repentinas ad artes ducere, talia exempla meditantes
fecerunt principibus decus nobile. l. 9. c. 36.

See also Chronicon Paschale. p. 43. Achilles Tatius. l. 3. Julius Pollux. l. 1. c. 4. p. 30.
Ed. Amstel. Pliny. l. 9. c. 36.

[77] Cyrus Prodromus επι αποδημῳ τῃ φιλιᾳ.

[78] Nonni Dionysiaca. l. 40. p. 1034.

[79] Etymologicum Magnum.

[80] Johannes Antiochenus, who tells the story at large, says, that purple was the discovery
κυνος ποιμενικου which in the original history was undoubtedly a shepherd king.

[81] Plutarch. Isis et Osiris. p. 355.

[82] Ουδε Σωκρατης τον κυνα και τον χηνα ομνυς επαιζεν. Porphyry de Abstinentiâ. l. 3. p. 286.

It is said to have been first instituted by Rhadamanthus of Crete: Εκελευσε (Ῥαδαμανθυς) κατα
χηνος, και κυνος, και κριου ομνυναι. Eustathius upon Homer. Odyss. Υ. p. 1871.

See Aristophan. Ορνιθες. Scholia, v. 521. Ομνυναι κελευσαι (Ῥαδαμανθυν) χηνα, και κυνα, κτλ.
from Socrates. l. 12. de Rebus Creticis.

The antient Abantes of Eubœa styled Zeus himself Cahen; called in aftertimes Cenæus. There
was a promontory of the same name: Κηναιον ακρωτηριον (Αβαντων) Steph. Byzant. Here Hercules
was supposed to have sacrificed after his conquest of Æchalia.

  Victor ab Æchaliâ Cenæo sacra parabat
  Vota Jovi. Ovid. Metamorph. l. 9 v. 136.

Sophocles in Trachin. v. 242, mentions, Βωμους, τελητ' εγκαρτα Κηναιῳ Διι.

[83] Plato in Gorgiâ. vol. 1. p. 482.

[84] Porphyry. l. 3. p. 286. so corrected by Jablonsky. l. v. c. 1. p. 10

[85] Clementis Cohortatio. p. 32.

[86] Pliny. l. 8. p. 446.

[87] Anthologia. l. 1. Epigram. 144.

[88] Theophrast. Charact.

[89] Hesychius.

[90] Diodorus Siculus de pompâ Isiacâ. l. 1. p. 78.

[91] Huetius. Præp. Evang. p. 86. from Cornutus de naturâ Deorum.

A like history is given of serpents in Syria by Aristotle, περι θαυμασιων ακουσματων: and by
Pliny and Isidorus, of birds in the islands of Diomedes.

[92] Nonni Dionysica. l. 3. p. 94.

[93] Ibid.

[94] Homer. Odyss. l. 8. v. 92.

[95] Τον Κυνα τον χρυσεον απεδειξεν (ὁ Ζευς) φυλαττειν το ἱερον εν Κρητῃ. Antoninus Liberalis.
c. 35. p. 180.

[96] Pausanias of Tænarus. l. 3. p. 275.

[97] ---- of Trœzen. l. 2. p. 183.

[98] ---- of Hermione. l. 2. p. 196.

[99] Dionys. Περιηγης. v. 791. This temple stood, according to Diodorus Siculus and Arrian,
in the country of the Cimmerians, near the Acherusian Chersonese. See Scholia to Dionysius above.

[100] Oppida tota canem venerantur. Juvenal. Sat. 15. v. 8. Diodorus. l. 1. p. 16.

[101] Herodotus. l. 2. c. 66.

[102] Plutarch. Isis et Osiris. p. 368.

[103] Εξω κυνες was a proverbial expression among the Jews.

[104] Deuteronomy. c. 23. v. 18.

[105] In this golden cup Hercules was supposed to have passed over the ocean. Χρυσεον ----
δεπας, εν ᾡ τον ωκεανον διεπερασεν Ἡρακλης. Apollodorus. l. 2. p. 100.

There was likewise in the same place a story about a golden belt. Philostratus: Vita Apollon.
l. 5. p. 212.

[106] Palæphatus. Edit. Elz. 1642. p. 76. the author would not say σφοδρα πλουσιοι, but keeps
to the antient term χρυσοι, though it is scarce sense.

[107] Pindar. Olymp. Ode 2. στροφ. δ. p. 25.

[108] Χρυσοφορουσι δ' εκ του Καυνασου πολλαι πηγαι ψηγμα αφανες. Appian de Bello Mithridat.
p. 242. Salauces, an antient king of Colchis, was said to have abounded with gold. Pliny. l.
33. c. 15. p. 614. Arrian supposes that they put fleeces into the river, to intercept (ψηγμα
αφανες) this imperceptible mineral; and that hence arose the fable of the Golden Fleece.

[109] Pindar. Olymp. Ode 7. p. 64.

[110] Callimachus. Hymn to Apollo. v. 34.

In like manner there was a shower of gold at Thebes, in Bœotia. Pindar speaks of Jupiter Χρυσῳ
μεσονυκτιον νιφοντα. Isthm. Ode 7. p. 746.

[111] Callimachus. Hymn to Delos. v. 260.

[112] Homer. Hymn to Apollo. v. 135.

[113] Πευκης ειδος ἑτερον· λειβεσθαι δ' ἁιματι, καθαπερ τῳ χρυσῳ την Ἡλιαδα αιγειρον. Philostratus.
l. 5. p. 211. Æschylus mentions the Arimaspians as living upon a golden stream:

                  Ὁι Χρυσοῤῥυτον
  Οικουσιν αμφι ναμα Πλατωνος πορου. Prometheus. p. 49.

[114] Hence the celebrated city in Egypt had the name of Cherchusora. Some traces of Orcus
may be found in Zeus Hircius, and Orcius, mentioned by Pausanias. l. 5. p. 442. He supposes
the name to be from ὁρκος, an oath, and mentions a legend to that purpose.

[115] Hesiod. Theog. v. 281.

[116] Χρυσαορις, πολις Καριας----Επαφροδιτος δε την Καριαν πασαν Χρυσαοριδα λεγεσθαι (φησι).
Steph. Byzant.

[117] Strabo. l. 14. p. 975. Zeus was a title conferred upon more than one of the family.

[118] Herodotus. l. 2. c. 15. Also c. 17. and 97. called by Strabo Κερκεσουρα. l. 17. p. 1160.

[119] Sanchoniathon apud Euseb. Præp. Evan. l. 1. p. 35.

[120] Diodorus Sic. l. 4. p. 224.

[121] Hesiod. Theog. v. 287.

Τρισωματον βοτηρ' Ερυθειας. Euripides. Hercules Furens. v. 423.

[122] Homer. Iliad. Ο. v. 256.

[123] Homer. Hymn to Apollo. v. 123.

[124] Second Hymn to Diana. v. 3.

Perseus is styled Χρυσαορος in Orpheus de Lapid. c. 15. v. 41.

[125] Homer. Hymn to Apollo. v. 131.

[126] Ibid. v. 126.

[127] Apollo was represented as the author of the lyre, called among the oriental nations Kinor,
and Cuthar: from the latter of which came κιθαρις, and cithara in the west.

[128] Pindar. Pyth. Ode 1.

[129] Χρυση, ἡ πολις του Απολλωνος εγγυς Λημνου--και της Λεσβιας τοπος· και Πανηφαιστια της
Λημνου ακρωτηριον--και εν Βιθυνιᾳ, και περι Χαλκηδονα, και της Καριας· και εν τῃ Ἁλικαρνασιδι
Δωριον πεδιον· και εν Ἑλλησποντῳ· εστι και αλλη Χεῤῥονησος της Ινδικης· εν δε τῃ εκτος Γανγου
Ινδικῃ. Stephanus Byzant.

See also Χρυσοπολις ibidem.

[130] Cedrenus. p. 12.

[131] Strabo. l. 16. p. 1095.

[132] Hoffman Lexic.

[133] Plutarch de fluminibus. p. 1151. The original name was Chrusaor, which had no relation
to a golden stream: at least that part of it was so named which ran through the city Mastaura.
See Stephanus Byzant. Μασταυρα.

[134] כתם of of the Hebrews.

[135] Dionysius περιηγης. v. 589. Scholia ibidem.

[136] The antients, as I have before observed, were not consistent in their theology. The Sun
was properly Cham, styled also Orus, but, as a title, was bestowed upon more persons than one.

[137] Josephus of Salatis, the first Shepherd King; Ὁυτος εν τῃ Μεμφιδι κατεγινετο. Contra
Apion. l. 1. §. 14.

[138] Diodorus Sic. l. 1. p. 88.

[139] Josephus contra Apion. l. 1. c. 14.

[140] Justin Martyr mentions this: Εγνω γαρ και τεμενος Χρυσης Αφροδιτης εν Αιγυπτῳ λεγομενον,
και πεδιον Χρυσης Αφροδιτης ονομαζομενον. Cohort, p. 28. Chruse Aphrodite is plainly the Cuthite
Venus; the Deity of the Cuthim.

[141] Pocock's and Norden's Travels, and maps of the country about Cairo.

[142] Colchis, near Comar. Arrian Periplus maris Erythræi. Geog. Vet. vol. 1. p. 33.

[143] Κατασχειν δε φασι και ες Πηγαδας της των Ωρειτων χωρας. Ὁιδε Ωρειται, χαλκαι μεν αυτοις
ἁι πετραι, χαλκη δε ἡ ψαμμος, χαλκουν δε ψηγμα ὁι ποταμοι αγουσι. Χρυσιτιν ἡγουνται την γην
δια την ευγενειαν του Χαλκου. Philostratus. Vita Apollon. l. 3. p. 155.

[144] The Petra and Pagoda were the same: both names for temples.

[145] This mistake arose from Cal-Chus being styled the region of the Cuthim.

[146] Scholia upon Pindar. Pyth. Ode 4. p. 259.

[147] Ibid. Isth. Ode 5. p. 462.

[148] Sanchoniathon apud Euseb: Præp. Evan. l. 1. c. 10. p. 35.

[149] Ibid.

[150] Lucian de Electro. vol. 2. p. 523. Edit. Salmurii.

[151] Ovid. Metamorph. l. 1. v. 751.

[152] Homer. Odyss. l. λ. v. 15. Phaëthon was universally allowed to be the Sun by the antient
mythologists of Greece; to whom we must appeal, and not to the Roman poets. Orpheus says,

  Ηελιον Φαεθοντα εφ' ἁρμασι πωλοι αγουσι. de Lapid. v. 90.

And in another place;

  Ευθυς ὁτ' εκ περατων γαιης Φαεθων ανορουσων, κλ.

Phaëthon was the same as Phanes: and there is something very mysterious in his character. He
is represented as the first born of heaven: Πρωτογονος Φαεθων περιμηκεος Ηερος ὑιος--Hunc ait
(Orpheus) esse omnium Deorum parentem; quorum causâ cœlum condiderit, liberisque prospexerit,
ut haberent habitaculum, sedemque communem: Εκτισεν Αθανατοις δομον αφθιτον. Lactantus de falsâ
religione. l. 1. c. 5. p. 15. His history will be explained hereafter.

[153] Phœnices post multos deinde annos, a Rege Ascaloniorum expugnati, navibus appulsi, Tyron
urbem ante annum Trojanæ cladis condiderunt. Justin. l. 18. c. 3. See Isaiah. c. 23. v. 11.
They enlarged Tyre: but it was a city before: for it is mentioned Joshua. c. 19. v. 29. as
the strong city Tyre.

[154] Porphyry de Abstinentiâ. l. 2. p. 158.

[155] Apuleius de genio Socratis.

[156] Argonautica. v. 32. See Clementis Cohortatio. p. 12.

[157] Nonni Dionysiaca. l. 19. p. 520.

[158] Joseph. Antiq. l. 11. c. 5. p. 563.

[159] Nehemiah. c. 8. v. 9.

[160] 1 Esdras. c. 9. v. 52, 53.

[161] Nehemiah. c. 8. v. 11.

[162] Sanchoniathon alludes to the songs of Canaan, and their great sweetness, when he is in
an allegorical manner speaking of Sidon; whom he makes a person, and the inventress of harmony.
Απο δε Ποντου γινεται Σιδων, ἡ καθ' ὑπερβολην ευφωνιας πρωτη ὑμνον ῳδης ἑυρεν. Apud Euseb.
P. E. lib. 1. c. 10. p. 38.

[163] Stephanus Byzant.

[164] Sanchoniathon apud Euseb. l. 1. c. 10. p. 39.

[165] Υκ καθ' ἱεραν γλωσσαι βασιλεα σημαινει. Josephus contra Ap. l. 1. c. 13. p. 445.

[166] Osiris, Υσιρις, according to Hellanicus. Plutarch de Iside et Osiride.

[167] Verse 129.

[168] Homer's Hymn to Apollo. v. 92.

[169] Ichnaia was a city in Sicily, and elsewhere.

Αχναι πολις Θεσσαλιας--εστι και πολις Βοιωτιας. Steph. Byzant.

Αραχναιον ορος Αργους. Ibid. Ar-Achnaion is the hill of Canaan, or the Canaanitish mount.

[170] See Radicals. p. 106.

[171] Pliny. l. 3. p. 173.

[172] Milton. Paradise Lost. l. 1. v. 416. See also Ezekiel. c. 8. v. 14.

[173] Hyginus. Fab. 154. p. 266. not. 7. Ἑτεροι δε φασι, δικαιοτατον αυτον ειναι Νειλον. Eratosthenes.
Catasterism. 37.

[174] Καλειται δε ὑπο των εγχωριων Βυχερνος. Αιγυπτιοι δε φασι Νειλον ειναι τον κατηστηρισμενον.
Scholia in Aratum. p. 48.

[175] Plutarch de Fluminibus. vol. 2. p. 1154.

[176] Eustathius in Dionysium. v. 239. See Steph. Byzant. Αιγυπτος.

[177] Plutarch περι τον εκλελοιποτων χρηστηριων. vol. 1. p. 409.

[178] Strabo. l. 16. p. 1101. There was supposed to have been a person in Thessaly named Cycnus,
the son of Apollo. He lived upon a lake Uria; which was so called from his mother.

  Inde lacus Hyries videt, et Cycnëia Tempe,
  Quæ subitus celebravit olor. Ovid. Metam. l. 7. v. 371.

Uria was also a river in Bœotia: and here was a Cycnus, said to have been the son of Poseidon.
Pausan. l. 10. p. 831.

[179] Ερασθεντα δε Πασιφαης Δια γενεσθαι μεν Ταυρον· νυν δε αετον και κυκνον. Porphyry de Abstin.
l. 3. p. 285.

Που νυν εκεινος ὁ αετος; που δαι ὁ κυκνος; που δαι αυτος ὁ Ζευς. Clemens. Alex. Cohort. p. 31.

[180] Nonni Dionysiaca. l. 24. p. 626.

[181]

  Προς Γοργονεια πεδια Κισθενης, ἱνα
  Ἁι φορκιδες ναιουσι, δηναιοι κοραι,
  Τρεις κυκνομορφοι, κοινον ομμ' εκτημεναι. Æschyli Prometheus. p. 48.

Ἁι μεν φορκιδες τρεις--ειχον ειδος Κυκνων. Scholia ibidem.

Φορκυν ην ανηρ Κυρηναιος· ὁιδε Κυρηναιοι κατα γενος μεν εισιν Αιθιοπες. Palæphatus. Edit. Elz.
p. 76.

[182] Τατε ωτα, και τους οφθαλμους ὁι δημιουργουντες εξ ὑλης τιμιας καθιερουσι, τοις Θεοις
ανατιθεντες εις τους νεως· τουτο δηπου αινισσομενοι, ὡς παντα θεος ὁρᾳ, και ακουει. Clemens
Alexand. l. 5. p. 671.

See Diodorus. l. 3. p. 145. This may have been one reason, among others, why the Cyclopians
and Arimaspians are represented with one eye: τον μουνωπα στρατον Αριμασπον. Æschylus Prometh.
p. 49. The Arimaspian history was written by Aristeus Proconnesius, and styled Αριμασπεια επη.

[183] Plutarch. Ει. vol. 2. p. 387.

[184] Porph. de Abst. l. 3. p. 286.

[185] Aristophanes. Aves. Κυκνῳ Πυθιῳ και Δελιῳ. v. 870.

[186] Plato de Republicâ. l. 10. p. 620. vol.2.

[187] Porph. de Abstin. l. 4. p. 364.

[188] Lycophron. v. 426. Scholia Ibidem.

[189] Callimachus. Hymn to Delos. v. 249.

[190] Fragmenta Lini. Ex Aristobulo. See Poesis Philosoph. H. Steph. p. 112.

[191] Ovid. Metamorph. l. 14. v. 509.

[192] Plato in Phædone. vol. 1. p. 84. Plutarch. in Ει. v. 2. p. 387.

Cicero Tusc. Quæst. l. 1. Pliny. l. x. c. 23.

Ælian de Animal. l. 2. c. 32. l. x. c. 36.

Philostratus. Vita Apollon. l. 3. c. 23.

[193] De Animalibus. l. 9. Και τινες ηδη πλεοντες παρα την Λιβυην περιετυχον εν τῃ θαλαττῃ
πολλοις αδουσι φωνῃ γοωδει· και τουτων ἑωρων αποθνησκοντας ενιους. vol. 2. p. 423.

[194] See Brown's Vulgar Errors. l. 3. c. 27.

[195] Ὁ δε Μυνδιος φησιν Αλεξανδρος πολλοις τελευτωσι παρακολουθησας ουκ ακουσαι αδοντων. Athenæus.
l. 9. c. 11.

[196] Epigram. in Erinnam. l. 3. p. 280. H. Steph.

[197] Lucretius. l. 4. v. 182.

[198] See Vossius de Idol. vol. 2. l. 3. c. 88. p. 1212. and Pierius de Cygnis. p. 254.

[199] Herod. l. 2. c. 109.

Γεωμετριας τε αυ ἑυρεται γεγονασιν (ὁι Αιγυπτιοι.) Clemens. Strom. l. 1. p. 361.

[200] L. 4. v. 279.

[201] Apollonius Rhodius. l. 4. v. 279.

[202] Dionys. Περιηγησις. v. 688.

[203] Clem. Alexand. speaks Περι τε της Κοσμογραφιας και Γεωγραφιας κτλ.--Χωρογραφιας τε της
Αιγυπτου, και της του Νειλου διαγραφης. Strom. 6. p. 757.

[204] Σεσωστρις δε, φασιν, ὁ Αιγυπτιος, πολλην περιεληλυθως γην πιναξι τε δεδωκε την περιοδον,
και της των πινακων αναγραφας ουκ Αιγυπτιοις μονον, αλλα και Σκυθαις εις θαυμα μεταδουναι ηξιωσεν.
Eustath. Præf. Epist. to Dionys. p. 12.

[205] Ægyptios primos omnium tam cœlum quam terram esse dimensos: ejusque rei scientiam columnis
incisam ad posteros propagâsse. Petavii Uranalogia. p. 121. taken from Achilles Tatius.

[206] Homer. Odyss. l. α. v. 52.

[207] The Atlantians were styled [Greek Ouraniônes], or sons of heaven. The head of the family
was supposed to be the brother of Saturn. Diodorus. l. 3. p. 193.

[208] Euseb. Ἱστοριων συναγωγη. p. 374. c. 2.

[209] L. 3. 194.

[210] Strabo. l. 1. p. 13.

[211] Diog. Laert. Anaximander.

[212] Laertius. l. 1. p. 74.

[213] In Pherecyde.

[214] Josephus cont. Apion. l. 1. c. 2.

[215] Clemens. Strom. l. 6. p. 741.

[216] Diodorus Sic. l. 1. p. 12.

[217] Ibid. l. 1. p. 17.

[218] P. 30.

[219] Chron. Paschale. p. 34. Zonaras. p. 16.

See Salmasius upon Solinus. c. 35. concerning Ogen. Also, Windelini Admiranda Nili. p. 12. and 16.

[220] Metamorph. l. 2. v. 9.

[221] V. 119.

[222] Iliad. l. 18. v. 483. and v. 606.

[223] Nonni Dionus. l. 40. p. 1040.

[224] Catull. Epithalamium of Peleus and Thetis. v. 47.

[225] Plutarch. Life of Theseus.

[226] Add to this, what I have before taken notice of, the great absurdity of making the Grecian
Argo the first ship which sailed upon the seas: Illa rudem cursu prima imbuit Amphitriten:
when the poet, at the same instant, is describing Theseus, previous to the Argo, in a ship,
and attended with fleet of ships.

  Namque fluentisono prospectans littore Diæ
  Thesea cedentem celeri cum classe tuetur,
  Indomitos in corde gerens Ariadna furores.

Catulli. Epithal. Pel. et Thet. v. 52. See Famiani Stradæ Prolus. l. 3. p. 285.

[227] Nonni Dionysiaca. l. 41. p. 1070.

[228] Orphica ex Macrobio Saturn. l. 1. c. 18. p. 202.

[229] Maps, and books too, when writing was introduced, were made of skins, called διφθεραι.
Τας βιβλους διφθερας καλεουσι απο του παλαιου ὁι Ιωνες. Herodot. l. 5. c. 58.

A Zone, of curious imagery, is given by Homer to Hercules. Odyss. l. Λ. v. 609.

Χρυσεος ην τελαμων, ἱνα θεσκελα εργα τετυκτο.

A remarkable passage, from Isidorus Basilidis, quoted by Clemens Alexandrin. Και γαρ μοι δοκει
τους προσποιουμενους φιλοσοφειν, ἱνα μαθωσι, τι εστιν ἡ ὑποπτερος δρυς, και το επ' αυτῃ πεποικιλμενον
ΦΑΡΟΣ. Παντα ὁσα Φερεκυδης αλληγορησας εθεολογησεν, λαβων απο της του Χαμ προφητειας. Strom.
l. 6. p. 767.

In the former verses from Nonnus we may see the method of deviation. Pharos, a tower, is taken
for Pharos a garment; and this altered to Χιτων: and, after all, the genuine history is discernible,
notwithstanding the veil which is spread over it. The author says, that, at the bottom, εϋκλωστοιο
Χιτωνος, of the well-woven garment, flowed the Ocean, which surrounded the world. This is certainly
a misinterpretation of the term φαρος: and, in the original writings, whence these verses were
copied, the history related to a tower: and it was at the foot ΦΑΡΟΥ ΕΥΚΛΥΣΤΟΙΟ that the ocean
beat, by which the earth was encircled.

[230] Bochart Geog. Sacra. l. 1. c. 228. p. 524. of תור.

[231] Strabo. l. 16. p. 1110.

[232] Diodorus Siculus. l. 4. p. 231.

[233] Strabo. l. 11. p. 762.

[234] Τυνδαριοι σκοπελοι. Ptolemæus. p. 122. See Strabo. l. 17. p. 1150.

[235] Dionysius. v. 688. Pliny styles them oppida.

Oppida--in ripâ celeberrima, Tyndarida, Circæum, &c. l. 6. c. 4.

[236] The Minotaur was an emblematical representation of Menes, the same as Osiris; who was
also called Dionusus, the chief Deity of Egypt. He was also the same as Atis of Lydia, whose
rites were celebrated in conjunction with those of Rhea, and Cybele, the mother of the Gods.
Gruter has an inscription, M. D. M. IDÆ, et ATTIDI MINOTAURO. He also mentions an altar of
Attis Minoturannus. vol. 1. p. xxviii. n. 6.

[237] Diodor. Sicul. l. 16. p. 411.

[238] Meen was the moon: and Meno-Taurus signified Taurus Lunaris. It was a sacred emblem,
of which a great deal will be said hereafter.

[239] See Paruta's Sicilia nummata.

[240] Τυρις, ὁ περιβολος του τειχους. Hesych. From whence we may infer, that any place surrounded
with a wall or fortification might be termed a Tor or Turris.

Ταρχωνιον πολις Τυῤῥηνιας. Stephan. Byzant.

[241] Scholia upon Lycophron. v. 717.

[242] Scholia upon Lycophron. v. 1242.

The Poet says of Æneas, Παλιν πλανητην δεξεται Τυρσηνια. v. 1239.

[243] Lycophron. v. 1248.

[244] Ταρκυνια πολις Τυῤῥενιδος απο Ταρχωνος· το εθνικον Ταρκυνιος. Steph. Byzant.

[245] Strabo. l. 5. p. 336. Ταρκωνα, αφ' ὁυ Ταρκυνια ἡ πολις.

[246] Lycophron. v. 116.

Ἡ Τορωνε, γυνη Πρωτεως. Scholia ibidem.

[247] Τυῤῥηνοι σαλπιγγα. Tatianus Assyrius. p. 243.

[248] L. 17. p. 468.

[249] Scholia upon Lycophron. v. 754.

[250] Pausanias. l. 9. p. 749.

[251] Pausanias. l. 7. p. 524.

Δειμε δε τοι μαλα καλον Ανακτορον. Callimachus. Hymn to Apollo. v. 77.

[252] Homer. Odyss. λ. v. 105. Strabo supposes Trinakis to have been the modern name of the
island; forgetting that it was prior to the time of Homer. l. 6. p. 407: he also thinks that
it was called Trinacria from its figure: which is a mistake.

[253] Hymn to Diana. v. 56. I make no doubt but Callimachus wrote Τρινακια.

[254] Pliny. l. 5. c. 31.

[255] Etymolog. Magn.

[256] Stephanas Byzant.

[257] Τραχιν, ἡ νυν Ἡρακλεια καλουμενη. Hesych. or, as Athenæus represents it, more truly,
Ἡρακλειαν, την Τραχινιαν καλεομενην. l. 11. p. 462.

[258] Τριαινα τοπος Αργους· ενθα την τριαιναν ορθην εστησεν ὁ Ποσειδων, συγγινομενος τη Αμυμωνη,
και ευθυς κατ' εκεινο ὑδωρ ανεβλυσεν, ὁ και την επικλησιν εσχεν εξ Αμυμωνης. Scholia in Euripidis
Phœniss. v. 195.

[259] Eusebius. Præp. Evan. l. 3. c. 11. p. 113.

[260] Palæphatus. p. 56.

[261] Ibid. p. 96.

[262] Palæphatus. p. 20.

[263] Iliad. Σ. v. 486.

[264] Diodorus Siculus. l. 3. p. 324.

[265] Pindar. Pyth. Ode 4. p. 243.

[266] Homer. Odyss. Λ. v. 306.

[267] Chron. Paschale. p. 36.

Νεβρωδ----καλουσιν Ωριωνα. Cedrenus. p. 14.

[268] Homer. Odyss. Λ. v. 571.

[269] Strabo. l. 3. p. 259.

[270] Alorus was the first king of Babylon; and the same person as Orion, and Nimrod. See Radicals.
p. 10. notes.

[271] Ἑλωρος, ενθα ψυχρον εκβαλλει ποτον. Lycophron. v. 1033.

Ῥειθρων Ἑλωρου προσθεν. Idem. v. 1184. Ὁ ποταμος ὁ Ἑλωρος εσχε το ονομα απο τινος βασιλεως
Ἑλωρου. Schol. ibid. There were in Sicily many places of this name; Πεδιον Ἑλωριον. Diodorus.
l. 13. p. 148. Elorus Castellum. Fazellus. Dec. 1. l. 4. c. 2.

Via Helorina. Ἑλωρος πολις. Cluver. Sicilia Antiqua. l. 1. c. 13. p. 186.

[272] Diodorus Siculus. l. 4. p. 284.

[273] Nonni Dionysiaca. l. 13. p. 356.

[274] Κατα μεσην δε την πολιν ἡ ακροπολις, ἡν εκαλουν βυρσαν, οφρυς ἱκανως ορθια. Strabo. l.
17. p. 1189.

See also Justin. l. 18. c. 5. and Livy. l. 34. c. 62.

[275] Ζαγκλη πολις Σικελιας--απο Ζαγκλου του γηγενους. Stephanus Byzant.

[276] Scholia in Lycophron. v. 328.

Ωριων--κατα τροπην του ου εις ω απο του ουριων εστιν απο ἱστοριας του ουρησαι τους θεους εν
τῃ βυρσῃ, και γενεσθαι αυτον. Etymolog. Mag. Ωριων.

[277] Τιτθη, τιτθος, τιτθιον, μαστος. Hesychius.

[278] Pausanias. l. 10. p. 878.

[279] Ορος--ὁ δε Τιτθειον ονομαζουσιν εφ' ἡμων, τηνικαυτα δε εκαλειτο Μυρτιον. Pausan. l. 2.
p. 170.

[280] Callimach. Hymn in Delon. v. 48. Μαστοι, often taken notice of by Xenophon. Αναβας. l.
4. p. 320. A hill at Lesbos. Εν Λεσβῳ κλεινης Ερεσου περικυμονι ΜΑΣΤΩ. Athenæus. l. 3. p. 111.
Εχει δ' εν αυτῳ και μαστον. Polyb. l. 1. p. 57.

[281] Strabo mentions in Cyprus, Αμαθους πολις--και ορος μαστοειδες Ολυμπος. l. 14. p. 1001.

[282] The Circean promontory in Italy seems to have been named Tit-On; for, the bay below is
by Lycophron styled Titonian. Τιτωνιον τε χευμα. v. 1275. Rivers and seas were often denominated
from places near which they flowed.

[283] Of the Cyclopes I shall hereafter treat at large.

[284] Strabo. l. 16. p. 1080. Azara signified a treasure.

[285] Strabo. l. 16. p. 1106.

[286] Bell. Jud. l. 7. p. 417.

[287] Canticles. c. 8. v. 10.

[288] Jeremiah. c. 49. v. 27.

[289] Amos. c. 1. v. 7.

[290] Ibid. c. 1. v. 10.

[291] Ibid. c. 1. v. 14.

[292] It is remarkable, that in many of the very antient temples there was a tradition of their
having suffered by lightning.

[293] Canticles. c. 8. v. 8.

[294] 2 Chron. c. 27. v. 3.

[295] Strabo. l. 16. p. 1096.

[296] Canticles. c. 7. v. 4.

[297]

  Pervenit ad Draconis speluncam ultimam,
  Custodiebat qui thesauros abditos. Phædrus. l. 4. Fab. 18.

See Macrobius. Saturn. l. 1. c. 20. of dragons guarding treasures.

[298] Apollonius Rhodius. l. 2. v. 405.

[299] Nonni Dionysiaca. l. 14. p. 408.

[300] Nonni Dionys. l. 33. p. 840.

[301] Ibid. l. 35. p. 876.

[302] Ibid. l. 6. p. 186.

[303] Strabo. l. 17. p. 1183.

[304] Εν δε τοις εδειξε και ζωον ὑπερφυες, Διονυσου αγαλμα, ᾡ Ινδοι εθυον. Δρακων ην, μηκος
πενταπλεθρον· ετρεφετο δε εν χοριῳ κοιλῳ, εν κρημνῳ βαθει, τειχει ὑψηλῳ ὑπερ των ακρων περιβεβλημενος·
και ανηλισκε τας Ινδων αγελας. κτλ. Maximus Tyr. Dissert. 8. c. 6. p. 85.

[305] Strabo. l. 15. p. 1022.

[306] Μακρα πεδιον. Εν τουτῳ δε Ποσειδωνιος ἱστορει τον Δρακοντα πεπτωκοτα ὁραθηναι νεκρον,
μηκος σχεδον τι και πλεθριαιον, παχος δε, ὡσθ' ἱππεας ἑκατερωθεν παρασταντας αλληλους μη καθορᾳν·
χασμα δε, ὡστ' εφιππον δεξασθαι, της δε φολιδος λεπιδα ἑκαστην ὑπεραιρουσαν θυρεου.  Strabo.
l. 16. p. 1095. The epithet πεπτωκως could not properly be given to a serpent: but to a building
decayed, and in ruins nothing is more applicable. A serpent creeps upon its belly, and is even
with the ground, which he goes over, and cannot fall lower. The moderns indeed delineate dragons
with legs: but I do not know that this was customary among the antients.

[307] Virgil. Æneis. l. 6. v. 595.

[308] Homer. Odyss. l. Λ. v. 575.

Quintus Calaber styles him πουλυπελεθρος.

  Πουλυπελεθρος εκειτο κατα χθονος ευρυπεδοιο. l. 3. v. 395.

                  Τιτυον μεγαν, ὁν ῥ' ετεκεν γε
  Δι' Ἑλαρη, θρεψεν δε και αψ ελοχευσατο Γαια.
                  Apollon. Rhodius. l. 1. v. 761.

[309] Αιγυπτος--εκληθη Μυσαρα--και Αερια, και Ποταμιτις, και ΑΕΤΙΑ, απο τινος Ινδου Αετου.
Stephanus Byzant.

Eustathius mentions, Και Αετια, απο τινος Ινδου Αετου. κτλ. In Dionysium. v. 239. p. 42.

[310] Orus Apollo styles it in the Ionian manner Ηθ. l. 1. c. 7. p. 10. Τοδε Ηθ καρδια.

[311] Αιγυπτον δε γραφοντες, θυμιατηριον καιομενον ζωγραφουσι, και επανω καρδιαν. l. 1. c.
22. p. 38. It also signified an eagle.

[312] See the whole in Nonnus. l. 5. p. 148. It seems to have been a winged machine, which
is called Κημος, from Cham the Sun. Hence the notion of the chariot of the Sun, and horses
of the same.

[313] Καυκασου εν κνημοισι, Τυφαονιη ὁτε πετρη. Apollonius Rhodius. l. 2. v. 1214.

[314] Typhon was a high place; but represented as a Giant, and supposed to be thunderstruck
here, near the city Antioch. Strabo. l. 16. p. 1090. Here was Νυμφαιον, σπηλαιον τι ἱερον. p. 1091.

[315] Strabo. l. 16. p. 1089. He mentions a place near the fountains of the river Orontes called
Paradisos: Μεχρι και των του Οροντου πηγων, ἁι πλησιον του τε Λιβανου και του Παραδεισου. Strabo.
l. 16. p. 1096.

[316] Diodorus Siculus. l. 4. p. 283.

[317] Servii Comment. in Virgil. Æneid. l. 2. v. 204.

[318] Nonni Dionys. l. 25. p. 668.

[319] Tot jugera ventre prementem. Ovid of the Pytho of Parnassus. Met. l. 1. v. 459.

See Pausanias. l. 10. p. 695. He says, the extent related to the place, ενθα ὁ Τιτυος ετεθη.

[320] Ὡς δε αυθις επανηκειν (τον Κλεοντα) ες τα Γαδειρα, ανδρα ἑυρειν θαλασσιον ΕΚΠΕΠΤΩΚΟΤΑ
ες την γην· τουτον πλεθρα μεν πεντε μαλιστα επεχειν, κεραυνωθεντα δε ὑπο του θεου καιεσθαι.
Pausan. l. 10. p. 806.

[321] Diogenes Laertius. Proœm. p. 5.

[322] Τεμενος· ἱερον χωριον αφωρισμενον Θεῳ. Scholia in Homer. Il. l. Γ. v. 696.

Και τεμενος περιπυστον Αμυκλαιοιο Κανωβου. Dionysius. Περιηγης. v. 13.

Ασυλον τεμενος at Daphne upon the Orontes. See above. p. 428.

[323] Lycophron. v. 6l3.

[324] Ovid. Metamorph. l. 11. v. 56.

[325] Apollonius Rhodius. l. 3. v. 1176.

[326] Βη δ' επ' εραν Διας φευγων οφιωδεα Κυπρον. Parthenius, as corrected by Vossius. See Notes
to Pompon. Mela. p. 391.

[327] Lycophron. v. 110.

[328] Apollonius Rhodius. l. 2. v. 707.

[329] Hyginus. Fab. 140.

[330] Plutarch de Oraculoram defectu. v. 1. p. 417.

[331] Clemens Alexand. Cohort. p. 29.

[332] Prolegomena to the Pyth. Odes of Pindar.

[333] P. 39.

[334] Silius Ital. l. 3. v. 29.

[335] Λυχνον ασβεστον. Plutarch de Defect. Orac. vol. 1. p. 410.

[336] Porphyr. de Abstinentiâ. l. 2.

[337] L. 1. p. 63.

[338] Το δε λυχνιον εν Πρυτανειῳ. Theoc. Idyll. 21. v. 36.

Πυρος τε φεγγος αφθιτον κεκλημενον. Æsch. Χοηφοροι. v. 268.

[339] See Hyde Relig. Vet. Persarum: and Stanley upon the Chaldaic religion.

[340] Αει δε τοι αεναον πυρ. Callimach. Hymn to Apollo. v. 84.

[341] Vol. 2. p. 84.

[342] Clima. 4. p. 213.

[343] Leviticus. c. 6. v. 13. Hence the ξυλοφορια; a custom, by which the people were obliged
to carry wood, to replenish the fire when decaying.

[344] It is said in the Scriptures, that there were giants in the earth in those days; and
also after that. Genesis. c. 6. v. 4. The word in the original for giants is Nephelim.

[345] C. 2. p. 6.

[346] V. 22.

[347] Orphic. Argonaut. v. 395.

[348] De Venatione. p. 972.

[349] Pyth. Ode 4. p. 244.

[350] Ibid. p. 246.

[351] Justin. Martyr de Monarchiâ. p. 42.

[352] De Venat. p. 972.

[353] Æsculapius was of Egypt. Cephalus is said to have lived in the time of Cecrops αυτοχθων:
or, as some say, in the time of Erectheus; many centuries before Antilochus and Achilles, who
were at the siege of Troy.

[354] Æsculapius was the Sun. Euseb. Præp. Evang. l. 3. p. 112.

[355] Oratio in Herculem. vol. 1. p. 64. Oratio in Æsculapium. p. 67.

[356] Homer. Iliad. Λ. v. 831.

[357] Clemens Alexand. Strom. l. 1. p. 361.

[358] Μονιμος δε ἱστορει, εν τῃ των θαυμασιων συναγωγῃ, εν Πελλῃ της Θετταλιας Αχαιον ανθρωπον
Πηλει και Χειρωνι καταθυεσθαι. Clementis Cohort. p. 36.

[359] Pocock's Travels. v. 1. p. 65.

[360] Ibid.

[361] Παρα την λιμνην την καλουμενην Αχερουσιαν. Diodorus Sic. l. 1. p. 86.

[362] In Phrygiâ--juxta specus est Acherusia, ad manes, ut aiunt, pervius. Mela. l. 1. c. 19.
p. 100.

[363] River Acheron, and lake Acherusia in Epirus. Pausan. l. 1. p. 40. Strabo. l. 7. p. 499.
Thucydides. l. 1. p. 34.

[364] Near Corinth Acherusia. Pausan. l. 2. p. 196.

In Elis Acheron. Strabo. l. 8. p. 530.

[365] Celsæ nidum Acherontiæ. Horat. l. 3. Ode. 4. v. 14.

[366] Near Avernus. In like manner there were πεδια Ηλυσια in Egypt, Messenia, and in the remoter
parts of Iberia. See Plutarch in Sertorio, and Strabo. l. 3. p. 223.

[367] Also Libri Tarquitiani Aruspicum Hetruscorum, so denominated from Tar-Cushan. Marcellinus.
l. 25. c. 2. p. 322.

[368] Herodot. Vit. Hom. c. 3.

[369] Hesychius.

[370] L. 1. p. 77.

[371] Fleetwood's Inscript. p. 42.

[372] P. 319. n. 2.

[373] Sat. 14. v. 259.

[374] Pausanias. l. 2. p. l6l, 162.

There was a hill called Anakeion: Ανακειον· ορος, η των Διοσκουρων Ἱερον. Suidas.

It is said of the celebrated Polygnotus, that he painted τας εν τῳ θησαυρῳ και εν τῳ Ανακειῳ
γραφας. Harpocration. The treasury we may suppose to have been a part of the temple.

[375] Homer. Iliad. Γ. v. 237.

[376] Homer. Odyss. Μ. v. 323.

[377] Cicero in Verrem. Orat. 7. sect. ult.

[378] Pausanias. l. 9. p. 741.

[379] Apollodorus. l. 3. p. 154.

[380] Hyginus. fab. 68, and 75.

[381] Antonin. Liberalis Metamorph. c. 22.

[382] Hymn. in Dian. v. 204.

[383] Cicero de Nat. Deorum. l. 3. 23.

She is supposed to be the same as Diana. Καλουσι δε την Αρτεμιν Θρακες Βενδειαν, Κρητες δε
Δικτυναν, Λακεδαιμονιοι δε Ουπιν. Palæphatus. c. 32. p. 78.

[384] Scholia in Callimach. Hymn. in Dianam. v. 204.

Ωπιν, και Ἑκαεργην--εκ των Ὑπερβορεων. Pausan. l. 5. p. 392.

              Metuenda feris Hecaerge,
  Et Soror, optatum numen venantibus, Opis.
              Claudian in Laudes Stilic. l. 3. v. 253.

[385] 2 Kings. c. 23. v. 10. 2 Chron. c. 28. v. 3.

[386] C. 7. v. 31. and c. 19. v. 5. There was a place named Tophel (Toph-El) near Paran upon
the Red Sea. Deuteron. c. 1. v. 1.

[387] Zonar. vol. 2. p. 227. Τουφαν καλει ὁ δημωδης και πολυς ανθρωπος.

[388] Bedæ. Hist. Angliæ. l. 2. c. 16.

[389] De legibus specialibus. p. 320.

The Greek term τυφος, fumus, vel fastus, will hardly make sense, as introduced here.

[390] Plutarch. Isis et Osiris. v. 1. p. 359.

[391] Virgil. Æn. l. 2. v. 713.

[392] Την ταφην (Διονυσου) ειναι φασιν εν Δελφοις παρα τον Χρυσουν Απολλωνα. Cyril. cont. Julian.
l. 1. p. 11.

[393] Callimach. Hymn. in Jovem. v. 8.

  Ὡδε μεγας κειται Ζαν, ὁν Δια κικλησκουσι.
                  Porphyr. Vita Pythagoræ. p. 20.

[394] Hence Hercules was styled Τριεσπερος. Lycoph. v. 33.

Ζευς τρεις ἑσπερας εις μιαν μεταβαλων συνεκαθευδε τῃ Αλκμηνῃ. Schol. ibid.

[395] Abbe Banier. Mythology of the Antients explained. vol. 4. b. 3. c. 6. p. 77, 78. Translation.

[396] Plaut. Amphitryo. Act. 1. s. 3.

[397] Cicero de Nat. Deor. l. 1. c. 42.

Αλλα και ταφον αυτου (Ζηνος) δεικνυουσι. Lucian. de Sacrificiis. v. 1. p. 355.

[398] Maximus Tyrius. Dissert. 38. p. 85.

[399] Clementis Cohort. p. 40.

[400] Arnobius contra Gentes. l. 4. p. 135. Clem. Alexand. Cohort. p. 24.

[401] Tertullian. Apolog. c. 14.

Πευσομαι δε σου κᾳ 'γω, ω ανθρωπε, ποσοι Ζηνες ἑυρισκονται. Theoph. ad Autolyc. l. 1. p. 344.

[402] Newton's Chronology. p. 151.

[403] Pezron. Antiquities of nations. c. 10, 11, 12.

[404] Virgil. Æn. l. 7. v. 48.

[405] Sir Isaac Newton supposes Jupiter to have lived after the division of the kingdoms in
Israel; Pezron makes him antecedent to the birth of Abraham, and even before the Assyrian monarchy.

[406] Arnobius has a very just observation to this purpose. Omnes Dii non sunt: quoniam plures
sub eodem nomine, quemadmodum accepimus, esse non possunt, &c. l. 4. p. 136.

[407] Antiquus Auctor Euhemerus, qui fuit ex civitate Messene, res gestas Jovis, et cæterorum,
qui Dii putantur, collegit; historiamque contexuit ex titulis, et inscriptionibus sacris, quæ
in antiquissimis templis habebantur; maximeque in fano Jovis Triphylii, ubi auream columnam
positam esse ab ipso Jove titulus indicabat. In quâ columnâ gesta sua perscripsit, ut monumentum
esset posteris rerum suarum. Lactant. de Falsâ Relig. l. 1. c. 11. p. 50.

(Euhemerus), quem noster et interpretatus, et secutus est præter cæteros, Ennius. Cicero de
Nat. Deor. l. 1. c. 42.

[408] Lactantius de Falsâ Relig. l. 1. c. 11. p. 52.

[409] Varro apud Solinum. c. 16.

[410] Epiphanius in Ancorato. p. 108.

Cyril. contra Julianum. l. 10. p. 342. See Scholia upon Lycophron. v. 1194.

[411] Callimach. Hymn. in Jovem. v. 6.

[412] Ταφον θεας αξιον. Pausan. l. 2. p. 161.

[413] Diodor. Sicul. l. 1. p. 23. Ταφηναι λεγουσι την Ισιν εν Μεμφει.

Osiris buried at Memphis, and at Nusa. Diodorus above. Also at Byblus in Phenicia.

Εισι δε ενιοι Βυβλιων, ὁι λεγουσι παρα σφισι τεθαφθαι τον Οσιριν τον Αιγυπτιον. Lucian. de
Syriâ Deâ. v. 2. p. 879.

Τα μεν ουν περι της ταφης των Θεων τουτων διαφωνειται παρα τοις πλειστοις. Diodor. l. 1. p. 24.

[414] Procopius περι κτισματων. l. 6. c. 1. p. 109.

Αιγυπτιοι τε γαρ Οσιριδος πολλαχου θηκας, ὡσπερ ειρηται, δεικνυουσι. Plutarch. Isis et Osiris.
p. 358. He mentions πολλους Οσιριδος ταφους εν Αιγυπτῳ. Ibid. p. 359.

[415] L. 1. p. 79. Περι της Βουσιριδος ξενοκτονιας παρα τοις Ἑλλησιν ενισχυσαι τον μυθον· ου
του Βασιλεως ονομαζομενου Βουσιριδος, αλλα του Οσιριδος ταφου ταυτην εχοντος την προσηγοριαν
κατα την των εγχωριων διαλεκτον. Strabo likewise says, that there was no such king as Busiris.
l. 17. p. 1154.

[416] Bou-Sehor and Uch-Sehor are precisely of the same purport, and signify the great Lord of day.

[417] Pausanias. l. 2. p. 144.

[418] Altis, Baaltis, Orontis, Opheltis, are all places compounded with some title, or titles,
of the Deity.

[419] 2 Chron. c. 33. v. 14.

[420] 2 Chron. c. 27. v. 3. On the wall (חומת) of Ophel he built much: or rather on the Comah,
or sacred hill of the Sun, called Oph-El, he built much.

[421] Apollon. Rhodii Argonaut. l. 2. v. 709. Apollo is said to have killed Tityus, Βουπαις
εων. Apollon. l. 1. v. 760.

[422] Τον δε του Αιπυτου ταφον σπουδῃ μαλιστα εθεασαμην--εστι μεν ουν γης χωμα ου μεγα, λιθου
κρηπιδι εν κυκλῳ περιεχομενον. Pausan. l. 8. p. 632.

Αιπυτιον τυμβον, celebrated by Homer. Iliad. β. v. 605.

Αιπυτος, supposed to be the same as Hermes. Ναος Ἑρμου Αιπυτου near Tegea in Arcadia. Pausan.
l. 8. p. 696. Part of Arcadia was called Αιπυτις.

[423] Clemens Alexand. Cohort. p. 11. Ανεστεμμενοι τοις οφεσιν επολολυζοντες Ευαν, Ευαν κτλ.

[424] Porphyrii Vita Pythagoræ.

[425] Clement. Alexand. Cohort. p. 29.

[426] The Scholiast upon Pindar seems to attribute the whole to Dionusus, who first gave out
oracles at this place, and appointed the seventh day a festival. Εν ᾡ πρωτος Διονυσος εθεμιστευσε,
και αποκτεινας τον Οφιν τον Πυθωνα, αγωνιζεται τον Πυθικον αγωνα κατα Ἑβδομην ἡμεραν. Prolegomena
in Pind. Pyth. p. 185.

[427] Pausanias. l. 9. p. 749.

[428] Ibid. l. 2. p. 155.

[429] Strabo. l. 9. p. 651.

[430] Ibid.

[431] Pausanias. l. 5. p. 376.

[432] Ibid. l. 10. p. 806.

[433] Ibid. l. 1. p. 87.

[434] At Patræ, μνημα Αιγυπτιου του Βηλου. Pausan. l. 7. p. 578.

[435] Pausanias. l. 2. p. 179.

[436] Herodotus. l. 7. c. 150. and l. 6. c. 54.

Plato in Alcibiad. 1^{mo}. vol. 2. p. 120.

Upon Mount Mænalus was said to have been the tomb of Arcas, who was the father of the Arcadians.

  Εστι δε Μαιναλιη δυσχειμερος, ενθα τε κειται
  Αρχας, αφ' ὁυ δη παντες επικλησιν καλεονται.
                  Oraculum apud Pausan. l. 8. p. 616.

But what this supposed tomb really was, may be known from the same author: Το δε χωριον τουτο,
ενθα ὁ ταφος εστι του Αρκαδος, καλουσιν Ἡλιου Βωμους. Ibid.

Ταφος, η τυμβος, η σημειον.. Hesych.

[437] Strabo. l. 11. p. 779. Εν δε τῳ πεδιῳ ΠΕΤΡΑΝ ΤΙΝΑ προσχωματι συμπληρωσαντες εις βουνοειδες
σχημα κτλ.

[438] Typhon was originally called Γηγενης, and by Hyginus Terræ Filius. Fab. 152. p. 263.
Diodorus. l. 1. p. 79. he is styled Γης ὑιος εξαισιος. Antoninus Liberal. c. 25.

[439] Plutarch. Isis et Osiris. p. 380.

[440] Josephus contra Apion. l. 1. p. 460.

[441] Porphyry de Abstinen. l. 2. p. 223.

There was Πετρα Τυφαονια in Caucasus. Etymolog. Magnum. Τιφως· Τυφαονια Πετρα εστιν ὑψηλη εν
Καυκασῳ.

Καυκασου εν κνημοισι, Τυφαονιη ὁτι Πετρη. Apollon. l. 2. v. 1214.

[442] Diodorus Sicul. l. 1. p. 79.

[443] Παρηγορουσι θυσιαις και πραϋνουσι (τον Τυφωνα), Plutarch. Isis et Osiris. p. 362.

[444] Diodorus Sicul. l. 5. p. 338.

[445] Plutarch. Isis et Osiris. p. 362. Ισαιακου του Ἡρακλεους ὁ Τυφων.

[446] Ovid. Metamorph. l. 11. v. 762.

[447] Ενιοι δε ὑπο του Τυφωνος, ὑπο δε Ατλαντος Ξεναγορας ειρηκεν.  Schol. Apollon. l. 4. v. 264.

[448] Hesiod. Theogon. v. 824.

[449] Ibid. v. 826. Typhis, Typhon, Typhaon, Typhœus, are all of the same purport.

[450] Nonni Dionys. l. 1. p. 24.

[451] Οφεις--τιμᾳσθαι ισχυρως. Philarchus apud Ælian: de Animal. l. 17. c. 5.

[452] See Justin Martyr above.

Σημειον Οργιων Βακχικων Οφις εστι τετελεσμενος. Clemens Alexand. Cohort. p. 11. See Augustinus
de Civitate Dei. l. 3. c. 12. and l. 18. c. 15.

[453] Ανεστεμμενοι τοις οφεσιν. Clemens above.

[454] In mysteriis, quibus Sabadiis nomen est, aureus coluber in sinum dimittitur consecratis,
et eximitur rursus ab inferioribus partibus. Arnobius. l. 5. p. 171. See also Clemens, Cohort.
p. 14. Δρακων διελκομενος του κολπου. κ. λ.

Sebazium colentes Jovem anguem, cum initiantur, per sinum ducunt. Julius Firmicus. p. 23. Σαβαζιος,
επωνυμον Διονυσου. Hesych.

[455] Τους Οφεις ανεστεμμενοι, ευαζοντες το Ουα, Ουα, εκεινην την Ευαν ετι, την δια του Οφεως
απατηθεισαν, επικαλουμενοι. Epiphanius. tom. 2. l. 3. p. 1092.

[456] Cohortatio. p. 11.

[457] Ibid.

[458] Plutarch. Alexander. p. 665.

[459] Οφεις μεγαλους χειροηθεις εφειλκετο τοις θιασοις (ἡ Ολυμπιας), ὁι πολλακις εκ του κιττου
και των μυστικων λικνων παραναδυομενοι, και περιελιττομενοι θυρσοις των γυναικων, και τοις
στεφανοις, εξεπληττον τους ανδρας. Plutarch. ibid.

[460] Τους οφεις τους Παρειας θλιβων, και ὑπερ της κεφαλης αιωρων, και βοων, Ευοι, Σαβοι, και
επορχουμενος Yης Αττης, Αττης Yης. Demosth. Περι στεφανου. p. 516.

[461] Hesych.

[462] Της Ισιδος αγαλματα ανεδουσι ταυτῃ, ὡς τινι διαδηματι βασιλειῳ. Ælian. Hist. Animal.
l. 10. c. 31.

[463] Τους Βασιλεις--χρησθαι πιλοις μακροις επι του περατος ομφαλον εχουσι, και περιεσπειραμενοις
οφεσι, ὁυς καλουσιν ασπιδας. l. 3. p. 145.

[464] Priscian. l. 5. and l. 6.

[465] Pausan. l. 10. p. 859.

[466] Bochart supposes this term to signify a father, and the purport of the name to be Pater
magnificus. He has afterwards a secondary derivation. Sed fallor, aut Abdir, vel Abadir, cum
pro lapide sumitur, corruptum ex Phoenicio Eben-Dir, lapis sphæricus. Geog. Sac. l. 2. c. 2.
p. 708.

[467] See Radicals. p. 59. and Deuteronomy. c. 18. v. 11.

[468] Εχουσαι βασιλεα εφ' ἁντων τον Αγγελον της Αβυσσου· ονομα αυτῳ Ἑβραϊστι Αβαδδων, εν δε
τη Ἑλληνικῃ ονομα εχει Απολλυων.  Revelations. c. 20. v. 11.

[469] Revelations. c. 20. v. 2. Abadon signifies serpens Dominus, vel Serpens Dominus Sol.

[470] Daniel Heinsius. Aristarchus. p. 11.

[471] Euseb. P. E. l. 1. p. 41, 42.

[472] Euseb. ibidem. Ταδε αυτα και Οστανης κτλ.

[473] Herod. l. 2. c. 189. also Ptolemy.

[474] M. Maimonides in more Nevochim. See Selden de Diis Syris. Synt. 1. c. 3. p. 49.

[475] Ουβαιον, ὁ εστιν Ἑλληνιστι Βασιλισκον· ὁνπερ χρυσουν ποιουντες Θεοις περιτιθεασιν. Horapollo.
l. 1. p. 2.

Ουβαιον is so corrected for Ουραιον, from MSS. by J. Corn. De Pauw.

[476] Cicero de Nat. Deor. l. 3.

[477] Præp. Evan. l. 1. p. 41.

[478] Euseb. supra.

[479] L. 6. p. 345.

[480] Strabo. l. 10. p. 683. It was supposed to have had its name from Ellops, the Son of Ion,
who was the brother of Cothus.

[481] Callimachus. H. in Delon. v. 292. Ευαιων, Eva-On, Serpens Sol.

[482] Athenagoras. Legatio. p. 294. Ηρακλης Χρονος.

[483] Athenag. p. 295. Ἡρακλης Θεος--δρακων ἑλικτος.

[484] It is said to have been named Rhodus from Rhod, a Syriac for a serpent. Bochart. G. S.
p. 369.

[485] Ενταυθα μυθυουσι τους Οφιογενεις συγγενειαν τινα εχειν προς τους οφεις. Strabo. l. 13.
p. 850. Ophiogenæ in Hellesponto circa Parium. Pliny. l. 7. p. 371.

[486] Pausan. l. 8. p. 614.

[487] Aristoph. Plutus. Schol. v. 718.

[488] L. 3. c. 96. Strabo. l. 10. p. 692.

[489] Steph. Byzant. Παταρα. See Vossius upon Pomp. Mela. l. 1. c. 6. p. 391.

Ovid Metamorph. l. 10. v. 229. Cypri arva Ophiusia.

[491] They were particularly to be found at Paphos. Apollon. Discolus. Mirabil. c. 39. Οφις
ποδας εχων δυο.

[492] Herodotus. l. 7. c. 90. Ὁι δε απο Αιθιοπιης, ὡς αυτοι Κυπριοι λεγουσι.

[493] Ὁ γαρ Μινως οφεις, και σκορπιους, και σκολοπενδρας ουρεσκεν κλ. Antonin. Liberalis. c.
41. p. 202. See notes, p. 276.

[494] Tacitus. Annal. l. 4. c. 21.

[495] In Ceiri.

[496] Strabo. l. 10. p. 746.

[497] What the Greeks rendered Σεριφος was properly Sar-Iph; and Sar-Iphis, the same as Ophis:
which signified Petra Serpentis, sive Pythonis.

[498] Herodotus. l. 8. c. 41.

[499] Strabo. l. 9. p. 603.

[500] Lycophron Scholia. v. 496. απο των οδοντων του δρακοντος.

[501] Meursius de reg. Athen. l. 1. c. 6.

[502] Apollodorus. l. 3. p. 191.

[503] Diodorus. l. I. p. 25. Cecrops is not by name mentioned in this passage according to
the present copies: yet what is said, certainly relates to him, as appears by the context,
and it is so understood by the learned Marsham. See Chron. Canon. p. 108.

[504] Eustat. on Dionys. p. 56. Edit. Steph.

[505] Τον βαρβαρον Αιγυπτιασμον αφεις. κτλ. ibid.

See also Tzetzes upon Lycophron. v. 111.

[506] Chron. Canon, p. 109.

[507] It may not perhaps be easy to decypher the name of Cecrops: but thus much is apparent,
that it is compounded of Ops, and Opis, and related to his symbolical character.

[508] Δρακοντας δυο περι τον Ερικθονιον. Antigonus Carystius. c. 12.

[509] Aristot. de Mirabilibus. vol. 2. p. 717.

[510] Pliny. l. 3. p. 153. l. 8. p. 455.

[511] Æschyli Supplices. p. 516.

[512] L. 3. p. 184.

[513] Apollonius Discolus. c. 12. and Aristot. de Mirabilibus, vol. 2. p. 737.

[514] Aves Diomedis--judicant inter suos et advenas, &c. Isidorus Orig. l. 12. c. 7. Pliny.
l. 10. c. 44.

[515] Apollodorus. l. 1. p. 37.

[516] Stephanas Byzant. Οπικοι.

[517] The same is said by Epiphanius. Ἑυια τον οφιν παιδες Ἑβραιων ονομαζουσι. Epiphanius advers.
Hæres. l. 3. tom. 2. p. 1092.

[518] Steph. Byzant.

[519] Ptolemy. p. 93. Ευια.

[520] Pausanias. l. 4. p. 356.

[521] L. 2. p. 202.

[522] Pausan. l. 3. p. 249.

[523] There was a city of this name in Macedonia, and in Troas. Also a river.

[524] Ovid Metamorph. l. 7. v. 357.

[525] Strabo. l. 13. p. 913. It is compounded of Eva-Ain, the fountain, or river of Eva, the
serpent.

[526] Strabo. l. 5. p. 383.

[527] Μενελαον, ὁς ην Πιτανατης. Hesych.

Δρακων επι τῃ ασπιδι (Μενελαου) εστιν ειργασμενος. Pausan. l. 10. p. 863.

[528] Πιτανατης, λοχος. Hesych.

[529] It was the insigne of many countries. Textilis Anguis

Discurrit per utramque aciem. Sidon. Apollinaris. Carm. 5. v. 409.

[530]

  Stent bellatrices Aquilæ, sævique Dracones.
                  Claudian de Nuptiis Honor. et Mariæ. v. 193.

  Ut primum vestras Aquilas Provincia vidit,
  Desiit hostiles confestim horrere Dracones.
                  Sidon. Apollinaris. Carm. 2. v. 235.

[531] Epiphanius Hæres. 37. p. 267.

[532] Clemens. l. 7. p. 900.

[533] Tertullian de Præscript. Hæret. c. 47. p. 221.

[534] Vossius, Selden, and many learned men have touched upon this subject. There is a treatise
of Philip Olearius de Ophiolatriâ. Also Dissertatio Theologico-Historico, &c. &c. de cultu
serpentum. Auctore M. Johan. Christian. Kock. Lipsiæ. 1717.

[535] Homer. Odyss. l. 10. v. 106.

[536] Hæc a principio patria Cyclopum fuit. Justin. of the island Sicily. l. 4. c. 2.

[537]

  Ος οψεται μεν του μονογληνου στεγας
  Χαρωνος. Lycophron. v. 659.

Charon was not a person, but Char-On, the temple of the Sun.

[538] Των περι την Αιτνην και Λεοντινην Κυκλωπας (δυναστευσαι). Strabo. l. 1. p. 38.

[539] The province of Leontina called Xuthia. Diodorus. l. 5. p. 291.

[540] Cyclops. v. 297.

[541] Lycophron. v. 659. Euripid. Cyclops. v. 126.

[543] The river Nilus was called Triton, and afterwards Nilus. Μετωνομασθῃ δε απο Νειλου του
Κυκλωπος. Scholia in Apollon. l. 4. v. 268.

Nilus Deorum maximus. Huetii Demons. Evang. Prop. 4. p. 111.

[544] Αιγυπτιε Ζευ, Νειλε. Athenæus. l. 5. p. 203.

Vulcanus--Nilo natus, Opas, ut Ægyptii appellant. Cicero de Naturâ Deor. l. 3. c. 22. Hence
Νειλος Κυκλωψ must have been the chief Deity; and the Cyclopians his votaries and priests.

Νειλοιο τεμενος Κρονιδα. Pindar. Pyth. Ode 4. p. 239. He was no other than Ouranus, and Cœlus.

[545] Αστεριων, ὑιος Ανακτος, who was buried in the island Lade, near Miletus, is mentioned
as a gigantic personage by Pausanias. l. 1. p. 87. Large bones have been found in Sicily; which
were probably the bones of elephants, but have been esteemed the bones of the Cyclopians by
Kircher and Fazellus. Fazellus. Dec. 1. l. 1. c. 6.

[546] Herodotus. l. 5. c. 61. He alludes to them under the name of Cadmians.

[547] Odyss. 10. v. 190.

[548] Æneid. l. 3. v. 619.

[549] Hymn in Dian. v. 51.

Μουνος δ' οφθαλμος μεσσῳ επεκειτο μετωπῳ. Hesiod. Theogon. v. 143.

Clemens Alexandrinus tells us, that Homer's account of Polyphemus is borrowed from the character
of Saturnus in the Orphic poetry. Strom. l. 6. p. 751.

[550] Scholia in Æschyl. Prometh. p. 56.

[551] Παιδες Ουρανου, και Γης.

[552] Εξ ἡς αυτῳ (Ουρανῳ) τρεις παιδας γινωσκουσιν ἑκατονταχειρας, και τρεις ἑτερους αποτικτουσι
Κυκλωπας. Proclus in Photio. c. ccxxxix. p. 982.

Euripides makes them the sons of Oceanus.

  Ἱν' ὁι μονωπες ποντιου παιδες Θεου
  Κυκλωπες οικουσ' αντρ' ερημ' ανδροκτονοι. Cyclops. v. 21.

[553] Και δη Ἱερον εστιν αρχαιον, Κυκλωπον καλουμενος βωμος, και θυουσιν επ' αυτᾳ Κυκλωψι.
Pausanias. l. 2. p. 114.

[554] Odyss. Ζ. v. 5. Ὑπερειαν, ὁι μεν την εν Σικελια Καμαρινην.  Schol. ibid.

[555] Εν πολει της Βαβυλωνιας Καμαρινῃ, ἡν τινας λεγειν πολιν Ουριαν. Alexand. Polyhist. apud
Euseb. Præp. Evan. l. 9. p. 418.

[556] Natalis Comes. l. 9. p. 510. By the Celtæ are meant those of Iberia: οψιγονοι Τιτηνες
of Callimachus.

[557] Lycoph. v. 659. Appian mentions a nation of Cyclopians in Illyria, who were near the
Pheacians.

[558] The liba made in such temples were from it named Charisia. Χαρισιον, ειδος πλακουντων.
Hesych.

[559] In Parthia, Καλλιοπη, Χαρις. Appian. Syriac. p. 125.

Φρυγιας πολις Καρις. Steph. Byzant.

Charisiæ in Arcadia. Ibid. The island Cos, called of old Caris. Ibid.

[560] Herodotus. l. 4. c. 13. Αριμασπους ανδρας μουνοφθαλμους.

Strabo. l. 1. p. 40. Ταχα δε και τους μονομματους Κυκλωπας εκ της Σκυθικης ἱστοριας μετενηνοχεν
(Ὁμηρος.)

[561] Ουπις τε, Λοξω τε, και ευαιων Ἑκαεργη. Callimach. H. in Delon. v. 292.

[562] Casaubon. not. in Strabon. l. 1. p. 40.

Μουνωπα στρατον Αριμασπον. Æschyl. Prineth. p. 49.

[563] Τον γαρ βασιλεα και κυριον Οσιριν οφθαλμῳ και σκηπτρῳ γραφουσιν. Plutarch. Isis et Osiris.
p. 354.

[564] Lycophron. v. 328. See Suidas.

Φιλοχορος Τριτοπατορας παντων γεγονεναι πρωτους. Etymolog. Mag. See Meursii not. in Lycophron.
v. 328. Ῥαισει τριπατρου φασγανῳ Κανδαονος.

[565] Iliad. Σ. v. 382. and Ξ. v. 275. See Pausan. l. 9. p. 781.

[566] Nonni Dionysiaca. l. 29. p. 760.

The Graces and the Furies (Charites et Furiæ) were equally denominated from the Sun, and fire;
and in consequence of it had joint worship in Arcadia. Pausan. l. 8. p. 669. Charis, Χαρις,
of the Greeks, was the same personage as Ceres of the Romans. She was also called Damater,
and esteemed one of the Furies. Pausan. l. 8. p. 649.

[567] Pausanias. l. 9. p. 781. So Coronis is said to have been the daughter of Phlegyas. Pausan.
l. 2. p. 170: and Cronus the son of Apollo. l. 2. p. 123. Chiron the son of Saturn; Charon
the son of Erebus and night. The hero Charisius, the son of Lycaon, which Lycaon was no other
than Apollo, the God of light. These were all places, but described as personages; and made
the children of the Deity, to whom they were sacred.

[568] Δεινους Θεοις τε ἱερα κατασκευασασθαι, και βασιλεια ανθρωποις· και γαρ τῳ Απολλωνι τον
Ναον ῳκοδομησαντο τον εν Δελφοις, και Ὑριει τον Θησαυρον. Pausan. l. 9. p. 785.

Turres, ut Aristoteles, Cyclopes (invenerunt). Pliny. l. 7. c. 56.

[569] Virgil. Æn. l. 6. v. 630.

[570] Lutatius Placidus in Statii Thebaïd. l. 1. p. 26.

[571] Τας Ὑακινθου κορας--επι τον Γεραιστου του Κυκλωπος ταφον κατεσφαξαν. Apollodorus. l.
3. p. 205.

[572] Hercules furens. Act. 4. v. 996.

[573] Nonni Dionysiaca. l. 41. p. 1068.

Euripides styles the walls of Argos Ουρανια:

'Ινα τειχεα λαϊνα, Κυκλωπει', ουρανια νεμονται. Troades. v. 1087.

[574] Pausanias. l. 2. p. 146.

[575] Seneca Thyestes. Act. 2. v. 406.

[576] Εντος δε του Ισθμου της Τροιζηνος ὁμορος εστιν Ἑρμιονη· Οικιστην δε της αρχαιας πολεως
Ἑρμιονεις γενεσθαι φασιν Ἑρμιονα Ευρωπος. Pausanias. l. 2. p. 191.

[577] Strabo. l. 8. p. 573. It was inhabited by people particularly styled Ἁλιεις, or men of
the sea; who were brought thither by Druops Arcas.

[578] Pausan. l. 2. p. 147. Κυκλωπων μεν εστιν εργον. p. 169.

See Strabo. l. 8. p. 572. Τειχισαι δια Κυκλωπων.

[579] Τα τειχη τα εν Τιρυνθι--ουδε οντα ελαττονος θαυματος (των Πυραμιδων). Pausanias. l. 9.
p. 783.

[580] Εφεξης δε τῃ Ναυπλιᾳ, τα σπηλαια, και ὁι εν αυτοις οικοδομητοι λαβυρινθοι. Κυκλωπεια
δ' ονομαζουσιν. Strabo. l. 8. p. 567.

[581] Pausanias. l. 4. p. 367. Pausan. l. 2. p. 181.

[583]

              Κυκλωπων βαθρα
  Φοινικι κανονι και τυκοις ἡρμοσμενα.
              Eurip. Herc. Furens. v. 944.

[584] Strabo. l. 8. p. 572.

[585] Many places were denominated from Aster; such as Asteria, Asterion, Asteris, Astræa,
Astarte. See Steph. Byzantinus. Αστεριον, πολις Θετταλιας--ἡ νυν Πιρεσια. Idem. Αστεριη, ἡ
Δηλος, και ἡ Κρητη, εκαλειτο. Hesychius. Δηλος Αστεριη. Callimach. H. in Delon. v. 37. and
40. Asteria signifies the island of Aster.

[586] L. 8. p. 572.

[587] Pausanias mentions the apartments of the daughters of Prœtus. l. 2. p. 169. But the daughters
of Prœtus were property the virgins who officiated at the Purait, the young priestesses ot
the Deity.

The Sicilian Cyclopes were three, because there were three towers only, erected upon the islands
called Cyclopum Scopuli; and that they were lighthouses is apparent from the name which still
remains: for they are at this day styled Faraglioni, according to Fazellus. The Cyclopes of
Tiryns were seven, as we learn from Strabo; because the towers probably were in number so many.
From this circumstance we may presume, that the ideas of the antients concerning the Cyclopians,
were taken from the buildings which they erected.

[588] The Cyclopian buildings were also called Ouranian. Κυκλωπεια τ' ουρανια τειχεα. Euripid.
Electra. v. 1158.

[589] Both Cuclops, and Cuclopes, was the name of a place. We may, therefore, I think, be pretty
well assured, that the Cyclopians were from hence denominated. And as sacred places had their
names from the Deity, to whom they were dedicated, it is very probable, that the Cuclopian
towers were named from Cœlus Ops, the Deity there worshipped: for I have shewn, that this people
were the reputed children of Ouranus and Cœlus.

[590] Aristoteles de mirabil. auscult. p. 732.

[591] In excerptis apud Sononem. See not. Meursii in Antigonum Carystium. p. 183.

[592] Of the Cyclopians of Thrace see Scholia in Euripid. Orest. v. 966. Κυκλωπες, Θρακικον
εθνος. Also Scholia in Statii Theb. l. 2. p. 104.

[593] παρα δε το ἱερον του Κηφισσου Μεδουσης λιθου πεποιημενη κεφαλη. Κυκλωπων φασιν ειναι
και τουτο εργον. Pausan. l. 2. p. 156. Κηφισσος, Doricè Καφισσος, vel Καφισος: from Caph-Isis,
Petra Deæ Isidis.

[594] Ηελιου, ὁς παντ' εφορᾳ και παντ' ὑπακουει. Homer. Odyss. l. Λ. v. 108.

[595] Orphic Fragment. 6. v. 19. the same as Phanes, and Dionusus. Frag. 8. v. 2. Schol. ibid.

[596] Hence the stream and lake of Cephisus in Bœotia were styled ὑδατα και λιμνη Κηφισσιδος:
by the antient Dorians expressed Καφισιδος, from Καφ-Ισις.

[597] Orphic Hymn. 31. v. 10.

[598] Hymn. 10. v. 10. Metis was the same as Pan.

Meed-Ous whence came Μεδουσα, is exactly analogous to Cotinousa, Aithousa, Alphiousa, Ampelousa,
Pithecousa, Scotousa, Arginousa, Lampadousa, Amathousa, Ophiousa, Asterousa; and signifies
the temple of Metis, or divine wisdom. Aster-Ous was a temple on Mount Caucasus: Amath-Ous,
the same in Cyprus: Ampel-Ous, a temple in Mauritania: Alphi-Ous, in Elis: Achor-Ous, in Egypt:
all dedicated to the Deity, under different titles.

[599] Χασμασι λεοντειοις τα των ἱερων θυρωματα κοσμουσιν (ὁι Αιγυπτιοι). Plutarch. Isis et
Osiris. p. 366.

[600] Odyss. Λ. v. 610. It is a term which seems to have puzzled the commentators. Χαροποι,
επιπληκτικοι, φοβεροι. Scholiast. Ibid. It was certainly an Amonian term: and the Poet alluded
to a Charopian temple.

Της δ' ην Τρεις κεφαλαι, μια μεν χαροποιο λεοντος. Hesiod. Theogon. v. 321. Homer in another
place mentions,

  Λυκων κλαγγην, χαροπων τε Λεοντων. Hymn. εις Μητερα θεων. v. 4.

As a lion was from hence styled Charops, so from another temple it was named Charon. Χαρων
ὁ λεων. Hesych. Achilles is styled Αιχμητης Χαρων, Lycoph. v. 260. a martial Charonian Lion.

[601] Pausan. l. 8. p. 696.

[602] Pausan. l. 1. p. 49.

[603] Hesiod. Theogon. v. 141. Scholia Apollon. l. 1. v. 730.

Κυκλωπες τοτε Διι μεν διδοασι βροντην, και αστραπην, και κεραυνον. Apollodorus. l. 1. p. 4.

[604] See Stephanus. Ακμονια πολις Φρυγιας κτλ. He styles Acmon Ακμονα τον Μανεως. Manes was
the chief Deity of Lydia, Lycia, and Persis; and the same as Menes of Egypt.

There was a city Acmonia in Thrace. Ptol. l. 5. p. 138.

[605] Εστι και αλλο Ακμονιον αλσος περι Θερμαδοντα. Steph. Byzant. Apollonius takes notice
of Αλσεος Ακμονιοιο. l. 2. v. 994. Here Mars was supposed to have married Harmonia, the mother
of the Amazonians.

[606] Acmonides is represented as a patronymic; but there is reason to think that it is an
Amonian compound, Acmon-Ades, Acmon the God of light, the same as Cœlus, Cronus, and Osiris.
Acmon and Acmonides were certainly the same person: Ακμων· Κρονυς, Ουρανος. Hesych. Ακμονιδης,
ὁ Χαρων, και ὁ Ουρανος. ibid. He was the Cyclopian God, to whom different departments were
given by the mythologists. Charon Cyclops is mentioned by Lycophron. v. 659. above quoted.

[607] Simmiæ Rhodii Πτερυγια. Theocritus. Heinsii. p. 214.

[608] Callimachi Hymn. in Dianam. v. 146.

[609] Δακτυλοι Ιδαιοι Κρηταεες. Apollonius Rhod. l. 1. v. 1129.

The Scholiast upon this Poet takes notice of only three; of which one was Acmon:

  Κελμις, Δαμναμενευς τε μεγας, και ὑπερβιος Ακμων,
  Ὁι πρωτοι τεχνην πολυμητιος Ἡφαιστοιο
  Ἑυρον εν ουρειῃσι ναπαις ιοεντα σιδηρον,
  Ες πυρ τ' ηνεγκαν, και αριπρεπες εργον εδειξαν.

These verses are quoted from the antient author, ὁ την φορωνιδα συνθεις.

Diodorus Siculus, l. 1. p. 333. says, that some made the Idæi Dactyli ten in number; others
an hundred.

[610] Clemens Alexand. Strom. l. 1. p. 401. Strabo. l. 10. p. 725.

[611] Strabo. l. 10. p. 715. They are by Tatianus Assyrius spoken of as the Cyclopes, and the
same invention attributed to them. Χαλκευειν Κυκλωπες (εδιδαξαν). p. 243.

Fabricam ferrariam primi excogitârunt Cyclopes, See Hoffman. Ferrum.

[612] Κυκλωπες, Θρακικον εθνος, απο Κυκλωπος βασιλεως ὁυτως ονομαζομενοι.--πλειονες δε αυτων
εν τῃ Κουρητιδι· ησαν δε ΑΡΙΣΤΟΙ ΤΕΧΝΙΤΑΙ. Schol. in Euripid. Orest. v. 966.

Mention is afterwards made των εκ της Κουρητιδος Κυκλωπων. The Curetes worshipped Cronus: so
that Cronus and Cuclops were the same. See Porphyry de Abstin. l. 2. p. 225.

[613] They are said to have made the altar upon which the Gods were sworn, when the Titans
rebelled against Jupiter. Scholiast upon Aratus. p. 52. In memorial of this altar an Asterism
was formed in the Sphere, denominated βωμος, ara.

[614] Virgil Æn. l. 8. v. 424.

[615] Prœtides implerunt falsis mugitibus auras. Virgil. Eclog. 6. v. 48.

[616] Herod. l. 7. c. 123.

Ἡ Παλληνη Χερρονησος, ἡ εν τῳ Ισθμῳ κειται. ἡ πριν μεν Ποτιδαια, νυν δε Κασσανδρεια, Φλεγραια
δε πριν εκαλειτο· ωκουν δ' αυτην ὁι μυθυομενοι Γιγαντες, εθνος ασεβες, και ανομον. Strabo.
Epitome. l. 7. p. 510.

[617] Lycophron. v. 115.

[618] Stephanus places Torone in Thrace, and supposes it to have been named from Torone, who
was not the wife, but daughter of Proteus. Απο Τορωνης της Πρωτεως. Some made her the daughter
of Poseidon and Phœnice. See Steph. Φλεγραια. There were more towers than one of this name.

[619] Παλληνιαν επηλθε Γηγενων τροφον, Lycoph. v. 127.

[620] Lycophron. v. 124.

[621] Eustath. on Dionysius. v. 259.

[622] Herodot. l. 2. c. 112.

[623] Πρωτεα κικλησκω, ποντου κληιδας εχοντα. Orphic Hymn. 24.

[624] Aristides. Oratio Ægyptiaca. v. 3. p. 608.

[625] Stephanus Byzant. Φαρος.

[626] Chilias. 2. Hist. 44. p. 31. Πρωτευς φοινικης φινικος παις--περι την φαρον κατοικων.

[627] Orphic Hymn to Proteus. 24.

[628] Eustath. in Dionys. v. 14.

Φροντιν Ονητοριδην. Homer. Odyss. Γ. v. 282. See also Hesych.

[629] Æneid. l. 6. v. 556.

[630] Virg. Æneid. l. 6. v. 618.

[631] Stephanus. Αιθιοπια.

[632] The hieroglyphic was a man with the head of a bull; which had the same reference, as
the Apis, and Mneuis of Egypt.

[633] Diodorus Sic. l. 20. p. 756.

[634] Homer. Odyss. Μ. v. 222.

[635] Epist. 79.

[636] Ακουσιλαος Φορκυνος και Ἑκατης την Σκυλλαν λεγει. Στησικορος δε, εν τῃ Σκυλλῃ, Λαμιας
την Σκυλλαν φησι θυγατερα ειναι. Apollonius. Schol. l. 4. v. 828.

[637] Euripides. Cyclops. v. 126.

[638] Odyss. l. Ι. v. 389.

[639] Imitated by Mr. Pope.

[640] Ennius translated into Latin the history of Euhemerus, who seems to have been a sensible
man, and saw into the base theology of his country. He likewise wrote against it, and from
hence made himself many enemies. Strabo treats him as a man devoted to fiction. l. 2. p. 160.

[641] Ex Ennii Historiâ sacrâ, quoted by Lactantius. Divin. Institut. vol. 1. c. 13. p. 59.

[642] Μεσσηνιον Ευημερον. Strabo. l. 1. p. 81.

[643] Clemens. Cohort. p. 11. Arnobius. l. 5.

[644] Διονυσον Μαινολον οργιασουσι Βακχοι, ωμοφαγιᾳ την ἱερομανιαν αγοντες, και τελισκουσι
τας κρεονομιας των φονων ανεστεμμενοι τοις οφεσιν. Clemens Cohort. p. 11.

[645] Julius Firmicus. p. 14.

[646] Apollon. Rhod. l. 1. v. 636.

[647] Scholia Apollon. l. 1. v. 635.

[648] Porphyry περι αποχης. l. 2. p. 224.

[649] Turricolas Lamias, Fauni quas Pompiliique

Instituere Numæ. Lactant. de falsâ Relig. l. 1. c. 22. p. 105.

[650] Homer Odyss. Κ. v. 81.

[651] Ibid. Κ. v. 120. Thucyd. l. 6. p. 378.

[653] Scholia. v. 956. Leon in Leontium is a translation of Lais (לוש) Leo: Bochart.

[654] Lycoph. above.

[655] Plutarch de Defect. Orac. vol. 1. p. 398.

Ἑτεροι δε φᾳσιν εκ Μαλιαιων αφικεσθαι Λαμιας θυγατερα Σιβυλλαν. Clem. Alex. Strom. l. 1. p.
358. Pausanias makes her the daughter of Jupiter and Lamia. l. 10. p. 825.

[656] Clemens Alex. l. 1. p. 358.

[657] See Diodorus. l. 20. p. 778. of the Lamia in Libya, and of her cavern.

[658] Euripides quoted ibid.

[659] Philostratus. Vita Apollon. l. 4. p. 183.

[660] Aristot. Ethic. l. 7. c. 6. p. 118. See Plutarch περι πολυπραγμοσυνης, And Aristoph.
Vespæ. Schol. v. 1030.

[661] Horace, l. 3. ode 17.

[662] Virgil Æn. l. 7. v. 1. See Servius.

[663] Strabo. l. 5. p. 357. Κολπον Καιατταν. κλ.

[664] Ibid. p. 356.

[665] Silius. l. 8.

[666] De Virgilianâ continentiâ. p. 762. Caiat signified a kind of whip, or thong, probably
such was used at Caiate.

[667] Virgil. Æneid. l. 5. v. 873.

[668] See Nonnus. l. 19. p. 320.

[669] V. 653. See Natalis Comes.

[670] L. 4. v. 892.

[671] V. 1269.

[672] Odyss. l. Μ. v. 39.

[673] From Mr. Pope's translation.

[674] Callimachi Frag. 184. p. 510.

[675] Apollon. l. 4. v. 828. Scholia. She is said also to have been the daughter of Hecate
and Phorcun. Ibid. The daughter of a Deity means the priestess. Phor-Cun signifies Ignis Dominus,
the same as Hephastus.

[676] Herodotus. l. 7. c. 90.

[677] Κυρος ὁ ἡλιος. See Radicals. p. 48.

[678] Strabo. l. 14. p. 1002. the promontory was called Curias Κυριας ακρα· ειτα πολις Κουριον.

[679] L. 4. c. 103.

[680] Virgil. Æneid. l. 8. v. 190.

[681] Livy. l. 1. c. 7.

[682] Plutarch. in Amatorio. vol. 2. p. 762.

[683] Lactantius de F. R. l. 1. c. 20. p. 90.

[684] Milton. l. 2. v. 579.

[685] Theoc. Idyl. 17. v. 47.

[686] Aristoph. Βατραχ. v. 474. So Cocytus is by Claudian described as the river of tears.

      ---- presso lacrymarum fonte resedit
  Cocytos. De Rapt. Proserp. l. 1. v. 87.

[687] He makes Metis the same as Athena. H. 31. l. 10.

In another place Metis is styled πρωτος γενετωρ. Frag. 6. v. 19. p. 366.

[688] Ibid. Fragm. 8. p. 373.

[689] Eusebii. Chron. Log. p. 4. l. 42.

[690] Ἱππαν κικλησκω Βακχου τροφον. Hymn. 48.

[691] Hymn. 47. v. 4.

[692] Orphic Frag. 43. Ἡ μεν γαρ Ἱππα του παντος ουσα ψυχη κτλ.  Proclus. ibid. p. 401.

[693] Among the Egyptians, the emblems of which they made use were arbitrary, and very different
from the things to which they referred. An eagle, an ox, and a horse, were all used as symbols,
but had no real connexion with the things alluded to, nor any the least likeness. The Grecians
not considering this were always misled by the type; and never regarded the true history, which
was veiled under it.

[694] Ἱππεις. v. 548.

[695] Pausan. l. 5. p. 414.

[696] Ibid. l. 5. p. 416.

[697] Hesych. Ἱππια.

[698] Pausan. l. 8. p. 649.

[699] Metam. l. 6. v. 117.

[700] Ibid. l. 2. v. 668.

[701] Virg. Georg. l. 3. v. 92.

[702] Iliad. Β. v. 766. He also mentions the mares of Eresicthon, with which Boreas was supposed
to have been enamoured.

  Ταων και Βορεης ηρασσετο βοσκομεναων,
  Ἱππῳ δ' εισαμενος παρελεξατο κυανοχαιτῃ.
  Ἁι δ' ὑποκυσσαμεναι ετεκον δυοκαιδεκα πωλους. Odyss. Υ. v. 224.

[703] H. to Apollo. v. 47.

[704] Strabo. l. 17. p. 1188.

[705] Hesych. Ἱππειον.

[706] Προϊουσι δε Ἱππου καλουμενον μνημα εστιν.--Κιονες δε ἑπτα, ὁι του μνηματος τουτου διεχουσιν
ου πολυ, κατα τροπον οιμαι τον αρχαιον, ὁυς αστερων των Πλανητων φασιν αγαλματα. Pausan. l.
3. p. 262.

[707] They included the moon among the primary planets; not being acquainted with any secondary.

[708] See Steph. Byzant. and Cellarius.

[709] Ovid. Deianira ad Hero. Epist.

[710] Geog. Vet. vol. 2. v. 665. See also Diodorus. l. 4. p. 223. also Strabo Epitome. l. 7.
p. 511.

[711] See Radicals. p. 119.

[712] The birds at the lake Stymphalus are described as feeding upon human flesh. Λογος Ορνιθας
ποτε ανδροφαγους επ' αυτῳ τραφηναι.  Pausan. l. 8. p. 610. The real history of the place was,
that the birds called Stymphalides were a set of Canibal priests.

[713] Glaucus, the son of Sisiphus is said to have been eaten by horses. Palæphatus. p. 58.

[714] P. 54.

[715] Metamorph. l. 8. v. 873.

[716] Josephus calls Egypt Mestra. Antiq. l. 1. c. 6. §. 2. See Radicals, p. 8. Notes.

[717] Ὁ πρωτος οικησας την Μεστραιαν χωραν, ητοι Αιγυπτον, Μεστραιμ. Euseb. Chron. p. 17.

[718] Herodotus. l. 2 c. 55.

[719] Ovid Metam. l. 5. v. 341. Most temples of old were courts of justice; and the priests
were the judges, who there presided.

Ælian. V. H. l. 14. c. 34. Δικασται το αρχαιον παρ' Αιγυπτιοις ὁι ἱερεις ησαν.

[720] Oratio in Verrem. 5. Sect. ultima. vol. 3. p. 291.

[721] Ceres is mentioned by Varro quasi Geres. l. 4. p. 18.

[722] Hesychius. Αχειρω.

[723] Repentur in poematiis antiquis, a Pithæo editis, carmen in laudem Solis; quod eum esse
Liberum, et Cererem, et Jovem statuit. Huetius. Demonst. Evang. Prop. 4. p. 142.

[724] Cœlius. Rhodog. l. 17. c. 27.

[725] Varro speaks of Ceres, as if her name was originally Geres. l. 4. p. 18.

[726] There was a place called Charisia in Arcadia. Pausan. l. 8. p. 603. Charesus, and Charesene,
in Phrygia. Charis in Persis, and Parthia. See Treatise upon the Cyclopes.

[727] Pausan. l. 9. p. 781. Nonnus. l. 29. p. 760.

[728] Etymolog. Mag. and Suidas.

[729] Χρησμολογοι μετειχον της εν τῳ Πρυτανειῳ σιτησεως.. Aristoph. Ειρηνη. Scholia, v. 1084.

[730] L. 8. p. 6l6.

[731] L. 5. p. 415.

[732] Πρυτανεια τε εχουσα και Αρχοντας. Thucyd. l. 2. p. 107.

[733] Το δε λυχνιον εν Πρυτανειῳ. Theocrit. Idyl. 21.

[734] Suidas.

[735] L. 2. p. 107. Others gave another reason. Πρυτανειον εκαλειτο, επειδη εκει εκαθηντο ὁι
Πρυτανεις, ὁι των ὁλων πραγματων διοικηται. Ibid.

[736] Julius Pollux. l. 1. c. 1. p. 7.

[737] Πρυτανειον εστιν, εν ᾡ νομοι του Σολωνος εισι γεγραμμενοι. Pausan. l. 1. p. 41.

[738] Plutarch in Solone. p. 92.

[739] L. 41. p. 1152.

[740] L. 8. p. 649. Mount Caucasus was denominated, as is supposed, from a shepherd Caucasus.
The women, who officiated in the temple, were styled the daughters of Caucasus, and represented
as Furies: by which was meant priestesses of fire.

Caucasi filiæ Furiæ. See Epiphanius Anchorat. p. 90.

[741] Lycophron. Scholia. v. 1225. Και Καλλιμαχος Εριννυν καλει Δημητρα. Ibid.

Neptune is said to have lain with Ceres, when in the form of a Fury. Apollodorus. l. 3. p.
157. She is said from thence to have conceived the horse Areion.

Lycophron alludes to her cruel rites, when he is speaking of Tantalus, and Pelops.

  Ὁυ παππον εν γαμφαισιν Ἑνναια ποτε
  Ερκυν' Εριννυς, θουρια, ξιφηφορος,
  Ασαρκα μιστυλλουσ' ετυμβευσεν ταφῳ. v. 152.]

[742] Herodotus. l. 7. c. 197.

[743] L. 2 v. 288.

[744] The Sirens and Harpies were persons of the same vocation, and of this the Scholiast upon
Lycophron seems to have been apprised. See v. 653.

[745] Harpya, Ἁρπυια, was certainly of old a name of a place. The town so called is mentioned
to have been near Encheliæ in Illyria. Here was an Amonian Petra of Cadmus, and Harmonia.

[746] Τιτυῳ εναλιγκιος ανηρ. Theocrit. Idyl. 22. v. 94.

[747] Pausan. l. 1. p. 94.

[748] Κερκυον is compounded of Ker-Cuon, and signifies the temple of the Deity.

[749] L. 1. p. 94.

[750] Ovid. Ibis. v. 411.

[751] Anacharsis. vol. 2. p. 388. Γυμνασιον ὑφ' ἡμων ονομαζεται, και εστιν ἱερον Απολλωνος Λυκιου.

[752] Και ὁ τοπος ὁυτος παλαιστρα και ες εμε εκαλειτο ολιγον που ταφου της Αλοπης απεχων. Pausan.
l. 1. p. 94.

That very antient temple of Pan on Mount Lycæum in Arcadia had a Gymnasium in a grove. Εστι
εν τῳ Λυκαιῳ Πανος τε Ἱερον, και περι αυτο αλσος δενδρων, και Ἱπποδρομος τε, και προ αυτου
σταδιον. Pausan. l. 8. p. 678.

[753] I have mentioned, that Torone was a temple of the Sun, and also φλεγραια, by which was
meant a place of fire, and a light-house. This is not merely theory: for the very tower may
be seen upon coins, where it is represented as a Pharos with a blaze of fire at the top. See
vol. 2. page 118.

[754] Plutarch. Theseus, p. 6.

[755] Chron. Logos. p. 31. He was also named Asterus, Asterion, and Asterius. Lycoph. v. 1299.
Schol. and Etymolog. Mag. Minois. Asterius was represented as the son of Anac. Αστεριου του
Ανακτος. Pausan. l. 7. p. 524. Ανδρειᾳ τους αποθανοντας ὑπο Θησεως ὑπερεβαλεν ὁ Αστεριων (ὁ
Μινω) Pausan. l. 2. p. 183.

[756] Pausan. l. 1. p. 94.

[757] Diodorus explains farther the character of this personage, τον παλαιοντα τοις παριουσι,
και τον ἡττηθεντα διαφθειροντα. l. 4 p. 226.

[758] Diodorus Sic. l. 4. p. 225, and 233.

[759] Ιδεως τον Ανταιον φησι των ΞΕΝΩΝ των ἡττημενων ΤΟΙΣ ΚΡΑΝΙΟΙΣ ερεφειν τον του Ποσειδωνος
ναον. Pindar. Isth. Ode 4. Scholia. p. 458. See Diodorus concerning Antæus συναναγκαζοντα τους
ξενους διαπαλαιειν. l. 4. p. 233.

[760] V. 866, and Scholia.

[761] Diodorus Sic. l. 4. p. 263.

[762] Hercules Furens. v. 391.

[763] Pindar. Olymp. Ode 10. p. 97. Scholia. from the Cygnus of Stesichorus.

[764] Euripides. Orestes. v. 1648. Schol. Lycaon was a Deity, and his priests were styled Lycaonidæ.
He was the same as Jupiter Lycæus, and Lucetius: the same also as Apollo.

[765] Pausan. l. 8. p. 600.

[766] Odyss. l. Φ. v. 307.

[767] Μνησομαι, ουδε λαθοιμι Απολλωνος Εκατοιο. Homer. Η. to Apollo. v. 1.

Ευ ειδως αγορευε θεοπροπιας Ἑκατοιο. Iliad. Α. v. 385.

Αρτεμις ιοχεαιρα, κασιγνητη Ἑκατοιο. Iliad. Υ. v. 71.

[768] Odyss. Σ. v. 83.

[769] Purchas. Pilg. vol. 5. p. 872. and Garcilasso della Vega. Rycaut. p. 403.

[770] See Plutarch's life of Theseus. p. 3, 4. vol. 1.

[771] V. 146.

[772] Campio, Gladiator. Isidorus.

[773] Vegetius. l. 2. c. 7.

[774] Nonnus. l. 18. p. 500.

[775] Eustathius on Dionysius. v. 357.

[776] Diodorus Sicul. l. 1. p. 13, 14. Diod. Sic. l. 4. p. 210.

[778] Diodorus. l. 1. p. 14.

[779] Diodorus. l. 1. p. 17.

[780] Ibid. p. 14. This city is also said to have been built by Hercules. Diodorus. l. 4. p. 225.

[781]

  Primus aratra manu sollerti fecit Osiris,
  Et teneram ferro sollicitavit humum. Tibull. l. 1. El. 8. v. 29.

[782] Ζυθος, εκ των κριθων πομα. Diodorus. l. 1. p. 37.

[783] Βασιλευοντα δε Οσιριν Αιγυπτιους ευθυς απορου βιου και θηριωδους απαλλαξαι, καρπους τε
δειξαντα, και νομους θεμενον αυτοις. Plut. Is. et Osir. p. 356.

[784] Eusebius. Pr. Ev. l. 1. p. 44, 45.

[785] Diodorus Sic. l. 1. p. 24.

[786] Both the Patriarch, and his son Ham, had the name of Cronus, as may be learned from Sanchoniathon.
Εγεννηθησαν δε και εν Παραιᾳ Κρονῳ τρεις παιδες, Κρονος ὁμωνυμος τῳ πατρι, κτλ.  Euseb. Præp.
l. 1. c. 10. p. 37.

Paraia is the same as Pur-aia, the land of Ur; from whence the Gentile writers deduce all their
mythology.

[787] See Radicals. p. 42.

[788] Ῥαγδαιων δε γενομενων ομβρων και πνευματων,--δενδρου λαβομενον τον Ουσωον, και αποκλαδευσαντα,
πρωτον τολμησαι εις θαλασσαν εμβηναι.  Euseb. Pr. Ev. l. 1. c. 10. p. 35.

[789] Euseb. Chron. p. 7. l. 43.

[790] Strabo. l. 17. p. 1168.

[791] Τας Γοργονας επ' ωκεανον ουσας τον περι πολιν Ιβηριας την Ταρτησσον. Schol. in Lycophr.
ad v. 838.

[792] [Atlas] Apex Perseo et Herculi pervius. Solin. c. 24.

[793] Andromedam Perseus nigris portârit ab Indis. Ovid. Art. Amand. l. 1. v. 53.

[794] Pausan. l. 4. p. 370.

[795] Pliny mentions these bones being brought from Joppa to Rome in the ædileship of M. Scaurus;
longitudine pedum 40, altitudine costarum Indicos elephantos excedente, spinæ crassitudine
sesquipedali. l. 9. c. 5.

[796] Deseritur Taurique jugum, Perseaque Tarsus. Lucan. l. 3. v. 225. See Solin. c. 38.

[797] Perseam quoque plantam ---- a Perseo Memphi satam. Plin. l. 15. c. 13.

Of Perseus in Cilicia, see Chron. Pasch. p. 39.

[798] Pindar. Pyth. Od. 10. v. 49 and 70. Εις το των Μακαρων ανδρων εθνος. Schol. in v. 70.

[799] Virgil. Æn. l. 7. v. 409.

Ardea a Danae Persei matre condita. Plin. Hist. Nat l. 3. p. 152.

[800] Servius in Virgil. Æn. l. 8.

[801] Diodorus Sic. l. 1. p. 21.

[802] Ibidem.

[803] Herodotus. l. 6. c. 54. See Chron. Paschale. p. 38.

Some make him a Colchian. Ἡλιῳ γαρ φησιν ὑιους γενεσθαι δυο εν τοις τοποις εκεινοις, ὁις ονοματα
ην Περσευς και Αιητης· τουτους δε κατασχεσιν την χωραν· και Αιητην μεν Κολχους και Μαιωτας,
Περσεα δε Ταυρικης Βασιλευσαι. Schol. in Apollon. Argonautic. l. 3. v. 199.

[804] Ἡ δε Περσου γυνη Αστερια παις ην Κοιου και Φοιβης· ὁι Κοιος δε και Φοιβη ΟΥΡΑΝΟΥ παιδες.
Schol. in Lycophron. v. 1175.

[805] Natalis Comes. l. 7. c. 18.

[806] Schol. in Lycophr. v 18.

Lycophr. v. 17.

Τον χρυσοπατρον μορφνον--τον Περσεα. Schol. in Lycophr. v. 838.

[807] Εγγυς της Νεης πολιος. He is said to have introduced here Gymnic exercises. Herodot.
l. 2. c. 91. And to have often appeared personally to the priests. Herodot. ibid.

Herodotus of the Dorians. l. 6. c. 54.

[808] Εν λαρνακι ξυλινῳ. Schol. in Lycophr. v. 838.

Εν κιβωτῳ τινι. Chron. Pasch. p. 38. from Euripides.

The father of Danae ενειρξας αυτην εις την Κιβωτον μετα του ΠΑΙΔΟΣ καθηκεν εις το πελαγος.
Schol. in Pind. Pyth. Od. 10. v. 72.

[809] All salutary streams were consecrated to the Sun. There were some waters of this nature
near Carthage, which were named Aquæ Persianæ. See Apuleii Florida. c. 16. p. 795, and p. 801.
They were so named from Perez, the Sun, to whom they were sacred.

[810] Ovid. Trist. l. 1. eleg. 3. v. 48. See Natalis Comes. l. 7. c. 18.

[811] Polyb. l. 5. p. 389.

[812] Plin. Hist. Nat. l. 6. c. 16. See Q. Curtius, and Strabo.

[813] Parrhasii in Hyrcania. Strabo. l. 11. p. 775.

[814] Plin. Hist. Nat. l. 2. c. 98.

[815] Of Parrhasians in Arcadia. Strabo. l. 8. p. 595. See Plin. Hist. Nat. l. 4. c. 6.

  Ὑιος Δινυττα Δαμαρχος την δ' ανεθηκεν
    Εικον', απ' Αρκαδιας Παῤῥασιος γενεαν.
              Pausan. l. 6. p. 471. See also l. 8. p. 654.

[816] Plato in Alcibiad. vol. 2. p. 120.

[817] Herodot. l. 7. c. 150.

[818] Statii Theb. l. 1. v. 717.

[819] Diodorus Sicul. l. 3. p. 185.

[820] Πολλαις γενεαις προτερον των Τρωικων. Ibid.

[821] Της Λιβυης εν τοις προς ἑσπεραν μερεσιν επι του περατος της οικουμενης. Diodorus Sic.
l. 3. p. 186.

She likewise was in possession of the νησοι ευδαιμονες, or Islands of the blessed, which lay
opposite to her dominions in Africa.

[822] Writers mention that she raised over the slain three large mounds of earth, which were
called ταφοι Αμαζωνων, the tombs of the Amazons. This shews that the Gorgons and Amazons were
the same people, however separated, and represented in a state of warfare.

[823] Iliad Β. v. 811. Μυρινα· ονομα κυριον Αμαζονος. Scholia ibid.

[824] Diodorus Sicul. l. 4. p. 216, 217, 225, 227, &c. See also Justin. l. 44. c. 4. and Apollodorus.
l. 2. p. 100.

Hercules of Tyre was said to have been the Son of Athamas, the same as Palæmon.

[825] Ludovicus Nonnius in Hispania. p. 196, 170.

[826] Diodorus Sicul. l. 4. p. 227.

Corunna the same as Kir-Ona.

Many Amonian cities of similar analogy to Alesia.

[827] Diodorus, above.

[828] Χρυσα μηλα--προβατα. Schol. in Apollon. Argonaut. l. 4. v. 1396. εξ Αγροιτου εν γ' Λιβυκων.

[829] Τον Ἡρακλεα, συμμαχουντων αυτῳ των θεων, κρατησαι τῃ μαχῃ, και τους πλειστους ανελοντα
την χωραν ηξημερωσαι. Diodorus Sicul. l. 4. p. 229. Strabo. l. 5. p. 376. and l. 6. p. 430.

[830] Strabo. l. 15. p. 1007. and l. 11. p. 771. Diodorus Sic. l. 2. p. 124.

[831] Arrian. Hist. Indica. p. 321.

[832] Herod. l. 4. c. 9. Aristid. Orat. v. 1. p. 85.

[833] Ovid. Metam. l. 11. v. 218.

[834] Poculo Herculem vectum ad Erytheiam. Macrob. Sat. l. 5. c. 21. Apollodorus. l. 2. p.
100. Schol. Apollon. Argonaut. l. 4. v. 1396. from Pherecydes Syrus; and from the Libyca of
Agroitas. Λαβων χρυσουν δεπας παρ' Ἡλιου--δια του ωκεανου πλειν.

[835] Strabo. l. 3. p. 237. He was supposed to have been the founder of Tartossus, where he
was worshipped under the name of Archaleus. Etymolog. Mag. Γαδαρα.

[836] Syncellus. p. 171.

[837] Pomponius Mela. l. 3. c. 6.

[838] Athenæus. l. 12. c. 512.

[839] Strabo. l. 15. p. 1009. Πλασμα των Ἡρακλειαν ποιουντων.

[840] Nat. Deorum. l. 3. c. 16.

[841] Arrian speaks of this Indian Hercules, together with the others mentioned by Cicero.
Ει δε τῳ πιστα ταυτα, αλλος αν ουτος Ἡρακλεης ειη, ουχ ὁ Θηβαιος, η ὁ Τυριος ὁυτος, η ὁ Αιγυπτιος,
η τις και κατα ανω χωρην ου ποῤῥω της Ινδων γης ῳκισμενην μεγας βασιλευς. Hist. Ind. p. 319.
Varro mentions forty of this name, who were all reputed Deities.

[842] See Ludovicus Nonnius, in Hispan. p. 196, 170.

[843] See Audigier Origines des François. part. 1. p. 225, 230.

[844] Mela. l. 2. c. 5. l. 30.

[845] Petronius. p. 179. Est locus Herculeis aris sacer.

[846] He was worshipped by the Suraceni, a particular Indian nation, who styled him Γηγενης,
or the Man of the Earth. Arrian. Hist. Indic. p. 321.

[847] Hercules apud Celtas. See Voss. de Idolat. l. 1. c. 35. l. 2. c. 15.

[848] Eumenius in Orat. pro Scholis instaurandis. See Lilius Gyraldus, Synt. 10. p. 330.

[849] Suetonius in Augusto. c. 29. Livy. l. 40. c. 51.

[850] Johan. Sambuci Emblemata.

[851] He was the same as Osiris, the Sun. Τον εν πασι και δια παντων Ἡλιον. Macrob. Saturn.
l. 1. c. 20. p. 207. See Porphyry apud Euseb. Præp. Evang. l. 3. p. 112.

[852] See Lilius Gyraldus Syntag. 10. p. 592. Pausanias expresses the name Αιχμαγορας. l. 8.
p. 624.

[853] Lilius Gyrald p. 595.

[854] In the following extracts we may see the character of this Deity among different nations.
Ἡρακλεα δε ὁντινα ες Ινδους αφικεσθαι λογος κατεχει παρ' αυτοισιν Ινδοισιν Γηγενεα λεγεσθαι·
τουτον τοι Ἡρακλεα μαλιστα προς Συρασηνων γεραιρεσθαι, Ινδικου εθνους. Arrian. Hist. Ind. p. 321.

Αλλα τις αρχαιος εστι θεος Αιγυπτιοισι Ἡρακλεης· ὡς δε αυτοι λεγουσι ετεα εστι επτακισχιλια
και μερια ες Αμασιν βασιλευσαντα. Herod. l. 2. c. 43. Αλλ' ισμεν Αιγυπτιους, ὁσον τινα αγουσιν
Ἡρακλεα, και Τυριους, ὁτι πρωτον σεβουσι Θεων. Aristid. Orat. v. 1. p. 59. He had at Tyre a
Temple, as old as the city. Εφασαν γαρ ἁμα Τυρῳ οικιζομενῃ και το Ἱερον του θεου ἱδρυνθηναι.
Herod. l. 2. c. 44.

Εστι γαρ εν Τυρῳ Ἱερον Ἡρακλεους παλαιοτατον, ὡν μνημῃ ανθρωπινῃ διασωσεται· ου του Αργειου
Ἡρακλεους. κ. λ. Arrian. Expedit. Alex. p. 88.

[855] Diodorus Sic. l. 3. p. 195. 196. and p. 200.

[856] Διονυσου απογονους Οξυδρακας. Strabo. l. 15. p. 1008. The Tyrians laid the same claim
to him. Τον Διονυσον Τυριοι νομιζουσιν ἑαυτων ειναι. Achill. Tatius. l. 2. p. 67. So did likewise
the Cretans, and the people of Naxos. Some of the Libyans maintained, that he was educated
in the grotto of the Nymphs upon the river Triton. Diodor. Sic. l. 3. p. 202. 203. Concerning
Dionusus the benefactor, see Arrian. Hist. Ind. p. 321.

Of his coming to India from the west. Philostratus. l. 2. p. 64. Επηλυτον αυτον Ασσυριον.

[857] Of his travels, see Strabo. l. 15. p. 1008.

[858] Τον δ' ουν Διονυσον, επελθοντα μετα στρατοπεδου πασαν την οικουμενην, διδαξαι την φυτειαν
του αμπελου. Diodor. Sic. l. 3. p. 197.

Και προ Αλεξανδρου, Διονυσου περι πολλος λογος κατεχει, ὡς και τουτου στρατευσαντος ες Ινδους.
Arrian. Hist. Indic. p. 318.

[859] Diodorus. l. 3. p. 204.

[860] Ινδους και Τυῤῥηνους λεγουσιν, ὡς κατεστρεψατο (Διονυσος). Aristid. Orat. in Dionus. p. 54.

[861] Cic. de Nat. Deor. l. 3. c. 23. Of the various places of his birth, see Diodorus Sic.
l. 3. p. 200.

[862] Linus, Orpheus, Panopides, Thymætes, and Dionysius Milesius, Diodorus Sic. l. 3. p. 201.

[863] It was a common subject for Elegy. Plutarch. Isis et Osir.

Ποιησομεθα δε την αρχην απο Διονυσου, διο και παλαιον ειναι σφοδρα τουτον, και μεγισταις ευεργεσιαις
κατατεθεισθαι τῳ γενει των ανθρωπων. Diodorus Sicul. l. 4. p. 210.

Λινον φασι τοις Πελασγικοις γραμμασι συνταξαμενον τας του πρωτου Διονυσου πραξεις. Diodorus
Sic. l. 3. p. 201.

[864] L. 4. p. 210.

Τον Οσιριν Διονυσον ειναι λεγουσιν. Herodot. l. 2. c. 42. c. 145.

[865] The Indians gave the same account of Dionusus, as the Egyptians did of Osiris. Πολιας
τε οικησαι (Διονυσον) και νομους θεσθαι τῃσι πολεσιν, οινου τε δοτηρα Ινδοις γενεσθαι·--και
σπειρειν διδαξαι την γην, διδοντα αυτον σπερματα·--βοας τε ὑπ' αροτρῳ ζευξαι Διονυσον πρωτον·--και
θεους σεβειν ὁτι εδιδαξε Διονυσος--κτλ. Arrian. Hist. Indic. p. 321.

[866] Pausan. l. 3. p. 272. As his rites came originally from Chaldea, and the land of Ur,
he is in consequence of it often styled Πυριγενης, αμδ Πυρισπορος· Strabo. l. 13. p. 932. Ελθε,
μακαρ Διονυσε, ΠYΡΙΣΠΟΡΕ, ταυρομετωπε. Orphic. Hymn. 44. v. 1.

[867] There was a cavern, where they supposed him to be buried, at Delphi, παρα χρυσεῳ Απολλωνι.
Cyril contra Jul. p. 342.

[868] Κρονος περιεων την οικουμενην. Sanchoniath. apud Euseb. Præp. Evang. l. 1. c. 10. p. 38.

[869] Τον μεν ουν Κρονον οντα πρεσβυτατον βασιλεα γενεσθαι· και τους καθ' ἑαυτον ανθρωπους
εξ αγριου διαιτης εις βιον ἡμερον μεταστησαι, και δια τουτο αποδοχης μεγαλης τυχοντα πολλους
επελθειν της οικουμενης τοπους· εισηγησασθαι δε πασι την τε δικαιοσυνην και την ἁπλοτητα της
ψυχης. Diodorus Sicul. l. 5. p. 334.

[870] Ουρανον--τους ανθρωπους σποραδην οικουντας συναγαγειν εις πολεως περιβολον, και της μεν
ανομιας και θηριωδους βιου παυσαι--κατακτησασθαι δε αυτον της οικουμενης την πλειστην. Ibid.
l. 3. p. 1*9.

[871] Απολλωνα μετα Θεμιδος, ωφελησαι βουλομενον το γενος ἡμων· ειτα την ωφελειαν ειπων, ὁτι
εις ἡμεροτητα προυκαλειτο. Strabo. l. 9. p. 646.

[872] Καθ' ὁν χρονον Απολλωνα την γην επιοντα ἡμερουν τους ανθρωπους απο τε των ανημερων καρπων
και βιων. Ibid.

[873] Diodorus Sicul. l. 3. p. 195.

The wanderings of Isis and Iona relate to the same history: as do likewise those of Cadmus.

[874] Eusebii Chron. p. 7. l. 37.

[875] Θουλις. Ὁυτος εβασιλευσε πασης Αιγυπτου, και ἑως ωκεανου· και μιαν των εν αυτῳ νησων
εκαλεσεν απο του ιδιου ονοματος Θουλην. Suidas.

[876] Μετα Οσιριν εβασιλευσεν Ορος· και μετα τον Ορον εβασιλευσε Θουλις, ὁστις παρελαβε μετα
δυναμεως τινος πασαν την γην ἑως του ωκεανου.  Chron. Pasch. p. 46.

He is mentioned by Cedrenus. Θουλης, ὁς και ἑως του ωκεανου πυσαν την γην παρειληφεν. p. 20.

[877] Diodorus Sicul. l. 1. p. 49.

[878] See Apollon. Argonaut. l. 4. v. 277. and Herodot. l. 2. c. 102.

Syncellus. p. 59, 60

[879] Diodorus Sic. above. He was near losing his whole army.

[880] Την δε χωραν ὁπλοις κατεστρεψατο τοις ἑαυτου Βασιλευς Βασιλεων, και Δεσποτης Δεσποτων
Σεσοωσις. Diodor. Sicul. ibid.

[881] He passed through all Ethiopia to the Cinnamon country. Strabo. l. 17. p. 1138. This
must be Indica Ethiopia, and the island Seran-Dive. Hence came Cinnamon: here were στηλαι και
επιγραφαι.

Venit ad occasum, mundique extrema Sesostris. Lucan. l. 10. v. 276

[882] Σεσωστρις ετη μη, ὁς ἁπασαν εχειρωσατο την Ασιαν εν ενιαυτοις εννεα. Syncellus. p. 59.

Some make him advance farther, and conquer all Europe: ὁμοιως ὑπεταξε και την Ασιαν πασαν,
και ΤΗΝ ΕΥΡΟΠΗΝ, και την Σκυθιαν, και την Μυσιαν. Chron. Pasch. p. 47. Herodotus thinks he
did not proceed farther than Thrace. l. 2. c. 103.

[883] Diodorus Sicul. l. 1. p. 49.

[884] Of all the great actions of Sesostris, see Marsham. Can. Chron. sec. 14. p. 354.

[885] Περι δε τουτων το μεν αληθες εκθεσθαι μετ' ακριβειας ου ῥαδιον. Diodorus Sicul. L. 1. p. 52.

[886] Sir John Marsham's Can. Chron. sec. 14. p. 354.

Sir Isaac Newton's Chronology, p. 217.

[887] 1 Kings. c. 14. v. 25, 26. 2 Chron. c. 12. v. 2, 3.

[888] Παραλαβῳν δε Σουσακος αμαχητι την πολιν. Joseph. Antiq. l. 8. c. 10.

[889] Sethosis of Josephus contra Apion. l. 1. p. 447.

[890] Euseb. Chron. p. 7. l. 43. Θουλης· μετα δε τουτον Σεσωστρις.

[891] Σεσογχωσις, Αιγυπτου πασης βασιλευς μετα Ωρον της Ισιδος και Οσιριδος παιδα, την μεν
Ασιαν ὁρμησας πασαν κατεστρεψατο, ὁμοιως δε τα πλειστα της Ευρωπης. Θεοπομπος δε εν τριτῳ Σεσωστριν
αυτον καλει.  Schol. in Apollon. Argonaut. l. 4. v. 272.

[892] Δικαιαρχος εν πρωτῳ, μετα τον Ισιδος και Οσιριδος Ωρον, βασιλεα γεγονεναι Σεσογχωσιν
λεγει· ὡστε γενεσθαι απο της Σεσογχωσιδος βασιλειας μεχρι της Νειλου ετη δισχιλια. Schol. in
Apollon. Argonaut. ibid.

[893] Cedrenus. v. 1. p. 20. Osiris, Orus, Thoules, Sesostris.

[894] Succeeded by Φαραω. Chron. Pasch. p. 48.

[895] Joannes Antiochenus has borrowed the same history, and calls this king Sostris. Εβασιλευσεν
Αιγυπτιων πρωτος εκ της φυλης του Χαμ Σωστρις. p. 23. He adds, that Sostris, or Sesostris,
lived in the time of Hermes, Ἑρμης ὁ τρισμεγιστος Αιγυπτιος. He was succeeded by Pharaoh, πρωτος,
the first of the name. Ibid. Herodotus calls him Pheron, and Pherona. l. 2. c. 111.

[896] Πολυ ὑπερτεινει τοις χρονοις την Μινω βασιλειαν ἡ Σεσωστριος. Politic. l. 7. c. 10.

[897] Apollon. Argonaut. l. 4. v. 272.

Περι δε των χρονων, καθ' ὁυς εγενετο Σεσογχωσις, ὁ μεν Απολλωνιος τουτο μονον φησι, πολυς γαρ
αδην απενηνοθεν αιων. Schol. ibid.

Lycophron speaks of Apollo Ζωστηριος, and a promontory Ζωστηριον, εν ᾡ ἱερον Ζοστηριου Απολλωνος.
Schol. ad v. 1278.

[898] Schol. Apollon. l. 4. v. 272. Syncellus joins him with Serapis. p. 91.

[899] Herodotus. l. 2. c. 144.

Ουπω τειρεα παντα κ. τ. λ. Apollon. Argonaut. l. 4. v. 261. See the whole, and Schol. ibid.

[900] Canon. Chronic. Sec. 10. p. 238, 239.

[901] Quis igitur Sesonchosis ille, qui, Menen antevertens annis amplius 5000, inter Semideos
locum habere videatur? Marsham. Canon Chronic. Sec. 10. p. 238.

Sesostris in XII. Africani Dynastiâ (quæ Eusobiani Canonis epocham antevertit) ex Scaligeri
calculis regnavit anno Per. Jul. 1392: quo ratiocinio Sesostris factus est annos 2355 ipso
Sesostre senior. Nam ex S. literis (suo loco) apparebit, Sesostrim expeditionem suscepisse
in Asiam, et Hierosolyma cepisse Anno Per. Jul. 3747. Ibid. p. 239.

[902] Antiq. l. 8. c. 10. p. 449. and 450.

[903] He came merely as a confederate to Jeroboam, in favour of the kingdom of Israel; and
his intention was to ruin Judah: but his cruel purpose was averted by the voluntary submission
both of the king and people; and by the treasures they gave up to him, which were the purchase
of their security.

[904] Hercules is said to have commanded the armies of Osiris. Diodorus. Sicul. l. 1. p. 15.

[905] L. 2. c. 106. Concerning the interpretation of these emblems, see Joan Pierii Hieroglyph.
l. 34. c. 20.

[906] Pausan. l. 1. p. 101. The Statue remains to this day. In like manner it was reported
that Dionusus raised Pillars. Strabo. l. 3. p. 260.

Ενθα τε και Στηλαι Θηβαιγενεος Διονυσου. Dionys. Perieg. v. 623.

Hercules erected the like. All which was done by people styled Dionysians and Herculeans.

[907] Joshua. c. 12. v. 24. Adonibezek had threescore and ten vassal princes at his feet; if
the headman of every village may be so called. Judges. c. 1. v. 7.

[908] Benhadad of Damascus was attended with thirty-two kings, when he invaded Samaria. 1 Kings.
c. 20. v. 1.

[909] The people plowed, and sowed, and had fruits, and pastures, within their walls.

[910] 2 Kings. c. 17. v. 6. and c. 18. v. 11. and v. 34. Isaiah. c. 10. v. 9. c. 37. v. 13.

[911] Diodorus Sicul. l. 2. p. 90.

[912] Diodorus Sicul. l. 1. p. 91.

[913] Ibid. p. 92.

[914] Ἁυτη μεν απεδεξατο χωματα ανα το πεδιον εοντα αξιοθεητα.  Herod. l. 1. c. 184.

Such χωματα were raised by the Amonians in all places where they settled, called ταφοι.

Four such were in Troas. Εισι μεν ουν λοφοι τετταρες, Ολυμπιοι καλουμενοι. Strabo. l. 10. p.
720. There were such also of the Amazons in Mauritania.

[915] She carried back but twenty men, according to Strabo. l. 15. p. 1051.

[916] Chron. Paschale. p. 36. Semiramis was, we find, Rhea: and Rhea was the same as Cybele,
the mother of the Gods: την Ῥεαν, Κιβελην, και Κυβην, και Δινδυμηνην. Strabo. l. 10. p. 721.

[917] Cononis narrationes apud Phot. p. 427.

[918] Herodot. l. 1. c. 184. five ages (γενεαι) before Nitocris the mother of Labynitus, whom
Cyrus conquered.

It may be worth while to observe the different opinions of authors about the time, when Semiramis
is supposed to have lived.

                                                                  Years.
According to Syncellus she lived before Christ                      2177
Petavius makes the term                                             2060
Helvicus                                                            2248
Eusebius                                                            1984
Mr. Jackson                                                         1964
Abp. Usher                                                          1215
Philo Biblius from Sanchoniathon (apud Euseb. Præp. Evang.          1200
l. 1. p. 31.) about
Herodotus about                                                      713

What credit can be given to the history of a person, the time of whose life cannot be ascertained
within 1535 years? for so great is the difference of the extremes in the numbers before given.

See Dionys. Perieg. Schol. in v. 1006.

[919] Diodorus Sicul. l. 1. p. 90.

[920] Herodotus. l. 1. c. 98.

[921] Diodorus Sicul. l. 1. p. 92.

[922] Strabo. l. 15. p. 1007.

[923] Arrian. Hist. Ind. p. 318.

[924] Josephus cont. Ap. l. 1. c. 19. p. 451.

[925] Steph. Byzant. Βαβυλων.

[926] Suidas: Σεμιραμις.

[927] Pliny. l. 7. p. 417.

[928] Semiramis teneros mares castravit omnium prima. Marcellinus. l. 14. c. 6.

[929] Σεμιραμις λαγνος γυνη, και μιαιφονος. Athenag. Legatio. p. 307.

[930] Claudian. in Eutrop. l. 1. v. 339.

[931] This is the reason that we find these kingdoms so often confounded, and the Babylonians
continually spoken of as Assyrians, and sometimes as Persians. Βαβυλων Περσικη πολις. Steph. Byz.

[932] Strabo. l. 16. p. 1071.

[933] These mounds were high altars, upon which they sacrificed to the Sun. By Ctesias they
are supposed to have been the tombs of her lovers, whom she buried alive. Syncellus. p. 64.

[934] They built Babylon itself; which by Eupolemus was said to have been the work of Belus,
and the Giants. Euseb. Præp. l. 9. c. 17. p. 418. Quint. Curt. l. 5. c. 1. Abydenus apud Euseb.
Præp. l. 9. c. 15. Syncellus. p. 44.

[935] Clemens Alexand. Strom. l. 1. p. 364.

[936] He ordered it to be inscribed upon his tomb, ὁτι και Μαγικων γενοιτο διδασκαλος. Porph.
de Abstin. l. 4. p. 399.

[937] By Zoroaster was denoted both the Deity, and also his priest. It was a name conferred
upon many personages.

[938] Zerdûsht, seu, ut semel cum vocali damna scriptum vidi, Zordush't, idem est, qui Græcis
sonat Ζωροαστρης. Hyde Relig. Vet. Persar. c. 24. p. 312.

[939] L. 30. c. 1. p. 523.

[940] Arnobius. l. 1. p. 31.

[941] Clemens. l. 1. p. 399.

[942] Ibid. l. 5. p. 711. Ταδε συνεγραφεν Ζοροαστρης ὁ Αρμενιου το γενος Παμφυλος. κλ. Εν αδῃ
γενομενος εδαην παρα Θεων.

[943] Clemens. l. 1. p. 357. Apuleius Florid. c. 15. p. 795, mentions a Zoroaster after the
reign of Cambyses.

[944] Justin. l. 1. c. 1.

[945] Syncellus. p. 167.

[946] P. 315. It is also taken notice of by Huetius. Sinam recentiores Persæ apud Indos degentes
faciunt (Zoroastrem). D.E. Prop. 4. p. 89.

[947] Sed haud mirum est, si Europæi hoc modo dissentiant de homine peregrino, cum illius populares
orientales etiam de ejus prosapiâ dubitent. At de ejus tempore concordant omnes, unum tantum
constituentes Zoroastrem, eumque in eodem seculo ponentes. p. 315.

[948] Plures autem fuere Zoroastres ut satis constat. Gronovius in Marcellinum. l. 23. p. 288.
Arnobius and Clemens mention more than one. Stanley reckons up six. See Chaldaic Philosophy.

[949] P. 312.

[950] Zoroaster may have been called Zerdusht, and Zertoost: but he was not Zerdusht the son
of Gustasp, who is supposed to have lived during the Persian Monarchy. Said Ebn. Batrick styles
him Zorodasht, but places him in the time of Nahor, the father of Terah, before the days of
Abraham. vol. 1. p. 63.

[951] Diogenes Laert. Proœm. p. 3.

[952] Προ των Τρωικων ετεσι φ' Ζωροαστρης.

[953] Laertius Proœm. p. 3.

[954] Pliny. l. 30. c. 1.

[955] Ζωροαστρις ὁ Μαγος, ὁν πεντακισχιλιοις ετεσιν των Τρωικων γεγονεναι πρεσβυτερον ἱστορουσιν.
Isis et Osir. p. 369.

[956] Zoroastrem hunc sex millibus annorum ante Platonis mortem. Pliny. l. 30. c. 1.

[957] P. 16. and p. 47.

[958] Euseb. Chron. p. 32. Syncellus. p. 167.

[959] Pliny. l. 30. c. 1. p. 524.

[960] Ουκ ειναι μαθειν ποτερον Δαρειου πατηρ, ειτε και αλλος κ λ. He owns, that he could not
find out, when Zoroaster lived. Ὁπηνικα μεν (ὁ Ζωροαστρης) ηχμασε την αρχην, και τους νομους
εθετο, ουκ ενεστι σαφως διαγνωναι. l. 2. p. 62.

[961] Pliny. l. 30. c. 1.

[962] Huetii Demons. Evan. Prop. 4. p. 88. 89.

[963] See Huetius ibid.

[964] Αστρονομιαν πρωτοι Βαβυλωνιοι εφευρον δια Ζωροαστρου, μεθ' ὁν Οστανης·--αφ' ὡν Αιγυπτιοι
και Ἑλληνες εδεξαντο. Anon. apud Suidam. Αστρον.

[965] Primus dicitur magicas artes invenisse. Justin. l. 1. c. 1.

[966] Diog. Laertius Proœm. p. 6.

[967] Την Μαγειαν την Ζωροαστρου του Ωρομαζου. Plato in Alcibiade l. 1. p. 122.

Agathias calls him the son of Oromasdes. l. 2. p. 62.

[968] Pliny. l. 7. c. 16. Risit eodem, quo natus est, die. See Lord's account of the modern
Persees in India. c. 3. It is by them said, that he laughed as soon as he came into the world.

[969] Hermippus apud Plinium. l. 30. c. 1.

[970] Dio. Chrysostom. Oratio Borysthenica. 38. Fol. 448. Euseb. Præp. l. 1. p. 42. See also
Agathias just mentioned.

[971] Θυειν ευκταια και χαριστηρια. Plutarch Is. et Osir. p. 369.

[972] Primus dicitur artes magicas invenisse, et mundi principia, siderumque motus diligentissime
spectâsse. Justin. l. 1. c. 1.

[973] Ζαραδης· διττη γαρ επ' αυτῳ επωνυμια. Agath. l. 2. p. 62.

[974] Ζαρητις, Αρτεμις, Περσαι. Hesych.

Zar-Ades signifies the Lord of light: Zar-Atis and Atish, the Lord of fire.

[975] L. 1. c. 5. p. 16. Of the title Zar-Ovanus, I shall treat hereafter.

[976] Plutarch. Is. et Osiris. p. 369.

[977] See Agathias. l. 2. p. 62.

[978] Plutarch says, that Zoroaster lived five thousand years before the Trojan war. Plutarch
above.

[979] Ὁυτος (ὁ Θεος) εστιν ὁ πρωτος, αφθαρτος, αϊδιος, αγεννητος, αμερης, ανομοιοτατος, ἡνιοχος
παντος καλου, αδωροδοκητος, αγαθων αγαθωτατος, φρονιμων φρονιμωτατος. Εστι δε και πατηρ ευνομιας,
και δικαιοσυνης, αυτοδιδακτος, φυσικος, και τελειος, και σοφος, και ἱερου φυσικου μονος ἑυρετης.
Euseb. P. E. l. 1. p. 42.

[980] Clemens. l. 5. p. 711.

[981] Εν ᾁδη γενομενος εδαην παρα Θεων. Ibid.

[982] Dion. Chrysostom. Oratio Borysthenica. p. 448.

[983] Hyde. p. 312.

[984] Abulfeda. vol. 3. p. 58. See Hyde. p. 312.

[985] Hesych. Μαγον.

[986] Suidas. Μαγοι.

[987] Oratio Borysthen. p. 449.

Μαγοι, ὁι περι το θειον σοφοι. Porph. de Abst. l. 4. p. 398.

Apuleius styles Magia--Diis immortalibus acceptam, colendi eos ac venerandi pergnaram, piam
scilicet et diviniscientem, jam inde a Zoroastre Oromazi, nobili Cælitum antistite. Apol. 1.
p. 447. so it should be read. See Apuleii Florida. c. 15. p. 793. l. 3.

Τους δε Μαγους περι τε θεραπειας θεων διατριβειν κλ. Cleitarchus apud Laertium. Proœm. p. 5.

[988] Diodorus Sic. l. 2. p. 94.

[989] Marcellinus. l. 23. p. 288.

[990] Ibidem. It should be Regis prudentissimi; for Hystaspes was no king.

[991] Rerum Franc. l. 1. He adds, Ab hoc etiam ignem adorare consueti, ipsum divinitus igne
consumptum, ut Deum colunt.

[992] Αστρον ζωον. Clemens Recognit. l. 4. c. 28. p. 546. Greg. Turonensis supra. Some have
interpreted the name αστροθυτης.

[993] Προσαγορευουσι και Συριον. Pr. Evan. l. 1. p. 27. Some would change it to Σειριον: but
they are both of the same purport; and indeed the same term differently expressed. Persæ Συρη
Deum vocant. Lilius Gyrald. Synt. 1. p. 5.

[994] Joshua. c. 15. v. 58.

[995] 1 Maccab. c. 4. v. 61. called Beth-Zur. 2 Chron. c. 11. v. 7. There was an antient city
Sour, in Syria, near Sidon. Judith. c. 2. v. 28. it retains its name at this day.

[996] Βηθσουρ. Antiq. l. 8. c. 10.

The Sun was termed Sehor, by the sons of Ham, rendered Sour, Surius, Σειριος by other nations.

Σειριος, ὁ Ἡλιος. Hesych. Σειριος ονομα αστερος, η ὁ Ἡλιος. Phavorinus.

[997] Βεδσουρ--εστι νυν κωμη Βεθσορων. In Onomastico.

[998] Bethsur est hodie Bethsoron. In locis Hebræis.

[999] Lilius Gyraldus Syntag. 13. p. 402.

[1000] Jovi. O. M. et Deæ Suriæ: Gruter. p. 5. n. 1.

D. M. SYRIÆ sacrum. Patinus. p. 183.

[1001] Apud Brigantas in Northumbriâ. Camden's Britannia. p. 1071.

[1002] See Radicals. p. 42. of Zon.

[1003] Chron. Paschale. p. 43. Servius upon Virg. Æneid. l. 6. v. 14.

[1004] Lycophron. v. 1301.

[1005] Zor and Taur, among the Amonians, had sometimes the same meaning.

[1006] See the engraving of the Mneuis, called by Herodotus the bull of Mycerinus. Herod. l.
2. c. 130. Editio Wesseling. et Gronov.

[1007] See the Plates annexed, which are copied from Kæmpfer's Amœnitates Exoticæ. p. 312.
Le Bruyn. Plate 158. Hyde. Relig. Vet. Pers. Tab. 6. See also plate 2. and plate 4. 5. vol.
1. of this work. They were all originally taken from the noble ruins at Istachar, and Naki
Rustan in Persia.

[1008] Huetii Prop. 4. p. 92.

Lord, in his account of the Persees, says, that Zertoost (so he expresses the name) was conveyed
by an Angel, and saw the Deity in a vision, who appeared like a bright light, or flame. Account
of the Persees. c. 3.

[1009] See Stanley's Chaldaic Philos. p. 7. and p. 11. They were by Damascius styled Ζωνοι
and Αζωνοι: both terms of the same purport, though distinguished by persons who did not know
their purport.

[1010] See Plates annexed.

[1011] Martianus Capella. l. 1. c. 17. Ex cunctis igitur Cœli regionibus advocatis Diis, cæteri,
quos Azonos vocant, ipso commonente Cyllenio, convocantur. Psellus styles them Αζωνοι, and
Ζωναιοι. See Scholia upon the Chaldaic Oracles.

[1012] Arnobius. l. 1. p. 31.

[1013] The Sun was styled both Zon, and Azon; Zan and Azan: so Dercetis was called Atargatis:
Neith of Egypt, Aneith. The same was to be observed in places. Zelis was called Azilis: Saba,
Azaba: Stura, Astura: Puglia, Apuglia: Busus, Ebusus: Damasec, Adamasec. Azon was therefore
the same as Zon; and Azon Nakis may be interpreted Sol Rex, vel Dominus.

[1014] Antholog. l. 3. p. 269.

[1015] See Huetius. Demons. Evang. prop. 4. p. 129.

[1016] In Theolog. Platonis. l. 1. c. 4.

[1017]

  Ουδε τι φαρμακον
  Θρησσαις εν σανισι,
  Τας Ορφειη κατεγραψε γηρυς. Alcestis. v. 968.

[1018] Plato de Repub. l. 2. p. 364.

[1019] Lactant. de F. R. l. 1. p. 105.

[1020] Scholia in Alcestin. v. 968.

Concerning Orpheus, see Diodorus. l. 1. p. 86. Aristoph. Ranæ. v. 1064. Euseb. P. E. lib. 10.
p. 469.

[1021] L. 22. See Natalis comes. l. 7. p. 401.

[1022] L. 9. p. 768.

[1023] V. 41.

[1024] Ibid. v. 99.

[1025] L. 6. p. 505.

[1026] Apollon. Rhod. l. 1. v. 23.

[1027] Scholia. ibid.

[1028] Natalis Comes. l. 7. p. 400.

[1029] De Repub. l. 2. p. 364. Musæus is likewise, by the Scholiast upon Aristophanes, styled
ὑιος Σεληνης. Ranæ. v. 106. Schol.

[1030] Lucian. Astrologus.

[1031] See Lilius Gyraldus de Poetarum Hist. Dialog. 2. p. 73. Ορφευς, φορμικτας αοιδαν πατηρ.
Pindar. Pyth. Ode. 4. p. 253.

[1032] Clementis Cohort. p. 12. Diog. Laert. Proœm. p. 3. Herodotus. l. 2. c. 49. Diodorus.
l. 1. p. 87. l. 3. p. 300. Apollodorus. l. 1. p. 7.

[1033] Linus was the son of Apollo and Calliope. See Suidas, Λινος.

[1034] There were, in like manner, different places where he was supposed to have been buried.

[1035] Proœm. p. 5. Antholog. l. 3. p. 270. In like manner Zoroaster was said to have been
slain by lightning.

[1036] Suidas, Ορφευς.

[1037] Tzetzes makes him live one hundred years before the war of Troy. Hist. 399. Chil. 12.

[1038] Ορφευς.

[1039] Vossius de Arte Poet. c. 13. p. 78.

[1040] Cicero de Nat. Deor. l. 1. c. 38. See also Ælian. Var. Hist. l. 8. c. 6.

[1041] C. 24. p. 84.

[1042] Through the whole of this I am obliged to dissent from a person of great erudition,
the late celebrated Professor I. M. Gesner, of Gottingen: to whom, however, I am greatly indebted,
and particularly for his curious edition of the Orphic poems, published at Leipsick, 1764.

[1043] All the Orphic rites were confessedly from Egypt. Diodorus above. See Lucian's Astrologus.

[1044] Suidas.

[1045] Maximus Tyrius. c. 37. p. 441.

[1046] Scholia upon the Hecuba of Euripides. v. 1267. See also the Alcestis. v. 968.

[1047] Plato de Repub. l. 10. p. 620.

[1048] Diodorus. l. 4. p. 282. The history of Aristæus is nearly a parody of the histories
of Orpheus and Cadmus.

[1049] Ovid. Metamorph. l. 10. v. 81. The like mentioned of the Cadmians. See Æschylus. Ἑπτ'
επι Θηβαις. Proœm. Ælian. Var. Hist. l. 13. c. 5.

[1050] Hecatæus apud Steph. Byzant. Λημνος. The first inhabitants are said to have been Thracians,
styled Σιντιες και Σαπαιοι; the chief cities Myrina, and Hephaistia.

[1051] Philostrati Heroica. p. 677. εν κοιλῃ τη γῃ χρησμωδει.

[1052] Steph Byz. Χαλδαιος.

[1053] Pocock's Travels. vol. 2. p. 159.

[1054] Pausan. l. 6. p. 505.

[1055] See Huetii Demonst. Evang. pr. 4. p. 129.

[1056]

  Στικτους δ' ἡμαξαντο βραχιονας, αμφι μελαινη
    Δευομεναι σποδιη θρηικιον πλοκαμον. Antholog. l. 3. p. 270.

[1057] Servius in Virgil. eclog. 8. See Salmasius upon Solinus. p. 425.

[1058] Περι την πεντηκοστην Ολυμπιαδα. Tatianus. Assyr. p. 275. These were the Orphic hymns,
which were sung by the Lycomedæ at Athens.

[1059] Diodorus Sic. l. 5. p. 322.

[1060]

                  Αιγυπτιου Διονυσου
  Μυστιδος εννυχιας τελετας εδιδαξετο τεχνης. Nonnus. Dionus. l. 4. p. 128.

There will be found in some circumstances a great resemblance between Cadmus and Orpheus.

[1061] Ὁι δε Φοινικες ὁυτοι ὁι συν Καδμῳ απικομενοι--εισηγαγον διδασκαλια ες τους Ἑλληνας,
και δη και γραμματα, ουκ εοντα πριν Ἑλλησιν. Herod. l. 5. c. 58.

Literas--in Greciam intulisse e Phœnice Cadmum, sedecim numero. Pliny. l. 7. c. 56.

[1062] Plutarch. De genio Socratis. vol. 1. p. 578.

[1063] Plutarch. above.

[1064]

  Ὁ μεν δη ἑις των τριποδων επιγραμμα εχει,
  Αμφιτρυων μ' ανεθηκεν εων απο Τηλεβοαων.
  Ταυτα ἡλικιην αν ειη κατα Λαϊον τον Λαβδακου. Herod. l. 5. c. 59.

[1065] Pausanias. l. 8. p. 628.

[1066] He is said to have introduced Διονυσιακην, τελετουργιαν, φαλληφοριαν

[1067] Diodorus Sicul. l. 1. p. 20.

[1068] Cadmum Pherecydes. l. iv. Historiarum ex Agenore et Argiope, Nili fluvii filiâ natum
esse tradidit. Natalis Comes. l. 8. c. 23. p. 481. There are various genealogies of this personage.
Λιβυης της Επαφου και Ποσειδωνος, Αγηνωρ και Βηλος. Αγηνωρος και Αντιοπης της Βηλου Καδμος.
Scholia Euripid. Phœniss. v. 5.

Φερεκυδης δε εν δ ὁυτω φησιν. Αγηνωρ δε ὁ Ποσειδωνος γαμει Δαμνω την Βηλου· των δε γινονται
Φοινιξ και Ισαια, ἡν ισχει Αιγυπτος, και Μελια, ἡν ισχει Δαναος. επειτα ενισχει Αγηνωρ Αργιοπην
την Νειλου του ποταμου· του δε γινεται Καδμος. Apollon. Scholia. l. 3. v. 1185.

[1069] Dionusiac. l. 4. p. 126.

[1070] V. 1206. The Poet calls the Thebans of Bœotia, Ωγυγου σπαρτος λεως.

[1071] Nonnus, l. 4. p. 126.

[1072] Euseb. Chron. p. 27. and Syncellus. p. 152.

[1073] See Pausan. l. 9. p. 734. Euseb. Chron. p. 27.

[1075] Diodorus Sic. l. 5. p. 329.

[1076] Καδμος--προσεσχε την Θηραν. Herod. l. 4. c. 147.

[1077] Conon apud Photium. p. 443. and Scholia Dionysii. v. 517. Ειχε δε ἱερον Ἡρακλεους ἡ
Θασος, ὑπο των αυτων Φοινικων ἱδρυθεν, ὁι πλευσαντες κατα ζητησιν της Ευρωπης την Θασον εκτισαν.

[1078] Diodorus Sic. l. 5. p. 323.

[1079] Nonnus. l. 3. p. 86. Priene in Ionia called Cadmia. Strabo. l. 14. p. 943.

[1080] Lycophron. v. 219.

[1081] Steph. Byzant.

[1082] Nonnus. p. 86.

[1083] Auri metalla et conflaturam Cadmus Phœnix (invenit) ad Pangæum montem. Plin. l. 7. c.
56. Καδμος, και Τηλεφασσα εν Θρακῃ κατωκησαν. Apollodorus. l. 3. p. 130.

[1084] Plin. l. 34. c. 10. Hygin. f. 274.

[1085] Strabo. l. 14. p. 998.

[1086] Ibid. l. 10. p. 685.

[1087] Pausanias. l. 3. p. 245.

[1088] Herodotus. l. 5. c. 61.

[1089] Cedrenus. p. 23.

[1090] Apollodorus. l. 3. p. 143. Pausan. l. 9. p. 719.

[1091] Stephanus Byzantin.

[1092] Thucydid. l. 1. c. 5, 6.

[1093]

                  Παρα Τριτωνιδι λιμνῃ
  Ἁρμονιη παρελεκτο ῥοδωπιδι Καδμος αλητης. Nonnus. l. 13. p. 372.

Diodorus says that he married her in Samothracia. l. 5. p. 323.

[1094] Nonnus. l. 13. p. 372.

[1095] Nonnus. l. 13. p. 370.

[1096] Stephanus Byzant. The Carthaginians are by Silius Italicus styled Cadmeans.

                  Sacri cum perfida pacti
  Gens Cadmea super regno certamina movit. l. 1. v. 5.

[1097] L. 1. c. 9, 10. p. 26. l. 2. c. 4. p. 87.

[1098] Moses Choren. l. 1. c. 9. p. 26. There was a city Cadmea in Cilicia. Καδμεια εκτισθη
και Σιδη εν Κιλικια. Eusebii Chron. p. 30. l. 23.

[1099] Stephanus Byzant. Some think that this is a mistake for Καλχηδων, Chalcedon. But Chalcedon
was not in Armenia, nor in its vicinity.

[1100] Cadmus was coeval with Dardanus. He was in Samothrace before the foundation of Troy.
Diodorus Sicul. l. 5. p. 323. Yet he is said to be contemporary with the Argonauts: Clemens
Alexandrinus Strom. l. 1. p. 382. and posterior to Tiresias, who was in the time of Epigonoi.
Yet Tiresias is said to have prophesied of Cadmus, and his offspring.

                  πολλα δε Καδμῳ
  Χρησει, και μεγαλοις ὑστερα Λαβδακιδαις
                  Callimachi Lavacra Palladis. v. 125.

The son of Cadmus is supposed to have lived at the time of the Trojan war: Lycophron. v. 217.
and Scholia. His daughter Semele is said to have been sixteen hundred years before Herodotus,
by that writer's own account. l. 2 c. 145. She was at this rate prior to the foundation of
Argos; and many centuries before her father; near a thousand years before her brother.

[1101] See Excerpta ex Diodori. l. xl. apud Photium. p. 1152. concerning the different nations
in Egypt, and of their migrations from that country.

[1102] Diana says to her father Jupiter,

  Δος μοι παρθενιην αιωνιον, Αππα, φυλαξαι,
  Και πολυωνυμιην. Callim. H. in Dianam. v. 6.

  Παντας επ' ανθρωπους επειη πολυωνυμος εστιν. Homer. Η. in Apoll. v. 82.

  Πολλη μεν ανθρωποισι κ' ουκ ανωνυμος
  Θεα κεκλημαι Κυπρις. Eurip. Hippolytus. v. 1.

The Egyptian Deities had many titles.

ISIDI. MYRIONYMÆ. Gruter. lxxxiii. n. 11.

[1103] Lycophron. v. 219.

[1104] Scholia. ibid.

[1105] Lycophron. Schol. v. 162.

[1106] Vetus Auctor apud Phavorinum.

[1107] Nonnus. l. 41. p. 1070. Harmonia, by the Scholiast upon Apollonius, is styled Νυμφη
Ναϊς l. 2. v. 992. The marriage of Cadmus and Harmonia is said to be only a parody of the marriage
of Peleus and Thetis. Diodorus. l. 5. p. 323.

[1108] Nonnus. l. 41. p. 1068.

[1109] Oraculum Apollinis Sminthei apud Lactantium, D. I. l. 1. c. 8. p. 32. She is styled
the mother of the Amazons. Steph. Byzant. Ακμονια.

[1110] Nonnus. l. 12. p. 328.

[1111] Ibid.

[1112] Nonnus. l. 12. p. 328.

[1113] Plutarch. Sympos. l. 9. quæst. 13. p. 738.

[1114] Philo apud Euseb. P. E. l. 1. p. 31.

[1115] Judges. c. 3 v. 3. Hermon was particularly worshipped about Libanus, and Antilibanus,
where was the country of the Cadmonites, and Syrian Hivites.

[1116] Lucian de Syriâ Deâ. p. 6.

[1117] Apud Proclum in Timæum. p. 121. See Orpheus. Fragm. p. 403.

[1118] Pyth. Ode 4. p. 237.

[1119] Herodotus. l. 1. c. 173.

[1120] Og, Ogus, Ogenus, Ogugus, Ωγυγης, Ωγενιδαι, all relate to the ocean.

[1121] Ανωτερω δε του Ισμενιου την κρηνην ιδοις αν, ἡντινα Αρεως φασιν ἱεραν ειναι, και δρακοντα
ὑπο του Αρεως επιτεταχθαι φυλακα τῃ πηγῃ· προς ταυτη τῃ κρηνῃ ταφος εστι Καανθου· Μελιας δε
αδελφον, και Ωκεανου παιδα ειναι Καανθον λεγουσιν σταληναι δε ὑπο του πατρος ζητησαντα ἡρπασμενην
την αδελφην κτλ. Pausan. l. 9. p. 730.

[1122] Dicitur Europa fuisse Agenoris Phœnicum Regis, et Meliæ Nymphæ, filia. Natalis Comes.
l. 8. p. 481.

[1123] So Phlegyas was said to have fired the temple of Apollo at Delphi. Euseb. Chron. p.
27. Apud Delphos templum Apollinis incendit Phlegyas. Lutatius Placidus upon Statius. Thebaid.
l. 1. v. 703. But Phlegyas was the Deity of fire, prior to Apollo and his temple. Apollo is
said to have married Coronis the daughter of Phlegyas. Hyginus. f. 161. and by her he had a
son Delphus, from whom Delphi had its name. ibid. See Pausan. l. 10. p. 811. The mythologists
have made Apollo slay Caanthus: but Caanthus, Cunthus, Cunæthus, were all titles of the same
Deity called Chan-Thoth in Egypt.

[1124] Diodorus Siculus. l. 5. p. 331.

[1125] Solinus. l. 17.

[1126] Pausanias. l. 3. p. 245.

[1127] Palæphatus. p. 22.

[1128] Dionysiaca. l. 1. p. 42. l. 1. p. 38.

[1129] Strabo. l. 12. p. 867.

[1130] See Radicals. p. 95.

[1131] Places sacred to the Sun had the name of Achad, and Achor. Nisibis was so called. In
Achor, quæ est Nisibis. Ephraimus Syrus. Et in Achad, quæ nunc dicitur Nisibis. Hieron. See
Geograph. Hebræor. Extera. p. 227. of the learned Michaelis.

The Deity, called Achor, and Achad, seems to be alluded to by Isaiah. c. 65. v. 10. and c.
66. v. 17. Achad well known in Syria: Selden de Diis Syris. c. 6. p. 105.

[1132] Hoffman--Academia. Hornius. Hist. Philos. l. 7.

[1133] Και σφι Ἱρα εστι εν Αθηνῃσι ἱδρυμενα, των ουδεν μετα τοισι λοιποισι Αθηναιοισι, αλλα
τε κεχωρισμενα των αλλων Ἱρων· και δη και Αχαιϊης Δημητρος Ἱρον τε και οργια. Herod. l. 5. c. 61.

[1134] Pausanias. l. 1. p. 71.

[1135] Diog. Laertius. l. 3. § 6. Hornius says, Academia a Cadmo nomen accepit, non ab Ecademo.
l. 7. c. 3. but Ecademus, and Cadmus, were undoubtedly the same person. Harpocration thinks
that it took its name from the person, who first consecrated it. Απο του Καθιερωσαντος Ακαδημου.

Ἡ μεν Ακαδημια απο Ἡρωος τινος Ακαδημου κτισαντος τον τοπον.  Ulpian upon Demosthen. contra
Timocratem.

[1136] Eupolis Comicus: εν Αστροτευτοις apud Laërtium in Vitâ Platonis. l. 3. §. 7.

[1137] Ην γαρ γυμνασιον απο Ακαδημου--περι αυτον δε ησαν ἁι οντως ἱεραι Ελαιαι της Θεου, ἁι
καλουνται Μοριαι. Schol. upon Aristoph. Νεφελαι. v. 1001.

[1138] Ælian. Var. Hist. l. 3. c. 35.

[1139] Το δε χωριον ὁ Κεραμικος το μεν ονομα εχει απο Ἡρωος Κεραμου· Διονυσου τε ειναι και
Αριαδνης. Pausan. l. 1. p. 8.

[1140] Gruter. Inscrip. p. 57. n. 13.

[1141] Pausan. l. 9. p. 779.

[1142] Athenæus. l. 11. p. 480.

[1143] Pliny. l. 5. c. 29.

[1144] Plutarch. Sympos. l. ix. c. 3. p. 738. Alpha likewise signified a leader: but I imagine,
that this was a secondary sense of the word. As Alpha was a leading letter in the alphabet,
it was conferred as a title upon any person who took the lead, and stood foremost upon any
emergency.

[1145] Pausan. l. 9. p. 733.

[1146] Scholia in Aristoph. Βατραχ. v. 1256.

[1147] Herodot. l. 3. c. 28.

[1148]

                  Αιγυπτιου Διονυσου
  Ευια φοιτητηρος Οσιριδος Οργια φαινων. l. 4. p. 126.

[1149]

  Πατριδος αστυ πολισσον ***
  ** βαρυγουνον ἑον ποδ* **. Nonnus l. 4. p. 130*.

[1150] L. 4. p. 128.

[1151] Vossius de Idol. vol.3. Comment. in Rabbi M. Maimonidem de Sacrificiis. p. 76.

[1152] Justin Martyr. 1. Apolog. p. 60.

See Radicals. p. 59.

[1153] Europa was the same as Rhea, and Astarte. Lucian. Dea Syria.

[1154] Hence Nonnus alluding to the Tauric oracle, which Cadmus followed, calls it Assyrian:
by this is meant Babylonian; for Babylonia was in aftertimes esteemed a portion of Assyria.

Ασσυριην δ' αποειπε τεης ἡγητορα πομπης. l. 4. p. 128.

[1155] Eusebius. P. E. l. 1. c. 10. p. 40.

[1156] Appian de Bello Syriac. p. 125.

Stephanus. Oropus.

[1157] Pliny. l. 5. c. 25.

[1158] Isidorus Characenus, apud Georgr. Vet. v. 2.

[1159] Clemens Alexand. l. 5. p. 680.

[1160] See D'Anville's Map of Syria.

[1161] Bochart Geog. Sacra. l. 4. p. 305.

[1162] Judges. c. 3. v. 1, 3.

[1163] Genesis. c. 10. v. 17.

[1164] Joshua. c.9. v. 3. and 7.

[1165] Joshua. c. 15. v. 9. and c. 18. v. 25, 26.

[1166] Eusebii. Chron. p. 27.

[1167] Cadmus is called Καδμων. Steph. Byzant. Ιλλυρια. Berkelius has altered it to Καδμος,
though he confesses, that it is contrary to the evidence of every Edition and MSS.

[1168] Concerning Hivite Colonies, see backward. vol. 2. p. 207.

[1169] Diodorus Sic. l. 5. p. 327. 329.

[1170] Ibid.

[1171] Pausanias. l. 1. p. 83.

There was Oropia as well as Elopia in Eubœa. Steph. Byzant. Oropus in Macedonia. Ibid. Also
in Syria: Orobii Transpadani. Europus near Mount Hæmus. Ptolemy. Europa in Epirus. Ibid.

[1172] Strabo. l. 9. p. 619.

[1173] Suidas. Epaminondas.

[1174] Pausanias. l. 10. p. 863.

[1175] Both Menelaus and Agamemnon were antient titles of the chief Deity. The latter is supposed
to have been the same as Zeus, Æther, and Cœlus. He seems to have been worshipped under the
symbol of a serpent with three heads. Hence Homer has given to his hero of this name a serpent
for a device, both upon his breastplate, and upon his baldrick.

  Της δ' εξ αργυρεος τελαμων ην, αυταρ επ' αυτῳ
  Κυανεος ελελικτο δρακων· κεφαλαι δε ὁι ησαν
  Τρεις αμφιστεφεες, ἑνος αυχενος εκπεφυυιαι. Iliad. Λ. v. 38.

[1176] Pausanias. l. 1. p. 40. Strabo. l. 7. p. 499.

Aornon, and an oracular temple in Thesprotia. Pausanias. l. 9. p. 768.

[1177] Και εν Αιγυπτῳ Ακανθος, Μεμφιδος απεχουσα σταδιους τριακοσιους εικοσι·--εστι δε ἡ Αθαμανιας.
Steph. Byzant.

[1178] Ειτα μετα τουτον εισιν ΟΡΕΙΤΑΙ λεγομενοι. Dicæarchus. Geog. Vet. vol. 2. p. 3. v. 45.

[1179] L. 2. c. 57, 58.

[1180] Κατα Βουθρωτον Φοινικη. Strabo. l. 7. p. 499. It was a place of great note. Polybius.
l. 1. p. 94, 95.

[1181] Cæsar de Bello Civili. l. 3. c. 6.

[1182] Lucan. l. 5. v. 458.

[1183] Κομαρας. Strabo. l. 7. p. 500. The same observable in India-Petra Aornon near Comar.
Arrian. Exped. p. 191. and Indic. p. 319.

[1184] Steph. Byzant.

[1185] Τεκμων πολις Θεσπρωτων. Steph. Byzant. See T. Livius. l. 45. c. 26.

[1186] 2 Samuel. c. 23. v. 8. In our version rendered the Tachmonite, chief among the captains.

[1187] Victoria ad Comum parta. T. Livius. l. 33. c. 36.

[1188] Gurtler. l. 2. p. 597.

[1189] Also a city Conope, by Stephanus placed in Acarnania.

[1190] Antoninus Liberalis. c. 12. p. 70. A city Conopium was also to be found upon the Palus
Mæotis. Steph. Byzant.

[1191] Plin. l. 3. c. 16. The Cadmians of Liguria came last from Attica and Bœotia: hence we
find a river Eridanus in these parts, as well as in the former country. Ποταμοι δε Αθηναιοις
ῥεουσιν Ἑιλισσος τε, και Ηριδανῳ τῳ Κελτικῳ κατα αυτα ονομα εχων. κ. λ.  Pausan. l. 1. p. 45.

[1192] Vol. 1. p. 376.

[1193] Lucan. l. 3. v. 187. The same is mentioned by the poet Dionysius.

  Κεινον δ αυ περι κολπον ιδοις περικυδεα τυμβον,
  Τυμβον, ὁν Ἁρμονιης, Καδμοιο τε φημις ενισπει,
  Κειθε γαρ εις Οφιων σκολιον γενος ηλλαξαντο. v. 390.

[1194] Geog. Vet. vol. 1. p. 9. Here were Πετραι Πλαγται.

[1195] Nonni Dionys. l. 44. p. 1144.

[1196] Nonnus. l. 25. p. 646.

[1197] Λαινεην ποιησε κορυσσομενην Αριαδνην. Nonnus. l. 44. p. 1242.

[1198] Pausan. l. 9. p. 743.

[1199] See Goltius, Vaillant, and Suidas, Ἡρακλης.

[1200] ---- λιθοις χωριον περιεχομενον λογασιν Οφεως καλουσιν ὁι Θηβαιοι κεφαλην. Pausan. l.
9. p. 747.

[1201] Pausan. l. 7. p. 579.

[1202] Τιμας θεων αντι αγαλματων ειχον αργοι λιθοι. Ibid.

[1203] Καδμος Φοινιξ λιθοτομιαν εξευρε, και μεταλλα χρυσου τα περι το Παγκαιον επενοησεν ορος.
Clemens. Strom. l. 1. p. 363. See Natalis Comes of Cadmus.

[1204] Nonnus. Dionys. l. 4. p. 128.

[1205] Clemens. Alex. l. 6. p. 753.

[1206] Styled παιδες Ἡλιου by Diodorus. l. 5. p. 327.

[1207] Diodorus. l. 5. p. 328.

[1208] Herodotus. l. 2. c. 109.

[1209] Η τον Θοραιον, Πτωον, Ωριτην, θεον. Lycophron. v. 352.

[1210] Scholiast. Ibid.

[1211] Strabo. l. 10. p. 683.

[1212] Quæstiones Græcæ. p. 296.

[1213] Strabo. l. 10. p. 685.

[1214] Harpocration.

[1215] Strabo. l. 10. p. 683. Polybius. l. 11. p. 627.

[1216] Εν τῃ Ωριᾳ καλουμενῃ της Ἱστιαιωτιδος. Strabo. l. 10. p. 683.

Oria is literally the land of Ur.

[1217] Strabo. l. 10. p. 683. He mentions a domestic quarrel among some of this family, and
adds, τους Ωριτας--πολεμουμενους ὑπο των Ελλοπιεων, that the Oritæ were attacked by the Ellopians.

[1218] Antoninus Liberalis. c. 25. p. 130.

[1219] Ἡ Ὑρια δε της Ταναγρικης νυν εστι, προτερον δε της Θηβαϊδος, ὁπου ὁ Ὑριος μεμυθευται,
και ἡ του Ωριωνος γενεσις. Strabo. l. 9. p. 620. He is called Ὑριευς by Euphorion. See Homer.
Σ. Scholia. v. 486.

[1220] Εστι και Ωριωνος μνημα εν Ταναγρα. Pausan. l. 9. p. 749.

[1221] Εστι δ' ἡ μεν Ὑρια προς τον Ευριπον. Steph. Byzant.

[1222] Pausanias. l. 2. p. 181.

[1223] Europus is the same as Oropus, and signifies Orus Pytho. Ops, Opis, Opus, Opas, all
signify a serpent. Zeus was the same as Orus and Osiris; hence styled Europus, and Europas;
which Homer has converted to Ευρυοπας, and accordingly styles Jupiter Ευρυοπα Ζευς.

[1224] Pausanias. l. 3. p. 245. ειναι δε αυτους Ὑραιου παιδας.

[1225] L. 2. c. 4. p. 87.

[1226] Nonnus. l. 4. p. 136.

[1227] Ο γαρ δη χρονος εκεινος ηνεγκεν ανθρωπους χειρων μεν εργοις, και ποδω ταχεσι, και σωματων
ῥωμαις, ὡς εοικεν, ὑπερφυους, και ακαματους. Plutarch. in Theseo. p. 3.

[1228] Εστι δε και φυλον τι των Χαλδαιων, και χωρα της Βαβυλωνιας ὑπ' εκεινων οικουμενη, πλησιαζουσα
και τοις Αραψι, και τη κατα Περσας λεγομενη θαλαττῃ. Εστι δε και των Χαλδαιων των Αστρονομικων
γενη πλειω· και γαρ Ορχηνοι τινες προσαγορευονται. Strabo. l. 16. p. 1074.

[1229] Lucian de Astrolog. p. 987.

[1230] Χους, εξ ὁυ Αιθιοπες. Euseb. Chron. p. 11.

[1231] Πολον μεν γαρ, και γνωμονα, και τα δυωδεκα μερεα της ἡμερης παρα Βαβυλωνιων εμαθον Ἑλληνες.
l. 2. c. 109.

[1232] L. 1. p. 32.

[1233] Nonnus. l. 1. p. 38.

[1234] Romæ Inscriptio Vetus.

  ΤΟΙΣ ΝΟΜΙΟΙΣ ΘΕΟΙΣ. Gruter. xcii. n. 4.

[1235]

                  Omne benignum
  Virus odoriferis Arabum quod doctus in arvis
  Aut Amphrysiaco Pastor de gramine carpsi.
                  Statii Sylv. l. 1. Soteria. v. 104.

[1236] Ρεα, ἡνικα Ποσειδωνα ετεκε, τον μεν ες ποιμνην καταθεσθαι, διαιτην ενταυθα ἑξοντα μετα
των αρνων. Pausan. l. 8. p. 6l3.

[1237] Scholia in Lycophron. v. 879.

[1238] Pausanias. l. 4. p. 337. So also says Eustathius. Ὁι δε φασι τον εκει Δια Αμμωνα κληθηναι
απο τινος ὁμωνυμου Ποιμενος, προκαταρξαντος της του Ἱερου ἱδρυσεως. Schol. in Dionys. v. 211.

[1239] Apollonius Rhodius. l. 2. v. 515.

The same Poet of the nymph Cyrene.

  Ενθα δ' Αρισταιον Φοιβῳ τεκεν, ὁν καλεουσιν
  Αγρεα, και Νομιον πολυληϊοι Ἁιμονιηεις l. 2. v. 568.

[1240] Syncellus. p. 156.

[1241] Homer. Odyss. l. 1. Pastor Polyphemus of Virgil.

[1242] Macrobii Saturn. l. 1. c. 21. p. 210.

[1243] Hyginus. Fab. 68. Euri, and Eueris Filius. He is by Theocritus styled Μαντις Ευηρειδης.
Idyl. 24. v. 70.

[1244] Nonni Dionys. l. 40. p. 1038.

[1245] Herodotus. l. 2. c. 128.

[1246] Cleanthes περι Θρομαχιας, quoted by Plutarch de Flum. Φασις.

[1247] Plutarch de Flum. Ισμηνος.

[1248] Herodotus. l. 5. c. 61.

[1249] Plut. de Fluv. Inachus.

[1250] Virgil. Æneid. l. 7. v. 678.

[1251] T. Livius. l. 1. c. 7.

[1252] Virgil. l. 8. v. 198.

[1253] Ἡ Ποιμανδρις εστιν ἡ αυτη τῃ Ταναγρικῃ. Strabo. l. 9. p. 619.

[1254] Ποιμανδρια πολις Βοιωτιας, ἡ και Ταναγρα καλουμενη. Schol. Lycoph. v. 326. Ποιμανδρια
is by some interpreted mulctrale: but that was not the original purport of the word.

[1255] Hermes Trismegistus, sive Ποιμανδρης.

[1256] Syncellus. p. 126. Eusebius. Chron. p. 24.

[1257] By which are meant the Syrians, Arabians, and Armenians. Το μεν γαρ των Αρμενιων εθνος,
και το των Συρων, και των Αραβων πολλην ὁμοφυλιαν εμφαινει κατα τε την διαλεκτον, και τους
βιους, και τους των σωματων χαρακτηρας κτλ.--εικαζειν δε δει και τας των εθνων τουτων κατονομασιας
εμφερεις αλληλαις ειναι. Strabo. l. 1. p. 70.

[1258] Zonaras. l. 1. p. 21.

[1259] Tacitus. Hist. l. 5. c. 2.

[1260] It should perhaps be proximas urbes. The same history is alluded to by Eusebius. Επι
Απιδος του Φορωνεως μοιρα του Αιγυπτιων στρατου εξεπεσεν Αιγυπτου, ὁι εν Παλαιστινη καλουμενη
Συριᾳ ου ποῤῥω Αραβιας ωκησαι. Euseb. Chron. p. 26.

[1261] Lucian de Deâ Syriâ.

[1262] They were in each country styled the mourning for Thamas, and Thamuz.

[1263] Εχουσι δε και αλλο Φοινικες Ἱρον, ουκ Ασσυριον, αλλα Αιγυπτιον, το εξ Ἡλιουπολιος ες
την Φοινικην απικετο. κλ. Lucian de Deâ Syriâ.

[1264] In Bœtica they were called Oritani. Strabo. l. 8. p. 204.

There were Oritæ in Epirus. Dicæarchus status Græciæ. Μετα τουτον εισιν Ορειται. p. 4. v. 45.

Oritæ in Persis. Arrian. l. 4. c. 26. also in Gedrosia. See Auctor Peripli Maris Erythræi.

Προς τον δυσιν του Ινδου ποταμου Οριται. Schol. Dionys. v. 1095. Ωριται εθνος Ινδικον. Steph.
Byzant. There were Oritæ in Persis, hard by the Cutha of Josephus. Ant. l. 9. c. 4. and c. 15.

[1265] Clemens. Alexand. Strom. l. 1. p. 382.

[1266] Diodorus Siculus. l. 1. p. 24.

[1267] Ex Diodori. l. xl. apud Photium. p. 1152.

[1268] A similar account is given by the same author. l. 1. p. 24.

[1269] Zonaras. v. 1. p. 22. Also Syncellus. p. 102.

[1270] He is very full upon this head. Contra Apion. l. 1. p. 443. and 444.

[1271] Plato. Critias. vol. 3. p. 110.

[1272] Legatio. p. 279.

[1273] Και απο των ονοματων δε ενιων το βαρβαρον εμφαινεται. Κεκροψ, και Κοδρος, και Αικλος
(read Αρκλος) και Κοθος. κ. λ. l. 7. p. 495.

       *       *       *       *       *

Corrections made to printed original.

(Cahen, near ref. 93) ανθερεωνες: 'ανθεριωνες' in original

(ibid., near ref. 99) instances: 'intances' in original

(Chus, near ref. 110) πολυχρυσος: 'πολοχρυσος' in original

(ibid., near ref. 145) represented: 'respresented' in original

(Canaan, near ref. 193) Aristotle: 'Asistotle' in original

(Temple Science, near ref. 210) γεωγραφικον: 'γεογραφικον' in original

(ibid., near ref. 228) περιαυγους: 'εριαυγους' in original

(Tar, near ref. 226) τοι γε: no space in original

(Tit, near ref. 316) worshipped a serpent: 'woshipped a sepent' in original

(Cuclopes, near ref. 607) Ακμονιδαν: 'Λκμονιδαν' in original

(Temple Rites, near ref. 647) κατασχισθεντα: 'κατασχιθεντα' in original

(ibid., near ref. 660) την (ανθρωπον): 'τηη' in original

(Hippa, near ref. 694) χρεμετισμος: 'χρεματισμος' in original

(Damater, near ref. 763) επεκερτομει: 'επεκερατομει' in original

(Campe, near ref. 773) taken: duplicated over page end in original

(Myrina, near ref. 823) αιπεια: 'αιπυια' in original

(Ninus, near ref. 912) period (after 'all to be crucified'): comma in original

(ibid., near ref. 916) title: 'titled' in original

(Zoroaster, near ref. 1005) analogous: 'analagous' in original

(Cadmus, near ref. 1142) country: 'county' in original

(ibid., near ref. 1237) μαθηματικος: 'μαθεματεκος' in original

(ibid., near ref. 1264) Phenicia,: repeated word (on 2 lines) in original

(Note 1.) soliti suos: 'solitei sos' in original

(Note 50.) θαπτεσθαι: 'θαππεσθαι' in original

(Note 226.) corde: 'codre' in original

(Note 229.) εϋκλωστοιο: dialytika on ε in original

(Note 401.) κᾳ 'γω: no space in original

(Note 534.) Theologico: 'Tehologico' in original

(Note 538.) δυναστευσαι: 'δυναστυσαι' in original

(Note 552.) ερημ': apostrophe printed as comma in original

(Note 752.) της (Αλοπης): 'τκς' in original

(Note 781.) sollerti: 'solerti' in original

(Note 803.) κατασχεσιν: 'κατασχσειν' in original

(Note 854.) (Αργειου) Ἡρακλεους: 'Ἡηρακλεους' in original

(Note 1136.) l. 3. §. 7.: 'l. §. c. 7.' in original, cf. previous note

(Note 1175.) κεφαλαι: 'κεφελαι' in original

(Note 1177.) εικοσι: only 'ικοσι' legible in scan (at start of line)

