 How I wish that all of you who sent in your half dimes for them, could
look in upon that nailer's family circle when they open the letter and see two bright gold
sovereigns for the little ones. The baby will crow a little at that, and the mother, who dropped
her head and wiped her eyes, as Josiah read to her out of the Citizen about that little girl
in Newton, who went without milk so long that he might have a suit of clothes for Christmas,
will drop her head again, but she will cry for joy, and there will be hopping up and down for
the space of fifteen minutes, I reckon, and Josiah's black eyes will twinkle with the gladness
in his heart; and the neighbor's children will know it all before the news is two hours old,
and then you will have another letter from Josiah; and may be his oldest sister will try her
hand at a few marks for you.

And now, before I dismiss the School, I want to ask each boy and girl on these benches, who
gave a half dime for Josiah's education, if the brightest silver dollar ever coined would buy
of either of them that half dime? Would you sell for a dollar your share in his education and
happiness, in the joy, hope and expectations which your gifts have brought to life in that
poor nailer's cottage? There are some beautiful verses in the Bible which I hope you will write
in your copy-books, and remember all your days. "He that giveth to the poor lendeth to the
Lord, and he will repay." And have you not been paid fifty times over for what you gave Josiah?
"It is more blessed to give than to receive," said One who gave the greatest gift that God
could give to mail. Have you not found it so in regard to your gifts to Josiah? You see how
happy you have made him; how blessed it has been to him to receive your presents. But how blessed
and happy you must be to make him all this joy and gladness! Ask little Phebe Alcott there,
if she has not got her pay ten times over for going without milk so many days that he might
have some warm clothes for winter. Ask little Sarah Brown if she has not been repaid well for
carrying around her subscription paper for him so many frosty mornings in Worcester. And now,
good-night. It has been a long, long time since I met you in the School-room. Many new faces
have been added to our circle. Some that I used to see here are gone. But still, the benches
are full, and I hope no boy or girl will vacate their seat for the next year.

LITTLE JOHNNY.

BY J.B. SYME.

       *       *       *       *       *

It was our fortune to be born in the country--far away, at the foot of one of the blue hills
of Scotland--in a quaint old fashioned little house--in a quiet little village that seemed
shrunken and grey, and grim, and decrepid with age. The drooping ashes, the solemn oaks, and
the shady plane-trees, spread their long arms tenderly over the straw-thatched roofs of this
lowly hamlet, as if to defend it from the burning sun and reckless storms; and the Ayrshire
rose and ivy crept up and clung to its damp and crumbling walls. In the broken parts of the
gables, and in the crevices of the ruined chimneys, the dew-fed wall-flower grew in poverty
and beauty, and shook the incense from its waving flowers into the bosom of summer. The bearded
moss clustered like a thousand little brown pin-cushions upon the old thatch, and older stones;
and sometimes the polyanthus and primrose, planted beside it by some child who loved to look
at flowers, would close their eyes and lay their dewy checks upon the moss's breast at evening.

The only links that connected the simple, primitive people of this little hamlet, with the
purely ideal was their flowers. They did not know about the participle mysteries that science
has discovered in those beautiful children of God, the flowers. They could not, like the poor
pariahs to whom the proud Hindoos of India will not speak, converse poetic stories with those
daughters of spring and summer; yet, they saw something in their flowers beyond the visible
and lowly circumstances of their own every-day life--something that lifted their eyes from
the ground to heaven. The marigold, that star of the earth, with its bright, yellow petals,
reminded them of the golden stars of heaven; the daisy, with its pure white blossom, bathed
in the dew and sunlight of smiling morning, recalled to their minds the stories they had heard
in their childhood about the diadems of fairies; and the blue forget-me-nots seemed to twinkle
like the blue eyes of the angels. And when winter came, and the fair summer flowers faded away;
moralizings on life, on death and eternity, came sighing in their expiring exhalations, over
that simple people's souls. It was from being taught, in this way, to love the flowers of the
country, that I Cultivated sympathies which pre-disposed me to love city flowers.

When I was first transplanted from my own green, native valley, into the heart of a great city;
when my early home was levelled to the ground, and when its flowers were withered, never to
bloom any more, I felt as if I had come amongst grim walls to wither too, and had been uprooted
from the light and life of my youth that I might die. The birds that wailed around me in their
prison cages, seemed to weep for the hawthorn and alder trees that were growing beside the
ruins of my old home, and I wept with them, for I, too, was sighing for nature.

As I became familiar with the lanes, and streets, and byways of the city, I began at last to
find, that there were flowers, too--flowers beautiful as the roses in the gardens of paradise,
and bright as the smile of Abel when he worshipped his God. Day by day, in my little walks,
I passed a large square encompassed by a low wall and lofty iron railing, in which several
hundreds of boys and girls with rosy cheeks and light hearts, sported, and sang like fairies
holding festival. Here were faces lovelier than roses; lips brighter than ripe cherries, and
eyes purer than dew; from the day I first beheld those flowers of the city, I ceased to sigh
for the country and its flowers. I used to stand and gaze at them with grateful delight, and
live over again my own childhood's hours, as I watched their childhood's sports. By and by
I knew and became known to several of those children; I gave them kind words, and they returned
me beautiful smiles.

There was amongst that host of children one little boy whose face was very fair; whose eyes
were very bright, and whose little feet made merry music on the smooth pavement. Girls have
a strong intuitive love of the beautiful, and Johnny with his liquid eyes, and dimpled cheeks,
and floating ringlets of gold was the favorite of all the girls at school, often wished that
I had roses to place upon his brow, and the waters of paradise to sprinkle on his cheeks, that
I might preserve their bloom forever. But, alas! city flowers droop and fade and die; and though
tears fall, like Hermon's dews, upon the cold green earth where they are sleeping, it will
not renew their blooming, nor bring them back from the grave.

I looked amongst the tiny throng one day, and Johnny was not there--I came again and again,
and still he was not there. "He has gone away," said I, "to gladden his grandmother's bosom--his
grandmother, who doubtless lives far away in some little cottage in the country. He will soon
come back again."

And he did come back again, for on a lovely summer day, when the birds and butterflies and
children were sporting in the sun, I saw him seated in a little chair, amidst his young companions.

"Shall I soon get well again, to play with them?" said he, lifting his pale face and sad eyes
towards his mother's.

"Yes," said his mother, with a sad smile and a deep sigh, "you will soon get well again, Johnny."

Alas no, fond mother; the bloom has gone from his cheek forever, the beauty from his form.
Henceforth, if he lives, the thoughtless will laugh at him, as he moves painfully about the
streets--the wicked will mock him. In thy heart only, and in the bowers of paradise, shall
he now, henceforth and forever live and bloom. Slowly and sadly I saw his pale cheek grow paler,
and the lustre fade away from his eyes.

Time wore away, and this stricken flower of the city faded away with it. He could no longer
sit and look upon his former playmates; the airs of Autumn were too cool at last for his sensitive,
thin, pale, transparent cheek.

I was walking one day, in a pensive mood, along a crowded thoroughfare, where active men jostled
each other in the pursuit of business. There was life and hope in their eyes, and vigor in
their limbs. It is not on the streets that one is likely to meet the blighted flowers of the
city--the drooping and the dying do not wither away there. Within the chambers of silent and
sorrowful homes they breathe out their lives, and fade away.

As I walked along, gazing at the tall grim buildings and dark alleys, that were so full of
old, historical memories, I was suddenly recalled from a reverie, by a feeble cry; and turning
quickly round I saw, in the arms of a robust and rosy lad, the wasted, corpse-like form of
my little friend. I do not know how I recognized him. It was by an intuition of the soul, for
not a feature that his countenance bore in his healthful days, was visible.

I took his trembling little hand in mine, and shaking my head to clear the moisture from my
eyes, said I, attempting to smile--"How are you?"

"Quite well," said the dying infant, and he, too, smiled.

I knew that it was an angel that lighted up that smile--that it was the immortal spirit, rising
in sublime resignation above the vanity of health and earthly beauty, that beamed in his blighted
face.

"I cannot walk now," said Johnny, in a soft, low voice, that his panting chest could scarcely
articulate.

I could not speak--and, continued the boy, with a little sigh, and in tremulous tones--"My
mother is dead."--But thy Father, from whom the purest and holiest things and thoughts have
their being--the Source of all light and life and beauty and goodness, lives to thee Johnny,
said I in my heart. Poor little blighted city flower, thought I, as I looked at him through
my tears--immortal flower of humanity--purer and lovelier now in thy pain and resignation than
when thy cheeks were rosy, and thy laugh was like a song-bird's music; thou shall soon be transplanted
to a land where no sorrows, sighs, and pains are known; thy little feeble frame will moulder
away beneath the daisy and the weeping snow-drop, but thy purified soul shall bloom in everlasting
glory, in the bosom of God.

Oh! you who are strong and full of life, speak gently to the fragile, drooping, blighted flowers
of cities, and do not scorn them. They once were beautiful; and now they only linger sadly
here, with no mother to cherish them. Kind words and gentle looks are everlasting sunshine
to city flowers.

Around the throne of God are white-winged cherubim, whose countenances are purer than transparent
snow, and whose voices are sweeter than that of the angel Azazil, who leads the choir of the
daughters of Paradise. Those are the souls of little children, who have suffered in their bodies
and in their affections, and who have yet complained not. The soul of little Johnny blooms
brightly amongst those celestial spirits--a flower of heaven.

SEVENTH VOLUME OF

BURRITT'S CHRISTIAN CITIZEN.

ELIHU BURRITT, Proprietor.

EDITORS,

ELIHU BURRITT, THOMAS DREW, Jr.

REGULAR FOREIGN CORRESPONDENTS,

Edmund Fry, London, Ernest Lacan, Paris.

THE SEVENTH VOLUME of this large and popular Family Newspaper, commenced Jan. 1st. 1850. Devoted to

Christianity and Reform, Literature, Education, Science, Art, Agriculture and News.

PUBLISHED EVERY SATURDAY MORNING, AT

WORCESTER, MASS.

TERMS.--ONE DOLLAR AND FIFTY CENTS, per Annum, INVARIABLY in Advance.

       *       *       *       *       *

The Citizen is the organ of no party or sect, but expresses freely the sentiments of its editors
upon all the great reformatory questions of the day. Sympathising with all the great enterprises
of Christian benevolence, it especially speaks against all war in the spirit of peace. It speaks
for the slave as a brother bound; and for the abolition of all institutions and customs which
do not respect the image of God and a human brother, in every man, or whatever clime, color
or condition of humanity.

All orders should be POST PAID and directed to either of the Editors, at WORCESTER, MASS.

       *       *       *       *       *

BURRITT'S MISCELLANEOUS WRITINGS,

The Second Edition of this collection is just published, with additions and a

PORTRAIT.

The rapid sale of the first edition of the collected writings of Mr. Burritt, has rendered
necessary the second edition, to which we have added TWELVE pages of matter, and an Electrotype
portrait of the author.

Price, 25 cents a single copy. A liberal discount made to those who buy quantities to sell again.

All orders should be addressed post paid to

THOMAS DREW, Jr., Worcester, Mass.

ILLUSTRATIONS OF

THE LAW OF KINDNESS.

       *       *       *       *       *

Under this title, we propose to publish a series of little sweet-breathing books, filled with
instructive stories and sentiments, illustrating the overcoming power of kindness and love,
and the beauty of peace. They will be written by persons of highly cultivated hearts and minds
in England and America, and be adapted and designed for circulation among children in Sunday
Schools, Common Schools, and other institutions for the education of the young, and in family
circles generally. We trust that their benevolent teachings, and the Christian spirit which
pervades them, will commend them to Sunday School Teachers, and all others engaged in the moral
education of children, as appropriate gifts to the young.

ELIHU BURRITT.