They returned to Suez on a splendid French steamer belonging to the "Messageries Maritimes
Company," which was full of travelers from the islands Réunion, Mauritius, Madagascar, and
Zanzibar. When the news spread that on board were children who had escaped from dervish slavery
Stas became an object of general curiosity and universal praise. But the happy quartette preferred
to lock themselves in a great cabin which the captain gave up to them and spend there the cooler
hours in narrations. Nell, too, took part in them, chirping like a little bird, and at the
same time, to the amusement of all, beginning each sentence with an "and." So, sitting on her
father's knees and raising to him her beautiful little eyes, she spoke in this manner: "And,
papa, they kidnapped us and conveyed us on camels--and Gebhr struck me--and Stas defended me--and
we came to Khartûm and there people died of hunger--and Stas worked to get dates for me--and
we were at the Mahdi--and Stas did not want to change his religion--and the Mahdi sent us to
Fashoda--and afterwards Stas killed a lion and all of them--and we lived in a big tree, which
is called Cracow--and the King was with us--and I had a fever and Stas cured me--and killed
a wobo and conquered the Samburus--and was always very kind to me--papa!"

In the same fashion she spoke about Kali, Mea, the King, Saba, Mount Linde, the kites, and
the final journey until their meeting with the captain's and doctor's caravan. Mr. Rawlinson,
listening to this chirping, checked his tears with difficulty, while Pan Tarkowski could not
contain himself from pride and happiness, for even from these childish narratives it appeared
that were it not for the bravery and energy of the boy the little one ran the risk of perishing,
not once but a thousand times, without help.

Stas gave a more specific and complete account of everything. And it happened that during the
narration of the journey from Fashoda to the waterfall, a great load fell off his heart, for
when he told how he shot Gebhr and his companions, he hemmed and hawed and began to look uneasily
at his father, while Pan Tarkowski knitted his brow, pondered a while, and after that gravely said:

"Listen, Stas! It is not allowable for any one to be lavish with death, but if anybody menaces
your fatherland or puts in jeopardy the life of your mother, sister, or the life of a woman
entrusted to your care, shoot him in the head and ask no questions. Do not reproach yourself
on that account."

Mr. Rawlinson immediately after the return to Port Said took Nell to England, where he settled
permanently. Stas was sent by his father to a school in Alexandria, where his deeds and adventures
were less known. The children corresponded almost daily, but circumstances combined to prevent
their seeing each other for ten years. The boy, after finishing school in Egypt, entered the
Polytechnic in Zurich, after which, having secured his diploma, he was engaged in the construction
of tunnels in Switzerland.

When ten years had passed, Pan Tarkowski retired from the service of the Canal Company, and
he and Stas visited their friends in England. Mr. Rawlinson invited them to his home, near
Hampton Court, for the whole summer. Nell had finished her eighteenth year and had grown into
a maiden as charming as a flower, and Stas became convinced, at the expense of his own peace,
that a man, who had completed twenty-four years, could nevertheless still think of ladies.
He even thought of beautiful and dear Nell so incessantly that finally he decided to run away
to whatever place his eyes would lead him.

But while in that state of mind, Mr. Rawlinson one day placed both of his palms on Stas' shoulders
and, looking him straight in the eyes, said with an angelic benignity:

"Tell me, Stas, whether there is a man in the world to whom I could give my treasure and darling
with greater confidence?"

The young couple married and remained in England until Mr. Rawlinson's death and a year later
they started upon a long journey. As they promised to themselves to visit those localities
in which they had spent their earliest years and afterwards at one time had wandered as children,
they proceeded first of all to Egypt. The state of the Mahdi and Abdullahi had already been
overthrown, and after its fall England, as Captain Glenn stated, "succeeded." A railroad was
built from Cairo to Khartûm. The "sudds," or the Nilotic obstructions of growing water plants,
were cleared so that the young couple could in a comfortable steamer reach not only Fashoda
but the great Lake Victoria Nyanza. From the city of Florence lying on the shores of that lake
they proceeded by a railroad to Mombasa. Captain Glenn and Doctor Clary had already removed
to Natal, but in Mombasa there lived under the solicitous care of the local English authorities
the King. The giant at once recognized his former master and mistress and particularly greeted
Nell with such joyful trumpeting that the mangrove trees in the neighborhood shook as if they
were swept by the wind. He recognized also old Saba, who outlived almost two-fold the years
usually allotted to a dog and, though a trifle blind, accompanied Stas and Nell everywhere.

Here also Stas learned the Kali enjoyed good health; that under the English Protectorate he
ruled the entire region south of Lake Rudolf, and that he had introduced missionaries who were
spreading Christianity among the local savage tribes.

After this journey the young couple returned to Europe and, with Stas' venerable father, settled
permanently in Poland.

THE END

Typographical error silently corrected:

Part II

Chapter 1: =Stas rose at once= replaced by =Saba rose at once=

Chapter 4: =is n't he wise= replaced by =isn't he wise=

Chapter 5: =is n't it true= replaced by =isn't it true=