AMERICAN MEN OF MIND

BY

BURTON E. STEVENSON

AUTHOR OF "A GUIDE TO BIOGRAPHY--MEN OF ACTION," "A SOLDIER OF VIRGINIA," ETC.; COMPILER OF
"DAYS AND DEEDS--POETRY," "DAYS AND DEEDS--PROSE," ETC.

GARDEN CITY NEW YORK

DOUBLEDAY, PAGE & COMPANY

1913

       *       *       *       *       *

COPYRIGHT, 1910, BY

THE BAKER & TAYLOR COMPANY

       *       *       *       *       *

Published, June, 1910

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

CONTENTS

  CHAPTER                                        PAGE

     I.--"MEN OF MIND"                             11

    II.--WRITERS OF PROSE                          19

         Summary to Chapter II                     49

   III.--WRITERS OF VERSE                          54

         Summary to Chapter III                    80

    IV.--PAINTERS                                  85

         Summary to Chapter IV                    120

     V.--SCULPTORS                                125

         Summary to Chapter V                     154

    VI.--THE STAGE                                157

         Summary to Chapter VI                    182

   VII.--SCIENTISTS AND EDUCATORS                 186

         Summary to Chapter VII                   224

  VIII.--PHILANTHROPISTS AND REFORMERS            231

         Summary to Chapter VIII                  286

    IX.--MEN OF AFFAIRS                           291

         Summary to Chapter IX                    324

     X.--INVENTORS                                327

         Summary to Chapter X                     371

         INDEX                                    375

         *       *       *       *       *

  LIST OF ILLUSTRATIONS

                          FACING
                            PAGE

  Longfellow       Frontispiece

  Hawthorne                   28

  Emerson                     44

  Greeley                     48

  Stuart                      92

  Booth                      158

  Agassiz                    190

  Eliot                      216

  Girard                     232

  Beecher                    252

  Wanamaker                  314

  Morse                      336

       *       *       *       *       *

CHAPTER I

"MEN OF MIND"

In the companion volume of this series, "Men of Action," the attempt was made to give the essential
facts of American history by sketching in broad outline the men who made that history--the
discoverers, pioneers, presidents, statesmen, soldiers, and sailors--and describing the part
which each of them played.

It was almost like watching a great building grow under the hands of the workmen, this one
adding a stone and that one adding another; but there was one great difference. For a building,
the plans are made carefully beforehand, worked out to the smallest detail, and followed to
the letter, so that every stone goes exactly where it belongs, and the work of all the men
fits together into a complete and perfect whole. But when America was started, no one had more
than the vaguest idea of what the finished result was to be; indeed, many questioned whether
any enduring structure could be reared on a foundation such as ours. So there was much useless
labor, one workman tearing down what another had built, and only a few of them working with
any clear vision of the future.

The convention which adopted the Constitution of the United States may fairly be said to have
furnished the first plan, and George Washington was the master-builder who laid the foundations
in accordance with it. He did more than that, for the plan was only a mere outline; so Washington
added such details as he found necessary, taking care always that they accorded with the plan
of the founders. He lived long enough to see the building complete in all essential details,
and to be assured that the foundation was a firm one and that the structure, which is called
a Republic, would endure.

All that has been done since his time has been to build on an addition now and then, as need
arose, and to change the ornamentation to suit the taste of the day. At one time, it seemed
that the whole structure might be rent asunder and topple into ruins; but again there came
a master-builder named Abraham Lincoln, and with the aid of a million devoted workmen who rallied
to his call, he saved it.

There have been men, and there are men to-day, who would attack the foundation were they permitted;
but never yet have they got within effective striking distance. Others there are who have marred
the simple and classic beauty of the building with strange excrescences. But these are only
temporary, and the hand of time will sweep them all away. For the work of tearing down and
building up is going forward to-day just as it has always done; and the changes are sometimes
for the better and sometimes for the worse; but, on the whole, the building grows more stately
and more beautiful as the generations pass.

It was the work of the principal laborers on this mighty edifice which we attempted to judge
in "Men of Action," and this was a comparatively easy task, because the work stands out concretely
for all to see, and, as far as essentials go, at least, we are all agreed as to what is good
work and what is bad. But the task which is attempted in the present volume is a much more
difficult one, for here we are called upon to judge not deeds but thoughts--thoughts, that
is, as translated into a novel, or a poem, or a statue, or a painting, or a theory of the universe.

Nobody has ever yet been able to devise a universal scale by which thoughts may be measured,
nor any acid test to distinguish gold from dross in art and literature. So each person has
to devise a scale of his own and do his measuring for himself; he has to apply to the things
he sees and reads the acid test of his own intellect. And however imperfect this measuring
and testing may be, it is the only sort which has any value for that particular person. In
other words, unless you yourself find a poem or a painting great, it isn't great for you, however
critics may extol it. So all the books about art and literature and music are of value only
as they improve the scale and perfect the acid test of the individual, so that the former measures
more and more correctly, and the latter bites more and more surely through the glittering veneer
which seeks to disguise the dross beneath.

It follows from all this that, since there are nearly as many scales as there are individuals,
very few of them will agree exactly. Time, however, has a wonderful way of testing thoughts,
of preserving those that are worthy, and of discarding those that are unworthy. Just how this
is done nobody has ever been able to explain; but the fact remains that, somehow, a really
great poem or painting or statue or theory lives on from age to age, long after the other products
of its time have been forgotten. And if it is really great, the older it grows, the greater
it seems. Shakespeare, to his contemporaries, was merely an actor and playwright like any one
of a score of others; but, with the passing of years, he has become the most wonderful figure
in the world's literature. Rembrandt could scarcely make a living with his brush, industriously
as he used it, and passed his days in misery, haunted by his creditors and neglected by the
public; to-day we recognize in him one of the greatest artists who ever lived. Such instances
are common enough, for genius often goes unrecognized until its possessor is dead; just as
many men are hailed as geniuses by their contemporaries, and promptly forgotten by the succeeding
generation. The touchstone of time infallibly separates the false and the true.

Unfortunately, to American literature and art no such test can be applied, for they are less
than a century old--scarcely out of swaddling clothes. The greater portion of the product of
our early years has long since been forgotten; but whether any of that which remains is really
immortal will take another century or two to determine. So the only tests we can apply at present
are those of taste and judgment, and these are anything but infallible.

Especially is this true of literature. Somebody announced, not long ago, that "the foremost
poet of a nation is that poet most widely read and truly loved by it," and added that, in this
respect, Longfellow was easily first in America. No doubt many people will agree with this
dictum; and, indeed, the test of popularity is difficult to disregard. But it is not at all
a true test, as we can see easily enough if we attempt to apply it to art, or to music, or
to public affairs. Popularity is no more a test of genius in a poet than in a statesman, and
when we remember how far astray the popular will has sometimes led us in regard to politics,
we may be inclined to regard with suspicion its judgments in regard to literature.

The test of merit in literature is not so much wide appeal as intelligent appeal; the literature
which satisfies the taste and judgment of cultured people is pretty certain to rank higher
than that which is current among the uncultured. And so with art. Consequently, for want of
something better, the general verdict of cultured people upon our literature and art has been
followed in these pages.

Two or three other classes of achievers have been grouped, for convenience, in this volume--scientists
and educators, philanthropists and reformers, men of affairs, actors and inventors--and it
may be truly argued concerning some of them that they were more "men of action," and less "men
of mind" than many who were included in the former volume. But all distinctions and divisions
and classifications are more or less arbitrary; and there is no intention, in this one, to
intimate that the "men of action" were not also "men of mind," or vice versa. The division
has been made simply for convenience.

These thumb-nail sketches are in no sense the result of original research. The material needed
has been gathered from such sources as are available in any well-equipped public library. An
attempt has been made, however, to color the narrative with human interest, and to give it
consecutiveness, though this has sometimes been very hard to do. But, even at the best, this
is only a first book in the study of American art and letters, and is designed to serve only
as a stepping-stone to more elaborate and comprehensive ones.

There are several short histories of American literature which will prove profitable and pleasant
reading. Mr. W. P. Trent's is written with a refreshing humor and insight. The "American Men
of Letters" series gives carefully written biographies of about twenty-five of our most famous
authors--all that anyone need know about in detail. There is a great mass of other material
on the shelves of every public library, which will take one as far as one may care to go.

But the important thing in literature is to know the man's work rather than his life. If his
work is sound and helpful and inspiring, his life needn't bother us, however hopeless it may
have been. The striking example of this, in American literature, is Edgar Allan Poe, whose
fame, in this country, is just emerging from the cloud which his unfortunate career cast over
it. The life of the man is of importance only as it helps you to understand his work. Most
important of all is to create within yourself a liking for good books and a power of telling
good from bad. This is one of the most important things in life, indeed; and Mr. John Macy
points the way to it in his "Child's Guide to Reading."

Only second to the power to appreciate good literature is the power to appreciate good art.
For the material in this volume the author is indebted largely to the excellent monographs
by Mr. Samuel Isham and Mr. Lorado Taft on "American Painting," and "American Sculpture." There
are many, guides to the study of art, among the best of them being Mr. Charles C. Caffin's
"Child's Guide to Pictures," "American Masters of Painting," "American Masters of Sculpture,"
and "How to Study Pictures"; Mr. John C. VanDyke's "How to Judge of a Picture," and "The Meaning
of Pictures," and Mr. John LaFarge's "Great Masters." In the study of art, as of literature,
you will soon find that America's place is as yet comparatively unimportant.

For the chapter on "The Stage," Mr. William Winter's various volumes of biography and criticism
have been drawn upon, more especially with reference to the actors of the "old school," which
Mr. Winter admires so deeply. There are a number of books, besides these, which make capital
reading--Clara Morris's "Life on the Stage," Joseph Jefferson's autobiography, Stoddart's "Recollections
of a Player," and Henry Austin Clapp's "Reminiscences of a Dramatic Critic," among them.

The material for the other chapters has been gathered from many sources, none of which is important
enough to be mentioned here. Appleton's "Cyclopedia of American Biography" is a mine from which
most of the facts concerning any American, prominent twenty years or more ago, may be dug;
but it gives only the dry bones, so to speak. For more than that you must go to the individual
biographies in your public library.

If you live in a small town, the librarian will very probably be glad to permit you to look
over the shelves yourself, as well as to give you such advice and direction as you may need.
In the larger cities, this is, of course, impossible, to say nothing of the fact that you would
be lost among the thousands of books on the shelves. But you will find a children's librarian
whose business and pleasure it is to help children to the right books. If this book helps you
to form the library habit, and gives you an incentive to the further study of art and literature,
it will more than fulfill its mission.

CHAPTER II

WRITERS OF PROSE

It is true of American literature that it can boast no name of commanding genius--no dramatist
to rank with Shakespeare, no poet to rank with Keats, no novelist to rank with Thackeray, to
take names only from our cousins oversea--and yet it displays a high level of talent and a
notable richness of achievement. Literature requires a background of history and tradition;
more than that, it requires leisure. A new nation spends its energies in the struggle for existence,
and not until that existence is assured do its finer minds need to turn to literature for self-expression.
As Poor Richard put it, "Well done is better than well said," and so long as great things are
pressing to be done, great men will do their writing on the page of history, and not on papyrus,
or parchment, or paper.

So, in the early history of America, the settlers in the new country were too busily employed
in fighting for a foothold, in getting food and clothing, in keeping body and soul together,
to have any time for the fine arts. Most of the New England divines tried their hands at limping
and hob-nail verse, but prior to the Revolution, American literature is remarkable only for
its aridity, its lack of inspiration and its portentous dulness. In these respects it may proudly
claim never to have been surpassed in the history of mankind. In fact, American literature,
as such, may be said to date from 1809, when Washington Irving gave to the world his inimitable
"History of New York." It struck a new and wholly original note, with a sureness bespeaking
a master's touch.

Where did Irving get that touch? That is a question which one asks vainly concerning any master
of literature, for genius is a thing which no theory can explain. It appears in the most unexpected
places. An obscure Corsican lieutenant becomes Emperor of France, arbiter of Europe, and one
of the three or four really great commanders of history; a tinker in Bedford County jail writes
the greatest allegory in literature; and the son of two mediocre players develops into the
first figure in American letters. Conversely, genius seldom appears where one would naturally
look for it. Seldom indeed does genius beget genius. It expends itself in its work.

Certainly there was no reason to suppose that any child of William Irving and Sarah Sanders
would develop genius even of the second order, more especially since they had already ten who
were just average boys and girls. Nor did the eleventh, who was christened Washington, show,
in his youth, any glimpse of the eagle's feather.

Born in 1783, in New York City, a delicate child and one whose life was more than once despaired
of, Washington Irving received little formal schooling, but was allowed to amuse himself as
he pleased by wandering up and down the Hudson and keeping as much as possible in the open
air. It was during these years that he gained that intimate knowledge of the Hudson River Valley
of which he was to make such good use later on. He still remained delicate, however, and at
the age of twenty was sent to Europe. The air of France and Italy proved to be just what he
needed, and he soon developed into a fairly robust man.

With health regained, he returned, two years later, to America, and got himself admitted to
the bar. Why he should have gone to this trouble is a mystery, for he never really seriously
tried to practise law. Instead, he was occupying himself with a serio-comic history of New
York, which grew under his pen into as successful an example of true and sustained humor as
our literature possesses. The subject was one exactly suited to Irving's genius, and he allowed
his fancy to have free play about the picturesque personalities of Wouter Van Twiller, and
Wandle Schoonhovon, and General Van Poffenburgh, in whose very names there is a comic suggestion.
When it appeared, in 1809, it took the town by storm.

Irving, indeed, had created a legend. The history, supposed to have been written by one Diedrich
Knickerbocker, gives to the story of New York just the touch of fancy and symbolism it needed.
For all time, New York will remain the Knickerbocker City. The book revealed a genuine master
of kindly satire, and established its author's reputation beyond possibility of question. Perhaps
the surest proof of its worth is the fact that it is read to-day as widely and enjoyed as thoroughly
as it ever was.

It is strange that Irving did not at once adopt letters as a profession; but instead of that,
he entered his brothers' business house, which was in a decaying condition, and to which he
devoted nine harassed and anxious years, before it finally failed. That failure decided him,
and he cast in his lot finally with the fortunes of literature. He was at that time thirty-five
years of age--an age at which most men are settled in life, with an established profession,
and a complacent readiness to drift on into middle age.

Rarely has any such choice as Irving's received so prompt and triumphant a vindication, for
a year later appeared the "Sketch Book," with its "Rip Van Winkle," its "Legend of Sleepy Hollow"
and "The Spectre Bridegroom"--to mention only three of the thirty-three items of its table
of contents--which proved the author to be not only a humorist of the first order, but an accomplished
critic, essayist and short-story writer. The publication of this book marked the culmination
of his literary career. It is his most characteristic and important work, and on it and his
"History," his fame rests.

He lived for forty years thereafter, a number of which were spent in Spain, first as secretary
of legation, and afterwards as United States minister to that country. It was during these
years that he gathered the materials for his "Life of Columbus," his "Conquest of Granada,"
and his "Alhambra," which has been called with some justice, "The Spanish Sketch Book." A tour
of the western portion of the United States resulted also in three books, "The Adventures of
Captain Bonneville," "Astoria," and "A Tour on the Prairies." His last years were spent at
"Sunnyside," his home at Tarrytown, on the Hudson, where he amused himself by writing biographies
of Mahomet, of Goldsmith, and of George Washington.

All of this was, for the most part, what is called "hack work," and his turning to it proves
that he himself was aware that his fount of inspiration had run dry. This very fact marks his
genius as of the second order, for your real genius--your Shakespeare or Browning or Thackeray
or Tolstoi--never runs dry, but finds welling up within him a perpetual and self-renewing stream
of inspiration, fed by thought and observation and every-day contact with the world.

Irving's closing years were rich in honor and affection, and found him unspoiled and uncorrupted.
He was always a shy man, to whom publicity of any kind was most embarrassing; and yet he managed
to be on the most intimate of terms with his time, and to possess a wide circle of friends
who were devoted to him.

Such was the career of America's first successful man of letters. For, strangely enough, he
had succeeded in making a good living with his pen. More than that, his natural and lambent
humor, his charm and grace of style, and a literary power at once broad and genuine, had won
him a place, if not among the crowned heads, at least mong the princes of literature, side
by side with Goldsmith and Addison. Thackeray called him "the first ambassador whom the New
World of letters sent to the Old," and from the very first he identified American literature
with purity of life and elevation of character, with kindly humor and grace of manner--qualities
which it has never lost.

Two years after the appearance of the "Sketch Book," another star suddenly flamed out upon
the literary horizon, and for a time quite eclipsed Irving in brilliancy. It waned somewhat
in later years, but, though we have come to see that it lacks the purity and gentle beauty
of its rival, it has still found a place among the brightest in our literary heaven--where,
indeed, only one or two of the first magnitude shine. J. Fenimore Cooper was, like Irving,
a product of New York state, his father laying out the site of Cooperstown, on Lake Otsego,
and moving there from New Jersey in 1790, when his son was only a year old. James, as the boy
was known, was the eleventh of twelve children--another instance of a single swan amid a flock
of ducklings.

Cooperstown was at that time a mere outpost of civilization in the wilderness, and it was in
this wilderness that Cooper's boyhood was passed. And just as Irving's boyhood left its impress
on his work, so did Cooper's in even greater degree. Mighty woods, broken only here and there
by tiny clearings, stretched around the little settlement; Indians and frontiersmen, hunters,
traders, trappers--all these were a part of the boy's daily life. He grew learned in the lore
of the woods, and laid up unconsciously the stores from which he was afterwards to draw.

At the age of eleven, he was sent to a private school at Albany, and three years later entered
Yale. But he had the true woodland spirit; he preferred the open air to the lecture-room, and
was so careless in his attendance at classes that, in his third year, he was dismissed from
college. There is some question whether this was a blessing or the reverse. No doubt a thorough
college training would have made Cooper incapable of the loose and turgid style which characterizes
all his novels; but, on the other hand, he left college to enter the navy, and there gained
that knowledge of seamanship and of the ocean which make his sea stories the best of their
kind that have ever been written. His sea career was cut short, just before the opening of
the war of 1812, by his marriage into an old Tory family, who insisted that he resign from
the service. He did so, and entered upon the quiet life of a well-to-do country gentleman.

For seven or eight years, he showed no desire nor aptitude to be anything else. He had never
written anything for publication, had never felt any impulse to do so, and perhaps never would
have felt such an impulse but for an odd accident. Tossing aside a dull British novel, one
day, he remarked to his wife that he could easily write a better story himself, and she laughingly
dared him to try. The result was "Precaution," than which no British novel could be duller.
But Cooper, finding the work of writing congenial, kept at it, and the next year saw the publication
of "The Spy," the first American novel worthy of the name. By mere accident, Cooper had found
his true vein, the story of adventure, and his true field in the scenes with which he was himself
familiar. In Harvey Birch, the spy, he added to the world's gallery of fiction the first of
his three great characters, the other two being, of course, Long Tom Coffin and Leatherstocking.

The book was an immediate success, and was followed by "The Pioneers" and "The Pilot," both
remarkable stories, the former visualizing for the first time the life of the forest, the latter
for the first time the life of the sea. Let us not forget that Cooper was himself a pioneer
and blazed the trails which so many of his successors have tried to follow. If the trail he
made was rough and difficult, it at least possesses the merits of vigor and pristine achievement.
"The Spy," "The Pioneers," and "The Pilot" established Cooper's reputation not only in this
country, but in England and France. He became a literary lion, with the result that his head,
never very firmly set upon his shoulders, was completely turned; he set himself up as a mentor
and critic of both continents, and while his successive novels continued to be popular, he
himself became involved in numberless personal controversies, which embittered his later years.

The result of these quarrels was apparent in his work, which steadily decreased in merit, so
that, of the thirty-three novels that he wrote, not over twelve are, at this day, worth reading.
But those twelve paint, as no other novelist has ever painted, life in the forest and on the
ocean, and however we may quarrel with his wooden men and women, his faults of taste and dreary
wastes of description, there is about them some intangible quality which compels the interest
and grips the imagination of school-boy and gray-beard alike. He splashed his paint on a great
canvas with a whitewash brush, so to speak; it will not bear minute examination; but at a distance,
with the right perspective, it fairly glows with life. No other American novelist has added
to fiction three such characters as those we have mentioned; into those he breathed the breath
of life--the supreme achievement of the novelist.

For seventeen years after the publication of "The Spy," Cooper had no considerable American
rival. Then, in 1837, the publication of a little volume called "Twice-Told Tales" marked the
advent of a greater than he. No one to-day seriously questions Nathaniel Hawthorne's right
to first place among American novelists, and in the realm of the short story he has only one
equal, Edgar Allan Poe.

We shall speak of Poe more at length as a poet; but it is curious and interesting to contrast
these two men, contemporaries, and the most significant figures in the literature of their
country--Poe, an actor's child, an outcast, fighting in the dark with the balance against him,
living a tragic life and dying a tragic death, leaving to America the purest lyrics and most
compelling tales ever produced within her borders; Hawthorne, a direct descendant of the Puritans,
a recluse and a dreamer, his delicate genius developing gradually, marrying most happily, leading
an idyllic family life, winning success and substantial recognition, which grew steadily until
the end of his career, and which has, at least, not diminished--could any contrast be more
complete?

Nathaniel Hawthorne was a direct descendant of that William Hawthorne who came from England
in 1630 with John Winthrop in the "Arabella," and was born at Salem, Massachusetts, the family's
ancestral home, in 1804. He was a classmate of Longfellow at Bowdoin College, graduating without
especial distinction, and spending the twelve succeeding years at Salem, living a secluded
life in accordance with his abnormally shy and sensitive disposition. He was already resolved
on the literary life, and spent those years in solitary writing. The result was a morbid novel,
"Fanshawe," and a series of short stories, none of which attracted especial attention or gave
indication of more than average talent. Not until 1837 did he win any measure of success, but
that year saw the publication of the first series of "Twice-Told Tales," which, by their charm
and delicacy, won him many readers.

Even at that, he found the profession of letters so unprofitable that he was glad to accept
a position as weigher and gauger at the Boston custom-house, but he lost the place two years
later by a change in administration; tried, for a while, living with the Transcendentalists
at Brook Farm, and finally, taking a leap into the unknown, married and settled down in the
old manse at Concord. It was a most fortunate step; his wife proved a real inspiration, and
in the months that followed, he wrote the second series of "Twice-Told Tales," and "Mosses
from an Old Manse," which mark the culmination of his genius as a teller of tales.

Four years later, the political pendulum swung back again, and Hawthorne was offered the surveyor-ship
of the custom-house at Salem, accepted it, and moved his family back to his old home. He held
the position for four years, completed his first great romance, and in 1850 gave to the world
"The Scarlet Letter," perhaps the most significant and vital novel produced by any American.
Hawthorne had, at last, "found himself." A year later came "The House of the Seven Gables,"
and then, in quick succession, "Grandfather's Chair," "The Wonder Book," "The Snow-Image,"
"The Blithedale Romance," and "Tanglewood Tales."

A queer product of his pen, at this time, was a life of Franklin Pierce, the Democratic candidate
for the Presidency; and when Pierce was elected, he showed his gratitude by offering Hawthorne
the consulship at Liverpool, a lucrative position which Hawthorne accepted and which he held
for four years. Two years on the continent followed, and in 1860, he returned home, his health
breaking and his mind unsettled, largely by the prospect of the Civil War into which the country
was drifting. He found himself unable to write, failed rapidly, and the end came in the spring
of 1864.

Of American novelists, Hawthorne alone shows that sustained power and high artistry belonging
to the masters of fiction; and yet his novels have not that universal appeal which belongs
to the few really great ones of the world. Hawthorne was supremely the interpreter of old New
England, a subject of comparatively little interest to other peoples, since old New England
was distinguished principally by a narrow spiritual conflict which other peoples find difficult
to understand. The subject of "The Scarlet Letter" is, indeed, one of universal appeal, and
is, in some form, the theme of nearly all great novels; but its setting narrowed this appeal,
and Hawthorne's treatment of his theme, symbolical rather than simple and concrete, narrowed
it still further. Yet with all that, it possesses that individual charm and subtlety which
is apparent, in greater or less degree, in all of his imaginative work.

Contemporary with Hawthorne, and surviving him by a few years, was another novelist who had,
in his day, a tremendous reputation, but who is now almost forgotten, William Gilmore Simms.
We shall consider him--for he was also a maker of verse--in the next chapter, in connection
with his fellow-townsmen, Henry Timrod and Paul Hamilton Hayne. So we pause here only to remark
that the obscurity which enfolds him is more dense than he deserves, and that anyone who likes
frontier fiction, somewhat in the manner of Cooper, will enjoy reading "The Yemassee," the
best of Simms's books.

Hawthorne stands so far above the novelists who come after him that one rather hesitates to
mention them at all. With one, or possibly two, exceptions, the work of none of them gives
promise of permanency--so far as can be judged, at least, in looking at work so near that it
has no perspective. Prophesying has always been a risky business, and will not be attempted
here. But, whether immortal or not, there are some five or six novelists whose work is in some
degree significant, and who deserve at least passing study.

Harriet Beecher Stowe is one of these. Born in 1811, the daughter of Lyman Beecher, and perhaps
the most brilliant member of a brilliant family, beginning to write while still a child, and
continuing to do so until the end of her long life, Mrs. Stowe's name is nevertheless connected
in the public mind with a single book, "Uncle Tom's Cabin," a book which has probably been
read by more people than any other ever written by an American author. Mrs. Stowe had lived
for some years in Cincinnati and had visited in Kentucky, so that she had some surface knowledge
of slavery; she was, of course, by birth and breeding, an abolitionist, and so when, early
in 1851, an anti-slavery paper called the "National Era" was started at Washington, she agreed
to furnish a "continued story."

The first chapter appeared in April, and the story ran through the year, attracting little
attention. But its publication in book form marked the beginning of an immense popularity and
an influence probably greater than that of any other novel ever written. It crystallized anti-slavery
sentiment, it was read all over the world, it was dramatized and gave countless thousands their
first visualization of the slave traffic. That her presentation of it was in many respects
untrue has long since been admitted, but she was writing a tract and naturally made her case
as strong as she could. From a literary standpoint, too, the book is full of faults; but it
is alive with an emotional sincerity which sweeps everything before it. She wrote other books,
but none of them is read to-day, except as a matter of duty or curiosity.

And let us pause here to point out that the underlying principle of every great work of art,
whether a novel or poem or painting or statue, is sincerity. Without sincerity it cannot be
great, no matter how well it is done, with what care and fidelity; and with sincerity it may
often attain greatness without perfection of form, just as "Uncle Tom's Cabin" did. But to
lack sincerity is to lack soul; it is a body without a spirit.

We must refer, too, to the most distinctive American humorist of the last half century, Samuel
Langhorne Clemens--"Mark Twain." Born in Missouri, knocking about from pillar to post in his
early years, serving as pilot's boy and afterwards as pilot on a Mississippi steamboat, as
printer, editor, and what not, but finally "finding himself" and making an immense reputation
by the publication of a burlesque book of European travel, "Innocents Abroad," he followed
it up with such widely popular stories as "Tom Sawyer," "Huckleberry Finn," "The Prince and
the Pauper," and many others, in some of which, at least, there seems to be an element of permanency.
"Huckleberry Finn," indeed, has been hailed as the most distinctive work produced in America--an
estimate which must be accepted with reservations.

Three living novelists have contributed to American letters books of insight and dignity--William
Dean Howells, George W. Cable and Henry James. Mr. Howells has devoted himself to careful and
painstaking studies of American life, and has occasionally struck a note so true that it has
found wide appreciation. The same thing may be said of Mr. Cable's stories of the South, and
especially of the Creoles of Louisiana; while Mr. James, perhaps as the result of his long
residence abroad, has ranged over a wider field, and has chosen to depict the evolution of
character by thought rather than by deed, in his early work showing a rare insight. Of the
three, he seems most certain of a lasting reputation.

Others of less importance have made some special corner of the country theirs, and possess
a sort of squatter-right over it. To Bret Harte belongs mid-century California; to Mary Noailles
Murfree, the Tennessee mountains; to James Lane Allen and John Fox, present-day Kentucky; to
Mary Johnston, colonial Virginia; to Ellen Glasgow, present-day Virginia; to Stewart Edward
White, the great northwest. Others cultivate a field peculiar to themselves. Frank R. Stockton
is whimsically humorous, Edith Wharton cynically dissective; Mary Wilkins Freeman is most at
home with rural New England character; and Thomas Nelson Page has done his best work in the
South of reconstruction days.

But of the great mass of fiction being written in America to-day, little is of value as literature.
It is designed for the most part as an amusing occupation for idle hours. Read some of it,
by all means, if you enjoy it, since "all work and no play makes Jack a dull boy"; but remember
that it is only the sweetmeat that comes at the end of the meal, and for sustenance, for the
bread and butter of the literary diet, you must read the older books that are worth while.

       *       *       *       *       *

It may be questioned whether America has produced any poet or novelist or essayist of the very
first rank, but, in another branch of letters, four names appear, which stand as high as any
on the scroll. The writing of history is not, of course, pure literature; it is semi-creative
rather than creative; and yet, at its best, it demands a high degree of imaginative insight.
It appears at its best in the works of Prescott, Motley, Bancroft and Parkman.

George Bancroft was, of this quartette, the most widely known half a century ago, because he
chose as his theme the history of America, and because he was himself for many years prominent
in the political life of the country. Born in Massachusetts in 1800, graduating from Harvard,
and, after a course of study in Germany, resolving to be a historian, he returned to America
and began work on his history, the first volume of which appeared in 1834. Three years later,
came the second volume, and in 1840, the third.

Glowing with national spirit as they did, they attracted public attention to him, and he was
soon drawn into politics. During the next twelve years he held several government positions,
among them Secretary of the Navy and Minister to England, which gave him access to great masses
of historical documents. It was not until 1852 that his fourth volume appeared, then five more
followed at comparatively frequent intervals. Again politics interrupted. He was sent as Minister
to Prussia and later to the German Empire, again largely increasing his store of original documents,
with which, toward the last, he seems to have been fairly overburdened. In 1874, he published
his tenth volume, bringing his narrative through the Revolution, and eight years later, the
last two dealing with the adoption of the Constitution. His last years were spent in revising
and correcting this monumental work.

It is an inspiring record--a life devoted consistently to one great work, and that work the
service of one's country, for such Bancroft's really was. Every student of colonial and revolutionary
America must turn to him, and while his history has long since ceased to be generally read,
it maintains an honored place among every collection of books dealing with America. It is easily
first among the old-school histories as produced by such men as Hildreth. Tucker, Palfrey and
Sparks.

At the head of the other school, which has been called cosmopolitan because it sought its subjects
abroad rather than at home, stands William Hickling Prescott. Of this school, Washington Irving
may fairly be said to have been the pioneer. We have seen how his residence in Spain turned
his attention to the history of that country and resulted in three notable works. Prescott,
however, was a historian by forethought and not by accident. Before his graduation from Harvard,
he had determined to lead a literary life modelled upon that of Edward Gibbon. His career was
almost wrecked at the outset by an unfortunate accident which so impaired his sight that he
was unable to read or to write except with the assistance of a cumbrous machine. That any man,
laboring under such a disability, should yet persevere in pursuing the rocky road of the historian
seems almost unbelievable; yet that is just what Prescott did.

Let us tell the story of that accident. It was while he was at Harvard, in his junior year.
One day after dinner, in the Commons Hall, some of the boys started a rude frolic. Prescott
took no part in it, but just as he was leaving, a great commotion behind him caused him to
turn quickly, and a hard piece of bread, thrown undoubtedly at random, struck him squarely
and with great force in the left eye. He fell unconscious, and never saw out of that eye again.
Worse than that, his other eye soon grew inflamed, and became almost useless to him, besides
causing him, from time to time, the most acute suffering. But in spite of all this, he persisted
in his determination to be a historian.

After careful thought, he chose for his theme that period of Spanish history dominated by Ferdinand
and Isabella, and went to work. Documents were collected, an assistant read to him for hours
at a time, notes were taken, and the history painfully pushed forward. The result was a picturesque
narrative which was at once successful both in Europe and America; and, thus encouraged, Prescott
selected another romantic theme, the conquest of Mexico, for his next work. Following this
came the history of the conquest of Peru, and finally a history of the reign of Philip II,
upon which he was at work, when a paralytic stroke ended his career.

Prescott was fortunate not only in his choice of subjects, but in the possession of a picturesque
and fascinating style, which has given his histories a remarkable vogue. Fault has been found
with him on the ground of historical inaccuracy, but such criticism is, for the most part,
unjustified. His thoroughness, his judgment, and his critical faculty stand unimpeached, and
place him very near the head of American historians.

Prescott's successor, in more than one sense, was John Lothrop Motley. A Bostonian and Harvard
man, well-trained, after one or two unsuccessful ventures in fiction, he turned his attention
to history, and in 1856 completed his "Rise of the Dutch Republic," for which he could not
find a publisher. He finally issued it at his own expense, with no little inward trembling,
but it was at once successful and seventeen thousand copies of it were sold in England alone
during the first year. It received unstinted praise, and Motley at once proceeded with his
"History of the United Netherlands." The opening of the Civil War, however, recalled his attention
to his native land, he was drawn into politics, and did not complete his history until 1868.
Six years later appeared his "John of Barneveld"; but his health was giving way and the end
came in 1877.

In brilliancy, dramatic instinct and power of picturesque narration, Motley was Prescott's
equal, if not his superior. The glow and fervor of his narrative have never been surpassed;
his characters live and breathe; he was thoroughly in sympathy with his subject and found a
personal pleasure in exalting his heroes and unmasking his villains. But there was his weakness;
for often, instead of the impartial historian, he became a partisan of this cause or that,
and painted his heroes whiter and his villains blacker than they really were. In spite of that,
or perhaps because of it--because of the individual and intensely earnest personal point of
view--his histories are as absorbing and fascinating as any in the world.

The last of this noteworthy group of historians, Francis Parkman, is also, in many respects,
the greatest. He combined the virtues of all of them, and added for himself methods of research
which have never been surpassed. Through it all, too, he battled against a persistent ill-health,
which unfitted him for work for months on end, and, even at the best, would permit his reading
or writing only a few minutes at a time.

Like the others, Parkman was born in Boston, and, as a boy, was so delicate that he was allowed
to run wild in the country, acquiring a love of nature which is apparent in all his books.
In search of health, he journeyed westward from St. Louis, in 1846, living with Indians and
trappers and gaining a minute knowledge of their ways. The results of this journey were embodied
in a modest little volume called "The Oregon Trail," which remains the classic source of information
concerning the far West at that period.

Upon his return to the East, he settled down in earnest to the task which he had set himself--a
history, in every phase, of the struggle between France and England for the possession of the
North American continent. Years were spent in the collection of material--and in 1865 appeared
his "Pioneers of France in the New World," followed at periods of a few years by the other
books completing the series, which ends with the story of Montcalm and Wolfe.

The series is a masterpiece of interpretative history. Every phase of the struggle for the
continent is described in minute detail and with the intimate touch of perfect knowledge; every
actor in the great drama is presented with incomparable vividness, and its scenes are painted
with a color and atmosphere worthy of Prescott or Motley, and with absolute accuracy. His work
satisfies at once the student and the lover of literature, standing almost unique in this regard.
His flexible and charming style is a constant joy; his power of analysis and presentment a
constant wonder; and throughout his work there is a freshness of feeling, an air of the open,
at once delightful and stimulating. He said the last word concerning the period which his histories
cover, and has lent to it a fascination and absorbing interest which no historian has surpassed.
The boy or girl who has not read Parkman's histories has missed one of the greatest treats
which literature has to offer.

Other historians there are who have done good service to American letters and whose work is
outranked only by the men we have already mentioned--John Bach McMaster, whose "History of
the People of the United States" is still uncompleted; James Ford Rhodes, who has portrayed
the Civil War period with admirable exhaustiveness and accuracy; Justin Winsor, Woodrow Wilson,
William M. Sloane, and John Fiske. John Fiske's work, which deals wholly with the different
periods of American history, is especially suited to young people because of its simplicity
and directness, and because, while accurate, it is not overburdened with detail.

We have said that, during the Colonial period of American history, most of the New England
divines devoted a certain amount of attention to the composition of creaking verse. More than
that, they composed histories, biographies and numberless works of a theological character,
which probably constitute the dullest mass of reading ever produced upon this earth. The Revolution
stopped this flood--if anything so dry can be called a flood--and when the Revolution ended,
public thought was for many years occupied with the formation of the new nation. But in the
second quarter of the nineteenth century there arose in New England a group of writers who
are known as Transcendentalists, and who produced one of the most important sections of American
literature.

Transcendentalism is a long word, and it is rather difficult to define, but, to put it as briefly
as possible, it was a protest against narrowness in intellectual life, a movement for broader
culture and for a freer spiritual life. It took a tremendous grip on New England, beginning
about 1830, and kept it for nearly forty years; for New England has always been more or less
provincial--provincialism being the habit of measuring everything by one inadequate standard.

The high priest of the Transcendental movement was Amos Bronson Alcott, born on a Connecticut
farm in 1799, successively in youth a clockmaker, peddler and book-agent, and finally driven
by dire necessity to teaching school. But there could be no success at school-teaching for
a man the most eccentric of his day--a mystic, a follower of Oriental philosophy, a non-resistant,
an advocate of woman suffrage, an abolitionist, a vegetarian, and heaven knows what besides.
So in the end, he was sold out, and removed with his family to Concord, where he developed
into a sort of impractical idealist, holding Orphic conversations and writing scraps of speculation
and criticism, and living in the clouds generally.

Life would have been far less easy for him but for the development of an unexpected talent
in one of his daughters, Louisa May Alcott. From her sixteenth year, Louisa Alcott had been
writing for publication, but with little success, although every dollar she earned was welcome
to a family so poor that the girls sometimes thought of selling their hair to get a little
money. She also tried to teach, and finally, in 1862, went to Washington as a volunteer nurse
and labored for many months in the military hospitals. The letters she wrote to her mother
and sisters were afterwards collected in a book called "Hospital Sketches." At last, at the
suggestion of her publishers, she undertook to write a girls' story. The result was "Little
Women," which sprang almost instantly into a tremendous popularity, and which at once put its
author out of reach of want.

Other children's stories, scarcely less famous, followed in quick succession, forming a series
which has never been equalled for long-continued vogue. Few children who read at all have failed
to read "Little Men," "Little Women," "An Old-Fashioned Girl," "Eight Cousins," and "Rose in
Bloom," to mention only five of them, and edition after edition has been necessary to supply
a demand which shows no sign of lessening. The stories are, one and all, sweet and sincere
and helpful, and while they are not in any sense literature, they are, at least, an interesting
contribution to American letters.

But to return to the Transcendentalists.

The most picturesque figure of the group was Margaret Fuller. Starting as a morbid and sentimental
girl, her father's death seems suddenly to have changed her, at the age of twenty-five, into
a talented and thoughtful woman. Her career need not be considered in detail here, since it
was significant more from the inspiration she gave others than from any achievement of her
own. She proved herself a sympathetic critic, if not a catholic and authoritative one, and
a pleasing and suggestive essayist.

What she might have become no one can tell, for her life was cut short at the fortieth year.
She had spent some years in Italy, in an epoch of revolutions, into which she entered heart
and soul. A romantic marriage, in 1847, with the Marquis Ossoli, served further to identify
her with the revolutionary cause, and when it tumbled into ruins, she and her husband escaped
from Rome and started for America. Their ship encountered a terrific storm off Long Island,
was driven ashore, broken to pieces by the waves, and both she and her husband were drowned.

By far the greatest of the Transcendental group and one of the most original figures in American
literature was Ralph Waldo Emerson--a figure, indeed, in many ways unique in all literature.
Born in Boston in 1803, the son of a Unitarian clergyman and a member of a large and sickly
family, he followed the predestined path through Harvard College, graduating with no especial
honors, entered the ministry, and served as pastor of the Second Church of Boston until 1832.
Then, finding himself ill at ease in the position, he resigned, and, settling at Concord, turned
to lecturing, first on scientific subjects and then on manners and morals. His reputation grew
steadily, and, especially in the generation younger than himself, he awakened the deepest enthusiasm.

In 1836, the publication of a little volume called "Nature" gave conclusive evidence of his
talent, and, followed as it was by his "Essays," "Representative Men," and "Conduct of Life,"
established his reputation as seer, interpreter of nature, poet and moralist--a reputation
which has held its own against the assaults of time.

And yet no personality could be more puzzling or elusive. He was at once attractive and repulsive--there
was a certain line which no one crossed, a charmed circle in which he dwelt alone. There was
about him a certain coldness and detachment, a self-sufficiency, and a prudence which held
him back from giving himself unreservedly to any cause. He lacked heart and temperament. He
was a homely, shrewd and cold-blooded Yankee, to put it plainly. Yet, with all that, he was
a serene and benignant figure, of an inspiring optimism, a fine patriotism, and profound intellect--a
stimulator of the best in man. Upon this basis, probably, his final claim to memory will rest.

Another Transcendental eccentric with more than a touch of genius was Henry David Thoreau,
and it is noteworthy that his fame, which burned dimly enough during his life, has flamed ever
brighter and brighter since his death. This increase of reputation is no doubt due, in some
degree, to the "return to nature," which has recently been so prominent in American life and
which has gained a wide hearing for so noteworthy a "poet-naturalist"; but it is also due in
part to a growing recognition of the fact that as a writer of delightful, suggestive and inspiring
prose he has had few equals.

Thoreau is easily our most extraordinary man of letters. Born in Concord of a poor family,
but managing to work his way through Harvard, he spent some years teaching; but an innate love
of nature and of freedom led him to seek some form of livelihood which would leave him as much
his own master as it was possible for a poor man to be. To earn money for any other purpose
than to provide for one's bare necessities was to Thoreau a grievous waste of time, so it came
about that for many years he was a sort of itinerant tinker, a doer of odd jobs. Another characteristic,
partly innate and party cultivated, was a distrust of society and a dislike of cities. "I find
it as ever very unprofitable to have much to do with men," he wrote; and finally, in pursuance
of this idea, he built himself a little cabin on the shore of Walden pond, where he lived for
some two years and a half.

It was there that his best work was done, for, at bottom, Thoreau was a man of letters rather
than a naturalist, with the most seeing eye man ever had. "Walden, or Life in the Woods," and
"A Week on the Concord and Merrimac Rivers" contain the best of Thoreau, and any boy or girl
who is interested in the great outdoors, as every boy and girl ought to be, will enjoy reading
them.

The last of the Transcendental group worthy of mention here is George William Curtis, a versatile
and charming personality, not a genius in any sense, but a writer of pleasant and amusing prose,
an orator of no small ability, and one of the truest patriots who ever loved and labored for
his country. It is in this latter aspect, rather than as the author of "Nile Notes" and "The
Potiphar Papers," that Curtis is best remembered to-day. The books that he produced have, to
a large extent, lost their appeal; but the work he did during the dark days of reconstruction
and after entitles him to admiring and grateful remembrance.

       *       *       *       *       *

It is scarcely possible to close a chapter upon American prose writers without referring to
at least one of the great editors who have done so much to mould American public opinion. To
James Gordon Bennett and Charles A. Dana only passing reference need be made; but Horace Greeley
deserves more extended treatment.

Early in the last century, on a rocky little farm in New Hampshire, lived a man by the name
of Zaccheus Greeley, a good neighbor, but a bad manager--so bad that, in 1820, when his son
Horace was nine years old, the farm was seized by the sheriff and sold for debt. The proceeds
of the sale did not pay the debt, and so, in order to escape arrest, for they imprisoned people
for debt in those days, Zaccheus Greeley fled across the border into Vermont, where his family
soon joined him. He managed to make a precarious living by working at odd jobs, in which, of
course, the boy joined him whenever he could be of any use.

He was a rather remarkable boy, with a great fondness for books, and when he was eleven years
old, he tried to get a position in a printing office, but was rejected because he was too young.
Four years later, he heard that a boy was wanted in an office at East Poultney, and he hastened
to apply for the position. He was a lank, ungainly and dull-appearing boy, and the owner of
the office did not think he could ever learn to be a printer, but finally put him to work,
with the understanding that he was to receive nothing but his board and clothes for the first
six months, and after that forty dollars a year additional.

The boy soon showed an unusual aptitude for the business, and finally decided that the little
village was too restricted a field for his talents. With youth's sublime confidence, he decided
to go to New York City. He managed to get a position in a printing office there, and two years
later, at the age of twenty-two, he and a partner established the first one-cent daily newspaper
in the United States. It was ahead of the times, however, and had to be abandoned after a few
months.

But he had discovered his peculiar field, and in 1840 he established another paper which he
called the "Log Cabin," in which he supported William Henry Harrison through the famous "log
cabin and hard cider" campaign. The paper was a success, and in the year following he established
the New York "Tribune," which was destined to make him both rich and famous. For more than
thirty years he conducted the "Tribune," making it the most influential paper in the country.
He became the most powerful political writer in the United States, and in every village groups
gathered regularly to receive their papers and to see what "Old Horace" had to say. He was
to his readers a strong and vivid personality--they had faith in his intelligence and honesty,
and they believed that he would say what he believed to be right, regardless of whose toes
were pinched. It was as different as possible to the anonymous journalism of to-day, when not
one in a hundred of a newspaper's readers knows anything about the personality of the editor.

We have already referred to the fact that, at the beginning of secession, Greeley doubted the
right of the North to compel the seceding states to remain in the Union. Indeed, he counselled
peaceful separation rather than war, as did many others, but he was later a staunch supporter
of President Lincoln's policy.

We have also spoken of the fact that, when Grant was re-nominated for President in 1872, a
large section of the party, believing him incompetent, broke away from the party and named
a candidate of their own. The party they formed was called the Liberal Republican, and their
candidate was Horace Greeley. They managed to secure for him the support of the Democratic
convention, which placed him at the head of the Democratic ticket, but they could not secure
the support of the Democrats themselves, who could not forget that Greeley had been fighting
them all his life; and the result was that he was overwhelmingly defeated. He had not expected
such a result, his health had been undermined by the labors and anxieties of the campaign,
and before the rejoicing of the Republicans was over, Greeley himself lay dead.

SUMMARY

IRVING, WASHINGTON. Born at New York City, April 3, 1783; went abroad for health, 1804; returned
to America, 1806; published "Knickerbocker's History of New York," 1809; attaché of legation
at Madrid, 1826-29; secretary of legation at London, 1829-32; minister to Spain, 1842-46; died
at Sunnyside, near Tarrytown, New York, November 28, 1859.

COOPER, JAMES FENIMORE. Born at Burlington, New Jersey, September 15, 1789; entered Yale, 1802,
but left after three years; midshipman in United States navy, 1808-11, when he resigned his
commission; published first novel, "Precaution," anonymously, 1820, and followed it with many
others; died at Cooperstown, New York, September 14, 1851.

HAWTHORNE, NATHANIEL.

STOWE, HARRIET BEECHER. Born at Litchfield, Connecticut, June 14, 1812; educated at Hartford,
Connecticut; taught school there and at Cincinnati; published "Uncle Tom's Cabin," 1852; "Dred,"
1856; and a number of other novels; died at Hartford, Connecticut, July 1, 1896.

CLEMENS, SAMUEL LANGHORNE. Born at Florida, Missouri, November 30, 1835; apprenticed to printer,
1847; alternated between mining and newspaper work, until the publication of "Innocents Abroad,"
1869, made him famous as a humorist; died at Redding, Connecticut, April 22, 1910; published
many collections of short stories and several novels.

BANCROFT, GEORGE. Born at Worcester, Massachusetts, October 3, 1800; graduated at Harvard,
1817; collector of the port of Boston, 1838-41; Democratic candidate for governor of Massachusetts,
1844; secretary of the navy, 1845-46; minister to Great Britain, 1846-49; minister to Berlin,
1867-74; published first volume of his "History of the United States," 1834, last volume, 1874;
died at Washington, Jan. 17, 1891.

PRESCOTT, WILLIAM HICKLING. Born at Salem, Massachusetts, May 4, 1796; published "History of
the Reign of Ferdinand and Isabella," 1838; "Conquest of Mexico," 1843; "Conquest of Peru,"
1847; "History of the Reign of Philip II," 1858; died at Boston, January 28, 1859.

MOTLEY, JOHN LOTHROP. Born at Dorchester (now part of Boston), Massachusetts, April 15, 1814;
graduated at Harvard, 1831; studied abroad, 1831-34; United States minister to Austria, 1861-67,
and to Great Britain, 1869-70; published "Rise of the Dutch Republic," 1856; "History of the
United Netherlands," 1868; "Life and Death of John of Barneveld," 1874; died in Dorset, England,
May 29, 1877.

PARKMAN, FRANCIS. Born at Boston, September 16, 1823; graduated at Harvard, 1844; published
"The Conspiracy of Pontiac," 1851, and continued series of histories dealing with the French
in America to "A Half Century of Conflict," 1892; died at Jamaica Plain, near Boston, November
8, 1893.

ALCOTT, AMOS BRONSON. Born at Wolcott, Connecticut, November 29, 1799; a book-peddler and school-teacher,
conducting a school in Boston, 1834-37; removed to Concord, 1840; published "Orphic Sayings,"
1840; "Tablets," 1868; "Concord Days," 1872; "Table-Talk," 1877; "Sonnets and Canzonets," 1882;
died at Boston, March 4, 1888.

ALCOTT, LOUISA MAY. Born at Germantown, Pennsylvania, November 29, 1832; teacher in early life
and army nurse during Civil War; published "Little Women," 1868; "Old-Fashioned Girl," 1869;
"Little Men," 1871, and many other children's stories; died at Boston, March 6, 1888.

FULLER, SARAH MARGARET, MARCHIONESS OSSOLI. Born at Cambridgeport, Massachusetts, May 23, 1810;
edited Boston Dial, 1840-42; literary critic New York Tribune, 1844-46; published "Summer on
the Lakes," 1843; "Woman in the Nineteenth Century," 1845; "Papers on Art and Literature,"
1846; went to Europe, 1846; married Marquis Ossoli, 1847; drowned off Fire Island, July 16, 1850.

EMERSON, RALPH WALDO. Born at Boston, Massachusetts, May 25, 1803; graduated at Harvard, 1821;
Unitarian clergyman at Boston, 1829-32; commenced career as lecturer, 1833, and continued for
nearly forty years; edited the Dial, 1842-44; published "Nature," 1836; "Essays," 1841; "Poems,"
1846; "Representative Men," 1850; and other books of essays and poems; died at Concord, Massachusetts,
April 27, 1882.

THOREAU, HENRY DAVID. Born at Concord, Massachusetts, July 12, 1817; graduated at Harvard,
1837; lived alone at Walden Pond, 1845-47; published "A Week on the Concord and Merrimac Rivers,"
1849; "Walden, or Life in the Woods," 1854; died at Concord, May 6, 1862. Several collections
of his essays and letters were published after his death.

CURTIS, GEORGE WILLIAM. Born at Providence, Rhode Island, February 24, 1824; joined the Brook
Farm Community, 1842, and afterwards spent some years in travel; published "Nile Notes of a
Howadji," "The Howadji in Syria," "The Potiphar Papers," and other books; prominent as an anti-slavery
orator and as the editor of "Harper's Weekly"; died at West New Brighton, Staten Island, August
31, 1892.

GREELEY, HORACE. Born at Amherst, New Hampshire, February 3, 1811; founded New York Tribune,
1841; member of Congress from New York, 1848-49; candidate of Liberal-Republican and Democratic
parties for President, 1872; died at Pleasantville, Westchester County, New York, November
29, 1872.

CHAPTER III

WRITERS OF VERSE

"Poetry," says the Century dictionary, "is that one of the fine arts which addresses itself
to the feelings and the imagination by the instrumentality of musical and moving words"; and
that is probably as concise a definition of poetry as can be evolved. For poetry is difficult
to define. Verse we can describe, because it is mechanical; but poetry is verse with a soul added.

It is for this very reason that there is so wide a variance in the critical estimates of the
work of individual poets. The feelings and imagination of no two persons are exactly the same,
and what will appeal to one will fail to appeal to the other; so that it follows that what
is poetry for one is merely verse for the other. Tastes vary in poetry, just as they do in
food. Indeed, poetry is a good deal like food. We all of us like bread and butter, and we eat
it every day and get good, solid nourishment from it; but only the educated palate can appreciate
the refinements of caviar, or Gorgonzola cheese, or some rare and special vintage. So most
of us derive a mild enjoyment from the works of such poets as Longfellow and Tennyson and Whittier;
but it requires a trained taste to appreciate the subtle delights of Browning or Edgar Allan Poe.

Now the taste for the simple and obvious is a natural taste--the child's taste, healthy, and,
some will add, unspoiled; but poetry must be judged by the nicer and more exacting standard,
just as all other of the fine arts must. I wonder if you have ever read what is probably the
most perfect lyric ever written by an American? I am going to set it down here as an example
of what poetry can be, and I want you to compare your favorite poems, whatever they may be,
with it.

In 1821--the same year which saw the publication of The Spy, the first significant American
novel--there appeared at Boston a little pamphlet of forty-four pages, bound modestly in brown
paper boards, and containing eight poems. Two of them were "To a Waterfowl" and "Thanatopsis,"
and that little volume marked the advent of the first American poet--William Cullen Bryant.
Out of the great mass of verse produced on our continent for two centuries after the Pilgrim
Fathers landed on Plymouth Rock, his was the first which displayed those qualities which make
for immortality.

Before him our greatest poets had been Philip Freneau, the "Poet of the Revolution"; Francis
Scott Key, whose supreme achievement was "The Star-Spangled Banner"; Fitz-Greene Halleck, known
to every school-boy by his "Marco Bozzaris," but chiefly memorable for a beautiful little lyric,
"On the Death of Joseph Rodman Drake"; and Drake himself, perhaps the greatest of the four,
but dying at the age of twenty-five with nothing better to his credit than the well-known "The
American Flag," and the fanciful and ambitious "The Culprit Fay." But these men were, at best,
only graceful versifiers, and Bryant loomed so far above them and the other verse-makers of
his time that he was hailed as a miracle of genius, a sort of Parnassan giant whose like had
never before existed. We estimate him more correctly to-day as a poet of the second rank, whose
powers were limited but genuine. Indeed, even in his own day, Bryant's reputation waned somewhat,
for he never fulfilled the promise of that first volume, and "To a Waterfowl" and "Thanatopsis"
remain the best poems he ever wrote.

William Cullen Bryant was born at Cummington, Massachusetts, in 1794, the son of a physician,
from whom he received practically all his early training, and who was himself a writer of verse.
The boy's talent for versification was encouraged, and some of his productions were recited
at school and published in the poet's corner of the local newspaper. In 1808, when Bryant was
fourteen years old, the first volume of his poems was printed at Boston, with an advertisement
certifying the extreme youth of the author. It contained nothing of any importance, and why
anyone should care to read dull verse because it was written by a child is incomprehensible,
but the book had some success, and Bryant's father was a very proud man.

Three years later, Bryant entered Williams College, but soon left, and, not having the means
to pay his way through Yale, gave up the thought of college altogether, and began the study
of law. He also read widely in English literature, and while in his seventeenth year produced
what may fairly be called the first real poem written in America, "Thanatopsis," a wonderful
achievement for a youth of that age. Six months later came the beautiful lines, "To a Waterfowl,"
and Bryant's career as a poet was fairly begun. In 1821 came the thin volume in which these
and other poems were collected, and its success finally decided its author to relinquish a
career at the bar and to turn to literature.

In the years that followed, Bryant produced a few other noteworthy poems, yet it is significant
of the thinness of his inspiration that, though he began writing in early youth and lived to
the age of eighty-four, his total product was scant in the extreme when compared with that
of any of the acknowledged masters. His earnings from this source were never great, and, removing
to New York, he secured, in 1828, the editorship of the Evening Post, with which he remained
associated until his death.

In his later years, he became an imposing national figure. But his poetry never regained the
wide acceptation which it once enjoyed, largely because taste in verse has changed, and we
have come to lay more stress upon beauty than upon ethical teaching.

America has never lacked for versifiers, and Bryant's success encouraged a greater throng than
ever to "lisp in numbers"; but few of them grew beyond the lisping stage, and it was not until
the middle of the century that any emerged from this throng to take their stand definitely
beside the author of "Thanatopsis." Then, almost simultaneously, six others disengaged themselves--Longfellow,
Whittier, Poe, Lowell, Holmes and Emerson--and remain to this day the truest poets in our history.

Of Emerson we have already spoken. His poetry has been, and still is, the subject of controversy.
To some, it is the best in our literature; to others, it is not poetry at all, but merely rhythmic
prose. It is lacking in passion, in poetic glow--for how can fire come out of an iceberg?--but
about some of it there is the clean-cut beauty of the cameo.

More than once he hit the bull's-eye, so to speak, in just that splendid way.

Of the others, Henry Wadsworth Longfellow is easily first in popular reputation, if not in
actual achievement. Born at Portland, Maine, in 1807, of a good family, he developed into an
attractive and promising boy; was a classmate at Bowdoin College of Nathaniel Hawthorne, and
after three years' study abroad, was given the chair of modern languages there. For five years
he held this position, filling it so well that in 1834 he was called to Harvard. He entered
upon his duties there after another year abroad, and continued with them for eighteen years.
The remainder of his life was spent quietly amid a congenial circle of friends at Cambridge.
He was essentially home-loving, and took no strenuous interest in public affairs; for this
reason, perhaps, he won a warmer place in public affection than has been accorded to any other
American man-of-letters, for the American people is a home-loving people, and especially admires
that quality in its great men.

From his earliest youth, Longfellow had written verses of somewhat unusual merit for a boy,
though remarkable rather for smoothness of rhythm than for depth or originality of thought.
His modern language studies involved much translation, but his first book, "Hyperion," was
not published until 1839. It attained a considerable vogue, but as nothing to the wide popularity
of "Voices of the Night," which appeared the same year. Two years later appeared "Ballads and
Other Poems," and the two collections established their author in the popular heart beyond
possibility of assault. They contained "A Psalm of Life," "The Reaper and the Flowers," "The
Village Blacksmith," and "Excelsior," which, however we may dispute their claims as poetry,
have taken their place among the treasured household verse of the nation.

Four years later, in "The Belfry of Bruges and Other Poems," he added two more to this collection,
"The Day is Done" and "The Bridge." The publication, in 1847, of "Evangeline" raised him to
the zenith of his reputation. His subsequent work confirmed him in popular estimation as the
greatest of American poets--"Hiawatha," "The Courtship of Miles Standish," and such shorter
poems as "Resignation," "The Children's Hour," "Paul Revere's Ride," and "The Old Clock on
the Stairs."

But, after all, Longfellow was not a really great poet. He lacked the strength of imagination,
the sureness of insight and the delicacy of fancy necessary to great poetry. He was rather
a sentimentalist to whom study and practice had given an exceptional command of rhythm. The
prevailing note of his best-known lyrics is one of sentimental sorrow--the note which is of
the very widest appeal. His public is largely the same public which weeps over the death of
little Nell and loves to look at Landseer's "The Old Shepherd's Chief Mourner." Longfellow
and Dickens and Landseer were all great artists and did admirable work, but scarcely the very
highest work. But Longfellow's ballads "found an echo in the universal human heart," and won
him an affection such as has been accorded no other modern poet. His place is by the hearth-side
rather than on the mountain-top--by far the more comfortable and cheerful position of the two.

The year of Longfellow's birth witnessed that of another American poet, more virile, but of
a narrower appeal--John Greenleaf Whittier. Whittier's birthplace was the old house at East
Haverhill, Massachusetts, where many generations of his Quaker ancestors had dwelt. The family
was poor, and the boy's life was a hard and cramped one, with few opportunities for schooling
or culture; yet its very rigor made for character, and developed that courage and simplicity
which were Whittier's noblest attributes.

What there was in the boy that moved him to write verse it would be difficult to say--some
bent, some crotchet, which defies explanation. Certain it is that he did write; his sister
sent some of his verses to a neighboring paper, and the result was a visit from its editor,
William Lloyd Garrison, who encouraged the boy to get some further schooling, and afterwards
helped him to secure a newspaper position in Boston. But his health failed him, and he returned
to Haverhill, removing, in 1836, to Amesbury, where the remainder of his life was spent.

He had already become interested in politics, had joined the abolitionists, and was soon the
most influential of the protestants against slavery. Into this battle he threw himself heart
and soul. It is amusing to reflect that, though a Quaker and advocate of non-resistance, he
probably did more to render the Civil War inevitable than any other one man. During the war,
his lyrics aided the Northern cause; and as soon as it was over, he labored unceasingly to
allay the evil passions which the contest had aroused. He lived to the ripe age of eighty-five,
simply and bravely, and his career was from first to last consistent and inspiring, one of
the sweetest and gentlest in history.

Although Whittier was endowed with a brighter spark of the divine fire than Longfellow, he
himself was conscious that he did not possess

    The seerlike power to show
    The secrets of the heart and mind.

He was lacking, too, in intellectual equipment--in culture, in mastery of rhythm and diction,
in felicitous phrasing. And yet, on at least two occasions, he rang sublimely true--in his
denunciation of Webster, "Ichabod," and in his idyll of New England rural life, "Snow-Bound."

The third of these New England poets, and also the least important, is Oliver Wendell Holmes.
Born at Cambridge, in the inner circle of New England aristocracy, educated at Harvard, and
studying medicine in Boston and Paris, he practiced his profession for twelve years, until,
in 1847, he was called to the chair of anatomy and physiology at Harvard, continuing in that
position until 1882. He lived until 1894, the last survivor of the seven poets whom we have
mentioned.

During his student days, Holmes had gained considerable reputation as a writer of humorous
and sentimental society verse, and during his whole life he wrote practically no other kind.
Long practice gave him an easy command of rhythm, and a careful training added delicacy to
his diction. He became remarkably dexterous in rhyme, and grew to be the recognized celebrant
of class reunions and public dinners. Urbane, felicitous and possessing an unflagging humor,
he was the prince of after-dinner poets--not a lofty position, be it observed, nor one making
for immortal fame. His highwater mark was reached in three poems, "The Chambered Nautilus,"
"The Deacon's Masterpiece," and that faultless piece of familiar verse, "The Last Leaf," all
of which are widely and affectionately known. He lacked power and depth of imagination, the
field in which he was really at home was a narrow one, and the verdict of time will probably
be that he was a pleasant versifier rather than a true poet.

His claim to the attention of posterity is likely to rest, not on his verses, but upon a sprightly
hodgepodge of imaginary table-talk, called "The Autocrat of the Breakfast-Table"--a warm-hearted,
kindly book, which still retains its savor.

And this brings us to our most versatile man-of-letters--James Russell Lowell. Born at Cambridge,
in the old house called "Elmwood," so dear to his readers, spending an ideal boyhood in the
midst of a cultured circle, treading the predestined path through Harvard, studying law and
gaining admission to the bar--such was the story of his life for the first twenty-five years.
As a student at Harvard, he had written a great deal of prose and verse of considerable merit,
and he continued this work after graduation, gaining a livelihood somewhat precarious, indeed,
yet sufficient to render it unnecessary for him to attempt to practice law. But it was not
until 1848 that he really "struck his gait."

Certainly, then, he struck it to good purpose by the publication of the "Biglow Papers" and
"A Fable for Critics," and stood revealed as one of the wisest, wittiest, most fearless and
most patriotic of moralists and satirists. For the "Biglow Papers" mark a culmination of American
humorous and satiric poetry which has never since been rivalled; and the "Fable for Critics"
displays a satiric power unequalled since the days when Byron laid his lash along the backs
of "Scotch Reviewers."

Both were real contributions to American letters, but as pure poetry both were surpassed later
in the same year by his "Vision of Sir Launfal." These three productions, indeed, promised
more for the future than Lowell was able to perform. He had gone up like a balloon; but, instead
of mounting higher, he drifted along at the same level, and at last came back to earth.

The succeeding seven years saw no production of the first importance from his pen, although
a series of lectures on poetry, which he delivered before the Lowell Institute, brought him
the offer of the chair at Harvard which Longfellow had just relinquished. Two years later,
he became editor of the Atlantic Monthly, holding the position until 1861. During this time,
he wrote little, but the opening of the Civil War gave a fresh impetus to his muse, his most
noteworthy contribution to letters being the "Commemoration Ode" with which he marked its close--a
poem which has risen steadily in public estimation, and which is, without doubt, the most notable
of its kind ever delivered in America. The poems which he published during the next twenty
years did little to enhance his reputation, which, as a poet, must rest upon his "Biglow Papers,"
his odes, and his "Vision of Sir Launfal."

Yet poetry was but one of his modes of expression, and, some think, the less important one.
Immediately following the Civil War, he turned his attention to criticism, and when these essays
were collected under the titles "Among My Books" and "My Study Windows," they proved their
author to be the ablest critic, the most accomplished scholar, the most cultured writer--in
a word, the greatest all-around man-of-letters, in America.

This prominence brought him the offer of the Spanish mission, which he accepted, going from
Madrid to London, in 1880, as Ambassador to Great Britain, and remaining there for five years.
The service he did there is incalculable; as the spokesman for America and the representative
of American culture, he took his place with dignity and honor among England's greatest; his
addresses charmed and impressed them, and he may be fairly said to have laid the foundations
of that cordial friendship between America and Great Britain which exists to-day. "I am a bookman,"
was Lowell's proudest boast--not only a writer of books, but a mighty reader of books; and
he is one of the most significant figures in American letters.

So we come to the man who measures up more nearly to the stature of a great poet than any other
American--Edgar Allan Poe. Outside of America, there has never been any hesitancy in pronouncing
Poe the first poet of his country; but, at home, it is only recently his real merit has come
to be at all generally acknowledged.

Edgar Allan Poe was born in Boston in 1809--a stroke of purest irony on the part of fate, for
he was in no respect a Bostonian, and it was to Bostonians especially that he was anathema.
His parents were actors, travelling from place to place, and his birth at Boston was purely
accidental. They had no home and no fortune, but lived from hand to mouth, in the most precarious
way, and both of them were dead before their son was two years old. He had an elder brother
and a younger sister, and these three babies were left stranded at Richmond, Virginia, entirely
without money. Luckily they were too young to realize how very dark their future was, and the
Providence which looks after the sparrows also looked after them. The wife of a well-to-do
tobacco merchant, named John Allan, took a fancy to the dark-eyed, dark-haired boy of two,
and, having no children of her own, adopted him.

It was better fortune than he could have hoped for, for he was brought up in comfort in a good
home, and his foster-parents seem to have loved him and to have been ambitious for his future.
He was an erratic boy, and was soon to get into the first of those difficulties which ended
by wrecking his life. For, entering the University of Virginia, he made the mistake of associating
with a fast set, with whom he had no business, and ended by losing heavy sums of money, which
he was, of course, unable to pay, and which his foster-father very properly refused to pay
for him. Instead, he removed the boy from college and put him to work in his office at Richmond.

Edgar felt that, in refusing to pay his debts, his foster-father had besmirched his honor.
The thought rankled in his soul, and he ended by running away from home. He got to Boston,
somehow, and enlisted in the army, serving for three years as a private. At the end of that
time, there was a reconciliation between him and his foster-father, and the latter provided
a substitute for him in the army, and secured him an appointment to the military academy at
West Point.

Why Poe should have felt that he was fitted for army life is difficult to understand, since
he had always been impatient of discipline; but to West Point he went and very promptly got
into trouble there, which culminated, at the end of the year, in court-martial and dismissal.
He knew that his foster-father's patience was exhausted, and that he could expect nothing more
from him, and he soon proved himself incapable of self-support.

He drifted from New York to Baltimore, often without knowing where his next meal was coming
from, and finally, at Baltimore, his father's widowed sister gave him a home, and he soon married
her fragile daughter, Virginia Clemm. But he had long been a prey to intemperance, and his
habits in consequence were so irregular that he was unable to retain any permanent position.
The truth seems to be that Poe was of a temperament so intensely nervous and sensitive that
the smallest amount of alcoholic stimulant excited him beyond control, and he lacked the will-power
to leave it alone altogether, which was his only chance of safety.

Yet he had gained a certain reputation with discerning people by the publication of a few poems
of surprising merit, as well as a number of tales as remarkable and compelling as have ever
been written in any language. That is a broad statement, and yet it is literally true. Not
only is Poe America's greatest poet, but he is still more decidedly her greatest short-story
writer--so much the greatest, that with the exception of Nathaniel Hawthorne, she has never
produced another to rival him.

If further testimony to his genius were needed, it might be found in the fact that he was still
unable to make a living with his pen, and was forced to see his wife growing daily weaker without
the means to provide her proper nourishment. His sufferings were frightful; he was compelled
to bend his pride to an appeal for public charity, and the death of his wife wrecked such moral
self-control as he had remaining.

The rest is soon told. There was a rapid deterioration, and on October 3, 1849, he was found
unconscious in a saloon at Baltimore, where an election had been in progress and where Poe
had been made drunk and then used as an illegal voter. He was taken to a hospital, treated
for delirium tremens, and died three days later, a miserable outcast, at an age where he should
have been at the very zenith of his powers. The pages of the world's history show no death
more pathetically tragic.

Such a death naturally offended right-thinking people. Especially did it offend the New England
conscience, which has never been able to divorce art from morals; and as the literary dominance
of New England was at that time absolute, Poe was buried under a mass of uncharitable criticism.
It should not be forgotten that he had struck the poisoned barb of his satire deep into many
a New England sage, and it was, perhaps, only human nature to strike back. So it came to pass
that Poe was pointed out, not as a man of genius, but as a horrible example and degrading influence
to be sedulously avoided.

With foreign readers, all this counted for nothing. They were concerned not with the life of
the man, but with the work of the artist, and they found that work consummately good. They
were charmed and thrilled by the haunting melody of his verse and the weird horror of his tales.
In his own country, recognition of his genius has grown rapidly of recent years. Within his
own sphere, he is unquestionably the greatest artist America can boast--he climbed Parnassus
higher than any of his countrymen, and if he did not quite attain a seat among the immortals,
he at least caught some portion of their radiance.

After Poe, the man whom foreign critics consider America's most representative poet is another
who has been without honor in his own country, and about whom, even yet, there is the widest
difference of opinion--Walt Whitman. Whitman was ostracized for many years not because of his
life, which was regular and admirable enough, but because of his verse, which is exceedingly
irregular in more than one respect.

Whitman was by birth and training a man of the people. His father was a carpenter, and, after
receiving a common-school education, the boy entered a printer's office at the age of thirteen.
A printer's office is, in itself, a source of education, and Whitman soon began to write for
the papers, finally going to New York City, where, for twelve years, he worked on Newspaper
Row, as reporter or compositor, making friends with all sorts and conditions of men and entering
heart and soul into the busy life of the great city. The people, the seething masses on the
streets, had a compelling fascination for him.

Tiring of New York, at last, he started on a tramp trip to the southwest, worked in New Orleans
and other towns, swung around through the northwest, and so back to Brooklyn, where he became,
strangely enough, a contractor--a builder and seller of houses. He had been reading a great
deal, all these years, but as yet had given no indication of what was to be his literary life-work.

And yet, fermenting inside the man and at last demanding expression, was a strange new philosophy
of democracy, all-tolerant, holding the individual to be of the first importance, male and
female equal, the body to be revered no less than the soul. For the promulgation of this philosophy,
some worthy literary form was needed--poetry, since that was the noblest form, but poetry stripped
of conventions and stock phrases, as "fluent and free as the people and the land and the great
system of democracy which it was to celebrate." With some such idea as this, not outlined in
words, nor, perhaps, very clearly understood even by himself, Whitman set to work, and the
result was the now famous "Leaves of Grass," a collection of twelve poems, printed by the author
in Brooklyn in 1855.

Like most other philosophies and prophecies, it fell on heedless ears. Few people read it,
and those who did were exasperated by its far-fetched diction or scandalized by its free treatment
of delicate topics. In the next year, a second edition appeared, containing thirty-two poems;
but the book had practically no sale.

Then came the Civil War, and Whitman, volunteering not for the field, but for work in the hospitals,
proved that the doctrine of brotherly love, so basic to his poems, was basic also to his character.
"Not till the sun excludes you, neither will I exclude you," he had declared; and now he devoted
himself to nursing, on battlefield, in camp and hospital, doing what he could to cheer and
lighten the worst side of war, an attractive and inspiring figure.

Lincoln, looking out of a window of the White House, saw him go past one day; a majestic person
with snow-white beard and hair, his cotton shirt open at the throat, six feet tall and perfectly
proportioned; and the President, without knowing who he was, but mistaking him probably for
a common laborer, turned to a friend who stood beside him and remarked, "There goes a man!"
And Whitman was a man. Up to that time, he had never been ill a day; but two years later, at
the age of fifty-three, his health gave way, under the strain of nursing, and from that time
until his death he was, physically, "a man in ruins." Mentally, he was as alert and virile as ever.

He was given a clerical position in one of the departments at Washington after that, remaining
there until, in 1873, an attack of paralysis incapacitated him even for clerical labor. Meanwhile
he had issued his poems of the war, under the title "Drum-Taps," and had softened some hostile
hearts by the two noble tributes to Lincoln there included, "O Captain, my Captain!" and "When
Lilacs last in the Dooryard Bloom'd." But his poetry brought him no income and, for a time,
after his removal to Camden, New Jersey, where the remainder of his life was to be passed,
he was in absolute want. Friends increased, however; his poems were re-issued, and his last
years were spent in the midst of a circle of disciples, who hailed Whitman as a seer and prophet
and were guilty of other fatuities which made the judicious grieve and did much to keep them
alienated from the poet's work.

Since his death, his fame has become established on a firmer basis than hysterical adulation;
but it is yet too soon to attempt to judge him, to say what his ultimate rank will be. It seems
probable that it will be a high one, and it is possible that, centuries hence, the historian
of American letters will start with Whitman as the first exponent of an original and democratic
literature, disregarding all that has gone before as merely imitative of Europe.

Of our lesser poets, only a few need be mentioned here. Bayard Taylor, born in Pennsylvania
in 1825, of Quaker stock and reared in the tenets of that sect, at one time loomed large in
American letters, but it is doubtful whether anything of his has the quality of permanency.
His personality was a picturesque and fascinating one and his life interesting and romantic.

A poor boy, burning with the itch to write and especially to travel; at the age of nineteen
making his way to England, and from there to Germany; spending two years in Europe, enduring
hardships, living with the common people; and finally returning home to find that his letters
to the newspapers had been read with interest and had won a considerable audience--these were
the first steps in his struggle for recognition. He collected his letters into a book called
"Views Afoot," which at once became widely popular, and his reputation was made.

But it was a reputation as a reporter and traveller, and Taylor, much as he despised it, was
never able to get away from it. He became, perforce, a sort of official traveller for the American
people, journeyed in California, in the Orient, in Russia, Lapland--in most of the out-of-the-way
corners of the world--and his books of travel were uniformly interesting and successful. They
do not attract to-day, not, as Park Benjamin put it, because Taylor travelled more and saw
less than any other man who ever lived, but because they lack the charm of style, depth of
thought, and keenness of observation which the present generation has come to expect.

During all this time, Taylor was struggling with pathetic earnestness for recognition as a
novelist and poet, but with poor measure of success. His novels were crude and amateurish,
and have long since become negligible; but his verse is somewhat more important. His travels
in the East furnished him material for his "Poems of the Orient," which represent him at his best.

His ambition, however, was to write a great epic; but for this he lacked both intellectual
and emotional equipment, and his attempts in this field were virtual failures. These failures
were to him most tragic; not only that, but he found himself financially embarrassed, and was
forced to turn to such hack work as the writing of school histories in order to gain a livelihood.
But his friends, of whom he had always a wide circle, secured him the mission to Germany, and
he entered on his duties in high spirits--only to die suddenly one morning while sitting in
his library at Berlin. A generous, impulsive and warm-hearted man, Bayard Taylor will be remembered
for what he was, rather than for what he did.

Two other poets, whose deaths occurred not many months ago, have made noteworthy contributions
to American letters--Edmund Clarence Stedman and Thomas Bailey Aldrich. Of the two, Aldrich
was by far the better craftsman, his verse possessing a wit, a daintiness and perfection of
finish which sets it apart in a class almost by itself. In prose, too, Aldrich wrote attractively,
but always rather with the air of a dilettante, and without the depth and passion of genius.
Stedman also possessed wit and polish, though in less degree, and the verse of both these men
is delightful reading.

More recent still has been the death of a man whose verse ranks with that of either Stedman
or Aldrich--Richard Watson Gilder. Some of his lyrics are very beautiful, but they appeal to
the intellect rather than to the heart. Perhaps for this reason, as well as for a certain lack
of substance and virility, his verse has never had a wide appeal.

Two men whose names have become household words because of their delightful verses for and
about children are Eugene Field and James Whitcomb Riley. Field is the greater of the two,
for he possessed a depth of feeling and insight which is lacking in Riley. Few lyrics have
been more widely popular than his "Little Boy Blue" and "Dutch Lullaby"; while Riley's "Little
Orphant Annie" and "The Raggedy Man" are equally well known.

Alice and Phoebe Cary are remembered for a few simply-written lyrics; Julia Ward Howe's "Battle-Hymn
of the Republic" lives as the worthiest piece of verse evoked by the Civil War; and Joaquin
Miller is known for a certain rude power in song; but none of them is of sufficient importance
to demand extended study.

       *       *       *       *       *

It will be noted that, among all the poets who have been mentioned here, not one was distinctively
of the South. Poe's youth was spent in Richmond, but he was in no sense Southern. Indeed, the
South has only three names to offer of even minor importance--Sidney Lanier, Henry Timrod,
and Paul Hamilton Hayne. None of these men produced anything of the first order, and much of
their verse is marred by amateurishness and want of finish--the result, in the first place,
of defective training, and, in the second place, of an incapacity for taking pains, of a habit
which relied too much on "inspiration" and too little on intellectual effort.

For verse, to be perfect, must be polished like a diamond, slowly and carefully, until every
facet sparkles. This means that the right word or phrase must be searched for until it is found.
Perhaps you have read Mr. Barrie's inimitable story "Sentimental Tommy," and you will remember
how Tommy failed to write the prize essay because he couldn't think of the right word, and
would be satisfied with no other. Well, that is the spirit. Somebody has said that "easy writing
makes hard reading," and this is especially true of poetry. Inspiration doesn't extend to technic--that
must be acquired, like any art, with infinite pains.

Of the three poets, Lanier, Timrod, and Hayne, Lanier was by far the greatest, and has even
become, in a small way, the centre of a cult; but his voice, while often pure and sweet, lacks
the strength needed to carry it down the ages. He is like a little brook making beautiful some
meadow or strip of woodland; but only mighty rivers reach the ocean. Lanier is memorable not
so much for his work as for the gallant fight he made against the consumption which he had
contracted as the result of exposure in the Confederate army during the Civil War. The war
also played a disastrous part in the lives of both Hayne and Timrod, for it impoverished both
of them, and did much to hasten the latter's death.

Timrod, too, rose occasionally to noble utterance, but his voice is fainter and his talent
more slender than Lanier's. His life was a painful one, marred by poverty and disease, and
he died at the age of thirty-eight. Hayne's work is even less important, for he did not, like
Timrod and Lanier, touch an occasional height of inspired utterance. His name is cherished
in his native state of South Carolina, and in Georgia, where his last years were spent; but
his poems are little read elsewhere.

Timrod and Hayne were both born at Charleston, South Carolina, as was a third poet and novelist,
who, in his day, loomed far larger than either of them, but who is now almost forgotten, except
by students of American literature--William Gilmore Simms. Few American writers have produced
so much--eighteen volumes of verse, three dramas, thirty-five novels and volumes of short stories,
and about as many more books of history, biography and miscellany--and none, of like prominence
in his day, has dropped more completely out of sight. In common with the other Southern writers
we have mentioned, Simms lacked self-restraint and the power of self-criticism.

Genius has been defined as the capacity for taking pains; and perhaps it is because Southern
writers have lacked this capacity that none of them has proved to be a genius. Elbert Hubbard
says that Simms "courted oblivion--and won her" by returning to the South after having achieved
some success in the North; but it is doubtful if this had anything to do with it. The truth
is that Simms's work has lost its appeal because of its inherent defects, and there is no chance
that its popularity will ever be regained. And yet, while his verse is negligible--although
he always thought himself a greater poet than novelist--some of his tales of the Carolinas
and the Southwest possess a rude power and interest deserving of a better fate. Certainly Simms
seems to have been the best imaginative writer the antebellum South produced.

American imaginative literature to-day resembles a lofty plateau rather than a mountain range.
It shows a high level of achievement, but no mighty peaks. Novelists and poets alike have learned
how to use their tools; they work with conviction--but in clay rather than in marble. In other
words, they work without what we call inspiration; they have talent, but not genius. This is,
perhaps, partly the fault of the age, which has come to place so high a value upon literary
form that the quality of the material is often lost sight of. Let us hope that some day a genius
will arise who will be great enough to disregard form and to strike out his own path across
the domain of letters.

Meanwhile, it is safe to advise boys and girls to spend their time over the old things rather
than over the new ones. There is so much good literature in the world that there is really
no excuse for reading bad, and the latest novel will not give half the solid entertainment
to be got from scores of the older ones. One of the most valuable and delightful things in
the world is the power to appreciate good literature. To have worthy "friends on the shelf,"
in the shape of great books, is to insure oneself against loneliness and ennui.

SUMMARY

BRYANT, WILLIAM CULLEN. Born at Cummington, Massachusetts, November 3, 1794; studied at Williams
College, 1810-11; admitted to the bar, 1815; published "Thanatopsis," 1816; editor-in-chief
New York Evening Post, 1829; published first collection of poems, 1821, and others from time
to time until his death, at New York City, June 12, 1878.

LONGFELLOW, HENRY WADSWORTH. Born at Portland, Maine, February 27, 1807; graduated at Bowdoin
College, 1825; travelled in Europe, 1826-29; professor of modern languages at Bowdoin, 1829-35;
professor of modern languages and belles lettres at Harvard, 1836-54; published "Voices of
the Night," 1839; "Ballads and Other Poems," 1841; "Poems on Slavery," 1842; and many other
collections of his poems, until his death at Cambridge, Massachusetts, March 24, 1882.

WHITTIER, JOHN GREENLEAF. Born at Haverhill, Massachusetts, December 17, 1807; attended Haverhill
Academy; edited "American Manufacturer," at Boston, 1829; edited the Haverhill Gazette, 1830;
became secretary of the American Anti-Slavery Society, 1836; member of Massachusetts legislature,
1835-36; settled at Amesbury, Massachusetts, 1840; published "Legends of New England," 1831;
"Moll Pitcher," 1832; and many other collections of his poems until his death at Hampton Falls,
New Hampshire, September 7, 1892.

HOLMES, OLIVER WENDELL. Born at Cambridge, Massachusetts, August 29, 1809; professor of anatomy
and physiology, Harvard Medical School, 1847-82; published "Autocrat of the Breakfast Table,"
1858; "Elsie Venner," 1861; "Songs in Many Keys," 1861; and other collections of poems and
essays; died at Cambridge, October 7, 1894.

LOWELL, JAMES RUSSELL. Born at Cambridge, Massachusetts, February 22, 1819; graduated at Harvard,
1838; professor of belles lettres at Harvard, 1855; editor Atlantic Monthly, 1857-62; editor
North American Review, 1863-72; minister to Spain, 1877-80; minister to Great Britain, 1880-85;
published "A Year's Life," 1841; "Vision of Sir Launfal," 1845; "A Fable for Critics," 1848;
"The Biglow Papers," 1848; and many other collections of essays, criticisms, and poems; died
at Cambridge, August 12, 1891.

POE, EDGAR ALLAN. Born at Boston, January 19, 1809; entered University of Virginia, 1826; ran
away from home, 1827; published "Tamerlane and Other Poems, by a Bostonian," 1827; enlisted
in the army as Edgar A. Perry, rising to rank of sergeant-major, 1829; entered West Point,
July 1, 1830; dismissed, March 6, 1831; married Virginia Clemm, 1835, who died in 1847; published
"Poems," 1831; "Tales of the Grotesque and Arabesque," 1840; died at Baltimore, October 7, 1849.

WHITMAN, WALT OR WALTER. Born at West Hills, Long Island, May 31, 1819; a printer, carpenter,
and journalist in early life; volunteered as army nurse, 1861; seized with hospital malaria,
1864; held government position at Washington, 1864-73; disabled by paralysis and removed to
Camden, New Jersey, where he died, March 26, 1892. "Leaves of Grass," published originally
in 1855, was many times revised, a final edition appearing in 1892.

TAYLOR, BAYARD. Born at Kennett Square, Chester County, Pennsylvania, January 11, 1825; apprenticed
to a printer, 1842; travelled on foot through Europe, 1844-46; in Egypt, Asia Minor, and Syria,
1851-52; in India, China, and Japan, 1852-53; secretary of legation at St. Petersburg, 1862-63;
minister to Berlin, 1878; died at Berlin, December 19, 1878. He published collections of poems
and travel letters.

STEDMAN, EDMUND CLARENCE. Born at Hartford, Connecticut, October 8, 1833; entered Yale, 1839,
leaving in junior year; was correspondent New York World, 1861-63; later became stockbroker
in New York City, retiring only a short time before his death in New York, January 18, 1908.
Published several collections of poems.

ALDRICH, THOMAS BAILEY. Born at Portsmouth, New Hampshire, November 11, 1836; editor of Every
Saturday, 1870-74; editor of The Atlantic Monthly, 1881-90; published "Bells," 1855; "Ballad
of Baby Bell," 1856; and many other collections of poetry, together with several novels and
collections of short stories; died March 19, 1907.

FIELD, EUGENE. Born at St. Louis, Missouri, September 2, 1850; began newspaper work at age
of twenty-three, and ten years later became associated with the Chicago Daily News, where most
of his work appeared; his first book of verse, "A Little Book of Western Verse," was published
in 1889, and a number of others followed; died at Chicago, Illinois, November 4, 1895.

RILEY, JAMES WHITCOMB. Born at Greenfield, Indiana, 1853; entered journalism at Indianapolis,
1873; wrote first verses, 1875; first book of verse, "The Old Swimmin'-Hole and 'Leven More
Poems," published in 1883; numerous volumes since then.

LANIER, SIDNEY. Born at Macon, Georgia, February 3, 1842; served in Confederate Army, and suffered
exposure which resulted in consumption; studied and practised law till 1873; then decided to
devote life to music and poetry; played first flute in the Peabody Symphony Orchestra at Baltimore;
lecturer on English literature at Johns Hopkins University, 1879-81; complete poems published
1881; died at Lynn, North Carolina, September 7, 1881.

TIMROD, HENRY. Born at Charleston, South Carolina, December 8, 1829; educated at the University
of Georgia, studied law and supported himself as a private tutor until the Civil War; war correspondent
and then assistant editor of The South Carolinian, at Columbia, until Sherman burned the town;
died at Columbia, South Carolina, October 6, 1867; his poems, edited by Paul Hamilton Hayne,
published 1873.

HAYNE, PAUL HAMILTON. Born at Charleston, South Carolina, January 1, 1830; graduated at the
University of South Carolina, edited Russell's Magazine and the Literary Gazette, and served
for a time in the Confederate Army; first poems published 1855; complete edition, 1882; died
near Augusta, Georgia, July 6, 1886.

SIMMS, WILLIAM GILMORE. Born at Charleston, South Carolina, April 17, 1806; admitted to bar,
1827, but abandoned law for literature and journalism; first poems published 1827; resided
at Hingham, Massachusetts, 1832-33, where longest poem, "Atalantis," was written; first novel,
"Martin Faber," published 1833, and followed by many others; returned to South Carolina, 1833,
and died at Charleston, June 11, 1870.

CHAPTER IV

PAINTERS

If background and tradition are needed for literature, they are even more needed for art, and
it is curiously worth noting that the background and traditions of England did not serve for
her child across the sea. In both literature and art, so far as vital and significant achievement
is concerned, the young nation had to find itself, and, starting from a rude and rough beginning,
work its way upward of its own strength. Perhaps in no other way may the youth of America be
so completely realized as by the thought that all of real importance in both literature and
art which she can boast has been produced within the past ninety years--little more than the
three score years and ten which the Psalmist assigned as the span of a single life.

We do not mean to say that European influence is not plainly to be traced in both our art and
literature. There is a family resemblance, so to speak, as between a child and its parents,
and yet the child has an individuality of its own. In literature, Cooper, Poe, Hawthorne, Longfellow,
Whitman are distinctively American; and, as we shall find, so are our masters of painting and
sculpture.

American art begins with John Singleton Copley. There had been daubers before him, as there
were after, but Copley was the first man born in America who produced paintings which the world
still contemplates with pleasure. Copley was born in Boston in 1737, his father dying shortly
afterwards, and his mother supporting herself by keeping a tobacco shop. About 1746 she married
again, most fortunately for her son, for her second husband was Peter Pelham, a mezzotint engraver
of considerable merit, who gave the boy lessons in drawing. He proved an apt and precocious
pupil, and by the time he had reached seventeen had executed a number of portraits.

His reputation steadily increased, and his income from his work was so satisfactory that he
hesitated to try his fortunes in the larger field of London. Finally, in 1774, he sailed for
England, and in the next year sent for his family to join him there. The opening of the Revolution
persuaded him to stay in England, as there would be no demand for his work in America in so
tumultuous a time. In London his talents brought him ample patronage, his income enabled him
to live the stately and dignified life he loved, so that, when the Revolution ended, there
seemed no reason why he should abandon it for the crudities of Boston. He therefore continued
in London until the end of his life, which came in 1815.

Copley was a laborious and painstaking craftsman, setting down what he saw upon canvas with
uncompromising sincerity. He worked very slowly and many stories are told of how he tried the
patience of his sitters. The result was a series of portraits which preserve the very spirit
of the age--serious, self-reliant and capable, pompous and lacking humor. His later work has
an atmosphere and repose which his early work lacks, but it is less important to America. His
early portraits, which hang on the walls of so many Boston homes, and which Oliver Wendell
Holmes called the titles of nobility of the old Boston families, are priceless documents of
history.

Copley was an artist from choice rather than necessity; he followed painting because it assured
him a good livelihood, and he was a patient and painstaking craftsman. His life was serene
and happy; he was without the tribulations, as he seems to have been without the enthusiasms
of the great artist. Not so with his most famous contemporary, Benjamin West, whose life was
filled to overflowing with the contrast and picturesqueness which Copley's lacked.

West was born in 1738 at a little Pennsylvania frontier settlement. His parents were Quakers,
and to the rigor and simplicity of frontier life were added those of that sect. But even these
handicaps could not turn the boy aside from his vocation, for he was a born painter, if there
ever was one. At the age of six he tried to draw, with red and black ink, a likeness of a baby
he had been set to watch; a year later, a party of friendly Indians, amused by some sketches
of birds and leaves he showed them, taught him how to prepare the red and yellow colors which
they used on their ornaments. His mother furnished some indigo, brushes were secured by clipping
the family cat--no doubt greatly to its disgust--and with these crude materials he set to work.

His success won him the present of a box of paints from a relative in Philadelphia. With that
treasure the boy lived and slept, and his mother, finally discovering that he was running away
from school, found him in the garret with a picture before him which she refused to let him
finish lest he should spoil it. That painting was preserved to be exhibited sixty-six years later.

The boy's talent was so evident, and his determination to be a painter so fixed, that his parents
finally overcame their scruples against an occupation which they considered vain and useless,
and sent him to Philadelphia. There he lived as frugally as possible, saving his money for
a trip to Italy, and finally, at the age of twenty-two, set sail for Europe.

His success there was immediate. He gained friends in the most influential circles, spent three
years in study in Italy, and going to London in 1764, received so many commissions that he
decided to live there permanently. He wrote home for his father to join him, and to bring with
him a Miss Shewell, to whom West was betrothed. He also wrote to the young lady, stating that
his father would sail at a certain time, and asking her to join him. The letter fell into the
hands of Miss Shewell's brother, who objected to West for some reason, and who promptly locked
the girl in her room. Three friends of West's concluded that this outrage upon true love was
not to be endured, smuggled a rope-ladder to her, and got her out of the house and safely on
board the vessel. These three friends were Benjamin Franklin, Francis Hopkinson and William
White, the latter the first Bishop of the American Episcopal Church, and the exploit was one
which they were always proud to remember. Miss Shewell reached London safely and the lovers
were happily married.

Meanwhile West's success had been given a sudden impetus by his introduction to King George
III. The two men became lifelong friends, and the King gave him commission after commission,
culminating in a command to decorate the Royal Chapel at Windsor. His first reverse came when
the King's mind began to fail. His commissions were cancelled and his pensions stopped. He
was deposed from the Presidency of the Royal Academy, which he had founded, and was for a time
in needy circumstances; but the tide soon turned, and his last years were marked by the production
of a number of great paintings. He died at the age of eighty-two, and was buried in St. Paul's
Cathedral with splendid ceremonies. So ended one of the most remarkable careers in history.

West was, perhaps, more notable as a man than as an artist, for his fame as a painter has steadily
declined. His greatest service to art was the example he set of painting historical groups
in the costume of the period instead of in the vestments of the early Romans, as had been the
custom. This innovation was made by him in his picture of the death of General Wolfe, and created
no little disturbance. His friends, including Reynolds, protested against such a desecration
of tradition; even the King questioned him, and West replied that the painter should be bound
by truth as well as the historian, and to represent a group of English soldiers in the year
1758 as dressed in classic costume was absurd. After the picture was completed, Reynolds was
the first to declare that West had won, and that his picture would occasion a revolution in
art--as, indeed, it did.

It is difficult to understand the habit of thought which insisted on clothing great men in
garments they could never by any possibility have worn, yet it persisted until a comparatively
late day. The most famous example in this country is Greenough's statue of Washington, just
outside the Capitol. One looks at it with a certain sense of shock, for the Father of His Country
is sitting half-naked, in a great arm chair, with some drapery over his legs, and a fold hanging
over one shoulder. We shall have occasion in the next chapter to speak of it and of its maker.

Another of West's services to art was the wholehearted way in which he extended a helping hand
to any who needed it. He was always willing to give such instruction as he could, and among
his pupils were at least four men who added not a little to American art--Charles Willson Peale,
Gilbert Stuart, John Trumbull, and Thomas Sully.

Peale was born in Maryland in 1741, and was, among other things, a saddler, a coach-maker,
a clock-maker and a silversmith. He finally decided to add painting to his other accomplishments,
so he secured some painting materials and a book of instructions and set to work. In 1770,
a number of gentlemen of Annapolis furnished him with enough money to go to England, a loan
which he promised to repay with pictures upon his return. West received him kindly, and when
Peale's money gave out, as it soon did, welcomed him into his own house. Peale remained in
London for four years, returning to America in time to join Washington as a captain of volunteers,
and to take part in the battles of Trenton and Germantown.

After the war he continued painting, but, in 1801, his mind, always alert for new experiences,
was led away in a strange direction. The bones of a mammoth were discovered in Ulster County,
New York, and Peale secured possession of them, had them taken to Philadelphia, and started
a museum. It rapidly increased in size, for all sorts of curiosities poured in upon him, and
he began a series of lectures on natural history, which, whether learned or not, proved so
interesting that large and distinguished audiences gathered to hear him. In 1805, he founded
the Pennsylvania Academy of the Fine Arts, the oldest and most flourishing institution of the
kind in the country. He lived to a hale old age, never having known sickness, and dying as
the result of incautious exposure. Like West, his life is more interesting than his work, for
while he painted fairly good portraits, they were the work rather of a skilled craftsman than
of an artist.

The second of West's pupils whom we have mentioned, Gilbert Stuart, was by far the greatest
of the earlier artists. He was born near Newport, R. I., in 1755, his father being a Jacobite
refugee from Scotland. He began to paint at an early age, worked faithfully at drawing, and
finally, at the age of nineteen, began portrait painting in earnest. One of his first pictures
was a striking example of a remarkable characteristic, the power of visual memory, which he
retained through his whole life. His grandmother had died five or six years before, but he
painted a portrait of her, producing so striking a likeness that it immediately brought him
orders for others. But Newport had grown distasteful to him, and in 1775, he started for London.

How he got there is not certainly known, but get there he did, without money or friends, or
much hope of making either, and for three years lived a precarious life, earning a little money,
borrowing what he could, twice imprisoned for debt, and with it all so gay and brilliant and
talented that those he wronged most loved him most. Finally, he was introduced to Benjamin
West, and found in him an invaluable friend and patron. For nearly four years, Stuart worked
as West's student and assistant, steadily improving in drawing, developing a technique of astonishing
merit, and, more than that, one that was all his own.

His portraits soon attracted attention, and at the end of a few years, he was earning a large
income. But he squandered it so recklessly that he was finally forced to flee to Ireland to
escape his creditors. They pursued him, threw him into prison, and the legend is that he painted
most of the Irish aristocracy in his cell in the Dublin jail.

At last, in 1792, he returned to America, animated by a desire to paint a portrait of Washington.
Arrangements for a sitting were made, but it is related that Stuart, although he had painted
many famous men and was at ease in most society, found himself strangely embarrassed in Washington's
presence. The President was kindly and courteous, but the portrait was a failure. He tried
again, and produced the portrait which remains to this day the accepted likeness of the First
American. You will find it as the frontispiece to "Men of Action," and it is worth examining
closely, for it is an example of art rarely surpassed, as well as a remarkable portrait of
our most remarkable citizen.

Gilbert Stuart still holds his place among the greatest of American portrait painters. His
heads, painted simply and without artifice, and yet with high imagination, are unsurpassed;
they possess insight, they accomplish that greatest of all tasks, the delineation of character.
Stuart's portraits--as every portrait must, to be truly great--show not only how his sitters
looked but what they were. Art can accomplish no more than that.

The anecdotes which are told of him are innumerable, and most of them have to do with his hot
temper, which grew hotter and hotter as his years increased and he became more and more a public
character. One day, a loving husband, whose wife Stuart had put on canvas in an unusually uncompromising
way, complained that the portrait did not do her justice.

"What an infernal business is this of a portrait painter," Stuart cried, at last, his patience
giving way. "You bring him a potato and expect him to paint you a peach!"

But look at his portrait at the beginning of this chapter, and you will see a witty and kindly
old gentleman, as well as an irascible one.

John Trumbull was a student of West's at the same time that Stuart was. He was a year younger,
and was a son of that Jonathan Trumbull, afterwards governor of Connecticut, whose title of
Brother Jonathan, given him by Washington, became afterwards a sort of national nickname. He
was an infant prodigy, graduating from Harvard at an age when most boys were entering, and
afterwards going to Boston to take lessons from Copley. The outbreak of the Revolution stopped
his studies; he enlisted in the army, won rapid promotion, and finally resigned in a huff because
he thought his commission as colonel incorrectly dated.

In 1780, he sailed for France, on his way to London, met Benjamin Franklin in Paris and from
him secured a letter of introduction to Benjamin West, who welcomed him with his unfailing
cordiality; but he had scarcely commenced his studies when he was arrested and thrown into
prison. The reason was the arrest and execution at New York of Major André, who was captured
with Benedict Arnold's treasonable correspondence hidden in his boot, and who was hanged as
a spy. Knowing that Trumbull had been an officer in the American army, and anxious to avenge
André's death, the King ordered his arrest, but West interceded for him and secured his release
several weeks later.

Warned that England was unsafe for him, Trumbull returned to America and remained there until
after the close of the Revolution. The beginning of 1784 saw him again in London, at work on
his two famous paintings, "The Battle of Bunker Hill" and "The Death of General Montgomery,"
and from that time until his death he was occupied almost exclusively with the painting of
pictures illustrating events in American history--"The Surrender of Cornwallis," "The Battle
of Princeton," "The Capture of the Hessians at Trenton," to mention only three. In 1816 he
received a commission to paint four of the eight commemorative pictures in the Capitol at Washington,
and completed the last one eight years later, this being his last important work.

Trumbull is in no respect to be compared with Gilbert Stuart, but his work was done with a
painstaking accuracy which makes it valuable as a historical document. For the personages of
his pictures he painted a great number of miniatures from life, which, in many cases, are the
only surviving presentments of some of the most prominent men of the time.

After Gilbert Stuart, Thomas Sully was by far the greatest of the men who studied in West's
studio. Stuart aside, there was no American painter of the day to equal him. He was born in
England in 1783, but was brought to this country by his parents at the age of nine. The Sullys
were actors of some talent and secured an engagement at Charleston, South Carolina, and there
the boy was placed first in school, and then in the office of an insurance broker. He spent
so much time making sketches that his employer decided he was destined for art and not for
business, and secured another clerk.

Young Sully thoroughly agreed with this and started out to be an artist. He had no money, nor
means of earning any, but he managed to secure some desultory instruction, and this, added
to his native talent, enabled him to begin to paint portraits for which uncritical persons
were willing to pay. But it was a hard road, and none was more conscious of his deficiencies
than himself. He knew that he needed training, and finally started for England with a purse
of four hundred dollars in his pocket, which had been subscribed by friends, who were each
to be repaid by a copy of an old master.

Arrived at London, Sully at once got himself introduced to Benjamin West, who received him
"like a father," admitted him to his studio, and aided him in many ways. He remained there,
painting by day, drawing by night, studying anatomy in every spare moment, and living on bread
and potatoes and water in order to make his money last as long as possible. At the end of nine
months it was gone, and he was forced to return to America.

But those nine months of study had given him just what he needed, and his talent soon gained
recognition. Orders poured in upon him at good prices; and though his prosperity afterwards
dwindled somewhat, he never again experienced the pangs of poverty. He made Philadelphia his
home, and for nearly half a century occupied a house on Chestnut Street which had been built
for him by Stephen Girard. His work is in every way worthy of respect--firm and serious and
rich with a warm and mellow color.

Benjamin West had many other pupils--indeed, his studio was a sort of incubator for American
artists--but none of them won any permanent fame. One, Washington Allston, achieved considerable
contemporary reputation, but it seems to have resulted more from his own winning personality
than from his work. He possessed a charm which fairly dazzled all who met him, notably Coleridge
and Washington Irving. His smaller canvasses, graceful figures or heads, to which he attached
little importance, are more admired to-day than his more ambitious ones.

Another pupil was John Vanderlyn, of Dutch stock, as his name shows, a protégé of Aaron Burr,
and the painter of the best known portrait of his daughter, Theodosia, as well as of Burr himself.
When Burr, an outcast in fortune and men's eyes, fled to Paris, Vanderlyn, who had made some
reputation there, was able to repay, to some extent, the kindness which Burr had shown him.
His work shows care and serious thought, but his last years were embittered by the indifference
of the public, and he died in want.

       *       *       *       *       *

That versatile genius and hale old man, Charles Willson Peale, to whom we have already referred,
had many children, and he christened them with most distinguished names, so that, in the end,
he could boast himself the father of Raphael, Rembrandt, Rubens and Titian. Alas that the name
does not make the man! Only one of them, Rembrandt, achieved any distinction in art, and that
but a faint and far-off reflection of the master whose name he bore.

Like his father, he was interested in many things besides his art; he conducted a museum at
Baltimore, introduced illuminating gas there, wrote voluminous memoirs, and, living until 1860,
became a sort of dean of the profession. An example of his work will be found in "Men of Action,"
the likeness of Thomas Jefferson given there being a reproduction from a portrait painted by
him. His portraits are not held in high estimation at the present day, for, while correct enough
in drawing, they show little insight. We have come to demand something more than mechanical
skill, and that "something more," which makes the artist and divides him from the artisan,
is exactly what Rembrandt Peale did not possess.

It is interesting, too, to note that one of the most promising painters of the time was S.
F. B. Morse. In the Yale School of Fine Arts hangs a portrait of Mrs. De Forest, and in the
New York City Hall one of Lafayette, both of them from his brush, and both not unworthy the
best traditions of American art. But a chance conversation about electricity turned his thoughts
in that direction, and he abandoned painting for invention--the result being the electric telegraph.
We shall speak of him further in the chapter on inventors.

       *       *       *       *       *

The passing of Washington Allston and his group marked the end of Benjamin West's influence,
and, in a way, of English influence, on American painting. It marked, too, a lapse in interest,
for it was a long time before it found for itself an adequate mode of expression. There are,
however, two or three men of the period whom we must mention, not so much because of their
achievements, which had little significance, as because of their remarkable and inspiring lives.

Chester Harding, reared on the New York frontier, a typical back-woodsman, by turns a peddler,
a tavern-keeper, and house-painter, and a failure at all of them, got so deeply in debt that
he ran away to Pittsburgh to escape his creditors, and there, to his amazement, one day saw
an itinerant painter painting a portrait. Before that, he had secured work of some sort, and
his wife had joined him. Filled with admiration for the artist's work, he procured a board
and some paint, and sat down to paint a portrait of his wife. He actually did produce a likeness,
and, delighted at the result, practiced a while longer, and then, proceeding to Paris, Kentucky--perhaps
through some association of the name with the great art centre of Europe--boldly announced
himself as a portrait painter, and got about a hundred people to pay him twenty-five dollars
apiece to paint them.

He spent some time at Cincinnati, and got as far west as St. Louis, where he journeyed nearly
a hundred miles to find Daniel Boone living in his log cabin on his Missouri land, and painted
the portrait of that old pioneer which is reproduced in "Men of Action." Boone was at that
time ninety years of age, and Harding found him living almost alone, roasting a piece of venison
on the end of his ramrod, as had been his custom all his life.

One of the most surprising things in the history of American art is the facility with which
men of all trades turned to portrait painting, apparently as a last resort, and managed to
make a living at it. During the first half of the last century, the country seems to have been
overrun with wandering portrait painters, whose only equipment for the art was some paint and
a bundle of brushes. They had, for the most part, no training, and that anyone, in a time when
money was scarce and hardly earned, should have paid it out for the wretched daubs these men
produced is a great mystery. But they did pay it out, and, as we have seen, Harding earned
no less than twenty-five hundred dollars in a comparatively short time.

With such of this money as he had been able to save, he went to Philadelphia and spent two
months in study there; then he returned to his old home, and astonished his neighbors by paying
his debts. He astonished them still more when they found he was making money by painting portraits,
for which he now charged forty dollars each, and his aged grandfather felt obliged to protest.

"Chester," he said, having called him aside so that none could overhear, "I want to speak to
you about your present mode of life. I think it no better than swindling to charge forty dollars
for one of those effigies. Now I want you to give up this way of living and settle down on
a farm and become a respectable man."

However excellent this advice may have been, Chester had gone too far to heed it. He had decided
to go to England, but he stayed in America long enough to earn money to buy a farm for his
parents and to settle his own family at Northampton. This duty accomplished, he set sail for
London, and his success there was immediate, due as much to his remarkable personality as to
his work. He returned to America in 1826, and spent the rest of his life here, painting most
of the political leaders of the country. It has been said of his portraits that his heads are
as solid as iron and his coats as uncompromising as tin, while his faces shine like burnished
platters.

Remarkable as Harding's story is, it is no more so than that of many of his contemporaries.
Francis Alexander, for instance, born in Connecticut in 1800, a farm boy and afterwards a school
teacher, never attempted painting until he was over twenty. Then one day, having caught a pickerel,
its beauty reminded him of a box of water-colors a boy had left him, and he attempted to paint
the fish, with such success that he was filled with amazement and delight. He practiced a while
longer, decorating the white-washed walls of a room with rude landscapes filled with cattle,
horses, sheep, hogs and chickens. All the neighbors came to see his work and marvelled at it,
though none of them cared to have his house similarly decorated; but finally one of them offered
Alexander five dollars if he would paint a full-length portrait of a child.

Other orders followed, and finally with sixty dollars in his pocket, he started for New York.
Some years later, he sought Gilbert Stuart, at Boston, got some systematic instruction and
ended by painting very passable portraits.

Some amusing stories are told of the persistency with which he hunted for orders. In 1842,
Charles Dickens visited America for the first time, and while his ship was yet out of sight
of land, the pilot clambered on board, and after him Alexander, who begged the great novelist
for the privilege of painting his portrait. Dickens, amused at his enterprise, consented, and
Alexander's studio, during the sittings, became the centre of literary Boston. It is a curious
commentary upon Alexander's development that, after a trip or two abroad, he professed to find
the crudities of his native land unbearable, and spent his last years in Italy.

A third self-made artist was John Neagle, whose portrait of Gilbert Stuart, which heads this
chapter, is the best that exists. Neagle was apprenticed, when a boy, to a coach-painter, and
soon was spending his spare time practicing a more ambitious branch of the painting profession.
As soon as he was through his apprenticeship he set up as a portrait painter, and travelled
over the mountains to Lexington, Kentucky, hoping to fare as well as Harding had. But he found
the field already pre-empted by two other painters, one of whom, Matthew Jouett, was an artist
of considerable skill.

Neagle had a hard time getting back home again, but he finally reached Philadelphia, and spent
most of the remainder of his life there. Practice and study gave him a certain skill; he visited
Boston and had the advantage of some instruction from Gilbert Stuart, but his work remained
to the end inferior to either Harding's or Alexander's.

Henry Inman had a more varied talent than any of these men, for besides portraits he painted
genre scenes and landscapes, and excelled in all of them. At the age of fourteen, he had been
apprenticed to a painter by the name of John Wesley Jarvis, a picturesque character, better
remembered by his anecdotes than by his work; and when his apprenticeship was over he began
painting on his own account in New York and afterwards in Philadelphia. For a time his popularity
was very great and his income large; but reverses came, ill health followed, and he died in
poverty at the age of forty-five.

It is worth noting that, up to this time, practically no landscapes had been produced by American
artists. A few of them had tried their hands at landscape work, but soon abandoned it for the
more profitable field of portraiture. The first of the American school of landscapists may
be fairly said to be Asher Brown Durand. Durand was the eighth of eleven children, and his
father, who managed a small farm on the slope of Orange Mountain, in New Jersey, was renowned
throughout the neighborhood for his mechanical ingenuity. Much of this ingenuity his son inherited,
and his first artistic effort was an attempt to reproduce the woodcuts in his school books
by engraving them on little plates which he had beaten out of copper cents. This led to his
being apprenticed to an engraver, and after his apprenticeship was over, he devoted three years
to engraving the plate of Trumbull's "Signing of the Declaration of Independence." The work
was excellently done and established Durand's reputation.

But he was not satisfied with engraving, and soon abandoned it for the more creative work of
painting. He tried his hand first at portraiture, in which he had considerable success; but
he turned more and more to landscape work as the years went on. He practiced it continuously
until his eighty-third year. Then he laid down his brush forever, saying, "My hand will no
longer do my bidding," and the remaining seven years of his life were passed peacefully on
the farm where he was born.

Durand's work is marked throughout by sincerity and skill, if not by genius. His portraits
were in a style especially his own, thorough in workmanship, delicately modelled and strongly
painted. His landscapes, too, are his own, clearly and definitely finished, and with a bewitching
silvery gray tone, which could have come only by painting direct from his subject in the open
air, a practice exceptional at the time. His pictures are not "compositions," in the artistic
sense of the term--that is, he did not combine detail into a balanced whole; they are rather
studies or sketches from nature, with a central point of interest. But the work is done so
truly and with such patience and enthusiasm that it deserves the sincerest admiration.

Joined with Durand as the earliest of the landscapists is Thomas Cole. Cole was born in England
and did not come to America until he had reached his nineteenth year, but he afterwards became
so good an American that he declared he would give his left hand to have been identified with
America by birth instead of adoption. He found employment in Philadelphia as an engraver. Then,
after some practice, he got together a kit of painting materials, and started to tramp about
the country as a portraitist. He found the woods full of them, and competition so fierce that
he was unable to make a living; but, determining to be an artist at any cost, he returned to
Philadelphia and passed a fearful winter there, living on bread and water, half frozen by the
cold, with only a cloth table-cover for overcoat and bed, and suffering tortures from inflammatory
rheumatism. A second trying winter followed, but in the spring of 1825 he removed to New York,
and his privations were at an end.

For in those years of suffering he had developed a delicate art as a landscapist, and he found
a ready sale for his pictures, at first at low prices, it is true; but his fame spread rapidly,
and he was able, in 1829, to go abroad and spend three years in Italy and England. He lived
only to the age of forty-seven, his last years being passed principally in his studio in the
Catskills, where some of his most famous pictures were painted.

Cole was widely known for many years for the various series of moral and didactic pictures
which he was fond of painting. Perhaps the most famous of these was his "Voyage of Life," showing
infancy, youth, manhood, and old age floating down the stream of time. The taste of the period
approved them, and they were especially popular for schoolrooms, lecture-halls and other places
where youth would have a chance to gaze upon and gather edification from them. It has since
come to be recognized that the proper way to tell a story is by words and not by pictures,
and "The Voyage of Life," and "Course of Empire," and "The Cross and the World" have, for the
most part, been relegated to the attic.

Durand and Cole were the founders of the famous Hudson River, or White Mountain school, which
loomed so large in American art half a century ago. Its members, now rather regarded in the
light of primitives, gloried in the views of the Hudson, especially as seen from the Catskills,
and journeyed into the wilds of the Rockies and the Yellowstone in search of sublime subjects--too
sublime to be transferred to canvas. They loved nature--loved to copy her minutely and literally,
loved to live in her hills and woods. Some of them came afterwards to see that, after all,
this was not art, or only one of her lower forms--that to achieve a great result, a picture
must express an idea.

Cole had a pupil and disciple, who did some admirable work, in Frederick Edwin Church. Church
was born in 1826, and lived with Cole in his house in the Catskills until the latter's death.
He then established himself in New York, and proceeded to visit the four corners of the earth
in search for grandiose scenes. For he made the mistake of thinking that the greatness of a
landscape lay in its subject rather than in its execution; so he painted views of the Andes,
and Niagara, and Cotopaxi, and Chimborazo, and the Parthenon, throwing in rainbows and sunsets
and mists for good measure. These pictures were welcomed with the wildest enthusiasm--just
as Clarke Mills's statue of General Jackson had been, fifteen years before. Strange to say,
they were not absurd, as that amazing figure is, but were really fine examples of clever handling
and of a true, if untrained, feeling.

Two men attempted to duplicate Church's success, but with very indifferent result. They were
Albert Bierstadt and Thomas Moran. The former sought the Rocky Mountains for his subjects;
the latter, the Yosemite and the Yellowstone; but neither of them succeeded in transferring
to canvas more than a pale and unconvincing presentment of the wonders of those regions.

Durand also had a disciple, more famous than Cole's, in Frederick Kensett, the best known of
the so-called Hudson River school. He was a close follower of Durand in believing that nature
should be literally rendered, but he missed the truth of the older man by working in his studio
from drawings and sketches, instead of in the open air direct from his subject. So he got into
the habit of painting all shadows a transparent brown, and of making his rocks and trees brilliant
by touching in high-lights where he thought they ought to be instead of where they actually
should have been. He surpassed Durand, however, in his range of subject, for all hours and
seasons had their charm for him, while Durand was really at home only in the full light of
a summer day.

On this foundation a loftier structure was soon built and the builders were George Inness,
Alexander Wyant and Homer D. Martin. Inness was the oldest of the three, having been born in
1825, and was contemporary with some of the most arbitrary and hide-bound of the nature copyists.
But he felt the weakness of the method and himself attained a much fuller and completer art.
He seems to have dabbled with paint and brushes from his youth, but had little regular instruction,
studying, for the most part, from prints of old pictures, and finally, in 1847, getting a chance
to see the original when a friend offered to send him to Europe. He passed fifteen months in
Rome, and afterwards a year at Paris.

A long period of assimilation followed, in which he developed a theory of art and struggled
to transfer it to canvas. It was a sound and true theory, and is worth setting down here for
its own sake. "The purpose of the painter," Inness held, "is to reproduce in other minds the
impression which a scene had made upon him. A work of art does not appeal to the intellect
or to the moral sense. Its aim is not to instruct, not to edify, but to awaken an emotion.
It must be a single emotion, if the work has unity, as every such work should have, and the
true beauty of the work consists in the beauty of the sentiment or emotion which it inspires.
Its real greatness consists in the quality and force of this emotion."

To the very last, Inness's work was changing and developing to fit this theory. He steadily
gained mastery of tone and breadth of handling, of true harmony, and it is his crowning merit
that he does to some extent succeed in "reproducing in other minds the impression which the
scene made upon him."

Alexander H. Wyant was a pupil of Inness, journeying from the little Ohio town where he was
born to see him and to ask for advice and aid, which Inness freely gave. Wyant's boyhood had
been the American artist's usual one--an early fondness for drawing, a little practice, and
then setting up as a painter. In 1873 he joined an expedition to Arizona and New Mexico. The
hardships which he endured resulted in a stroke of paralysis and he was never again able to
use his right hand. With an inspiring patience, he set to work to learn to use his left hand,
and grew to be more skillful with it than he had been with his right.

But even at his best, Wyant's appeal is more limited than Inness's. He learned to paint a typical
picture, a glimpse of rolling country seen between the trunks of tall and slender birches or
maples, and was content to paint variations of it over and over. That he sometimes did it superbly
cannot be denied, and he possessed a certain delicate refinement, an ability to throw upon
his pictures the silvery shimmer of summer sunshine, in which no other American artist has
ever surpassed him.

The third, and in some respects the most interesting member of the group is Homer D. Martin.
Born in Albany in 1838, he turned naturally to painting and began to produce pictures after
only two weeks' instruction. At first, he was a disciple of Kensett, with brown shadows and
artificial high-lights, but study of nature soon cured these mannerisms, and he grew steadily
in skill and power, until he succeeded in imparting to his pictures the deep, grave and sobering
sentiment, which is the keynote of his work. His coast views, with their swirl and almost audible
thunder of billow, are considered his crowning achievements.

This culmination of the Hudson River school brings us fairly to our own times and to the work
of men still living, for the period just preceding and following the Civil War was marked by
no new impulse in American art and by no work which demands attention. But in the early seventies,
there were a number of Americans studying at home or in Europe who have since won a wide reputation
for inspiring achievement.

Foremost among these is Elihu Vedder, born in New York City in 1836, and following, in his
manhood, the manifest bent of his childish years. He went to Paris before he was of age, and
from there to Rome, where he spent five years. The five succeeding years were spent in America,
and finally, in 1866, he settled in Rome and has since made it his home. He represents a revival
of the classical quality of Raphæl or Michæl Angelo, though he belongs to no school, and his
work has from the very first possessed a distinct originality. He has held to the old simplicity,
which minimized detail and exalted the subject. General recognition came to him in 1884, when
he published his illustrations to the Rubaiyat of Omar Khayyam--the most sympathetic and beautiful
pictorial comment which has ever been given any book of poetry. Since then he has executed
much decorative work of a high order, though the mastery in this branch of the art is held
by another.

That other is John LaFarge, admittedly the greatest mural painter the world has seen in recent
years. His life was a fortunate one. His father, an officer of the French marine, came to this
country in 1806, married, and purchased a great plantation in Louisiana, from which he derived
a large revenue. His son, born in 1835, grew up in an artistic atmosphere of books and pictures,
and was early taught to draw. When, after some study of law, he visited Paris, his father advised
him to take up the study of art as an accomplishment, and he entered one of the studios, merely
as an amateur, at the same time gaining admittance, through his family connections, to the
inner artistic circles of the capital. For some years he studied art, not to become a painter,
but because he wished to understand and appreciate great work, and at the end of that time,
he returned to New York and entered a lawyer's office.

But he was ill at ease there, and finally definitely decided upon an artistic career, went
to Newport and worked under the guidance of William Morris Hunt, painting everything, but turning
in the end to decorative work, and afterwards to stained glass. In these he has had no equal,
and his high achievement, as well as the wide appreciation his work has won, is peculiarly
grateful to Americans, since LaFarge's career has been characteristically American. He had
little actual study in Europe, and yet possesses certain great traditions of the masters to
a degree unequalled by any compatriot.

Of his work as a whole, it is difficult to speak adequately. Perhaps its most striking characteristic
is the thought that is lavished upon it, so that the artist gives us the very spirit of his
subjects. In inspiration, in handling, in drawing, and in color, LaFarge stands alone. No man
of his generation has equalled him in the power to lift the spectator out of himself and into
an enchanted world by the consummate harmony of strong, pure color. This feeling for color
culminated in his stained-glass work--probably the richest color creations that have ever been
fashioned on this earth. In all his varied mass of production there is nothing that lacks interest
and charm.

We have referred to LaFarge's study under William Morris Hunt, and we must pause for a moment
to speak of the older artist. His artistic career was in some respects an accident, for, developing
a tendency to consumption in his late boyhood, his mother took him to Rome and remained there
long enough to enable him to imbibe some of the artistic traditions of the Eternal City and
to begin work with H. K. Brown, the sculptor. He found the work so congenial that he persuaded
his mother to omit the course at Harvard which had been expected of him, and to permit him
to devote his life to art.

For five or six years thereafter, he studied at Rome and Paris, then for three years he was
with Millet at Barbizon. Finally, in 1855, he returned to America, settling first at Newport
and afterwards at Boston. He painted many portraits and figure pieces, and was an active social
and artistic influence to the day of his death. As an artist, he lacked training, and remained
to the end an amateur of great promise, which was never quite fulfilled.

And this brings us to the most eccentric, the most striking, and in some respects the greatest
artist of his time--James Abbott McNeill Whistler. Whistler was born at Lowell, Massachusetts,
in 1834. His grandfather, of an English family long settled in Ireland, had been a member of
Burgoyne's invading army, but afterwards joined the American service, and, after the close
of the Revolution, settled at Lowell. His father was a distinguished engineer, and major in
the army, and after his death in 1849, it was natural that young Whistler should turn to the
army as a career. He entered West Point in 1851, remained there three years, and was finally
dropped for deficiency in chemistry.

There was one study, however, in which he had distinguished himself, and that was drawing;
and after his dismissal he went to Paris, where he studied for two or three years. Then he
removed to London, where most of the remainder of his life was spent. His work, striking and
original, was at first utterly misunderstood by the public. The most famous piece of hostile
criticism to which he was subjected was Ruskin's remark, after looking at "The Falling Rocket"
in 1877, that here was a fellow with the effrontery to charge a hundred guineas for flinging
a pot of paint in the public's face. Some further years of abuse followed, and then the pendulum
swung the other way, and the eccentric artist became a sort of cult. In the end, he won a wide
reputation, and before his death was recognized as one of the leading painters of his time.

And this reputation was deserved, for his work possesses a rare and delicate beauty, individual
to it. His portraits of his mother and of Thomas Carlyle are admirable in their simplicity
and quiet dignity; and many of his "harmonies," as he liked to call them, are so complete and
flawless that they are works of pure delight. Whistler always declared that he had no desire
to reproduce external nature, but only beautiful combinations of pattern, and tone; what he
meant, probably, was that he sought, not external realities, but the spirit which underlies
them. That, of course, has been the quest of every great painter.

If Whistler was a law unto himself, so, in another sense, is Winslow Homer, who has worked
out for himself an individual point of view and method of expression. Born in Boston in 1836,
and early developing a taste for drawing, he entered a lithographer's shop at the age of nineteen
and two years later set up for himself. During the Civil War he acted as correspondent and
artist for Harper's Weekly, and, when peace came, began his paintings with a series of army
scenes. After that he tried his hand at landscape, and finally found his real vocation as a
painter of the sea. From the first, his pictures possessed obvious sincerity. More than that,
they convince by their absolute veracity, as a reproduction of the thing seen--seen, be it
understood, by the eyes of the artist--and so they have lived and been remembered where more
ambitious work would have been forgotten. Again, he chooses his subjects with a fine disregard
of what other men have done or decided that it was impossible to do, and painted them in a
manner wholly independent and original. No other artist has so conveyed on canvas the weight
and buoyancy and enormous force of water; no one else approaches his as an interpreter of the
power of the sea.

Lineal successor of Inness is Dwight William Tryon, not that his work resembles the older man's,
but because both paint the American landscape with a deep personal feeling and with a superb
technique. Tryon has not yet developed into so commanding a figure as Inness, but there is
no telling what the future holds for him, for his work seems as full of poetry and emotion
as the older man's, with a spirit more delicate and a foundation more firm.

The work of Francis D. Millet has attracted wide attention and is also full of promise and
inspiration. Millet has the American versatility--he has been a war-correspondent, an illustrator,
has written travels, criticism, and even fiction, has acted as an expert on old pictures, raised
carnations, and even, in time of need, performed surgical operations on wounded soldiers--all
of it, not as an amateur, but as a professional asking no odds of anyone. In addition to which,
he has been a painter, and a painter whose work has shown no sign of haste or distraction.
The quiet, human side of English life in the seventeenth and eighteenth centuries is what has
most appealed to him, the country parlors and white-washed kitchens, peopled with travellers
and buxom serving-maids, and these groups are unusually attractive and well executed.

Allied with Millet in taste and viewpoint, and with a much wider popularity, is Edwin A. Abbey.
Beginning his career as an illustrator, he soon reached the front rank in that profession,
especially with his illustrations of classic English poems, into whose spirit he has entered
so completely that he might better be called their interpreter than their illustrator. From
pen-and-ink work, he progressed naturally to oil, and here, too, he has achieved some notable
triumphs--so notable, indeed, that, though American, he was chosen by the English government
to paint the official picture of the coronation of King Edward VII. It is a curious coincidence
that the official picture of the coronation of Queen Victoria was also painted by an American,
C. R. Leslie.

More important than Abbey, and perhaps the greatest American artist alive to-day is John Singer
Sargent, whose nationality has occasioned no little controversy. Born in Florence of American
parents, receiving his artistic training in Paris, residing since in England, though with much
travelling through Europe and only two or three trips to the land of his allegiance, he may
still be held an American, if descent counts for anything. His paintings have been shown wherever
pictures are to be seen and he has received for them all honors that a painter can receive.

Before the freedom and certainty of Sargent's art criticism stands abashed. His portraits have
a wonderful effect of vitality, and a purity and brilliancy of color which have never been
surpassed; but most noteworthy of all, he achieves the supreme triumph of the portrait painter
by comprehending and displaying character. He shows the very soul of his sitter, without malice
but also without mercy. Only towards children does he show tenderness, and then he paints with
a wonderful and varied charm. Not only of people but of places does he give the character--a
room takes on personality; silks, velvets, furniture, bric-à-brac are all eloquent. On the
whole, his qualities are such that he may rightly be considered the greatest portrait painter
since Reynolds and Gainsborough. The portrait of Edwin Booth, at the beginning of the chapter
dealing with the stage, is an excellent specimen of his work.

Sargent's portraits have placed him among the masters of all time, but perhaps he is most widely
known by his remarkable decorations in the Boston Public Library, which in the original and
in photographic reproductions, have given the keenest delight to thousands and thousands of
persons. It is impossible to give any detailed description here of these masterpieces of decorative
art, so perfect technically that they might almost serve as a canon to decorative painters.

American painting may be said to have reached its culmination in Sargent, yet there are two
other painters, who, if they fall below him in sheer genius, possess a charm and originality
all their own. One of these is George de Forest Brush, who, somewhat after the fashion of Holbein,
looks for a beauty of spirit independent of form or feature. He paints mothers and children
not as young goddesses rollicking with cherubs, but as grave and tender women, who have sacrificed
without regret something of their health and youthful freshness to the children they hold in
their arms. In such groups there is a note of penetrating peace, a delicate distinction, which
give Brush a position by himself.

The other is John W. Alexander, whose work is interesting as introducing a certain new element
into art--a concentration of energy on the originality of the first general effect, including
nothing that does not interest, and yet giving the effect of completeness. In Alexander's portraits
there is nothing to distract the interest from the personality of the sitter, and he usually
achieves a delineation of character direct and truthful.

Here this short review of the great personalities of American art must end. There are many
other painters alive to-day whose work is full of promise, and who may yet achieve great places
in the world's Pantheon. Indeed, it would almost seem that a renascence of American art is
at hand. The country has emerged from the crudities of its first years, and from the mediocre
conventionality of its middle period, without having lost the freshness and enthusiasm conducive
to high achievement. Its face is toward the sunrise.

SUMMARY

COPLEY, JOHN SINGLETON. Born at Boston, July 3, 1737; went to Europe, 1771, and spent the remainder
of his life there, principally in London; associate of Royal Academy, 1771; full member, 1773;
died at London, September 9, 1815.

WEST, BENJAMIN. Born at Springfield, Chester County, Pennsylvania, October 10, 1738; studied
in Italy, 1760-63; settled in London, 1763; became court historical painter, 1772; president
of the Royal Academy for many years; died at London, March 11, 1820.

PEALE, CHARLES WILLSON. Born at Chestertown, Maryland, April 16, 1741; with Copley at Boston,
1768-69; went to London, 1770; and studied under Benjamin West; returned to America, 1774;
served in Revolution, 1776-77; opened "Peale's Museum," 1802; died at Philadelphia, February
22, 1827.

STUART, GILBERT. Born at Narragansett, Rhode Island, December 3, 1755; went to London and became
pupil of West, 1775; returned to United States, 1792; died at Boston, July 27, 1828.

TRUMBULL, JOHN. Born at Lebanon, Connecticut, June 6, 1756; served in Revolution, attaining
rank of colonel; studied under West in London, and returned to America, 1804; died at New York
City, November 10, 1843.

SULLY, THOMAS. Born at Horncastle, Lincolnshire, England, June 8, 1783; brought to America
at the age of nine; went to London, 1809, and studied under West; settled in Philadelphia in
1810, and spent the remainder of his life there, dying November 5, 1872.

ALLSTON, WASHINGTON. Born at Naccamaw, South Carolina, November 5, 1779; graduated at Harvard,
1800; studied at Royal Academy and at Rome, returning to America, 1809; died at Cambridge,
Massachusetts, July 9, 1843.

VANDERLYN, JOHN. Born at Kingston, New York, October 15, 1775; studied art abroad, 1796-1801;
and spent subsequent years in Europe, returning to America in 1815; died at Kingston, September
24, 1852.

PEALE, REMBRANDT. Born in Bucks County, Pennsylvania, February 22, 1778; went to London and
studied under West, 1801-03; died at Philadelphia, October 3, 1860.

HARDING, CHESTER. Born at Conway, Massachusetts, September 1, 1792; studied in London, 1823-26;
died at Boston, April 1, 1866.

ALEXANDER, FRANCIS. Born in Connecticut, 1800; went to Europe in 1831, finally taking up his
residence in Florence, where he died.

NEAGLE, JOHN. Born at Boston, November 4, 1796; died at Philadelphia, September 17, 1865.

INMAN, HENRY. Born at Utica, New York, October 20, 1801; served seven years' apprenticeship
with John Wesley Jarvis; died at New York City, January 17, 1846.

DURAND, ASHER BROWN. Born at Jefferson, New Jersey, August 21, 1796; apprenticed to Peter Maverick,
an engraver, 1812; president of National Academy of Design, 1845-61; died at South Orange,
New Jersey, September 17, 1886.

COLE, THOMAS. Born at Bolton-le-Moors, Lancashire, England, February 1, 1801; came to America,
1819; settled in New York, 1825; died at Catskill, New York, February 11, 1848.

CHURCH, FREDERIC EDWIN. Born at Hartford, Connecticut, May 4, 1826; pupil of Thomas Cole; National
Academician, 1849; died at New York City, April 7, 1900.

BIERSTADT, ALBERT. Born at Düsseldorf, Germany, January 7, 1830; brought to America, 1831;
early developed a taste for art, and studied at Düsseldorf, 1853-57; returned to America and
remained here, except for brief visits to Europe; died at New York City, February 18, 1902.

MORAN, THOMAS. Born at Bolton, England, January 12, 1837; came to America, 1844; National Academician,
1884; still living in New York City.

KENSETT, JOHN FREDERICK. Born at Chester, Connecticut, March 22, 1818; in Europe, 1840-44;
National Academician, 1849; died at New York City, December 16, 1872.

INNESS, GEORGE. Born at Newburgh, New York, May 1, 1825; National Academician, 1868; died at
Bridge of Allan, Scotland, August 3, 1894.

WYANT, ALEXANDER H. Born at Port Washington, Ohio, January 11, 1836; studied in Germany and
settled in New York, 1864; suffered paralytic stroke, 1877, and afterwards painted with left
hand; died at New York City, November 29, 1892.

MARTIN, HOMER DODGE. Born at Albany, New York, October 28, 1836; opened New York studio, 1862;
National Academician, 1875; died at St. Paul, Minnesota, February 12, 1897.

VEDDER, ELIHU. Born at New York City, February 26, 1836; in Paris and Italy, 1856-61; and,
after a year or two in America, returned to Italy, where he has since resided; National Academician,
1865.

LA FARGE, JOHN. Born at New York City, March 31, 1835; studied under Couture and Hunt; National
Academician, 1869; president Society of American Artists and Society of Mural Painters.

HUNT, WILLIAM MORRIS. Born at Brattleboro, Vermont, March 31, 1824; studied under Couture and
Millet, 1846-55; opened Boston studio, 1856; died at Appledore, Isles of Shoals, New Hampshire,
September 8, 1879.

WHISTLER, JAMES ABBOTT MCNEILL. Born at Lowell, Massachusetts, 1834; entered West Point Academy,
1851, but soon left; settled in Paris, 1856, and studied art two years, and then settled in
London, where the remainder of his life was passed; died there, July 17, 1903.

HOMER, WINSLOW. Born at Boston, February 24, 1836; accompanied Army of Potomac in its campaigns,
1861-62; National Academician, 1865.

TRYON, DWIGHT WILLIAM. Born at Hartford, Connecticut, August 13, 1849; National Academician, 1891.

MILLET, FRANCIS DAVIS. Born at Mattapoisett, Massachusetts, November 3, 1846; drummer 60th
Massachusetts Volunteers, 1864; graduated at Harvard, 1869; studied at Antwerp, 1871-72; correspondent
Russo-Turkish war, 1877-78; director of decorations World's Columbian Exposition, 1892-93.

ABBEY, EDWIN AUSTIN. Born at Philadelphia, April 1, 1852; educated at Philadelphia Academy
of Fine Arts; went to England, 1878, and has since made that his home.

SARGENT, JOHN SINGER. Born at Florence, Italy, 1856; studied under Carolus Duran; has made
England his home; Royal Academician, 1891; National Academician, 1897.

CHAPTER V

SCULPTORS

If background and tradition are needed for painting, how much more are they needed for sculpture!
America was settled by a people entirely without sculptural tradition, for, in the early seventeenth
century, British sculpture did not exist. More than that, to most of the settlers, art, in
whatever form, was an invention of the devil, to be avoided and discouraged. So it is not surprising
that two centuries elapsed before the first American statue made its shy and awkward appearance.

In considering the achievements of American sculpture, we must remember that it is still an
infant. That it is a lusty infant none will deny, though some may find it lacking in that grace
and charm which come only with maturity.

The first man born in America who was foolhardy enough deliberately to choose sculpture as
a profession was Horatio Greenough, born in 1805, of well-to-do parents, and carefully educated.
It is difficult to say just what it was that turned the boy to this difficult and exacting
art--an unknown art, too, so far as America was concerned. But he seems to have begun woodcarving
at an early age, and to have progressed from that to chalk and on to plaster of Paris. The
American national habit of whittling was perhaps responsible for the development of more than
one sculptor.

At any rate, by the time he was twelve years old, Horatio Greenough had produced some portrait
busts in chalk, and, after having tried unsuccessfully to learn clay-modelling from directions
in an old encyclopedia, took some lessons from an artist who chanced to be in Boston, and from
a maker of tombstones, got a little insight into the method of carving marble.

These lessons, elementary as they must have been, were very valuable to the boy, and his work
showed such promise that his father finally consented to his adopting this strange profession,
insisting only that he first graduate from Harvard, on the ground that a college education
would be of value, whatever his vocation. So he entered college at the age of sixteen, devoting
all his spare time to reading works of art, to drawing and modelling, and the study of anatomy.
He had also the good fortune to meet and win the friendship of Washington Allston, who advised
him as to plans of study.

Immediately upon graduation, he sailed for Italy, which was, sadly enough, to be the Mecca
of American sculptors for many years to come. For Italian sculpture was bound hand and foot
by the traditions of classicism, to which our early sculptors soon fell captive. Greenough
was no exception, and some years of study in the Italian studios rivetted the chains.

His first commission was given him by J. Fenimore Cooper. It was a group called the "Chanting
Cherubs," and when it was sent home for exhibition, it awakened a tempest of the first magnitude.
Puritan ideas were outraged at sight of the little naked bodies, the group was declared indecent,
and the bitter controversy was not stilled until it was withdrawn from view. Greenough wrote
of Cooper, "he saved me from despair; he employed me as I wished to be employed; and has, up
to this moment, been a father to me in kindness"--a singularly interesting addition to the
portrait of the great novelist, famous for his enmities rather than for his friendships.

The tragedy of Greenough's life was the fate of his great statue of Washington, of which we
have already spoken. He conceived the work on a high plane, "as a majestic, god-like figure,
enthroned beneath the dome of the Capitol at Washington, gilded by the filtered rays of the
far-falling sunlight." Perhaps it was too high, but on its execution Greenough labored faithfully
for eight years. "It is the birth of my thought," he wrote. "I have sacrificed to it the flower
of my days, and the freshness of my strength; its every lineament has been moistened by the
sweat of my toil and the tears of my exile. I would not barter away its association with my
name for the proudest fortune that avarice ever dreamed."

It will be seen from the above that Greenough's epistolary style was florid and grandiose in
the extreme, but no doubt there was a foundation of sincerity beneath it. A bitter disappointment
awaited him. The ponderous figure reached Washington safely in 1843, and was conveyed to the
Capitol, where, beneath the rotunda, its predestined pedestal awaited it. But the statue was
found too large to pass the door, and when the door was widened and the great stone rolled
inside, the floor settled so ominously that it was hastily withdrawn.

It does not seem to have occurred to anyone that the floor might be braced; instead, the pedestal
was set up outside, facing the building, and the statue hoisted into place. It speedily became
the butt of public ridicule. Once the fashion started, no one looked at it without a smile.

Greenough was in despair. "Had I been ordered to make a statue for any square or similar situation
at the metropolis," he wrote, still in his inflated style, "I should have represented Washington
on horseback and in his actual dress. I would have made my subject purely a historical one.
I have treated my subject poetically, and confess I would feel pain in seeing it placed in
direct flagrant contrast with every-day life."

But that is exactly how it was placed, and it is the incongruity of this contrast which strikes
the beholder and blinds him to the merits of the work. For Greenough has represented Washington
seated in a massive armchair, naked except for a drapery over the legs and right shoulder,
one hand pointing dramatically at the heavens, the other extended holding a reversed sword.
It shows sincerity and faithful work, and had it been placed within the rotunda, would no doubt
have been impressive and majestic. Where it stands, it is a hopeless anachronism.

This was the first colossal marble carved by an American. Fronting it on one of the buttresses
of the main entrance of the Capitol, is the second, also by Greenough. It is a group called
"The Rescue," and shows a pioneer saving his wife and child from being tomahawked by an Indian,
while his dog watches the struggle with a strange apathy--almost with a smile. Like most of
his other work, it is stilted and unconvincing; but let us remember that Greenough was the
pathfinder, the trail-blazer, and as such to be honored and admired.

Greenough's fame, such as it was, was soon to be eclipsed by that of a man born in the same
year, but later in development because he had a harder road to travel. Hiram Powers was born
into a large and poverty-stricken family. While he was still a boy, his father removed from
the sterile hills of Vermont to the almost frontier town of Cincinnati, Ohio. He seems to have
had little schooling, but was put to work as soon as he was old enough to contribute something
toward the family exchequer. He did all sorts of odd jobs, and soon developed an unusual talent,
that of modelling faces.

Those were the halcyon days of the dime museum, and there was one at Cincinnati. Its proprietor
chanced to hear of the boy's gift for modelling, and offered him employment as a modeller of
wax figures. Of course Powers accepted, for this was work after his own heart, and he succeeded
not only in producing some figures which resembled definite human beings, but "breathed the
breath of life into them" by means of clock-work devices, which enabled them to move their
heads and arms in a manner sufficiently jerky, but at the same time astonishing to the simple
people who visited the museum to behold its wonders.

Emboldened by this success, the young genius produced an "Inferno," or "Chamber of Horrors,"
which, when completed, was an immense success--too immense, indeed, for it had to be closed
because of the fearful impression it made upon the ladies, who fainted in their escorts' arms
whenever they gazed upon its terrors. One is inclined to suspect that the ladies might have
withstood the horrors of the sight, but for a desire to prove their extreme sensibility. Fainting
was more fashionable eighty years ago than it is to-day.

Powers soon developed from this work a talent for catching likenesses, and, searching for a
wider field, proceeded finally to Washington, where he modelled busts in wax of Andrew Jackson,
Daniel Webster, John C. Calhoun, John Marshall, and other celebrities of the period. From wax,
he naturally wished to graduate into marble, and in 1837, left America for Italy, never to
return. Greenough, then laboring away at his Washington, assisted him in various ways; and
Hawthorne met him in Italy and was much impressed by him, as his "Italian Note-Book" shows.

In 1843, he completed the figure which was destined to make him famous, the "Greek Slave."
The statue was supposed to represent a maiden captured by the Turks, "stripped and manacled
and offered for sale in the market place," and so had a sentimental appeal which went straight
to the heart of a sentimental people, and overcame any antagonism which her nudity might have
produced. It inspired Elizabeth Barrett Browning to a not very noteworthy sonnet, clergymen
gave it certificates of character, so to speak, and "it made a sensation wherever shown, and
was fondly believed to be the greatest work of sculpture known to history." Let us say at once
that it is an engaging and creditable piece of work, and worthy, in the main, of the enthusiasm
which it excited.

The "Greek Slave" was only the beginning. Powers turned out one statue after another with considerable
rapidity, but his reputation rests mainly to-day on his portrait busts of men. It is characteristic
of artists that the things they do best and easiest they value least, and this was so with
Powers. His portrait busts were, in a sense, mere pot-boilers; he lavished himself upon his
ideal figures. But these are now ranked as unimaginative and commonplace.

Third among our early sculptors of importance was Thomas Crawford, born eight years later than
Greenough and Powers, and preceding the latter to the grave by many years, yet leaving behind
him a mass of work which, if it shows no great imagination, displays considerable poetic refinement.
Driven to Italy because it was only there that marble work could be well and economically done,
he lived there for some years, earning a bare subsistence by the production of second-rate
portrait busts and copies of antique statuary. Then he attracted the attention of Charles Sumner,
and with his help, was enabled, in 1839, to produce his first important work, the "Orpheus,"
now in the Boston Museum. Many others followed, but they were of that ideal and sentimental
type, very foreign to modern taste.

Crawford was an indefatigable workman, and few American museums are without one or more examples
of his product. In the public square at Richmond, Virginia, stands one of his most important
monuments, crowned by an astonishing equestrian figure of Washington, which he himself executed.
Two of the subordinate statues are also his--those of Patrick Henry and Thomas Jefferson--and
represent the best work he ever did.

Another of his productions is the great figure of Freedom which crowns the dome of the Capitol
at Washington, not unworthily. By a fortunate chance, which the sculptor could hardly have
foreseen, the bulky and roughly modelled figure gains airiness and majesty from its lofty position,
where its sickly-sweet countenance and clumsy adornment are refined by distance. It has become,
in a way, a national ideal, a part of the Republic.

The success of these three men and the immense reputation which they attained naturally attracted
others to a profession whose rewards were so exalted. The first to achieve anything like an
enduring reputation was Henry Kirke Brown, born in Massachusetts in 1814. He early displayed
some talent for portrait painting, and went to Boston to study under Chester Harding. Chance
led him to model the head of a friend, and the result was so interesting that he then and there
renounced painting for sculpture.

Naturally, his eyes turned to Italy, but he had no money to take him there, so perforce remained
at home, getting such instruction as he could. In 1837, at the age of twenty-three, he produced
his first marble bust, and within the next four years, had carved at least forty more, besides
four or five figures. From all this work, he managed to save the money needed for the trip
to Italy, but after four years in the Italian studios, he sailed for home again. On July 4,
1856, the second equestrian statue to be set up in the United States was unveiled in Union
Square, New York City, and gave Brown a reputation which still endures.

It is a statue of Washington, and, in some amazing fashion, Brown succeeded in producing a
work of art, which, in some respects, has never been surpassed in America, and which has served
as a pattern and guide to other sculptors from that day to this. It is a sincere, honest and
dignified embodiment of the First American. Brown did some notable work after that, but none
of it possesses the high inspiration which produced the noble and commanding figure which dominates
Union Square.

We have said that it was the second equestrian statue produced in America. The first may still
be seen by all who, on entering or leaving the White House, glance across the street at the
public square beyond. One glance is certain to be followed by others, for that statue is not
only the first, it is the most amazing ever set up in a public place in this country. It has
divided with Greenough's "Washington," at the other end of Pennsylvania Avenue, the horrors
of being a national joke. Its author was Clarke Mills, and its inception is probably unparalleled
in the history of sculpture.

Mills was born in New York State in 1815, lost his father while still a child, and at the age
of thirteen was driven by harsh treatment to run away from the uncle with whom he had made
his home. Thenceforward he supported himself in any way he could--as farm-hand, teamster, canal-hand,
post-cutter, and finally as cabinet maker. He drifted about the country; to New Orleans, and
finally to Charleston, South Carolina, where he learned to do stucco work, and whiled away
his leisure hours by modelling busts in clay.

With Yankee ingenuity, he invented a process of taking a cast from the living face, and this
simple method of getting a likeness enabled him to turn out busts so rapidly and cheaply that
he had all the work he could do. He was, of course, anxious to try his hand at marble, and
procuring a block of native Carolina stone, hewed out, with infinite labor, a bust of that
South Carolina idol, John C. Calhoun. It was the best bust ever made of that celebrated statesman,
and was the beginning of Mills's good fortune, and of the sequence of events which resulted
in his statue of the hero of New Orleans.

For his Calhoun attracted much attention and secured him other commissions--among them, one
for the busts of Webster and Crittenden. To get these, he was forced to go to Washington, and
there he met the Hon. Cave Johnson, President of the Jackson Monument Commission, which had
got together the funds for an equestrian statue of that old hero. Johnson suggested to Mills
that he submit a design for this statue. As Mills had never seen either General Jackson or
an equestrian statue, and had only the vaguest idea of what either was like, he naturally felt
some doubt of his ability to execute such a work; but Johnson pointed out that this was only
modesty, and so Mills finally evolved a design, which the commission accepted.

Then he went to work on his model, and executed it on an entirely new principle, which was
to secure a balanced figure by bringing the hind legs of the horse under the centre of its
body. Congress donated for the bronze of the statue the British cannon which Jackson had captured
at New Orleans, and after many trials and disheartening failures, it was finally cast, hoisted
into place, and dedicated on the eighth of January, 1853.

The whole country gazed at it in wonder and admiration, for surely never had another work of
art so unique and original been unveiled in any land. Mills had balanced his horse adroitly
on his hind legs, and represented the rider as clinging calmly to this perilous perch and doffing
his chapeau to the admiring multitude. A delighted Congress added $20,000 to the price already
paid, while New Orleans ordered a replica at an even higher figure. Absurd as the statue is,
it yet must command from us a certain respect for the enthusiast who designed it. Remember,
he had never seen an equestrian statue, because there was none in the country for him to see;
he had no notion of dignified sculptural treatment; but he did what he could, as well as he
was able.

Mills was the last of the primitives, for following him came Erasmus D. Palmer and Thomas Ball,
the two men who, more than any others, shaped the course and guided the development of American
sculpture.

Erasmus Palmer was born in 1817, and followed the trade of a carpenter. But in the odd moments
of 1845, he made a cameo portrait of his wife, which was a rather unusual likeness. Encouraged
by this success, he practised further, and ended by abandoning his saws and planes to devote
his whole time to carving portraits. But the constant strain so weakened his eyes, that he
was about to return to carpentering, when a friend suggested that he try his hand at modelling
in clay. The result was the "Infant Ceres," modelled from one of his own children, which, reproduced
in marble, created a sensation at the exhibitions in 1850.

From that moment, Palmer's career was steadily upwards. It culminated eight years later in
his delightful figure, the "White Captive," reminiscent in a way of the "Greek Slave," but
a better work of art, and one which stands among the most charming achievements of American
sculpture. One of its wonders, too--wonder that an untrained hand and an unschooled brain should
have been able to create a work of art at once so tender and so firm. Following it came some
admirable portrait busts; and finally, in 1862, his "Peace in Bondage." No doubt the sculptor's
beautiful and adequate conception sprang from the tragic period which gave it birth; for "Peace
in Bondage" shows a winged female figure leaning wearily against a tree-trunk, and gazing hopelessly
into space. It is carved in high relief, with great skill and insight. In fact, nothing finer
had been produced in America.

With this work, American art may be said to have found itself. It not only raised the standard
of achievement, but it put an end at once and forever to the idea that study in Italy was necessary
to artistic success. For only once did Palmer visit Europe, and then it was to stay but a short
time. In fact, Italy was artistic poison for many men; its art lacked originality and vigor,
and it sapped the native strength of many of the Americans who worked in its studios.

Thomas Ball was an exception to this; for, in spite of many years abroad, he remained always
characteristically American. He comes next to Palmer in strength and rightness of achievement;
his work, like his life, was earnest and noble.

Thomas Ball's father was a house and sign painter of Boston, with some artistic skill, which
he passed on to his son. That was the boy's only inheritance, and when his father died, he
undertook the support of the family, first as a boy-of-all-work in the New England Museum,
and then as a cameo-cutter. From that he graduated naturally to engraving, miniature painting,
and finally to portraiture.

His first attempt at modelling resulted in a bust of Jenny Lind, done entirely from photographs,
which had a wide vogue, for the Swedish Nightingale was then at the height of her popularity.
Other more ambitious work followed, and finally, at the age of thirty-five, he was able to
realize his ambition to study in the studios of Florence. But he found the Italian environment
less inspiring than he had hoped, and two years later he was back in Boston, working on an
equestrian statue of Washington--the first equestrian group in New England and the fourth in
the United States. He built his plaster model with his own hands, and was three years getting
it ready. The result was a work which ranks among the first equestrian statues of the country.
Other works of importance followed, among them the well-known emancipation group showing Lincoln
blessing a kneeling slave, which was unveiled at Washington in 1875.

The years touched Ball lightly, and at seventy years of age, he undertook his greatest work,
an elaborate Washington monument for the town of Methuan, Massachusetts. The principal figure,
a gigantic Washington in bronze, was exhibited at the Columbian Exposition of 1893, and received
the highest honors of the exposition--a distinction it richly merited by its nobility of a
conception and execution. Thomas Ball, indeed, set a new standard in public statuary, and one
which no successor has dared to disregard. The far-reaching effects of his influence and that
of Erasmus Palmer can hardly be over-estimated.

One of the most engaging and versatile personalities in the whole range of American art was
that of William Wetmore Story. Born at Salem, Massachusetts, in 1819, graduated at Harvard,
admitted to the bar, the author of a volume of graceful verse and of a valuable life of his
father, Chief Justice Story, he yet, in 1851, put all this work aside, adopted sculpture as
a profession, and, proceeding to Rome, opened a studio there.

It was from the first an extraordinary studio, attracting the most brilliant people of Rome
in literature as well as art; and if Story did not quite practise the perfection he was somewhat
fond of preaching, it was because of his very versatility, which absorbed his talent in so
many directions that it could not be concentrated in any. His imagination outran his achievement,
and the most famous of his works, his statue of Cleopatra, owes its reputation not so much
to its own merit, which is far from overwhelming, as to the ecstatic description of it which
Nathaniel Hawthorne included in "The Marble Faun." A master of literature is not necessarily
an inspired critic of art, and it is to be suspected that Hawthorne permitted some of the fire
of his imagination to play about the cold and uninspired marble.

"Cleopatra" marked Story's culmination. He fell away from it year by year, producing a long
line of figures whose only impressive features were the names he gave them--"The Libyan Sibyl,"
"Semiramis," "Salome," "Medea," and so on. However, he did much to increase the popularity
of sculpture, for the stories he attempted to tell in stone by means of heavy-browed, frowning
women in classic costume and with classic names, were exactly suited to the child-like intelligence
of his public. He gave art, too--as William Penn gave the Quakers--a sort of social sanction
because of his own social position. If the son of Chief Justice Story could turn sculptor,
surely that profession was not so irregular, after all!

Another sculptor who shared with Story the admiration of the public was Randolph Rogers, born
at Waterloo, New York, in 1825. Until the age of twenty-three such modelling as he did was
done in the spare moments of a business life; but when he gave an exhibition of the results
of this labor, his employers were so impressed that they provided the money needed to send
him to Italy, where he was to spend the remainder of his life, with the exception of five years'
residence in New York. Two of his earlier figures are his most famous, his "Nydia" and his
"Lost Pleiad." Scores of replicas in marble of these two figures were made during their author's
life time, and they still retain for many people a simple and pathetic charm. Nearly every
one, of course, has made the acquaintance of Nydia, the blind girl, in Bulwer-Lytton's "The
Last Days of Pompeii," and so gaze at Rogers's fleeing figure with eyes too sympathetic to
see its faults.

Far more important is the work of William H. Rinehart, of the same age as Rogers, and resembling
him somewhat in development. Born on a Maryland farm, his early years were those of the average
farmer's boy, but at last some blind instinct led him to abandon farming for stonecutting,
and he became assistant to a mason and stonecutter of the neighborhood. As soon as he had learned
his trade, at the age of twenty-one, he went to Baltimore, where there was work in plenty,
and where he could, at the same time, attend the night schools of the Maryland Institute. This
sounds much easier than it really was. To devote the evenings to study, after ten and often
twelve hours of the hardest of all manual labor, required grit and moral courage such as few
possess.

He was soon trying his hand at modelling, and convinced, at last, that sculpture was his vocation,
he managed, by the time he was thirty, to save enough money for a short period of study at
Rome. Three years of work at Baltimore, after that, gave him some reputation, and he then returned
to Rome, to spend the remainder of his life there.

If you have ever visited the Metropolitan Museum of Art in New York City, you have seen, in
the hall of statuary, one of Rinehart's most characteristic groups, "Latona and Her Children."
The mother half seated, half lying upon the ground, gazes tenderly down at the two sleeping
children, sheltered in the folds of her mantle. The whole work possesses a serene poetic charm
and dignity very noteworthy; and this and other groups are among the most beautiful that any
American ever turned out of an Italian studio.

Rinehart was one of the last American disciples of the classic school. Certainly no art could
have been more opposed to his than the frank and vivid realism of his immediate successor,
John Rogers. Born in Salem, Massachusetts, the son of a family of merchants, he was educated
in the common schools, worked for a time in a store, and then entered a machine shop as an
apprentice, working up through all the grades, until finally he was in charge of a railroad
repair shop.

During all these years he had no suspicion of artistic talent within himself, but one day in
Boston he happened to see a man modelling some images in clay. In that instant, the artist
instinct clutched him, and procuring some clay and modelling tools, he spent all his leisure
in practice. This leisure was scant enough, for his trade kept him employed fourteen hours
of every day; but at the age of twenty-nine he was able to secure an eight months' vacation,
which he spent in Europe, principally at Paris and Rome. He returned to America greatly discouraged,
for the only thing he saw in Europe was classic sculpture, with which he had no sympathy and
which, indeed, he could not understand.

So, abandoning all thought of making sculpture a profession, he went to work as a draughtsman
in Chicago, amusing himself, at odd hours, by the construction of a group of small figures,
which he called "The Checker Players." It was exhibited at a charity fair, and awakened so
much interest and delight that Rogers burned his bridges behind him by resigning his position,
and proceeded to New York, and rented a studio, determined to be a sculptor in spite of classicism.

The outbreak of the Civil War furnished him a host of subjects which he treated with a patriotic
fervor that went straight to the heart of an overwrought people. "The Returned Volunteer,"
"The Picket-Guard," "The Sharp-shooters," "The Camp-fire," "One More Shot," and many others,
came from his studio in rapid succession. They were all thoroughly American, and some were
even admirably sculptural. They, at least, stood for an original idea, and deserve better treatment
than the silent contempt which, in these days, is about all that has been accorded them.

At about this time, there came upon the scene the first and only really famous woman sculptor
in the history of American art, Harriet Hosmer. She had had an unusual childhood, and had grown
into an original and engaging woman. Born in 1830, at Watertown, Massachusetts, the daughter
of a physician, she inherited her mother's delicate constitution, and her father encouraged
her in an outdoor life of physical exercise such as only boys, at that time, were accustomed
to. She became expert in rowing, riding, skating and shooting, developed great endurance, filled
her room with snakes and insects and birds' nests, and in a clay pit at the end of her father's
garden modelled rude figures of animals.

A few years of schooling followed this wild girlhood; then she was sent to Boston to study
drawing and modelling; but finding that no woman would be admitted to the Boston Medical School,
whose course in anatomy she was anxious to take, she went to St. Louis and entered the medical
college there. Finally, in 1852, accompanied by her father and Charlotte Cushman, she set sail
for Italy.

She remained there for eight years, turning out a number of very creditable figures, which,
if not great, at least possess some measure of grace and charm. Nathaniel Hawthorne, in his
"Italian Note-Book," has left a vivid impression of Miss Hosmer, whose eccentricity of dress
and manner impressed him deeply, as did also the work which she showed him. But she never reached
any high development.

Which brings us to the present of American art, for the sculptors we have yet to consider are
either yet alive or have died so recently that they belong to the present rather than the past.

The first and one of the most important of these is John Quincy Adams Ward, born in 1830 on
an Ohio farm. An accident showed the possession of latent talent, for some good pottery clay
happened to be discovered on his father's farm, and his guardian angel inspired the boy to
take a handful of it and model the grotesque countenance of a negro servant. The result was
striking, and no doubt he felt within himself some of the stirrings of genius, but not until
1849 did he realize his vocation. Then, while on a visit to a sister in Brooklyn, he happened
to pass the open door of H. K. Brown's studio. The glimpse he caught of the scene within fascinated
him; he returned again and again, and ended by entering the studio as a pupil.

He could have found no better master, and for seven years he remained there, assisting Brown
in every detail of his work. His first group, modelled after long study, was his "Indian Hunter,"
now placed in Central Park, New York--a group instinct with vitality--a glimpse of a forgotten
past, evoked with the skill of a master. It was the first of a long line of statues, many of
them portraits of contemporaries, a field in which Ward has no superior. It is perhaps the
highest tribute which could be paid the man to say that, with all his great production, he
has never done bad work, never produced anything trifling or unworthy.

A fellow student with Ward in Henry Kirke Brown's studio was Larkin G. Meade, the first indication
of whose talent was a unique one. One winter morning, about the middle of the century, the
good people of Brattleboro, Vermont, were astonished to find set up in one of the public squares
of the town a colossal snow image, in the form of a majestic angel--crude, no doubt, in execution,
but singularly effective. Inquiry developed that it was the work of young Meade, then only
fifteen years of age. The incident got into the newspapers, magnified considerably, and attracted
the attention of old Nicholas Longworth, of Cincinnati, who, on more than one occasion, had
himself appeared as angel to struggling artists.

It was so in this case. Mr. Longworth wrote to Brattleboro, making some inquiries as to the
essential truth of the story, and having satisfied himself on that point, offered to help the
boy to get an artistic education. The offer was accepted, and young Meade was placed in Brown's
studio, going afterwards to Italy. While there, he heard of the assassination of President
Lincoln, and prepared an elaborate design in plaster for a national monument to the martyred
President's memory. As soon as this was completed, he started for home with it, arriving at
precisely the right moment. The rage for monument building was sweeping up and down the land.
Councils, legislatures, all sorts of public and private bodies, were making appropriations
to commemorate some particular hero of the Civil War, which was just ended; Meade's design
appealed to the popular imagination, and the commission was awarded him.

The monument, which was destined to cost a quarter of a million dollars, was by far the most
important that had ever been erected in this country, and the inexperienced young sculptor
sailed back to Italy to begin work. Not until 1874 was it sufficiently completed to dedicate,
and the last group of statuary was not put in place until ten years later. All this time, the
sculptor had spent quietly in his studio at Florence, quite apart from the world of progress
or of new ideas in art, and long before his work was finished, public taste had outgrown it
and found it uninspired and commonplace.

Much more important to American art is the work of Olin Levi Warner, the son of an itinerant
Methodist preacher, whose wanderings prevented the boy getting any regular schooling. During
his childhood, he had shown considerable talent for carving statuettes in chalk, and he finally
decided to immortalize his father by carving a portrait bust of him. For a stone, he "set"
a barrel of plaster in one solid mass and then, breaking off the staves, began hacking away
at it with such poor implements as he could command. It was a well-nigh endless task, but "it's
dogged that does it," and the boy worked doggedly away until the bust was completed. It was
considered such a success that young Warner, convinced of his vocation, set to work to earn
enough money to go abroad. For six years he worked as a telegrapher, and it was not until 1869,
when he was twenty-five years old, that he had saved the money needed.

Three years later he returned to New York, and opened a studio, but met with a reception so
dismal and indifferent that, after a four years' desperate struggle, he was forced to abandon
the fight and return to his father's farm. Anxious for any employment, he applied to Henry
Plant, President of the Southern Express Company, for work. Mr. Plant was interested, and instead
of offering him a job as messenger or teamster, gave him a commission for two portrait busts.

It was the turning point in Warner's career, for the busts he produced were of a craftsmanship
so delicate and beautiful that they at once established his position among his fellow-sculptors,
though years elapsed before he received any wide public recognition. The truth is that he was
too great and sincere an artist to cater to a public taste which he had himself outgrown; so
that, until quite recently, he has remained a sculptor's sculptor. His untimely death, in 1896,
from the effects of a fall while riding in Central Park, brought forth a notable tribute from
his fellow-craftsmen, and students of sculpture have come to recognize in him one of the most
delicate and truly inspired artists in our history.

But the most powerful influence in the recent development of American sculpture has been that
great artist, Augustus Saint Gaudens. Born in 1848, at Dublin, Ireland, of a French father
and an Irish mother, he was brought to this country while still an infant. Perhaps this mixed
ancestry explains to some degree Saint Gaudens's peculiar genius. At the age of thirteen, he
was apprenticed to a cameo-cutter in New York City, and worked for six years at this employment,
which demands the utmost keenness of vision, delicacy of touch, and refinement of manner. His
evenings he spent in studying drawing, first at Cooper Union and then, outgrowing that, at
the National Academy of Design. So it happened that, at the age of twenty, when most men were
just beginning their special studies, Saint Gaudens was thoroughly grounded in drawing and
an expert in low relief.

Another thing he had learned; and let us pause here to lay stress upon it, for it is the thing
which must be learned before any great life-work can be done. He had learned the value of systematic
industry, of putting in so many hours every day at faithful work. The weak artist, whether
in stone or paint or ink, always contends that he must wait for inspiration, and so excuses
long periods of unproductive idleness, during which he grows weaker and weaker for lack of
exercise. The great artist compels inspiration by whipping himself to his work and setting
grimly about it, knowing that the "inspiration," so-called, will come. For inspiration is only
seeing a thing clearly, and the one way to see it clearly is to keep the eyes and mind fixed
upon it.

At the age of twenty, then, Saint Gaudens was not only a trained artist, but an industrious
one. Three years in the inspiring atmosphere of Paris, and three years in Italy, followed;
and finally, in 1874, he landed again at New York with such an equipment as few sculptors ever
had. And seven years later he proved his mastery when his statue of Admiral Farragut was unveiled
in Union Square, New York. That superb work of art made its author a national figure, and Saint
Gaudens took definitely that place at the head of American sculpture which was his until his death.

Six years later Saint Gaudens's "Lincoln" was unveiled in Lincoln Park, Chicago, and was at
once recognized as the greatest portrait statue in the United States. It has remained so--a
masterpiece of exalted conception and dignified execution. Other statues followed, each memorable
in its way; but Saint Gaudens proved himself not only the greatest but the most versatile of
our sculptors by his work in other fields--by portraits in high and low relief, by ideal figures,
and notably by the memorial to Robert Gould Shaw, a work distinctively American and without
a counterpart in the annals of art. It is the spiritual quality of Saint Gaudens's work which
sets it apart upon a lofty pinnacle--the largeness of the man behind it, the artist mind and
the poet heart.

Saint Gaudens's death in 1907 deprived American art of one of its most commanding figures,
but there are other American sculptors alive to-day whose work is noteworthy in a high degree.
One of these is Daniel Chester French. Born of a substantial New England family, and showing
no especial artistic talent in youth, one day, in his nineteenth year, he surprised his family
by showing them the grotesque figure of a frog in clothes which he had carved from a turnip.
Modelling tools were secured for him, and he went to work. The schooling which prepared him
for his remarkable career was of the slightest. He studied for a month with J. Q. A. Ward,
and for the rest, worked out his own salvation as best he could.

His first important commission came to him at the age of twenty-three--the figure of the "Minute
Man" for the battle monument at Concord, Massachusetts. It was unveiled on April 19, 1875,
and attracted wide attention. For here was a work of strength and originality produced by a
young man without schooling or experience--produced, too, without a model, or, at least, from
nothing but a large cast of the "Apollo Belvidere," which was the only model the sculptor had.
But there was no hint of that famous figure under the clothes of the "Minute Man." It had been
entirely concealed by the personality and vigor he had impressed upon his work.

After that Mr. French spent a year in Florence, but he returned to America at the end of that
period to remain. He has grown steadily in power and certainty of touch, rising perhaps to
his greatest height in his famous group, "The Angel of Death and the Young Sculptor," intended
as a memorial to Martin Milmore, but touching the universal heart by its deep appeal, conveyed
with a sure and admirable artistry. Mr. French's great distinction is to have created good
sculpture which has touched the public heart, and to have done this with no concession to public
taste.

Another sculptor who has gained a wide appreciation is Frederick MacMonnies, who for sheer
audacity and dexterity of manipulation is almost without a rival. He was born in Brooklyn in
1863, his father a Scotchman who had come to New York at the age of eighteen, and his mother
a niece of Benjamin West. The boy's talent revealed itself early, and was developed in the
face of many difficulties. Obliged to leave school while still a child and to earn his living
as a clerk in a jewelry store, he still found time to study drawing, and at the age of sixteen
had the good fortune to attract the attention of Saint Gaudens, who received him as an apprentice
in his studio.

No better fate could have befallen the lad, and the five years spent with Saint Gaudens gave
him the best of all training in the fundamentals of his art. Some years in Paris followed,
where he replenished his slender purse with such work as he could find to do, until, in 1889,
his "Diana" emerged from his studio, radiant and superb. A year later came his statue of "Nathan
Hale," and there was never any lack of commissions after that. "Nathan Hale" stands in City
Hall Park, New York City, the very embodiment of that devoted young patriot. The artist has
shown him at the supreme moment when, facing the scaffold, he uttered the memorable words which
still thrill the American heart, and expression and sentiment were never more perfectly in
accord. He struck the same high note with his famous fountain at Chicago Exposition, where
hundreds of thousands of people suddenly discovered in this young man a national possession
to be proud of.

A year later his name was again in every mouth, when the Boston Public Library refused a place
to perhaps his greatest work, the dancing "Bacchante," which has since found refuge in the
Metropolitan Museum at New York--a composition so original and daring that it astonishes while
it delights.

Like MacMonnies, George Gray Barnard began life as a jeweller's apprentice, became an expert
engraver and letterer, and finally, urged by a ceaseless longing, deserted that lucrative profession
for the extremely uncertain one of sculpture. A year and a half of study in Chicago brought
him an order for a portrait bust of a little girl, and with the $350 he received for this,
he set off for Paris. That meagre sum supported him for three years and a half--with what privation
and self-denial may be imagined; but he never complained. He lived, indeed, the life of a recluse,
shutting himself up in his studio with his work, emerging only at night to walk the streets
of Paris, lost in dreams of ambition. That from this period of ordeal came some of the deep
emotion which marks his work cannot be doubted.

This quality, which sets Barnard apart, is well illustrated in his famous group, "The Two Natures,"
suggested by a line of Victor Hugo, "I feel two natures struggling within me." Two male figures
are shown, heroic in size and powerfully modelled, a victor half erect bending over a prostrate
foe.

Besides these men, who are, in a way, the giants of the American sculptors of to-day, there
are, especially in New York, many others whose work is graceful and distinctive. Paul Wayland
Bartlett, Herbert Adams, Charles Niehaus, John J. Boyle, Frank Elwell, Frederick Ruckstuhl,
to mention only a few of them, are all men of originality and power, whose work is a pleasure
and an inspiration, and to whose hands the future of American sculpture may safely be confided.

SUMMARY

GREENOUGH, HORATIO. Born at Boston, September 6, 1805; graduated at Harvard, 1825; went to
Italy, 1825, and made his home there, with the exception of short visits to America and France;
died at Somerville, Massachusetts, December 18, 1852.

POWERS, HIRAM. Born at Woodstock, Vermont, July 29, 1805; modelled wax figures at Cincinnati,
Ohio, for seven years; went to Washington, 1835, and to Florence, 1837; died there, June 27, 1873.

CRAWFORD, THOMAS. Born at New York City, March 22, 1814; went to Italy, 1834, and took up residence
at Rome for the remainder of his life; afflicted with sudden blindness in 1856, and died at
London, October 16, 1857.

BROWN, HENRY KIRKE. Born at Leyden, Massachusetts, February 24, 1814; studied in Italy, 1842-46;
opened Brooklyn studio, 1850; died at Newburgh, New York, July 10, 1886.

MILLS, CLARKE. Born in Onondaga County, New York, December 1, 1815; died at Washington, January
12, 1883.

PALMER, ERASTUS DOW. Born at Pompey, Onondaga County, New York, April 2, 1817; opened studio
in Albany, 1849; in Paris, 1873-74; died at Albany, New York, March 9, 1904.

BALL, THOMAS. Born at Charlestown, Massachusetts, June 3, 1819; practised painting, 1840-52;
adopted sculpture, 1851; resided in Florence, Italy, 1865-97; opened New York studio, 1898.

STORY, WILLIAM WETMORE. Born at Salem, Massachusetts, February 19, 1819; graduated at Harvard,
1838; admitted to the bar, 1840; published a volume of poems, 1847; went to Italy, 1848, and
lived at Florence until his death, October 5, 1895.

ROGERS, RANDOLPH. Born at Waterloo, New York, July 6, 1825; removed to Italy, 1855; died at
Rome, January 15, 1892.

RINEHART, WILLIAM HENRY. Born in Maryland, September 13, 1825; removed to Rome, 1858, and died
there, October 28, 1874.

ROGERS, JOHN. Born at Salem, Massachusetts, October 30, 1829; visited Europe, 1858-59; died,
July 27, 1904.

HOSMER, HARRIET G. Born at Watertown, Massachusetts, October 9, 1830; studied in Rome, 1852-60;
opened Boston studio, 1861; died at Cambridge, Massachusetts, February 21, 1908.

WARD, JOHN QUINCY ADAMS. Born at Urbana, Ohio, June 29, 1830; studied under H. K. Brown, 1850-57;
studio in New York City since 1861.

MEADE, LARKIN GOLDSMITH. Born at Chesterfield, New Hampshire, January 3, 1835; studied under
Brown and in Florence; artist at the front for Harper's Weekly during Civil War; afterwards
returned to Florence and made his home there.

WARNER, OLIN LEVI. Born at Suffield, Connecticut, April 9, 1844; studied in Paris, 1869-72;
opened New York studio, 1873; died there, August 14, 1896.

SAINT GAUDENS, AUGUSTUS. Born at Dublin, Ireland, March 1, 1848; came to America in infancy;
learned trade of cameo cutter; studied at Paris, 1867-70; Rome, 1870-72; opened New York studio,
1872; died at Corinth, N. H., August 3, 1907.

FRENCH, DANIEL CHESTER. Born at Exeter, New Hampshire, April 20, 1850; studied in Boston and
Florence; studio in Washington, 1876-78; in Boston, 1878-87; in New York since 1887.

MACMONNIES, FREDERICK. Born at Brooklyn, New York, September 20, 1863; studied under Saint
Gaudens, 1880-84; also at Paris, and has spent many of the succeeding years in France.

BARNARD, GEORGE GRAY. Born at Bellefonte, Pennsylvania, May 24, 1863; studied at Paris, 1884-87;
spent some years in New York, and then returned to France.

CHAPTER VI

THE STAGE

The golden age of American acting was not so very long ago. Most white-haired men remember
it, and love to talk of the days of Booth and Forrest and Charlotte Cushman. Joseph Jefferson,
the last survivor of the old régime, died just the other day, and to the very end showed the
present generation the charm and humor of Bob Acres and Rip Van Winkle.

No doubt that golden age is made to appear more golden than it really was by the mists of time;
but undoubtedly the old actors possessed a mellowness, a solidity, a sort of high tradition
now almost unknown. These qualities were due in part, perhaps, to the long and arduous stock
company training, where, in the old days, every actor must serve his apprenticeship, and in
part to the study of the classic drama which had so large a place in stock company repertoire.

Success was infinitely harder to win than it is to-day. There were fewer theatres, so that
the great actors were forced to play together, to their mutual advantage and improvement. The
multiplication of theatres at the present time, and the vast increase of the theatre-going
public, has led to the "star" system--to the placing of an actor at the head of a company,
as soon as he has won a certain reputation. And, since care is taken that the "star" shall
outshine all his associates, it follows that he has no one to measure himself with, he is no
longer on his metal, and his growth usually stops then and there.

But let us be frank about it. The attitude of the public toward the theatre has changed. To-day
we would not tolerate the heavy melodramas which enchained our parents and grandparents. The
age of rant and fustian has passed away, and Edwin Forrest could never gain a second fortune
from such a combination of these qualities as "Metamora." We are more sophisticated; we refuse
to be thrilled by Ingomar, no matter how loudly he bellows. What we ask for principally is
to be amused, and consequently the great effort of the theatre is to amuse us, for the theatre
must cater to its public. So, if the stage to-day is not what it was fifty years ago, the fault
lies principally in front of the footlights and not behind them.

       *       *       *       *       *

To the student of American acting, one name stands out before all the rest, the name of Booth.
No other actors in this country have ever equalled the achievements of Junius Brutus Booth
and of his son, Edwin Booth. They possessed the genius of tragedy, if any men ever did, and
no one who saw them in their great moments can forget the impression of absolute reality which
they conveyed.

Junius Brutus Booth was the son of an eccentric silversmith of London, and was born there in
1796. Let us pause here to remark that, just as the greatest Frenchman who ever lived was an
Italian, and the greatest Russian woman a German, so most of the early American actors were
either English or Irish. This sounds rather Irish itself; but it is true. Certainly, in the
end Napoleon Bonaparte became as French as any Frenchman and the Empress Catherine II Russian
to the core; and the English and Irish actors who came to these shores in search of fame and
fortune, and who found them and spent the remainder of their lives here, have every right to
be considered in any account of the American stage which they did so much to adorn.

Junius Brutus Booth, then, was born in London in 1796. Twenty years before, his father had
been so carried away by Republican principles that he had sailed for America to join the ranks
of the army of independence, but he was captured and sent back to England. So it will be seen
that he was something more than a mere silversmith; but he was very successful at his trade,
and was able to give his son a careful classical education, to fit him for the bar. Imagine
his chagrin when the boy, after a short experience in amateur theatricals, announced his intention
of becoming an actor.

He secured some small parts, made a tour of the provinces, and finally, in London, engaged
in a remarkable war with the great tragedian, Edmund Kean, which divided the town into two
factions. But Booth tired of the struggle, in which the odds were all against him, and in 1821
sailed for America. He won an instant success, and was a great popular favorite until the day
of his death. He was a short, spare, muscular man, with a pale countenance, set off by dark
hair and lighted by a pair of piercing blue eyes, and he possessed a voice of wonderful compass
and thrilling power. Upon the stage he was formidable and tremendous, giving an impression
of overwhelming power, in which his son, perhaps, never quite equalled him.

Shortly after his arrival in America, Booth bought a farm near Baltimore, and there, on November
13, 1833, Edwin Booth was born. There was a great shower of meteors that night, which, if they
portended nothing else, may be taken as symbolical of the career of America's greatest tragedian.
He was the seventh of ten children, all of whom inherited, in some degree, their father's genius.
It was not without a trace of madness, and reached a fearful culmination in John Wilkes Booth,
when he shot down Abraham Lincoln at Ford's Theatre in Washington.

From the first, Edwin Booth felt himself destined for the stage. His father did not encourage
him, but finally, in 1849, consented to his appearance with him in the unimportant part of
Tressel, in "King Richard the Third." From that time on, he accompanied his father in all his
wanderings, and partook of the strange and sad adventures of that wayward man of genius. In
1852, he went with his father to California, and was left there by the elder Booth, who no
doubt thought it the best school for the boy's budding talent. There, in the Sandwich Islands,
and in Australia, among the rough crowds of the mining camps, he had four years of the most
severe training that hardship, discipline, and stern reality can furnish. Amid it all his genius
grew and deepened, and when he returned again to the east in 1856 he was no longer a novice,
but an accomplished actor.

His last years in California had been shadowed by a great sorrow--the sudden and pitiful death
of his father. The elder Booth had for years been subject to attacks of insanity, brought on,
or at least intensified, by extreme intemperance. On one occasion he had attempted to commit
suicide. On another, he had had his nose broken, an accident which so interfered with his voice
that he did not regain complete control of it for nearly two years. On his return from California,
where he had left his son, he stopped at New Orleans, and remained there a week, performing
to crowded houses. He then started north by way of the Mississippi, and was found dying in
his stateroom a few days later. He had been caught in a severe rain as he left New Orleans,
a cold developed, complications followed, and for forty-eight hours he lay unattended in his
stateroom, without that medical attention which he was unable or unwilling to summon. He died
November 30, 1852, and his body was interred at Greenmount Cemetery, Baltimore, in a grave
afterwards marked by a monument erected by his son Edwin.

This was only one of many tragedies which darkened the life of Edwin Booth, for, to use the
words of William Winter, he was "tried by some of the most terrible afflictions that ever tested
the fortitude of a human soul. Over his youth, plainly visible, impended the lowering cloud
of insanity. While he was yet a boy, and while literally struggling for life in the semi-barbarous
wilds of old California, he lost his beloved father, under circumstances of singular misery.
In early manhood he laid in her grave the woman of his first love, the wife who had died in
absence from him, herself scarcely past the threshold of youth, lovely as an angel and to all
who knew her precious beyond expression. A little later his heart was well nigh broken and
his life was well nigh blasted by the crime of a lunatic brother that for a moment seemed to
darken the hope of the world. Recovering from that blow, he threw all his resources and powers
into the establishment of the grandest theatre in the metropolis of America, and he saw his
fortune of more than a million dollars, together with the toil of some of the best years of
his life frittered away. Under all trials he bore bravely up, and kept the even, steadfast
tenor of his course; strong, patient, gentle, neither elated by public homage nor embittered
by private grief."

It has been said that Booth returned from California a finished actor. He had, besides, the
prestige of a great name, and he was welcomed with open arms. He had not yet reached the summit
of his skill, but he showed an extraordinary grace and "a spirit ardent with the fire of genius."
From that time forward, his career was one of lofty endeavor and of high achievement. In the
great characters of Shakespeare, especially in those of Hamlet, Richard the Third, and Iago,
he had no rivals, and no one who witnessed him in any of these parts ever outlived the deep
impression the performance made. During the last two or three years of his life his health
failed gradually, and he was finally compelled to leave the stage. On April 19, 1893, he suffered
a stroke of paralysis from which he never rallied, lingering in a semi-conscious state until
June 7th, when he sank rapidly and died.

Of his art no words can give an adequate idea. It was essentially poetic, full of a strange
and compelling charm. His great moments laid upon his audience the spell of his genius, and
rank with the highest achievements of any actor who ever lived. His countenance--

    "That face which no man ever saw
      And from his memory banished quite,
    The eyes in which are Hamlet's awe
      And Cardinal Richelieu's subtle light"--

as Thomas Bailey Aldrich wrote of Sargent's portrait, which heads this chapter--was a strange
and moving one, and in range of expression unsurpassed. His eyes were especially wonderful,
dark brown, but seeming to turn black in moments of passion, and conveying, with electrical
effect, the actor's thought. He was unique. He stood apart. The American stage has never produced
another like him.

Second only to Edwin Booth in sheer glory of achievement stands Edwin Forrest. He fell far
below Booth in grace, in charm, and in poetic insight, but he surpassed him in physical equipment
for the great parts of tragedy, particularly in his voice, magnificent, vibrating, with an
extraordinary depth and purity of tone.

Unlike Booth, Forrest came from no family of actors, nor inherited a name famous in the annals
of the stage. He was born in Philadelphia in 1806, his father being a Scotchman, employed in
Stephen Girard's bank, and making just enough money to keep his family of six children from
actual want. He died when Edwin was thirteen years old, and his widow, by opening a little
store, managed to support the children. She was a serious and devout woman and decided that
Edwin should enter the ministry. But meantime, he must earn a living, so he was apprenticed
to a cooper.

How long he stayed with the cooper nobody knows; but it could not have been long, for already
he was fired with an ambition to be an actor, and after some experience as an amateur, astonished
and grieved his mother by announcing that he was going on the stage. He made his first appearance
on the 27th of November, 1820, as Young Norval, in Home's tragedy of "Douglas," and was an
immediate success. His youth--remember, he was but fourteen--his handsome face and manly bearing,
and, above all, that wonderful and resonant voice, won the audience at once, and his career
was begun.

But many hardships awaited him. The theatres of New York and Philadelphia had their companies
of well-known and well-trained actors. There was no hope for him in either of those cities;
but at last he secured an engagement to play juvenile parts at Pittsburgh, Cincinnati, Lexington,
and other towns of the middle west, at a salary of eight dollars a week. This, of course, was
scarcely enough to keep body and soul together, but all Forrest wanted was a chance, and he
did not murmur at the suffering and hardship which followed.

For business was poor, and Forrest did not always receive even that eight dollars. The end
came at Dayton, Ohio, where the company went to pieces. Forrest, without money and almost without
clothes, walked the forty miles to Cincinnati, where, after a time, he found another position.
Such was the beginning of his career, and this hard novitiate lasted for four years, until,
in 1826, at the age of twenty, he was able to return to New York and secure an engagement at
the old Bowery Theatre. He was an instant success, and from year to year his wonderful powers
seemed to increase, until he became easily the most famous actor of the day.

But his fame was soon to be dulled by unfortunate personalities. Conceiving a jealousy of Macready,
the famous English actor, he hissed him at a performance in Edinburgh, and when Macready came
to America in 1849, Forrest's followers broke in upon a performance at the Astor Place opera
house, and a riot followed in which twenty-two men were killed. A quarrel with his wife led
to the divorce court, and the suit was decided against him.

The end was pathetic. He had been troubled with gout for a long time, and in 1865, it took
a malignant turn, paralyzing the sciatic nerve, so that he lost the use of one hand, and could
not walk steadily. His power had left him, and in the five years that followed, he played to
empty houses and an indifferent public, not content to retire, but hoping against hope that
he might in some way regain his lost prestige. A stroke of paralysis finally ended the hopeless
struggle.

Forrest's art was of a cruder and more robust sort than Edwin Booth's who, by the way, was
named after him. He was greatest in characters demanding a great physique, a commanding presence
and--yes, let us say it!--a loud voice. Coriolanus, Spartacus, Virginius--those were his roles,
and no man ever looked more imposing in a Roman toga.

Forrest, during his English engagement of 1845, and on other occasions, shared the honors with
a remarkable actress, Charlotte Cushman. And perhaps none ever had a more astonishing career.
Born in Boston in 1816, her youth was one of poverty, for her father died while she was very
young, leaving no property. The girl was remarkably bright, and soon developed a contralto
voice of unusual richness and compass. She sang in a choir and assisted to support the family
from the age of twelve, securing such musical instruction as she could. In 1834, she made her
first appearance in opera and scored a tremendous success. A splendid career seemed opening
before her, when suddenly, a few months later, her voice, strained by the soprano parts which
had been, assigned her, failed completely.

Her friends advised her to become an actress, and she went diligently to work, not allowing
herself to despond over that first great disappointment. For the next seven years, she worked
faithfully learning the new profession from the very bottom. "I became aware," she said, "that
one could never sail a ship by entering at the cabin windows; he must serve and learn his trade
before the mast." In that way she learned hers, playing minor parts, doing cheerfully the drudgery
of her profession, refusing all offers for more important work until she felt herself thoroughly
capable of undertaking it. One would wish that her example might be taken to heart by her sisters
of the present day.

At last her chance came. In 1842, William C. Macready, the great English tragedian, visited
the United States, and in Charlotte Cushman he found a splendid support. Indeed, she divided
the honors with him. A year later, she went to London and won immense applause. "Since the
first appearance of Edmund Keane, in 1814," said a London journal, in speaking of her first
night as "Bianca," "never has there been such a début on the stage of an English theatre."
For eighty-four nights she appeared with Edwin Forrest. "All my successes put together," she
wrote to her mother, "would not come near my success in London."

In the winter of 1845 she tried one of the most daring experiments ever made by an actress,
appearing as Romeo to her sister, Susan Cushman's, Juliet. It was a notable success. Her deep
contralto voice made it possible for her to give a complete illusion of the young and handsome
lover. She played other male characters in after years, notably Hamlet, and created a deep
impression in them. Her sister was a lovely girl, and an accomplished actress, and their "Romeo
and Juliet" ran for two hundred nights. Susan Cushman would no doubt also have won high fame
as an actress, but she soon retired from the stage, marrying the distinguished chemist and
author, James Sheridan Muspratt, of Liverpool.

Charlotte Cushman returned to America in the fall of 1849, and was received with acclamation.
There was never any question, after that, of her position as the greatest English-speaking
actress, and that position she easily maintained until her death. She gathered wealth as well
as fame, built a villa at Newport, and in 1863 earned nearly nine thousand dollars for the
United States Sanitary Commission by benefit performances. Energetic, resolute, faithful, impatient
of any achievement but the highest, she seemed the very embodiment of many of Shakespeare's
greatest creations. She possessed a strange, and weird genius, akin, in some respects, to that
of Edwin Booth, and her delineation of the sublime, the beautiful, the terrible has never been
surpassed. A noble interpreter of noble minds, Charlotte Cushman stands for the supreme achievement
of the actress.

What Booth and Forrest were to tragedy, William J. Florence was to comedy. Indeed, he may be
said to have gone farther than either Booth or Forrest, for he founded a school and gave to
the stage the chivalrous, light-hearted and lucky Irishman, who has since become so familiar
to the drama, however rare he may be outside the theatre.

Florence was born in Albany, New York, in 1831. His family name was Conlin, from which it will
be seen that he came naturally by his insight into Irish character; but he changed this name
when he went upon the stage to the more romantic and euphonious one of Florence. He gave evidence
of possessing unusual dramatic talent while still a boy, and made his début on the regular
stage at the age of eighteen. He had the usual hardships of the young actor, playing in various
stock companies without attracting especial attention, and finally, in 1853, marrying Malvina
Pray, herself an actress of considerable ability.

It was at this time that Florence began to find his field in the delineation of Irish and Yankee
characters, his wife appearing with him, and together they won a wide popularity. Florence
wrote some plays and a number of sprightly songs, which his wife sang inimitably. He himself
improved steadily in his acting, and, especially in the gentle humor and melting pathos with
which he clothed his characters, stood quite alone. A tour through England added to his fame,
and his songs were soon being sung and whistled in the streets pretty generally wherever the
English tongue was spoken. One song in particular, called "Bobbing Around," had immense popularity.

But Florence was more than a mere song-writer Irish comedian. In his later years he proved
himself to be an actor of high attainments and no one who ever witnessed a performance of "The
Rivals," with Jefferson as Bob Acres, and Florence as Sir Lucius O'Trigger, will ever forget
his finished and glowing impersonation.

When Edwin Forrest, heart-broken and discredited, died in 1872, he left his manuscript plays
to another great tragedian, whom he regarded as his legitimate successor, John McCullough.
In some respects McCullough was a greater actor than Forrest, for he possessed that quality
of poetic insight and high imagination which Forrest lacked, while in physical equipment for
the great characters of tragedy he was in no whit his inferior.

John McCullough was born in Coleraine, Ireland, in 1837, his parents, who were small farmers,
bringing him to this country at the age of sixteen. They settled at Philadelphia and the boy
was apprenticed to a chair-maker, but he soon broke away from that hum-drum employment, and
in 1855, appeared in a minor part in "The Belle's Strategem." His story, after that, was the
usual one of long years of training in various stock companies. He gradually worked his way
into prominence, and finally in 1866, became associated with Edwin Forrest, taking the second
parts in the latter's plays; and, after Forrest's death, taking his place as the first impersonator
of robust tragedy in America.

For ten years his success was tremendous--then came the sad ending. McCullough had always been
supremely great in characters requiring the delineation of madness--Virginius, King Lear, Othello.
Whether this had anything to do with the final tragedy cannot be said, but in 1884, while playing
at Chicago, he broke down in the midst of a performance, and had to be led from the stage.
His mind was gone; he never rallied, and ended his days in an asylum for the insane.

One of the most successful engagements McCullough ever had was in 1869 and for some years thereafter,
when, with Lawrence Barrett, he appeared at the Bush Street theatre in San Francisco. Barrett's
name is also closely associated with that of Edwin Booth, for he played opposite Booth through
many seasons--Othello to Booth's Iago, Cassius to Booth's Brutus, and so on; and the two formed
a combination which for sheer genius has never been surpassed. But Barrett never commanded
the adoration of the public as Booth did, because he lacked that power of enchantment which
Booth possessed in a supreme degree. His mind was austere, he could win respect but not affection,
and, as a result, criticism was more captious, honors came grudgingly or not at all, and the
fight for recognition was up-hill all the way.

Lawrence Barrett was born in 1838, and he began his theatrical career at the age of fifteen.
After the usual hard stock-company experience, he secured a New York engagement, where, for
nearly two years, he supported such actors as Charlotte Cushman and Edwin Booth. From New York
he went to Boston for a similar engagement, but at the outbreak of the Civil War he left the
stage, accepted a captaincy in the Twenty-eighth Massachusetts Infantry, and served through
the war with distinction. Then he returned to the theatre, gaining an ever-increasing reputation
until his death.

Clara Morris called him "The Man with the Hungry Eyes," and they were hungry, for life was
always a battle to him. From an obscure and humble position, without fortune, friends, or favoring
circumstances he had fought his way upward in the face of indifference, disparagement and cold
dislike.

Clara Morris has told the story of her own life better than anyone else could tell it, and
has shown in doing it the very qualities which made most for her success--a wide sympathy,
an impetuous heart, and an invincible optimism. She, too, had a hard struggle at the first--entering
the ballet at the age of fifteen to help her mother after her father's death, and working her
way up until she secured a New York engagement with Augustin Daly's famous stock company, where
she soon was sharing the honors with Ada Rehan. Ill health shortened her acting career, and
compelled her retirement from the stage when at the very height of her powers.

Just the other day there died in California another woman who won a great public a generation
ago by a genius and charm seldom equalled. Helena Modjeska's story was an unusual one. Born
in Cracow, Poland, in 1844, the daughter of a great musician, her early years were passed in
an inspiring atmosphere, and almost from the first she felt an impulse toward the stage. But
her family refused to permit her to become an actress, and it was not until after her marriage
that her chance came. Her husband consented to a few trial appearances, and her success was
so great that she was soon engaged as leading lady for the theatre at Cracow.

But her husband incurred the ill-will of the authorities by his political writings, and she
herself got into trouble with them by resisting the Russian censorship of the Polish theatre.
It was evident that arrest and banishment for either or both of them might come at any moment,
and under this incessant and increasing worry, her health began to fail. So she renounced the
theatre, as she thought, forever, came to America, purchased a ranch in California, and settled
down to spend the remainder of her life in quiet. But Edwin Booth, John McCullough, and others,
encouraged her to study English and appear upon the American stage. She did so, and four months
later appeared at San Francisco as Adrienne Lecouvreur. She had an instant success, and for
more than thirty years maintained her position as one of the greatest actresses of the day.

Her personal fascination was of an exceedingly rare kind, her figure tall and graceful, her
face wonderfully attractive in its intellectual charm and eloquent mobility. Shakespeare was
her chief delight, and as Juliet, Rosalind and Ophelia she enchanted thousands.

       *       *       *       *       *

On the evening of Thursday, November 25, 1875, an audience assembled at one of the theatres
of Louisville, Kentucky, to witness "the first appearance upon any stage" of "a young lady
of Louisville." The young lady in question had chosen as her vehicle Shakespeare's Juliet,
which was certainly beginning at the top; she was only sixteen years of age and had never received
any practical stage training; her experience of life was narrow and provincial--and yet, when
the curtain rang down for the last time, the discerning ones in that audience knew that, despite
the crudity of the performance, a new star had arisen and a great career begun. For that "young
lady of Louisville" was Mary Anderson. Her story is unique in the history of the American stage.

Born in California in 1859, but taken to Louisville a year later; her father, Charles Joseph
Anderson, dying in 1863, an officer in the Confederate army, Mary Anderson was reared by her
mother in the Roman Catholic faith and received her education in a parochial school at Louisville.
She left school before she was fourteen, and two years later, as we have seen, was upon the
stage. Her first appearance won her an engagement at Louisville, and for thirteen years thereafter
she was an actress, never in a stock company, but always a star. Then, at the very meridian
of her career, she married and retired forever from the stage.

Mary Anderson's charm was not that of a great actress, for a great actress she never became.
She had not the training necessary to finished and rounded work. Her charm was rather that
of a sweet and gracious personality, of a beautiful nature and a high sincerity. Sumptuously
beautiful, and possessed of a clear and resonant voice, such statuesque characters as Galatea
and Hermione attracted her irresistibly, and in these she achieved her greatest triumphs.

Scarcely second to her was Ada Rehan, born a year later, appearing on the stage two years earlier,
in other words, at the age of thirteen. Ada Rehan, appropriately enough, was born at Limerick,
Ireland, and the roguish and perverse Irish spirit was ever uppermost in her acting. She was
brought to America when she was five years old, and lived and went to school in Brooklyn. Two
of her elder sisters were upon the stage, but she does not seem to have indicated any especial
desire to imitate them, and her first appearance was by accident. An actress playing a small
part in "Across the Continent" was taken suddenly ill, and the child, who happened to be at
the theatre, was hastily dressed for it and taught her few lines; but she displayed so much
readiness and natural talent that, at a family council which followed the performance, it was
decided that she should proceed with a stage career, and she was soon regularly embarked.

This meant a long and severe course of training in the stock companies maintained at the various
theatres throughout the country to support such wandering stars as Booth and McCullough, and
Barrett, and Adelaide Neilson, and she emerged from this training well grounded in all the
business of the actress. In 1879, she attracted Augustin Daly's attention, and from that time
forward until Daly's death, she was the leading woman at his famous New York house, becoming
one of the most admired figures upon the stage. Her art, luminous and sparkling, especially
fitted her for high comedy, and it was there that she achieved her greatest distinction.

Ada Rehan's name was closely associated for many years with that of John Drew, also a member
of the Daly company, and a son of the famous "Mr. and Mrs. John Drew," two of the most versatile,
charming and popular members of the old school. The elder John Drew was born in Ireland in
1825, but came to America at the age of twenty and spent the remainder of his life here, except
for a few absences on tour. He was considered the best Irish comedian on the American stage.
His wife, born in London in 1820 of a theatrical family, appeared in child's parts at the age
of eight, came to this country at the age of twenty, and made a great success here in high
comedy parts. Their son can scarcely be said to have fulfilled the promise of his early years,
but seems to be content with an achievement which shows him to be an accomplished and finished,
but by no means inspired or imaginative, actor.

Another family as celebrated in American theatrical annals as that of John Drew was E. L. Davenport's.
Davenport himself had received his training in the old stock companies, and notably as Junius
Brutus Booth's support in a number of plays. He was equally at home in tragedy and comedy.
Associated with him after their marriage in 1849 was his wife, Fanny Elizabeth Vining, an actress
of considerable ability.

No less than six of their children followed the stage as a career. The most famous of them
was Fanny Davenport, whose stage career began when she was a mere baby. Her young girlhood
was occupied with soubrette parts, but she soon developed unusual emotional powers, and attracted
Augustin Daly's notice. He added her to his stock company in 1869, and she soon won a notable
success in such parts as Lady Gay Spanker, Lady Teazle and Rosalind.

Perhaps no American actor ever had a more remarkable career than William Warren. Born in 1812,
the son of a player of considerable reputation, his first appearance was at the age of twenty.
For twelve years his history was that of most other struggling actors, but in 1846 he became
connected with the Howard Athenæum at Boston, where he remained for thirty-five years, retiring
permanently from the stage in 1882.

During his career, he had given 13,345 performances and had appeared in 577 characters, a record
which has probably never been approached. He was especially notable in his representations
of the "fine old English gentleman," and he became to Boston a sort of Conservatory of Acting
in himself. That he was appreciated both as man and artist his long residence in Boston proves.

He was a cousin of one of the best loved actors who ever trod the American stage--Joseph Jefferson;
but their careers were very different, for Jefferson, in the last quarter century of his life
confined himself to a few parts--practically to four, Bob Acres, Rip Van Winkle, Dr. Pangloss
and Cabel Plummer. In these he was inimitable. Something is gained and lost, of course, by
either of these methods; one is inclined to think the wiser plan, that making for the greatest
achievement, is a wide diversity of parts, and constant creation of new ones. And yet, when
one looks back upon Jefferson's delicate and cameo-clear impersonations, one would not have
him different.

Joseph Jefferson was the third of his name to challenge American theatre-goers. His grandfather,
born in England, in 1774, came to America twenty-three years later and spent the remainder
of his life here, gaining some reputation as a comedian. His father is said to have had little
ability, and to have been careless and improvident. The third of the name was born in Philadelphia
in 1829, and began his stage career at the age of three, appearing as the child in "Pizarro,"
which must have frightened him nearly to death.

His father died when he was only fourteen, and the lad joined a company of strolling players,
who made their way through Texas, and during the war with Mexico, followed the American army
into Mexican territory. American drama was in no great demand, so at Matamoras Jefferson opened
a stall for the sale of coffee and other refreshments, making enough money to get back to the
United States.

For the next ten years he appeared in stock companies in the larger eastern cities, meeting
such players as Edwin Forrest, James E. Murdoch, and Edwin Adams; but the one who influenced
him most was his own half-brother, Charles Burke, an unusually accomplished serio-comic. William
Warren also ranked high in his affections.

The turning point of his career came in 1857 when he became associated with Laura Keene at
her theatre in New York. Here his first part was one with which he was afterwards so closely
identified, that of Dr. Pangloss, and then came "Our American Cousin," in which he gained a
notable success as Asa Trenchard, and in which Edward A. Sothern laid the foundation of the
fantastic character of Lord Dundreary, which was to make him famous. A year later, he created
another of his great characters, Caleb Plummer, in "The Cricket on the Hearth," and soon afterwards,
the most famous of all, Rip Van Winkle, which remained to the end his supreme impersonation.

After that time, his career was a golden and happy one. He won the affection of the American
public as perhaps no recent player has ever done. His art had a peculiarly wide appeal because
it was fine and sweet; he won sympathy and inspired affection; and seemed the very embodiment
of the tender, artless and lovable characters it was his joy to represent.

Jefferson's death marked the passing of the last of the "old school"--that mellow, fluent,
and accomplished circle of players who seem so different to their successors. But public taste
is different too. We care no longer for the rantings and heroics of Virginius and Spartacus
and all the rest of those toga-clothed gentlemen who differed from each other only in their
names. We demand something more subtle, more--yes, let us say it!--intellectual. The modern
who came nearest to answering this demand, to showing us the complex thing which we know human
nature to be, was Richard Mansfield. A great artist, whom no difficulty appalled, he gave the
American public, season after season, the most significant procession of worthy dramas that
one man ever produced.

Mansfield was born in Heligoland in 1857, and studied for the East Indian civil service, but
came to Boston and opened a studio, studied art, and then suddenly abandoned it for the stage.
Curiously enough, he began with small parts in comic opera, and a few years later, made one
of the funniest Kokos who ever appeared in "The Mikado." But he soon changed to straight drama,
and the first great success of his career was as Baron Chevrial in "A Parisian Romance," a
part which was given him after other actors had refused to take it, and in which he created
a real sensation. His reputation was secure after that, and grew steadily until the swift and
complete collapse from over-work, which ended his life at the age of fifty-one.

Are there any great players alive in America to-day? E. H. Sothern, perhaps, comes nearest
to greatness, and has at least won respectful attention by a sincerity and earnestness which
have accomplished much. He is the son of Edward Askew Sothern, whose career was a most peculiar
one. Intended for the ministry, he chose the stage instead, apparently with no talent for it,
and for six or seven years, only the most unimportant of minor parts were entrusted to him.

One of these was that of Lord Dundreary in "Our American Cousin." It consisted of only a few
lines and Sothern accepted it under protest, but he made such a hit in it that it was amplified
and became the principal part of the play. In fact, the play became, in the end, a series of
monologues for Dundreary. It had some remarkable runs, one, for instance, in London, for four
hundred and ninety-six consecutive nights. Sothern continued playing the part until his death.
His son is undoubtedly a far greater actor, and may achieve a high and lasting fame.

Associated with him in many of his later and more ambitious productions has been Julia Marlowe,
undoubtedly the most finished and accomplished actress in America. She had a thorough training,
having been on the stage since her twelfth year, and devoting herself closely to the study
of her art. Her sincerity, too, promises much for the future. After Sothern, Otis Skinner is
perhaps the most noteworthy, and after him, well, anyone of a dozen, whom it is needless to
name here.

It was Joseph Jefferson who remarked that "all the good actors are dead." He meant, of course,
that the present seems always of little worth when compared with the past; and this is the
case not only with the theatre, but in some degree with all the arts. It is especially true
of the theatre, however, because the player lives only in the memories of those who saw him,
and memory sees things, as it were, through a golden glow.

SUMMARY

BOOTH, JUNIUS BRUTUS. Born at London, May 1, 1796; first appearance, 1813; came to America,
1821; died on a Mississippi steamboat, November 30, 1852.

BOOTH, EDWIN. Born at Bel Air, Maryland, November 13, 1833; first appearance, 1849; first appearance
as "star," as Sir Giles Overreach, 1857; played under management of Lawrence Barrett, 1886-91,
in "Hamlet"; founded "The Players' Club," 1888; died at its club-house, in New York City, June
7, 1893.

FORREST, EDWIN. Born at Philadelphia, March 9, 1806; first appearance, 1820; first notable
success as Othello, 1826; last appearance in March, 1871; died at Philadelphia, December 12, 1872.

CUSHMAN, CHARLOTTE. Born at Boston, July 23, 1816; first appearance, 1835; played with Macready,
1842-44; in London, 1844-48; died at Boston, February 8, 1876.

FLORENCE, WILLIAM JAMES. Born at Albany, New York, July 26, 1831; first appearance, 1849; died
at Philadelphia, November 19, 1891.

MCCULLOUGH, JOHN. Born at Coleraine, Ireland, November 2, 1837; came to America, 1853; first
appearance, 1855; broke down mentally and physically, 1884; died in insane asylum at Philadelphia,
November 8, 1885.

BARRETT, LAWRENCE. Born at Paterson, New Jersey, April 4, 1838; first appearance, 1853; enlisted
in 28th Massachusetts Volunteers, 1861; from 1887 until his death closely associated with Edwin
Booth; died at New York City, March 21, 1891.

MORRIS, CLARA. Born at Toronto, Canada, 1849; first appearance, 1861; leading lady, 1869; joined
Daly's company, 1870; married Frederick C. Harriott, 1874.

MODJESKA, HELENA. Born at Cracow, Poland, October 12, 1844; first appearance, 1861; first appearance
in English at San Francisco, 1877; died in California, April 8, 1909.

ANDERSON, MARY. Born at Sacramento, California, July 28, 1859; first appearance, 1875; married
Antonio de Navarro, 1889, and retired from the stage.

REHAN, ADA. Born at Limerick, Ireland, April 22, 1860; came to America in childhood; first
appearance, 1874; joined Daly's company, 1879; leading lady there until his death in 1899.

DREW, JOHN. Born at Philadelphia, in 1853; first appearance, 1873; leading man in Daly's company,
1879-99.

DREW, JOHN, SR. Born at Dublin, Ireland, September 3, 1825; first appearance in New York, 1845;
died at Philadelphia, May 21, 1862.

DREW, MRS. JOHN, SR. (LOUISA LANE). Born at London, January 10, 1820; first appearance when
mere child; came to America, 1828; married John Drew, 1850; died at Larchmont, New York, August
31, 1897.

DAVENPORT, EDWARD LOOMIS. Born at Boston, Massachusetts, November 15, 1814; first appearance,
1836; played in England, 1847-54; died at Canton, Pennsylvania, September 1, 1877.

DAVENPORT, FANNY ELIZABETH VINING. Born at London, July 6, 1829; began playing baby parts at
age of three; made first appearance, 1847, as Juliet; married E. L. Davenport, January 8, 1849;
first appearance in New York, 1854.

DAVENPORT, FANNY LILY GIPSY. Born in London, April 10, 1850; first American appearance, 1862;
died at Danbury, Massachusetts, September 26, 1898.

WARREN, WILLIAM. Born at Philadelphia, November 17, 1812; first appearance, 1832; died at Boston,
September 21, 1888.

JEFFERSON, JOSEPH. Born at Philadelphia, February 20, 1829; first appearance on stage as child;
first became prominent as Asa Trenchard, in "Our American Cousin," 1858; died at West Palm
Beach, Florida, April 23, 1905.

SOTHERN, EDWARD ASKEW. Born at Liverpool, England, April 1, 1826; first appearance, 1849; first
American appearance, 1852; made his mark as Lord Dundreary, 1858; died at London, January 20, 1881.

SOTHERN, EDWARD H. Born in London; appeared as child; first took leading part, 1887.

CHAPTER VII

SCIENTISTS AND EDUCATORS

To give even the briefest account, within the limits of a single chapter, of the lives of noteworthy
American scientists and educators is, of course, quite beyond the bounds of possibility. All
that can be done, even at best, is to mention a few of the greatest names and to indicate in
outline the particular achievements with which they are associated. That is all that has been
attempted here. There are at least a hundred men, in addition to those mentioned in this chapter,
whose work is of consequence in the development of American science and education. The record
of their achievements is an inspiring one which, if properly told, would occupy many volumes.

In the annals of American science, two names stand out with peculiar lustre--John James Audubon
and Louis Agassiz. Neither was, strictly speaking, American, for Agassiz was born in Switzerland
and did not come to this country until he was nearly forty years of age; while Audubon was
born in French territory, the son of a French naval officer, and was educated in France. But
the work of both men was distinctively American, for Audubon devoted his life to the study
of American birds, and Agassiz the latter part of his to the study and classification of American
fishes--as well as to services of the most valuable kind in the field of geology and paleontology.

Audubon's story is a curious and interesting one. His father, the son of a Vendean fisherman,
after working his way up to the command of a French man-of-war, purchased a plantation in Louisiana,
which at that time belonged to France. He married there, and there, in 1780, John James Audubon
was born. He was a precocious child, and early developed a love for nature, which his parents
encouraged in every way they could. He was especially fond of drawing birds and coloring his
drawings. He acquired so much skill in doing this that his father sent him to Paris and placed
him in the studio of the celebrated painter, David.

It is related of young Audubon that his drawings for many years fell so far short of his ideal,
that on each of his birthdays he regularly made a bonfire of all he had produced during the
previous year. He cared for nothing else, however, and after his return to America, his home
became a museum of birds' eggs and stuffed birds. He took long tramps through the wilderness,
with no companions save dog and gun, all the time adding new drawings to his collection. Some
birds he was obliged to shoot, afterwards supporting them in natural positions while he painted
them; others which he could not approach, he drew with the aid of a telescope, representing
them amid their natural surroundings, and all with painstaking care and exactitude.

This work, occupying years of time, and accompanied by every sort of suffering and exposure,
by long trips through the wilderness of the west, in heat and cold, snow and rain, was carried
forward from pure love of nature and enthusiasm for the work itself, without thought or hope
of reward. Audubon's friends began to consider him a kind of harmless madman, for what sane
person would devote his life to a work so laborious and seemingly so useless? He made a little
money occasionally by giving drawing lessons; but he was never content except when roaming
the plains and forests, hunting for some new specimen. For his ambition was to study and draw
every kind of bird which lived in America.

In 1824 he happened to be in Philadelphia, and met there a son of Lucien Bonaparte, to whom
he showed his drawings. The Frenchman was at once deeply interested, for he saw their beauty
and value, and he urged upon Audubon that some arrangement be made by which they could be published
and given to the world. The obstacles in the way of such an enterprise were enormous, for the
processes of color reproduction at that time were slow and expensive, and it was estimated
that the cost of the entire work would exceed a hundred thousand dollars.

But Audubon had overcome obstacles before that, and three years later he issued the prospectus
of his famous "Birds of America." It was to consist of four folio volumes of plates, and the
price of each copy was fixed at a thousand dollars. Three years more were spent in securing
subscriptions, and then the work of publication began, though Audubon had barely enough money
to pay for a single issue. Funds came in, however, after the appearance of the first number,
and the work went steadily forward to completion in 1839. It was called by the great naturalist,
Cuvier, "the most magnificent monument that art ever raised to ornithology." It contained 448
beautifully colored plates, showing 1065 species of North American birds, each of them life size.

Before it was completed, Audubon had planned another work on similar lines, to be known as
"The Quadrupeds of America," and set to work at once to gather the necessary material, which
meant the study from life of each of these animals. He even projected an extensive trip to
the Rocky Mountains in search of material, but was pursuaded by his friends to give it up,
as he was then nearly sixty years of age, and suffering from the effects of his long years
of exposure. His sons assisted him in the preparation of the work, the first volume of which
appeared in 1846, the last in 1854, three years after his death.

Audubon's life illustrates strikingly the compelling power of devotion to an ideal. Few men
have met such discouragements as he, and fewer still have overcome them. For many years, in
all climates, in all weathers, pausing at no difficulty or peril, his life frequently endangered
by wild beasts or still wilder savages, he trudged the pathless wilderness, quite alone, sleeping
under a rude shelter of boughs or in a hollow tree, living on such game as he could shoot,
seeking only one thing, new birds, and when he found them, observing their habits and setting
them on paper with an infinite patience. On one occasion, rats got into the room where his
drawings were stored, and destroyed almost all of them; but he set to work at once re-drawing
them, where most men would have given up in despair. His work remains to this day the standard
one on American birds--a mighty monument to the ideals of its maker.

Jean Louis Rudolphe Agassiz was also a born naturalist, but no such obstacles confronted him
as Audubon surmounted, nor did he strike out for himself a field so absolutely original. Born
in Switzerland in 1807, the descendent of six generations of preachers, but destined for the
profession of medicine, he refused to be anything but a naturalist. From his earliest years,
he showed a passion for gathering specimens, and his first collection of fishes was made when
he was ten years old. He received the very best training to be had in Switzerland, France and
Germany, and early attracted attention for original work of the most important description.
He came to be recognized as the greatest authority on fishes in Europe, and his work on fossil
fishes, published in 1843, was a contribution to science of the first importance.

In 1846, Agassiz came to the United States, partly to deliver a course of lectures at Boston
and partly to make himself familiar with the geology and natural history of this country. His
reception was so cordial and he found so much to interest him here, that he accepted the chair
of zoology and geology in the Lawrence Scientific School at Cambridge, Massachusetts, and decided
to make the United States his home. He soon made Cambridge a great scientific centre, and proved
himself the most inspiring, magnetic and influential teacher of science this country has ever seen.

In succeeding years, he traversed practically the entire country, accumulating vast collections
of specimens which formed the foundation of the great natural history museum at Cambridge.
He was preparing himself for the publication of a comprehensive work to be called "Contributions
to the Natural History of the United States," the first volume of which appeared in 1857. Succeeding
years were occupied with a journey to Brazil, another around Cape Horn, and the establishment
of the Pekinese Island school of natural history, where he was able to carry out his long contemplated
plan of teaching directly from nature. But his labors had impaired his health, and he died
in Cambridge in 1873, after a short illness. His grave is marked by a boulder from the glacier
of the Aar, and shaded by pine trees brought from his native Switzerland.

Agassiz was one of the most remarkable teachers of science that ever lived. Handsome, enthusiastic,
overflowing with vitality, and with a learning broad and deep, his students found in him a
real inspiration to intellectual endeavor. His lectures, however technical and abstruse their
subjects, were of an incomparable clarity and simplicity. He was one of the first to advocate
the teaching of science to women, not in its technical details, but in its broad outlines.

"What I wish for you," he said, one day, addressing a class of girls, "is a culture that is
alive and active. My instruction is only intended to show you the thoughts in nature which
science reveals.

"A physical fact is as sacred as a moral principle," he used to say. "Our own nature demands
from us this double allegiance."

Of the pupils of Agassiz, not the least famous was his son, Alexander, who, after graduating
from Harvard, assisted his father in his work, collected many specimens for the museum at Cambridge,
and was finally appointed assistant in zoology there. In the following years he put his scientific
knowledge to a very practical use. In his geological surveys of the country, he had been impressed
with the richness of the copper mines on Lake Superior. For five years, he acted as superintendent
of the famous Calumet and Hecla mines, developing them into the most successful copper mines
in the world, and himself gaining wealth from them which permitted his making gifts to Harvard
aggregating half a million dollars. It was characteristic of him that, after his service with
the Calumet and Hecla, he resumed his duties at the museum at Cambridge, and continued as curator
until ill health compelled his resignation in 1885.

Among other pupils of Agassiz who won more than ordinary fame as naturalists may be mentioned
Albert Smith Bickmore, Alonzo Howard Clark, Charles Frederick Hartt, Alpheus Hyatt, Theodore
Lyman, Edward Sylvester Morse, Alpheus Spring Packard, Frederick Ward Putnam, Samuel Hubbard
Scudder, Nathaniel Southgate Shaler, William Stimpson, Sanborn Tenney, Addison Emory Merrill,
Burt Green Wilder and Henry Augustus Ward--as brilliant a galaxy of names as American science
can boast, bearing remarkable testimony to the inspiring qualities of their great teacher.

What Agassiz did for geology and natural history, Asa Gray to some extent did for botany. Born
at Paris, N. Y., in 1810, and at an early age abandoning the study of medicine for that of
botany, he accepted, in 1842, a call to the Fisher professorship of natural history at Harvard,
a post which he held for over thirty years. Gray's work began at the time when the old artificial
system of classification was giving way to the natural system, and he, perhaps more than any
other one man, established this system firmly on the basis of affinity.

In 1864, he presented to Harvard his herbarium of more than two hundred thousand specimens,
and his botanical library. He remained in charge of the herbarium until his death, adding to
it constantly, until it became one of the most complete in the world. His publications upon
the subject of botany were numerous and of the highest order of scholarship, and long before
his death he was recognized as the foremost botanist of the country.

Scarcely inferior to him in reputation was John Torrey. It was to Torrey that Gray owed his
first lessons in botany, and if the pupil afterwards surpassed the master, it was because he
was able to build on the foundations which the master laid. John Torrey, born in New York City
in 1796, was the son of a Revolutionary soldier, and in early life determined to become a machinist,
but afterwards studied medicine and began to practice in New York, taking up the study of botany
as an avocation. He found the profession of medicine uncongenial, and finally abandoned it
altogether for science, serving for many years as professor of chemistry and botany at the
College of Physicians and Surgeons in New York City. The succeeding years brought him many
honors, and saw many works of importance issue from his hands.

The progress of the last century in the various branches of science is an interesting study,
and America has made no inconsiderable contributions to every one of them. In astronomy, six
names are worthy of mention here. The first of these, John William Draper, was noted for his
devotion to many other lines of science, especially to photography, and was the first person
in the world to take a photograph of a human being. His service to astronomy was in the application
of photography to that science. In 1840, he took the first photograph ever made of the moon,
and a few years later published his "Production of Light by Heat," an early and exceedingly
important contribution to the subject of spectrum analysis.

His work in astronomy and more especially in physics was carried on most worthily by his son,
Henry Draper, who, at his home at Hastings-on-the-Hudson, built himself an observatory, mounting
in it a reflecting telescope, which he also made. His description of the processes of grinding,
polishing, silvering, testing and mounting it has remained the standard work on the subject.
With this telescope he took a photograph of the moon which remains one of the best that has
ever been made. Among his other noteworthy achievements were his spectrum photographs of 1872
and 1873, and in 1880 his photograph of the great nebula in Orion, the first photograph of
a nebula ever secured. Perhaps the most brilliant discovery ever made in physical science by
an American was that by Draper in 1877, when he demonstrated the presence of oxygen in the
sun so conclusively that it could not be disputed. It was a sort of tour de force that took
the scientific world by surprise and gained its author the widest recognition.

The services of Lewis Morris Rutherford to astronomy resembled in many ways those of Draper.
Starting in life as a lawyer, he abandoned that profession at the age of thirty-three to devote
his whole time to science, principally to the perfection of astronomical photography and spectrum
analysis. The service which photography has rendered to astronomy can scarcely be overestimated,
and these pioneers in the art were laying the foundations for its recent wonderful developments.
He was the first to attempt to classify the stars according to their spectra, and invented
a number of instruments of the greatest service in star photography. All in all, it is doubtful
if anyone added more to the development of this branch of the science than did he.

Very different from the services of these men were those rendered the science of astronomy
by Charles Augustus Young. Called to the chair of astronomy at Princeton University in 1877,
he held that important position for thirty years, his courses a source of inspiration to his
students. He was a member of many important scientific expeditions, invented an automatic spectroscope
which has never been displaced, measured the velocity of the sun's rotation, and was a large
contributor to public knowledge of the science.

Equally important have been the contributions made by Samuel Pierpont Langley, perhaps the
greatest authority on the sun alive to-day. He showed a decided fondness for astronomy even
as a boy, and at the age of thirty was assistant in the observatory at Harvard. Two years later,
he was invited to fill the chair of astronomy in the Western University of Pennsylvania at
Pittsburgh, and his work there began with the establishment of a complete time service, the
first step toward the present daily time service conducted by the government. In 1870, he began
the series of brilliant researches on the sun which have placed him at the head of authorities
on that body. His scientific papers are very numerous and his series of magazine articles on
"The New Astronomy" did much to acquaint the public with the rapid development of the science.
In 1887, he was chosen to the important post of secretary of the Smithsonian Institution, and
his recent years have been spent in experimenting with aëronautics.

Simon Newcomb is another who rendered yeoman service to the science. Born in Nova Scotia, the
son of the village schoolmaster, he lived to become one of the eight foreign associates of
the Institute of France, the first native American since Franklin to be so honored; to win
the Huygens medal, given once in twenty years to the astronomer who had done the greatest service
to the science in that period, and to receive the highest degree from practically every American
college.

In his autobiography he tells how, at the age of five, he began to study arithmetic, at twelve
algebra, and at thirteen Euclid. At the age of eighteen, planning to make his way to the United
States, he set out on foot, taught school for a year or so, and then attracted the attention
of Prof. Joseph Henry, of the Smithsonian Institution, by sending him a problem in algebra.
The unusual aptitude for mathematics which the boy possessed so impressed Prof. Henry, that
he set him to work as a computer on the Nautical Almanac; but he was soon attracted to "exact,"
or mathematical astronomy, which became his life work. Some idea of its importance may be gained
when it is stated that every astronomer in the world to-day uses his determinations of the
movements of the planets and the moon; every skipper in the world guides his ship by tables
which Newcomb devised; and every eclipse is computed according to his tables. He supervised
the construction and mounting of the equatorial telescope in the naval observatory at Washington,
the Lick telescope, and Russia applied to him, in 1873, for aid in placing her great telescope.

A man of humor, sympathy and anecdote, he found, in the fall of 1908, that he was suffering
from cancer, and hastened the work on the moon, which was to be his masterpiece. Ten months
later, he was told that his course was nearly run--and his great work was still incomplete.

"Take me to Washington," he said, "I must work while there is time."

And there, lying in agony on his bed, for three weeks he dictated steadily to stenographers
on a subject which required the utmost concentration. His indomitable will alone supported
him, and a week after the last word had been written, came the end. Verily, there was a man!

The last of the great American astronomers whom we shall mention here is Edward Charles Pickering,
whose name is so closely connected with the development of the great observatory at Harvard.
Born at Boston, and educated at the Lawrence Scientific School, his first work was in the field
of physics, but in 1876, he was appointed professor of astronomy and geodesy, and director
of the Harvard observatory, which, under his management, has become of the first importance.
His principal work has been the determination of the relative brightness of the stars, and
many thousands have been charted. On the death of Henry Draper, the study of the spectra of
the stars by means of photography was continued as a memorial to that great scientist, and
the results obtained have been of the most important character, including a star map of the
entire heavens. Other phases of the science of scarcely less importance have been carefully
developed, and the work which has been done under Pickering's direction, is second to none
in the history of the science. Not satisfied with the Northern hemisphere, a branch has been
established in Peru, in which the observatory's methods of research have been extended to the
south celestial pole. So for eighteen years and more, it has kept ceaseless watch of the heavens,
with an accuracy of which the world has hardly a conception. For this great work the scientific
world must pay tribute to the genius and perseverance of Edward Charles Pickering.

The second department of science claiming our attention is that of paleontology. Here one of
the most eminent of American names is that of Othniel Charles Marsh. A graduate of Yale and
firmly grounded in zoology and kindred sciences by a course of study at Heidelberg and Berlin,
he returned to the United States in 1866 to accept the chair of paleontology which had been
established for him at Yale. The remainder of his life was devoted to the original investigation
of extinct vertebrates, especially in the Rocky Mountain regions. In these explorations, more
than a thousand new species of extinct vertebrates were brought to light, many of which possess
great scientific interest, representing new orders never before discovered in America. So important
was this work that the national geological survey undertook the publication of his reports,
which formed the most remarkable contributions to the subject ever written in this country,
attracting the attention and admiration of the whole scientific world.

Associated with Marsh as paleontologist for the Geological Survey was Edward Drinker Cope,
whose work was second only to the older man's in importance. He also devoted much of his attention
to the exploration of the Rocky Mountain region, and found that there, in the strata of the
ancient lake beds, records of the age of mammals had been made and preserved with a fulness
surpassing that of any other known region on earth. The profusion of vertebrate remains brought
to light was almost unbelievable. Prof. Marsh, who was first in the field, found three hundred
new tertiary species between 1870 and 1876, besides unearthing the remains of two hundred birds
with teeth, six hundred flying dragons, and fifteen hundred sea serpents, some of them sixty
feet in length. In a single bed of rock not larger than a good sized lecture room, he found
the remains of no less than one hundred and sixty mammals.

It was this work which Prof. Cope took up and carried forward. Its importance may be appreciated
when it is stated that among these remains are found examples of just such intermediate types
of organisms as must have existed if the succession of life on the earth has been an unbroken
lineal succession. Here are snakes with wings and legs, and birds with teeth and other snakelike
characteristics, bridging the gap between modern birds and reptiles. The line of descent of
the horse, the camel, the hippopotamus and other mammals has been traced to a single ancestor,
the result being the proof of the theory of evolution.

The whole work of American paleontology has, of course, been along these lines. Agassiz himself
was a living and vital force in it, as were such men as Joseph Leidy and H. F. Osborne.

       *       *       *       *       *

It is a remarkable fact that one of the few truly original and novel ideas the past century
can boast, and the one which has had the deepest influence on geology, had its origin in the
brain of an illiterate Swiss chamois hunter named Perraudin. Throughout the Alps, on lofty
crags, great bowlders were often found, which had no relation to the geology of the region
and which were called erratics, because they had evidently come there from a distance. But
how? Scientists explained it in many ways, but it remained for the mountaineer to suggest that
the bowlders had been left in their present positions by glaciers. The scientific world laughed
at the idea, but ten years later, it was brought to the attention of Louis Agassiz; he investigated
it, became a convert, and saw that its implications extended far beyond the Alps, for these
erratic bowlders were found on mountains and plains throughout the northern hemisphere. Agassiz
found everywhere evidences of glacial action, and became convinced that at one time a great
ice cap had covered the globe down to the higher latitudes of the northern hemisphere. So came
the conception of a universal Ice Age, now one of the accepted tenets of geology.

The dean of American geologists was Benjamin Silliman, who, at the very beginning of the nineteenth
century, took up at Yale University the work which he was to carry on so successfully for more
than fifty years. As an inspiring teacher he was scarcely less successful than Agassiz at a
later day. His popular lectures began in 1808 and soon attracted to New Haven the brightest
young men in the country. Among them was James Dwight Dana, who was to carry on most worthily
the work which Prof. Silliman had begun.

James Dwight Dana was attracted to Yale by Prof. Silliman's great reputation and received there
the inspiration which started him upon a scientific career. Three years after his graduation,
he was appointed assistant to his former instructor, and two years later sailed for the South
Seas as mineralogist and geologist of the United States exploring expedition commanded by Charles
Wilkes. He was absent for three years and spent thirteen more in studying and classifying the
material he had collected. He then resumed his work at Yale, succeeding Prof. Silliman in the
chair of geology and mineralogy. His work was recognized throughout the world as most important,
and many honors were conferred upon him.

Another famous name in American geology is that of John Strong Newberry. His name is connected
principally with the explorations of the Columbia and Colorado rivers. He was afterwards appointed
professor of geology and paleontology at the Columbia College School of Mines, and took charge
of that department in the autumn of 1866. During his connection with the institution, he created
a museum of over one hundred thousand specimens, principally collected by himself, containing
the best representation of the mineral resources of the United States to be found anywhere.

Among the pupils of Prof. Silliman who afterwards won a wide reputation was Josiah Dwight Whitney.
Graduating from Yale in 1839, he spent five years studying in Europe, and then, returning to
America, was connected with the survey of the Lake Superior region, of Iowa, of the upper Missouri,
and of California, issuing a number of books giving the results of these investigations, and
in 1865, being called to the chair of geology at Harvard.

Still another of Prof. Silliman's pupils was Edward Hitchcock, whose life was an unusually
interesting one. His parents were poor and he spent his boyhood working on a farm or as a carpenter,
gaining such education as he could by studying at night. Deciding to enter the ministry, he
managed to work his way through Yale theological seminary, graduating at the age of twenty-seven.
It was here that he came under the influence of Prof. Silliman, and after a laboratory course
and much field work, he was chosen professor of chemistry and natural history at Amherst College.
He held this position for twenty years, and in 1845 was chosen president of the college, transforming
it, before his retirement nine years later, from a poor and struggling institution into a well-endowed
and firmly established one. He had meanwhile served as state geologist of Massachusetts, and
completed the first survey of an entire state ever made by authority of a government.

The most important recent contribution to American geology has been the three volume work issued
in 1904-5, under the joint editorship of Thomas C. Chamberlain and Rollin D. Salisbury. Both
are geologists of wide experience, and their work presents the present status of the science
interestingly and simply.

       *       *       *       *       *

America has had her full share of daring and successful surgeons, and in the science of surgery
stands to-day second to no nation on earth, but perhaps the most famous American surgeon who
ever lived was Valentine Mott. Dr. Mott was descended from a long line of Quaker ancestors,
and was born in 1785. His father was a physician, and Dr. Mott began his medical and surgical
studies at the age of nineteen, first in New York City, and afterwards in the hospitals of
London, where he made a specialty of the study of practical anatomy by the method of dissection.
At that time there was in this country a deep-seated prejudice against the use of the human
body for this purpose, and the experience which Dr. Mott secured in London, and which stood
him in such good stead in after years, would have been impossible of attainment here. A year
was also spent in Edinburgh, and finally, in 1809, Dr. Mott returned to America with an exceptional
equipment.

His skill won him a wide reputation and he was soon recognized as one of the first surgeons
of the age. His boldness and originality were exceptional, and his success was no doubt due
in some degree to his constant practice throughout his life of performing every novel and important
operation upon a cadaver before operating upon the living subject. To describe in detail the
operations which he originated would be too technical for such a book as this, but many of
them were of the first importance. Sir Astley Cooper said of him: "Dr. Mott has performed more
of the great operations than any man living, or that ever did live." He possessed all the qualifications
of a great operator, extraordinary keenness of sight, steadiness of nerve, and physical vigor.
He could use his left hand as skillfully as his right, and developed a dexterity which has
never been surpassed.

It should be remembered that in those days the use of anæsthetics had not yet been discovered,
and every operation had to be performed upon the conscious subject, as he lay strapped upon
the table shrieking with agony. To perform an operation under such circumstances required an
iron nerve. Dr. Mott was one of the first to recognize the value of anæsthetics, and his use
of them, immediately following their discovery, greatly facilitated their rapid and general
introduction.

It is one of the boasts of American medicine that the first man in the world to conceive the
idea that the administration of a definite drug might render a surgical operation painless
was an American--Crawford W. Long. Dr. Long graduated from the medical department of the University
of Pennsylvania in 1839. When a student, he had once inhaled ether for its intoxicant effects,
and while partially under the influence of the drug, had noticed that a chance blow to his
shin produced no pain. This gave him the idea that ether might be used in surgical operations,
and on March 30, 1842, at Jefferson, Georgia, he used it with entire success. He repeated the
experiment several times, but he did not entirely trust the evidence of these experiments.
So he delayed announcing the discovery until he had subjected it to further tests, and while
these experiments were going on, another American, Dr. W. T. G. Morton, of Boston, also hit
upon the great discovery and announced it to the world.

Dr. Morton was a dentist who, in 1841, introduced a new kind of solder by which false teeth
could be fastened to gold plates. Then, in the endeavor to extract teeth without pain, he tried
stimulants, opium and magnetism without success, and finally sulphuric ether. On September
30, 1846, he administered ether to a patient and removed a tooth without pain; the next day
he repeated the experiment, and the next. Then, filled with the immense possibilities of his
discovery, he went to Dr. J. C. Warren, one of the foremost surgeons of Boston, and asked permission
to test it decisively on one of the patients at the Boston hospital during a severe operation.
The request was granted, and on October 16, 1846, the test was made in the presence of a large
body of surgeons and students. The patient slept quietly while the surgeon's knife was plied,
and awoke to an astonished comprehension that the dreadful ordeal was over. The impossible,
the miraculous, had been accomplished; suffering mankind had received such a blessing as it
had never received before, and American surgery had scored its greatest triumph. Swiftly as
steam could carry it, the splendid news was heralded to all the world, and its truth was soon
established by repeated experiments.

To tell of the work of the men who came after these pioneers in the field of surgery and medicine
is a task quite beyond the compass of this little volume. There are at least a score whose
achievements are of the first importance, and nowhere in the world has this great science,
which has for its aim the alleviation of human suffering, reached a higher development.

Among the physicists of the country, Joseph Henry takes a high place. His boyhood and youth
were passed in a struggle for existence. He was placed in a store at the age of ten, and remained
there for five years. At the age of fifteen he was apprenticed to a watchmaker, and had some
thought of studying for the stage, but during a brief illness, he started to read Dr. Gregory's
"Lectures on Experimental Philosophy, Astronomy and Chemistry," and forthwith decided to become
a scientist. He began to study in the evenings, managed to take a course of instruction at
the academy at Albany, New York, and finally, in 1826, was made professor of mathematics there.

Almost at once began a series of brilliant experiments in electricity which have linked his
name with that of Benjamin Franklin as one of the two most original investigators in that branch
of science which this country has ever produced. His first work was the improving of existing
forms of apparatus, and his first important discovery was that of the electro-magnet. His development
of the "intensity" magnet in 1830 made the electric telegraph a possibility. Two years later
he was called to the chair of natural philosophy at Princeton University, where he continued
his investigations, many of which have been of permanent value to science. In 1846, he was
elected first secretary of the Smithsonian Institution, and removed to Washington, where the
last forty years of his life were passed in the development of the great scientific establishment
of which he was the head. He steadily refused the most flattering offers of other positions,
among them the presidency of Princeton, and like Agassiz, he might have answered, when tempted
by larger salaries, "I cannot afford to waste my time in making money." To his efforts is largely
due the establishment of the national lighthouse system, as well as that of the national weather
bureau.

Besides his services to American science as instructor at Harvard College, Louis Agassiz rendered
another when he persuaded Arnold Guyot, his colleague in the college at Neuchâtel, to accompany
him to this country. Guyot was at that time forty years old, and was already widely known as
a geologist and naturalist, and the delivery of a series of lectures before the Lowell Institute,
established his reputation in this country. He was soon invited to the chair of physical geography
and geology at Princeton, which he held until his death. He founded the museum at Princeton,
which has since become one of the best of its kind in the United States. Perhaps he is best
known for the series of geographies he prepared, and which were at one time widely used in
schools throughout the United States.

Perhaps no family has been more closely associated with American science than that of the Huguenot
Le Conte, who settled at New Rochelle, New York, about the close of the seventeenth century,
moving afterwards to New Jersey. There, in 1782, Lewis Le Conte was born. He was graduated
at Columbia at the age of seventeen and started to study medicine, but was soon afterwards
called to the management of the family estates of Woodsmanston, in Georgia. There he established
a botanical garden and a laboratory in which he tested the discoveries of the chemists of the
day. His death resulted from poison that was taken into his system while dressing a wound for
a member of his family.

His son, John Le Conte, after studying medicine and beginning the practice of his profession
at Savannah, Georgia, was called to the chair of natural philosophy and chemistry at Franklin
College, and after some years in educational work, was appointed professor of physics and industrial
mechanics in the University of California, which position he held until his death, serving
also for some years as president of the University. His scientific work extended over a period
of more than half a century, being confined almost exclusively to physical science, in which
he was one of the first authorities.

Another son of Lewis, Joseph Le Conte, like his brother, studied medicine and started to practice
it; but in 1850, attracted by the great work being done by Louis Agassiz, he entered the Lawrence
Scientific School at Harvard, devoting his attention especially to geology. After holding a
number of minor positions, he became professor of geology and natural history in the University
of California in 1869, and his most important work was done there in the shape of original
investigations in geology, which placed him in the front rank of American geologists.

Lewis Le Conte had a brother, John Eathan Le Conte, who was also widely known as a naturalist
of unusual attainments. He published many papers upon various branches of botany and zoology,
and collected a vast amount of material for a natural history of American insects, only a part
of which was published. His son, John Lawrence Le Conte, was a pupil of Agassiz, and conducted
extensive explorations of the Lake Superior and upper Mississippi regions, and of the Colorado
river. He afterwards made a number of expeditions to Honduras, Panama, Europe, Egypt and Algiers,
collecting material for a work on the fauna of the world, which, however, was left uncompleted
at his death.

American science recently suffered a heavy loss in the death of Nathaniel Southgate Shaler,
one of the most brilliant of the pupils of Agassiz, and from 1864 until the time of his death,
connected with the geological department of Harvard University, rising to the full professorship
in geology, which he held for over twenty years, and to the position of dean of the Lawrence
Scientific School. He did much to increase public interest in and knowledge of the development
of the science by frequent popular articles in the leading magazines, in addition to more technical
books and memoirs intended especially for scientists.

Of living scientists, we can do no more than mention a few. Perhaps the most famous, and dearest
to the popular heart is John Burroughs, a nature philosopher, if there ever was one, a keen
observer of the life of field and forest, and the author of a long list of lovable books. One
of the leaders in the "return to nature" movement which has reached such wide proportions of
recent years, he has held his position as its prophet and interpreter against the assaults
of younger, more energetic, but narrower men.

Prominent in the same field is Liberty Hyde Bailey, since 1903 director of the College of Agriculture
at Cornell University. His early training took place under Asa Gray, and his attention has
been devoted principally to botanical and horticultural subjects. He has written many books,
his principal work being his Cyclopedia of American Horticulture, which has just been completed.
Other recent important contributions to science have been made by Vernon L. Kellogg, whose
work has dealt principally with American insects, and whose recent book on that subject has
been recognized as a standard authority; by Charles Edward Bessey, professor of botany at the
University of Nebraska since 1884, a pupil of Dr. Asa Gray and the author of a number of valued
books upon the subject which has been his life work; by George Frederick Barker, now emeritus
professor of physics in the University of Pennsylvania, and the recipient of high honors at
home and abroad; and by many others whom it is not necessary to mention here.

It will be evident enough from the foregoing that American science can boast no men of commanding
genius--no men, that is, to rank with Darwin, or Huxley, or Lord Kelvin, or Sir Isaac Newton,
to mention only Englishmen. Its record has been one of respectable achievement rather than
of brilliant originality, but is yet one of which we have no reason to be ashamed.

       *       *       *       *       *

Most of the men mentioned in this chapter have, in the widest sense been educators. Agassiz,
Gray, Silliman, Guyot--all were educators in the fullest and truest way. It remains for us
to consider a few others who have labored in this country for the spread of knowledge. That
the present educational system of the United States is not a spontaneous growth, but has been
carefully fostered and directed, goes without saying. It is the result, first, of a wise interest
and support on the part of the state, which early recognized the importance of educating its
citizens, and, second, of the self-sacrificing efforts of a number of intelligent, earnest,
and public-spirited men.

One of the first of these was Horace Mann, born in Massachusetts in 1796, the son of a poor
farmer. His struggle to gain an education was a desperate one, and its story cannot but be
inspiring. As a child he earned his school books by braiding straw, and his utmost endeavors,
between the ages of ten and twenty, could secure him no more than six weeks' schooling in any
one year. Consequently he was twenty-three years of age when he graduated from Brown University,
instead of seventeen or eighteen, as would have been the case had he had the usual opportunities.
He went to work at once as a tutor in Latin and Greek, studied law, was admitted to the bar,
elected to the state legislature and afterwards to the senate, and finally entered upon his
real work as secretary to the Massachusetts board of education.

He introduced a thorough reform into the school system of the state, made a trip of inspection
through European schools, and by his lectures and writings awakened an interest in the cause
of education which had never before been felt. His reports were reprinted in other states,
attaining the widest circulation. It is noteworthy that as early as 1847, he advocated the
disuse of corporal punishment in school discipline. After a service of some years as member
of Congress, during which he threw all his influence against slavery, he accepted the presidency
of Antioch College, at Yellow Springs, Ohio, where he continued until his death. It was there
that the experiment of co-education was tried, and found to work successfully, and the foundations
laid for one of the most characteristic of recent great development of higher school education
in America. Oberlin College, also in Ohio, had by a few years preceded Dr. Mann's experiment,
but the latter's great reputation as an educator caused his ardent advocacy of co-education
to carry great weight with the public. From this time on it became a custom, as state universities
opened in the west, to admit women, and the custom gradually spread to the east and even to
some of the larger colleges supported by private endowments.

Turning to the three great universities, Harvard, Yale, and Princeton, which have done so much
for the intellectual welfare of the country, we find a galaxy of brilliant names. On the list
of Harvard presidents, three stand out pre-eminent--Josiah Quincy, Edward Everett, and Charles
William Eliot. Josiah Quincy, third of the name of the great Massachusetts Quincys, graduated
at Harvard in 1790 at the head of his class, studied law, drifted inevitably into politics,
held a number of offices, which do not concern us here, and finally, after a remarkable term
as mayor of Boston, was, in 1829, chosen president of Harvard. The work that he did there was
important in the extreme. He introduced the system of marking which continued in use for over
forty years; instituted the elective system, which permitted the student to shape his course
of study to suit the career which he had chosen; secured large endowments, and, when he retired
from the presidency in 1845, left the college in the foremost position among American institutions
of learning. Edward Everett, who was president of the college from 1846-49, was more prominent
as a statesman than as an educator, and an outline of his career will be found in "Men of Action."
The third of the trio, Charles William Eliot, whose term as president of the college covered
a period of forty years, is rightly regarded as one of the greatest, if not the greatest educator
this country has produced.

Graduating from Harvard in 1853, at the age of nineteen, he devoted his attention principally
to chemistry, and, after some years of teaching, and of study in Europe, was, in 1865, appointed
professor of chemistry in the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. The same year, a revolution
occurred in the government of Harvard, which was transferred from the state legislature to
the graduates of the college. The effect of the change was greatly to strengthen the interest
of the alumni in the management of the university, and to prepare the way for extensive and
thorough reforms. Considerable time was spent in searching for the right man for president
and finally, in 1869, Prof. Eliot was chosen.

That the right man had been found was evident from the first. "King Log has made room for King
Stork," wrote Oliver Wendell Holmes, then professor of anatomy and physiology at Harvard, to
John Motley. "Mr. Eliot makes the corporation meet twice a month instead of once. He comes
to the meeting of every faculty, ours among the rest, and keeps us up to eleven and twelve
o'clock at night discussing new arrangements. I cannot help being amused at some of the scenes
we have in our medical faculty--this cool, grave young man proposing in the calmest way to
turn everything topsy turvy, taking the reins into his hands and driving as if he were the
first man that ever sat on the box.

"'How is it, I should like to ask,' said one of our members, the other day, 'that this faculty
has gone on for eighty years managing its own affairs and doing it well, and now within three
or four months it is proposed to change all our modes of carrying on the school? It seems very
extraordinary, and I should like to know how it happens.'

"'I can answer Dr. ----'s question very easily,' said the bland, grave young man. 'There is
a new president.'

"The tranquil assurance of this answer had an effect such as I hardly ever knew produced by
the most eloquent sentences I ever heard uttered."

The bland young man's innovations did not seem to do much harm to Harvard, for under his administration,
her financial resources have been multiplied by ten, as has the number of her teachers, while
the number of her students has been multiplied by five. Dr. Eliot has grown into the real head
of the educational system of this country; his influence has wrought vast changes in every
department of teaching, from the kindergarten to the university. It was his idea that common
school education and college education ought to be flexible, ought to be made to fit the needs
of the pupil. The result has been the broad development of the elective system--broader than
Josiah Quincy ever dreamed of. The same system has changed the whole aspect of the teaching
profession, resulting in the demand for a competent training in some specialty for every teacher.

Dr. Eliot, who is in a sense the first living citizen of America, has not attained that position
merely by success in his profession. He has devoted time and thought to the great problems
of our government, and has taken an active part in many public movements--the race question,
the relations of capital and labor, the movement for universal arbitration. He has been honored
by France, by Italy, and by Japan, and resigned from his great office, in 1909, at the age
of seventy-five, with mental and physical powers in splendid condition, not to retire from
active life, but to devote himself even more wholly to the service of his countrymen. In this
age of commercial domination, a career such as Dr. Eliot's is more than usually inspiring.

In the history of the administration of Yale university, the most striking personalities are
the two Timothy Dwights and Noah Porter. The first Timothy Dwight, born in 1752, and graduating
from Yale at the age of seventeen, began to teach, and at the outbreak of the Revolution, enlisted
as Chaplain in Parson's brigade of the Connecticut line. It was at this time he wrote a number
of stirring patriotic songs, one of which, "Columbia," still lives. At the close of the war,
he continued preaching and also opened an academy, at which women were admitted to the same
courses with men, and which soon acquired considerable reputation. In 1795, he was called to
the presidency of Yale, a position which he held until his death. His administration marked
the beginning of a new era in the history of the college. At his accession, the college had
about one hundred students, and the instructors consisted of the president, one professor and
three tutors. He established permanent professorships and chose such men to fill them as Jeremiah
Day, Benjamin Silliman, and James Kingsley. The result of this policy was a steady growth in
the number of students, until, at his death, they had increased to over three hundred.

Noah Porter, who came to the presidency in 1871, had been graduated from the college forty
years before, during which time he had studied theology, held a number of important charges,
was called to the chair of moral philosophy at Yale, and finally elevated to the presidency.
His work was most important, one feature of it being the introduction of elective studies,
though he insisted also upon a required course, as opposed to the Harvard system. Some of the
University's finest buildings were erected during his administration, and at its close the
student body numbered nearly eleven hundred.

He was succeeded in 1886 by Timothy Dwight, grandson of the elder president Dwight, who, for
many years has been closely associated with the University, its financial growth being largely
due to his efforts. Under his management the growth of the institution was unprecedented, the
number of students increasing nearly fifty per cent within five years. He was also prominently
identified with the general educational movement throughout the country, and his "True Ideal
of an American University," published in 1872, attracted much attention.

Princeton has also had its share of eminent men, among them Jonathan Edwards, John Witherspoon,
and James McCosh. Jonathan Edwards was one of the most remarkable characters in American history.
Born in 1703, he was the fifth of eleven children and the only son. As a mere child, he developed
uncommon qualities, entered Yale College at the age of twelve and graduated at the age of seventeen.
His father was a clergyman, and the boy had been brought up in a household and community intensely
religious, so that he very early began to have "a variety of concerns and exercises about his
soul." It was inevitable, of course, that he should become a minister, and, at the age of nineteen,
was ordained and began to preach at a small church in New York City. Edwards seems to have
been afflicted from the first with what is in these days irreverently called an in-growing
conscience, and early formulated for himself a set of seventy resolutions of the most exalted
nature, which, however praiseworthy in themselves, were too high and good for human nature's
daily food, and must have made him a most uncomfortable person to live with. He developed,
however, into a powerful preacher, and his services were much sought, especially at revivals.
One of his sermons, called "Sinners in the Hands of an Angry God," is said to have created
a profound impression wherever delivered.

A difference with his congregation at Northampton caused him to resign his pastorate there,
and, declining a number of calls to established parishes, he went as a missionary to the Housatonick
Indians, at so small an income that his wife and daughters were forced to labor with the needle
to support the family. It was while engaged in this work, that an unexpected call came to him
to take the presidency of Princeton. He accepted and was installed as president early in 1758.
At once he began a series of reforms in the college administration, but an epidemic of small-pox
broke out in the neighborhood, and Edwards, exposing himself to it fearlessly, contracted the
disease and died thirty-four days after his installation.

Jonathan Edwards probably came as near to the old idea of a saint as America ever produced.
Self-denying, stern, of an exalted piety, and intensely religious, he lived in a world of his
own, and was regarded with no little awe and trembling. That he was a power for good cannot
be doubted, and his sermons are still read, where those of his contemporaries have long since
been forgotten.

Much more important to Princeton, was John Witherspoon, who came to the presidency in 1768,
after a distinguished career in Scotland, one of the incidents of which was being taken a prisoner
while incautiously watching the battle of Falkirk. He never wholly recovered from the effects
of the imprisonment which followed. He brought with him from Scotland a valuable library which
he gave to the college, and, finding the college treasury empty, he undertook a vigorous campaign
to replenish it, making a tour of New England, and even extending his quest as far as Jamaica
and the West Indies. Through his administrative ability and the changes and additions which
he made in the course of study, the college received a great impetus.

The service to his adopted country by which Witherspoon will be longest remembered, was the
course he followed at the beginning of the Revolution. From the first, he took the side of
the colonies, and by precept and example, held not only the great body of Presbyterians true
to that cause, but also the Scotch and Scotch-Irish, who were naturally Tories by sympathy.
He was a member of the Continental Congress, urged ceaselessly the passage of the Declaration
of Independence, was one of its signers, and as a member of succeeding Congresses, distinguished
himself by his services. After the close of the war, he returned to Princeton and devoted the
remainder of his life to its administration.

Greatest of the three as an educator was James McCosh. A Scotchman, like Witherspoon, a student
of the Universities of Glasgow and Edinburgh, a pupil of Thomas Chalmers, he was ordained to
the ministry in 1835, and was a leading spirit in the movement which culminated in the establishment
of the Free Church of Scotland. His publications on philosophical subjects brought him the
appointment as professor of logic and metaphysics in Queen's College, Belfast, where he remained
for sixteen years, drawing to the college a large body of students, and publishing other philosophical
works of the first importance. In 1868, he was chosen president of Princeton, and his administration,
lasting for nearly a quarter of a century, was remarkably successful. Under him, the student
attendance nearly doubled, the teaching staff was more than doubled, and the resources of the
college enormously increased. During these years, too, he continued his philosophical work,
publishing a series of volumes which are the most noteworthy of their kind ever produced in
America.

The temptation is great to dwell upon other educators connected with the great universities:
Ira Remsen, and his contributions to chemistry; David Starr Jordan, and his great work on American
fishes; Woodrow Wilson, and his contributions to the study of American history; Jacob Gould
Schurman, and his work in the field of ethics;--to mention only a few of them--but there is
not space to do so here. However, this chapter cannot be closed without some reference to the
career of a remarkable woman, an educator in the truest sense, whose influence for good can
hardly be estimated--Jane Addams.

John Burns, the English cabinet minister and labor leader, has called her "the only saint America
has produced." Her sainthood is of the modern kind, which devotes itself by practical work
to the alleviation of suffering and the uplifting of humanity, as opposed to the old fashioned
kind of which we were speaking a moment ago in connection with Jonathan Edwards.

Graduating at Rockford College, in 1881, Miss Addams, then a delicate girl, spent two years
in Europe. The sight which impressed her most, and which, to a large extent, determined her
future career, was that of Mile End Road, the most crowded and squalid district of London,
where she beheld a dirty and destitute mob quarreling over food unfit to eat. This vision of
squalor and sin never left her, and the result was the establishment, in 1889, of the Social
Settlement of Hull House, in the slums of Chicago. For Miss Addams had come to the conclusion
that the only way to reach the destitute and despairing was to dwell among them.

How right she was has been abundantly proved by the splendid work Hull House has done. Its
object, as stated in its charter, is "to provide a center for a higher civic and social life;
to institute and maintain educational and philanthropic enterprises, and to investigate and
improve the conditions in the industrial districts of Chicago." All that it has done, and much
more; for it has been a beacon light of progress, pointing the way for like undertakings elsewhere.
But most valuable of all has been Miss Addams's personal influence, the inspiration which her
life has been to workers everywhere for social betterment, and the message which, by tongue
and pen, she has given to the world. As an example of a useful, devoted and well-rounded life,
hers stands unique in America to-day.

SUMMARY

AUDUBON, JOHN JAMES. Born near New Orleans, May 4, 1780; published "Birds of America," 1830-39;
"Ornithological Biography," 1831-39; "Quadrupeds of America," 1846-54; died at New York City,
January 27, 1851.

AGASSIZ, JEAN LOUIS RUDOLPHE. Born at Motier, canton of Fribourg, Switzerland, May 28, 1807;
professor of natural history at Neuchâtel, 1832; studied Aar glacier, 1840-41; came to United
States, 1846; professor of zoölogy and geology at Cambridge, 1848; curator of Cambridge Museum
of Comparative Zoölogy, 1859; travelled in Brazil, 1865-66; around Cape Horn, 1871-72; died
at Cambridge, Massachusetts, December 14, 1873.

AGASSIZ, ALEXANDER. Born at Neuchâtel, Switzerland, December 17, 1835; came to United States,
1849; graduated at Harvard, 1855; developed Lake Superior copper mines, 1865-69; curator of
Cambridge Museum of Comparative Zoölogy, 1874-85; died at sea, March 29, 1910.

GRAY, ASA. Born at Paris, Oneida County, New York, November 18, 1810; professor of natural
history at Harvard, 1842-88; died at Cambridge, Massachusetts, January 30, 1888.

TORREY, JOHN. Born at New York City, August 15, 1796; professor at Princeton and in College
of Physicians and Surgeons, New York; State Geologist of New York; United States assayer; died
at New York, March 10, 1873.

DRAPER, JOHN WILLIAM. Born at St. Helena, near Liverpool, England, May 5, 1811; came to America,
1832; professor of chemistry University of New York, 1839; president of the Medical College,
1850-73; died at Hastings-on-the-Hudson, New York, January 4, 1882.

RUTHERFORD, LEWIS MORRIS. Born at Morrisania, New York, November 25, 1816; graduated at Williams
College, 1834; admitted to bar, 1839; abandoned law to devote himself to study of physics,
1849; died at Tranquillity, New Jersey, May 30, 1892.

YOUNG, CHARLES AUGUSTUS. Born at Hanover, New Hampshire, December 15, 1834; graduated at Dartmouth,
1858; professor of astronomy at Princeton, 1877-1905; died at Hanover, New Hampshire, January
4, 1908.

LANGLEY, SAMUEL PIERPONT. Born at Roxbury, Boston, August 22, 1834; secretary Smithsonian Institution,
1887-1908.

NEWCOMB, SIMON. Born at Wallace, Nova Scotia, March 12, 1835; came to United States, 1853;
graduated Lawrence Scientific School, 1858; professor of Mathematics, U. S. navy, 1861; director
Nautical Almanac office, 1877-97; professor mathematics and astronomy Johns Hopkins University,
1884-94; died at Washington, July 11, 1909.

PICKERING, EDWARD CHARLES. Born at Boston, July 19, 1846; graduated Lawrence Scientific School,
1865; professor of astronomy and director of Harvard Observatory since 1877.

MARSH, OTHNIEL CHARLES. Born at Lockport, New York, October 29, 1831; professor paleontology
Yale University, 1866, to death at New Haven, March 18, 1899.

COPE, EDWARD DRINKER. Born at Philadelphia, July 28, 1840; professor of natural sciences, Haverford
College, 1864-67; paleontologist to United States Geological Survey, 1868 to death at Philadelphia,
April 12, 1897.

SILLIMAN, BENJAMIN. Born at North Stratford, Connecticut, August 8, 1779; graduated at Yale,
1796; tutor there, 1799, and professor, 1802; professor emeritus, 1853; died at New Haven,
Connecticut, November 24, 1864.

DANA, JAMES DWIGHT. Born at Utica, New York, February 12, 1813; graduated at Yale, 1833; assistant
to Professor Silliman, 1836-38; professor of geology and natural history, 1850-64; died at
New Haven, April 14, 1895.

NEWBERRY, JOHN STRONG. Born at Windsor, Connecticut, December 22, 1822; professor of geology
at school of mines, Columbia College, 1866-90; state geologist of Ohio, 1869; died at New Haven,
Connecticut, December 7, 1892.

WHITNEY, JOSIAH DWIGHT. Born at Northampton, Massachusetts, November 23, 1819; graduated at
Yale, 1839; geologist with New Hampshire survey, 1840-42; Lake Superior, 1847-49; state chemist
of Iowa, 1855; state geologist of California, 1860-74; professor of geology at Harvard, 1865
to death at Lake Sunapee, New Hampshire, August 18, 1896.

HITCHCOCK, EDWARD. Born at Deerfield, Massachusetts, May 24, 1793; professor of chemistry,
Amherst College, 1825; president of the college, 1845-54; died at Amherst, Massachusetts, February
27, 1864.

MOTT, VALENTINE. Born at Glen Cove, Long Island, August 20, 1785; graduated Columbia College,
1806; professor of surgery at Columbia, 1810-35; died at New York City, April 26, 1865.

LONG, CRAWFORD W. Born at Danielsville, Georgia, November 1, 1815; graduated medical department
University of Pennsylvania, 1839; died at Athens, Georgia, June 16, 1878.

MORTON, WILLIAM THOMAS GREEN. Born at Charlton, Massachusetts, August 19, 1819; practised dentistry
at Boston, 1841-58; discovered anæsthetic properties of ether, 1864; died in New York City,
July 15, 1868.

HENRY, JOSEPH. Born at Albany, New York, December 17, 1797; professor of natural philosophy
at Princeton, 1832-46; first secretary of Smithsonian Institution, 1846; died at Washington,
May 13, 1878.

GUYOT, ARNOLD HENRY. Born near Neuchâtel, Switzerland, September 28, 1807; came to America,
1847; professor of physical geography and geology at Princeton, 1855; died at Princeton, February
8, 1884.

LE CONTE, JOHN. Born in Liberty County, Georgia, December 4, 1818; professor of physics University
of California, 1869, to death at Berkeley, California, April 29, 1891.

LE CONTE, JOSEPH. Born in Liberty County, Georgia, February 26, 1823; professor of geology,
University of California, 1869; died in Yosemite Valley, California, July 6, 1901.

LE CONTE, JOHN LAWRENCE. Born at New York City, May 13, 1825; surgeon of volunteers during
Civil War, and chief clerk of mint at Philadelphia from 1878 until his death there, November
15, 1883.

SHALER, NATHANIEL SOUTHGATE. Born at Newport, Kentucky, February 22, 1841; graduated Lawrence
Scientific School, 1862; professor paleontology at Harvard, 1868-87; professor of geology,
1887, to death, April 11, 1906.

MANN, HORACE. Born at Franklin, Massachusetts, May 7, 1796; admitted to the bar, 1823; secretary
of Massachusetts Board of Education, 1837-48; member of Congress, 1848-53; president of Antioch
College, 1852-59; died at Yellow Springs, Ohio, August 2, 1859.

QUINCY, JOSIAH. Born at Boston, February 4, 1772; member of Congress, 1805-13; mayor of Boston,
1823-28; president of Harvard, 1829-45; died at Quincy, Massachusetts, July 1, 1864.

ELIOT, CHARLES WILLIAM. Born at Boston, March 20, 1834; graduated from Harvard, 1853; taught
mathematics and chemistry in Lawrence Scientific School, 1858-69; president of Harvard, 1869-1909.

DWIGHT, TIMOTHY. Born at Northampton, Massachusetts, May 14, 1752; graduated from Yale, 1769;
president of Yale, 1795-1817; died at New Haven, Connecticut, January 11, 1817.

PORTER, NOAH. Born at Farmington, Connecticut, December 14, 1811; graduated at Yale, 1831;
tutor at Yale, 1833-35; pastor of Congregational churches at New Milford, Connecticut, and
Springfield, Massachusetts, 1836-46; professor of metaphysics at Yale, 1846-71; president of
Yale, 1871-86; died at New Haven, March 4, 1892.

DWIGHT, TIMOTHY. Born at Norwich, Connecticut, November 16, 1828; graduated at Yale, 1849;
studied divinity, 1851-55; professor of sacred literature, 1858; president of Yale, 1886-98.

EDWARDS, JONATHAN. Born at East Windsor, Connecticut, October 5, 1703; pastor of Congregational
Church, Northampton, Massachusetts, 1727-50; missionary to the Indians, 1751-58; president
of Princeton College, 1758; died at Princeton, March 22, 1758.

WITHERSPOON, JOHN. Born in Haddingtonshire, Scotland, February 5, 1722; president of Princeton,
1768; delegate to Continental Congress, 1774-75; died near Princeton, September 15, 1794.

MCCOSH, JAMES. Born at Carskeoch, Ayrshire, Scotland, April 1, 1811; president of Princeton,
1868-88; died at Princeton, November 16, 1894.

ADDAMS, JANE. Born at Cedarville, Illinois, 1860; graduated Rockford College, 1881; opened
Hull House, 1889.

CHAPTER VIII

PHILANTHROPISTS AND REFORMERS

This has been a country celebrated for its great fortunes, and the makers of some of those
fortunes will be considered in the chapter dealing with "men of affairs"; but many who have
been grouped under that heading might well have been included under this, since, for the most
part, the richest men have been the freest in their benefactions. It is worth noting that the
recorded public gifts in this country during 1909 amounted to $135,000,000. The giving of money
is, of course, only one kind of benefaction, and not the highest kind, which is the giving
of self; but the good which these gifts have rendered possible is beyond calculation.

This kind of philanthropy is no new thing in the United States. It is almost as old as the
country itself. Indeed, few of the older institutions of learning but had their origin in some
such gift. One of the earliest of such philanthropists was Stephen Girard, whose life-story
is unusually interesting and inspiring. The son of a sailor, and with little opportunity for
gaining an education, he shipped as cabin-boy, while still a mere child, and after some years
of rough knocking around, rose to the position of mate, and finally to a part ownership in
the vessel. In 1769, at the age of nineteen, he established himself in the ship business in
Philadelphia, but the opening of the Revolution put an end to that business. Not until the
close of the war was he able to re-embark in it. The foundation of his fortune was soon laid
by his integrity and enterprise, but it was largely augmented in a most peculiar manner.

Two of his vessels happened to be in one of the ports of Hayti, when a slave insurrection broke
out there, and a number of the planters hastily removed their treasure to his vessels for safe-keeping.
That night, the insurrection reached its height, and the planters, together with their families,
were massacred. Heirs to a portion of the treasure were discovered by Mr. Girard, but he found
himself possessed of about $50,000 to which no heirs could be traced.

With remarkable foresight, Mr. Girard invested largely in the shares of the old Bank of the
United States, and in 1812, purchased its building and succeeded to much of its business. He
was the financial mainstay of the government during the second war with England--in fact, it
was he who made the financing of the war possible. And yet he was, to all outward appearances,
a singularly repulsive and hard-fisted old miser. In early youth, an unfortunate accident had
caused the loss of one eye, and his other gradually failed him until he was quite blind; he
was also partially deaf, and was sour, crabbed and unapproachable. In small matters he was
a miser, ready to avoid paying a just claim if he could in any way do so, living in a miserable
fashion and refusing charity to every one, no matter how deserving. He was forbidding in appearance,
and drove daily to and from his farm outside of Philadelphia in a shabby old carriage drawn
by a single horse. No visitor was ever welcomed at that farm, where its owner dragged out a
penurious existence.

Yet in public matters no one could have been more open-handed, and when, after his death in
1831, his will was opened, it created a shock of surprise, for practically his whole fortune
of $9,000,000 had been bequeathed for charitable purposes. Large sums were given to provide
fuel for the poor in winter, for distressed ship-masters, for the blind, the deaf and dumb,
and for the public schools. Half a million was given Philadelphia for the improvement of her
streets and public buildings; but his principal bequest was one of $2,000,000, besides real
estate, and the residue of his property, for the establishment at Philadelphia of a college
for orphans. In 1848, Girard College was opened, and has since then continued its great work,
educating as many orphans as the endowment can support. So Girard atoned after his death, for
the mistakes of his life.

Almost equally singular was the life of the founder of that splendid government enterprise,
the Smithsonian Institution--perhaps the most important scientific center in the world. James
Smithson was in no sense an American. Indeed, so far as known, he never even visited the United
States, and yet no account of American philanthropy would be complete without him. He was born
in France in 1765, and was the illegitimate son of Hugh Smithson, afterwards Duke of Northumberland.
He went by his mother's name for the first forty years of his life, being known as James Macie,
until, in 1802, he assumed his father's name.

Born under this shadow, the boy soon developed unusual qualities, graduated from Oxford, with
high honors in chemistry and mineralogy, and added greatly to his reputation by a series of
scientific papers of great importance. A large portion of his life was passed in Europe, where
he associated with the greatest scientists of the day, honored by all of them. He died at Genoa
at the age of sixty-four, and, when his will was opened, it was seen how the circumstances
of his birth had weighed upon him. After a suit in chancery, the bequest was paid over to the
United States government, amounting to over half a million dollars. In 1846, the Smithsonian
Institution was formally established, its first secretary being Joseph Henry, of whose great
work there we have already spoken. It has increased in scope and usefulness year by year, and
stands to-day without a counterpart in any country.

Peter Cooper also left a portion of his wealth for "the diffusion of knowledge among men,"
but a different sort of knowledge--the knowledge that would help a man or woman to earn a living.
His own career had shown him how necessary such knowledge is. His father was a hatter by trade,
and the boy's earliest recollection was of his being employed to pull hair out of rabbit-skins,
his head just reaching above the table. But the hat business was unprofitable, and the elder
Cooper tried a number of businesses, brewing, brick-making, what not, the boy being required
to take part in each of them, so that he had no time for schooling, and had to pick up such
odds and ends of knowledge as he could. Finally, in 1808, at the age of seventeen, he was apprenticed
to a carriage-maker, and remained with him until he was of age.

After that, the young man himself tried various occupations without great success, until the
establishment of a glue factory began to bring him large returns. By the beginning of 1828,
he was able to purchase three thousand acres of land within the city of Baltimore and to establish
the Canton iron-works, which was the first of his great enterprises tending toward the development
of the iron industry in the United States. Other plants were built or purchased, rolling mills
and blast furnaces established, and a great impetus given to this branch of manufacture. He
practically financed the Atlantic Cable Company, in the face of ridicule, and made the cable
possible, and he saved the Baltimore & Ohio Railroad from bankruptcy by designing and building
a locomotive--the first ever built in this country--especially adapted to the uneven country
over which the track was laid.

The fortune thus acquired he devoted to a well-considered and practical plan of philanthropy.
His career had shown him the great value of a trade to any man or woman. The schools taught
every kind of knowledge except that which would enable a man to earn a living with his hands,
which seemed to him the most important of all. He determined to do what he could remedy this
defect, and in 1854, secured a block of land in New York City, at the junction of Third and
Fourth Avenues, where, shortly afterwards, the cornerstone was laid of "The Cooper Union for
the Advancement of Science and Art." It was completed five years later, and handed over to
six trustees; a scheme of education was devised and special emphasis was laid upon "instruction
in branches of knowledge by which men and women earn their daily bread; in laws of health and
improvement of the sanitary condition of families as well as individuals; in social and political
science, whereby communities and nations advance in virtue, wealth and power; and finally in
matters which affect the eye, the ear, and the imagination, and furnish a basis for recreation
to the working classes." Free courses of lectures were established, a free reading room, and
free instruction was given in various branches of the useful arts. From that day to this, Cooper
Union has been an ever-growing force for progress in the life of the great city; it has been
a pioneer in the work of industrial education, which has, of recent years, reached such great
proportions.

Peter Cooper lived to see the institution which he had founded realize at least some of his
hopes for it. He himself lived a most active life, taking a prominent part in many movements
looking to the reform of national or civic abuses. In 1876, he was nominated by the national
independent party as their candidate for president and received nearly a hundred thousand votes.
Since his death, the institution which he founded has grown steadily in importance; other bequests
have been added to his, and Cooper Union has come to stand, in a way, for civic righteousness.

The year 1795 saw the birth of two children who were destined to do a great work for their
country--George Peabody and Johns Hopkins. Both were the sons of poor parents, with little
opportunity for achieving the sort of learning which is taught in schools; but both, by hard
experience with the world, gained another sort of learning which is often of more practical
value. At the age of eleven, George Peabody was forced to begin to earn his own living, and
a place was found for him in a grocery store. His habits were good, he did his work well, and
finally, at the age of nineteen, was offered a partnership by another merchant, who had noticed
and admired his energy and enthusiasm. The business increased, branch houses were established,
and at the age of thirty-five, George Peabody found himself at the head of a great business,
his elder partner having retired. He decided to make London his place of residence, and became
a sort of guardian angel for Americans visiting the great English capital. He had never married,
and it seemed almost as if the whole world were his family. His constant thought was of how
he could elevate humanity, and he was not long in putting some of his plans into effect.

In 1852, his native town of Danvers, Massachusetts, celebrated her centennial, and her most
distinguished citizen was, of course, invited to be present. He was too busy to attend, but
sent a sealed envelope to be opened on the day of the celebration. The seal was broken at the
dinner with which the celebration closed, and the envelope was found to contain two slips of
paper. On one was written this toast, "Education--a debt due from present to future generations."
The other was a check for twenty thousand dollars, afterwards increased to two hundred and
fifty thousand, for the purpose of founding an Institute, with a free library and free course
of lectures. Four years later, the Peabody Institute was dedicated, its founder being in attendance.
Soon afterwards, he decided to build a similar Institute at Baltimore, only on a more elaborate
scale, as befitting the greater city, and gave a million dollars for the purpose. It was opened
in 1869, twenty thousand school children gathering to meet the donor and forming a guard of
honor for him.

Two other great gifts marked his life--the sum of three million dollars for the erection of
model tenements for the London poor, and a like sum for the education of the American negro.
When, in 1869 the end came in London, a great funeral was held at Westminster Abbey, and the
Queen of England sent her noblest man-of-war to bear in state across the Atlantic the body
of "her friend," the poor boy of Danvers.

It is a strange coincidence that Baltimore, which had profited so greatly from George Peabody's
philanthropy, should also be the object of that of Johns Hopkins. The latter was of Quaker
stock, was raised on a farm, and at the age of seventeen became a clerk in his uncle's grocery
store at Baltimore. He soon accumulated enough capital to go into business for himself, first
as a grocer, then as a banker, and finally as one of the backers of the Baltimore & Ohio Railway.
In 1873, he gave property valued at four and a half millions to found in the city of Baltimore
a hospital, which, by its charter, is free to all, regardless of race or color; and three and
a half millions for the endowment of Johns Hopkins University, which, opened in 1876, has grown
to be one of the most famous schools of law, medicine and science in the country.

Another Quaker, Ezra Cornell, is also associated with the name of a great university. Reared
among the hills of western New York, helping his father on his farm and in his little pottery,
the boy soon developed considerable mechanical genius, and at the age of seventeen, with the
help of only a younger brother, he built a new home for the family, a two-story frame dwelling,
the largest and best in the neighborhood. He soon struck out into the world, engaged in businesses
of various kinds with varying success, but it was not until he was thirty-six years old that
he found his vocation.

It was at that time he became associated with S. F. B. Morse, who engaged him to superintend
the erection of the first line of telegraph between Washington and Baltimore. Thereafter he
devoted himself entirely to the development of the new invention; succeeded, after many rebuffs
and disappointments, in organizing a company to erect a line from New York to Washington, and
superintended its construction. It was the first of many, afterwards consolidated into the
Western Union Telegraph Company, which, for many years, held a monopoly of the telegraph business
of the country, and which made Ezra Cornell a millionaire. He himself was well advanced in
years, and finally retired from active life, buying a great estate near Ithaca, New York, where
he lived quietly, devising a method for the best disposition of his great fortune.

He at last decided to found an institution "where any person can find instruction in any study."
Work was begun at once, and in 1868, Cornell College was formally opened, over four hundred
students entering the first year. The founder's gifts to this institution aggregated over three
millions. Many other bequests followed, which have made Cornell one of the most liberally-endowed
colleges in the country. Froude, the great English historian, visited it on one occasion, and
afterwards said:

"There is something I admire even more than the university, and that is the quiet, unpretending
man by whom it was founded. We have had such men in old times, and there are men in England
who make great fortunes and who make claim to great munificence; but who manifest their greatness
in buying great estates and building castles for the founding of peerages to be handed down
from father to son. Mr. Cornell has sought for immortality, and the perpetuity of his name
among the people of a free nation. There stands his great university, built upon a rock, to
endure while the American nation endures."

The next great benefaction we have to record is, in some respects, unique. John Fox Slater
was born in Slatersville, Rhode Island, in 1815. He was the son of Samuel Slater, proprietor
of the greatest cotton-mills in New England, and he naturally succeeded to the business upon
his father's death. The business prospered, receiving a great impetus from the invention of
the cotton-gin, and Slater's wealth increased rapidly.

He had, on more than one occasion, visited the south and seen the negroes at work in the cotton
fields. As time went on, the idea grew in his mind that he should do something for these poor
laborers to whom, indirectly, his own fortune was due, and in 1882, he set aside the sum of
one million dollars for the purpose of "uplifting the lately emancipated population of the
Southern States, and their posterity." For this gift he received the thanks of Congress. No
part of the gift is spent for grounds or buildings, but the whole income is spent in assisting
negroes in industrial education and in preparing them to be the teachers of their own race.
By the extraordinary ability of the fund's treasurer, it has been increased to a million and
a half, although half a million has been expended along the lines contemplated by the donor.
This, with the Peabody fund, comprises a powerful agency in working out the difficult problem
of negro education.

       *       *       *       *       *

The fortunes of such men as Peabody and Cornell and Hopkins and Peter Cooper seem small enough
to-day when compared with the gigantic aggregations of money which a few men have succeeded
in piling up. Not all of them, by any means, devote their wealth to philanthropy. Here, as
in England, there are men concerned only with the idea of building up a family and a great
estate; but there are a few who have labored as faithfully to use their wealth wisely as they
did to accumulate it.

First of them is Leland Stanford, born in the valley of the Mohawk, studying law, and moving
to Wisconsin to practise it, but losing his law library and all his property by fire, and finally
joining the rush to the newly-discovered California gold-fields, where he arrived in 1852,
being at that time twenty-eight years old. After some experience in the mines, he decided that
there were surer ways of getting gold than digging for it, and set up a mercantile business
in San Francisco, which grew rapidly in importance and proved the foundation of a vast fortune.
He was the first president of the Central Pacific Railroad, and was in charge of its construction
over the mountains, driving the last spike at Promontory Point, Utah, on the tenth of May,
1869. He was prominent in the politics of state and nation, being elected to the United States
Senate in 1885.

It is not by his public life, however, that he will be remembered, for he did nothing there
that was in any way memorable, but by his gift of twenty million dollars to found a great university
at Palo Alto, California, in memory of his only son. On May 14, 1887, the cornerstone of this
great institution was laid, and the university was formally opened in 1891. The idea of its
founder was that it should teach not only the studies usually taught in college, but also other
practical branches of education, such as telegraphy, type-setting, type-writing, book-keeping,
and farming. This it has done, and so rapid has been its growth, that it now has over seventeen
hundred students enrolled.

After Senator Stanford's death in 1893, the university was further endowed by his widow, Jane
Lathrop Stanford, so that the present productive funds of the university, after all of the
buildings have been paid for, amount to nearly twenty-five million dollars.

The second of the great givers of recent years is John Davison Rockefeller, whose name is synonymous
with the greatest natural monopoly of modern times, the Standard Oil Company. His rise from
clerk in a grocery store to one of the greatest capitalists in the history of the world is
an interesting one, as well as an important one in the commercial history of America. Born
at Richford, New York, in 1839, his parents moved to Cleveland, Ohio, when he was a boy of
fourteen, and such education as he had was secured in the Cleveland public schools. He soon
left school for business, getting employment first as clerk in a commission house, and at nineteen
being junior partner in the firm of Clark & Rockefeller, commission merchants.

At that time the petroleum fields of Pennsylvania were just beginning to be developed, and
young Rockefeller's attention was soon attracted to them. He seems to have been one of the
first to realize the vast possibilities of the oil business, and in 1865, he and his brother
William built at Cleveland a refinery which they called the Standard Oil Works. They had little
money, but unlimited nerve, and very soon began the work of consolidation, which culminated
in the formation of the Standard Oil Trust in 1882. They were able to kill competition largely
by securing from the railroads lower shipping rates than any competitor, in some cases going
so far as to get a rebate on all oil shipped by competitors. That is, if a railroad charged
the Standard Oil Company one dollar to carry its oil between two points and charged a competitor
a dollar and a quarter for the same service, that extra quarter went, not into the coffers
of the railroad, but into the coffers of the Standard Oil Company. Such methods of business
have since been made illegal, and the Standard is compelled to do business on the same basis
as its competitors, but its vast resources and occupancy of the field give it an advantage
which nothing can counteract.

The operations of the Standard Oil Company naturally piled up a great fortune for John D. Rockefeller--how
great cannot even be estimated. Not until comparatively recent years, did he turn his attention
from making money to spending it, but when he did, it was in a royal fashion. Ten million dollars
were given to the University of Chicago, which opened its doors in 1892, and now has an enrollment
of over five thousand students; ten million more were given to the General Education Board,
organized in 1903, for the purpose of promoting education in the United States, without distinction
of race, sex, or creed, and especially to promote and systematize various forms of educational
beneficence; a million was given to Yale; the great Rockefeller Institute for Medical Research
was founded at New York and liberally endowed; and Mr. Rockefeller's total benefactions probably
exceed a total of thirty millions. This will soon be greatly increased, for he has just asked
Congress to charter an institution to be known as the Rockefeller Foundation, which he will
endow on an enormous scale to carry out various plans of charity, through centuries to come.

He seems recently to have experienced a change of heart, too, toward the public. During his
early years, he gained a reputation for coldness and reserve, which made him probably the best-hated
man in the United States. Then, suddenly, he changed about. Instead of refusing himself to
reporters, he welcomed them; he seemed glad to talk, anxious to show the public that he was
by no means such a monster as he was painted; and he has even, quite recently, written his
life story and given it to a great magazine for publication. Seldom before has any public man
shown such a sudden and complete change of heart. He still remains, in a sense, an enigma,
for it seems possible that the smiling face he has lately turned to the world conceals the
real man more effectively than the frowning countenance he wore in former years.

As the dramatist saves his finest effect for the fall of the curtain, so we have saved for
the last the most remarkable giver in history--Andrew Carnegie, whose total benefactions amount
to at least one hundred millions of dollars. A sum so stupendous would bankrupt many a nation,
yet Mr. Carnegie is so far from bankrupt that his gifts show no sign of diminution. The story
of how, starting out as a poor boy, on the lowest round of the ladder, he acquired this immense
fortune, is a striking one.

Andrew Carnegie was born in Scotland in 1835. His father was a weaver, at one time fairly well-to-do,
for he owned four hand looms; but the introduction of steam ruined hand-loom weaving, and after
a long struggle, ending in hardship and poverty, the looms were sold at a sacrifice and the
family set sail for America. Mrs. Carnegie happened to have two sisters living at Pittsburgh,
and there the family settled--by one of those curious chances of fate, the very place in all
the world best suited to the development of young Andrew Carnegie's peculiar genius.

At the age of twelve years, he became a wage-earner, his first position being that of bobbin-boy
in a cotton mill at Alleghany City, where his salary was $1.20 a week. Pretty soon he was set
to firing a small engine in the cellar of the mill, but he did not like this work, and finally
secured a position as messenger boy in the office of the Atlantic & Ohio Telegraph Company,
at Pittsburgh. One night, at the end of the month, he did not receive his pay with the rest
of the boys, but was told to wait till the others had left the room. He thought that dismissal
was coming, and wondered how he could ever go home and tell his father and mother! But he found
that he was to be given an increase in salary, from $11.25 to $13.50 a month.

"I ran all the way home," said Mr. Carnegie, in telling of the incident, long afterwards. "Talk
about your millionaires! All the millions I've made combined, never gave me the happiness of
that rise of $2.25 a month. Arrived at the cottage where we lived, I handed my mother the usual
$11.25, and that night in bed told brother Tom the great secret. The next morning, Sunday,
we were all sitting at the breakfast table, and I said: 'Mother, I have something else for
you,' and then I gave her the $2.25, and told her how I got it. Father and she were delighted
to hear of my good fortune, but, motherlike, she said I deserved it, and then came tears of joy."

It was at the dinner given, in 1907, in his honor as "Father of the Corps," by the surviving
members of the United States Military Telegraph Corps of the Civil War, that Mr. Carnegie spoke
these words, and he continued as follows:

"Comrades, I was born in poverty, and would not exchange its sacred memories with the richest
millionaire's son who ever breathed. What does he know about mother or father? They are mere
names to him. Give me the life of the boy whose mother is nurse, seamstress, washerwoman, cook,
teacher, angel and saint, all in one, and whose father is guide, exemplar, and friend. These
are the boys who are born to the best fortune. Some men think that poverty is a dreadful burden,
and that wealth leads to happiness. They have lived only one side; they imagine the other.
I have lived both, and I know there is very little in wealth that can add to human happiness,
beyond the small comforts of life. Millionaires who laugh are rare. My experience is that wealth
is apt to take the smiles away."

But we are getting ahead of our story. That small increase in salary meant a good deal to the
little family, whose father was working from dawn to dark in the cotton-mill, and whose mother
was contributing what she could to the family earnings by binding shoes in the intervals of
housework. Meantime the superintendent of the company for which the boy was working happened
to meet him while visiting the Pittsburgh office, and it was discovered that both of them had
been born near the same town in Scotland. The fact may have had something to do with the boy's
subsequent promotion, and it is worth noting that forty years later, he was able to secure
for his old employer the United States consulship to the town of their birth. But for the time
being, he was busy with his work as messenger-boy. He soon learned the Morse alphabet and practised
making the signals early in the morning before the operators arrived. He was soon able to send
and receive messages by means of the Morse register--a steel pen which embossed the dots and
dashes of the message on a narrow strip of paper. But young Carnegie soon progressed a step
beyond this, and was soon able to read the messages by sound, without need of the register.
It was, of course, only a short time after that when he was regularly installed as operator.

He was not to remain long in the telegraph business, however, for Thomas A. Scott, superintendent
of the Pittsburgh division of the Pennsylvania Railroad, offered him a position at a salary
of $35 a month. Carnegie promptly accepted, and on February 1, 1853, at the age of seventeen,
entered the employ of the road. His promotion was rapid, and he rose to be superintendent of
the Pittsburgh division before the success of his other ventures caused him to resign from
the service. These ventures were, in the first place, investment in the newly-developed oil-fields
of Pennsylvania, which yielded a great profit, and afterwards the establishment of a steel
rolling-mill, in the development of which he found his true vocation, building up the most
complete system of iron and steel industries ever controlled by an individual. Some idea of
the value of the business may be gained from the fact that, when the United States Steel Corporation
was organized in 1901 to take over Mr. Carnegie's interests he received for them, first mortgage
bonds to the amount of three hundred million dollars.

It is this sum which he has been disposing of for years. Unlike most other philanthropists,
he has not used his wealth to endow a great university, but has devoted it mainly to another
branch of education, the establishment of free public libraries. He conceived the unique plan
of offering a library building, completely equipped, to any community which would agree to
maintain it suitably, and, by the beginning of 1909, had, under this plan, given nearly fifty-two
millions of dollars for the erection of 1858 buildings, of which 1167 are in this country.
Among his other great gifts was one of $12,000,000, for the founding at Washington of an institution
"which shall, in the broadest and most liberal manner, encourage investigation, research, and
discovery, show the application of knowledge to the improvement of mankind, and provide such
buildings, laboratories, books, and apparatus as may be needed."

