    Blade rather thick (subcoreaceous) mostly evergreen;
        Fronds small, narrow, glandular, rock species
                                                   Fragrant Fern
        Fronds large, two or more feet high;
            Lower pinnæ short, broadly triangular
                                              Crested Shield Fern
            Lower pinnæ longer;
                Sori close to the margin.... Marginal Shield Fern
                Sori nearer the midvein;
                    Frond lanceolate....................Male Fern
                    Frond ovate..............Goldie's Shield Fern

Fronds twice pinnate with the lower pinnules pinnatifid
                                              Boott's Shield Fern

Fronds nearly thrice pinnate................Spinulose Shield Fern

THE WOOD FERNS

The ferns of this group, not counting the small fragrant fern, prefer the woods or at least
shady places. Although the genus Polýstichum represents the true shield ferns, the wood ferns
are also thus designated, as their indusia have nearly the shape of small, roundish shields.
The old generic name for them all was Aspídium (meaning shield), first published in 1800. For
a long time its chief rival was Nephròdium (kidney-like), 1803. Many modern botanists have
preferred the earlier name Dryópteris (1763), meaning oak fern, alluding, perhaps, to its forest-loving
habits. THELÝPTERIS, still earlier (1762), may supersede the others.

(1) MARGINAL SHIELD FERN, EVERGREEN WOOD FERN

Aspídium marginàle. THELÝPTERIS MARGINÀLIS Dryópteris marginàlis. Nephròdium marginàle

Fronds from a few inches to three feet long, ovate-oblong, somewhat leathery, smooth, twice
pinnate. Pinnæ lanceolate, acuminate, broadest just above the base. Pinnules oblong, often
slightly falcate, entire or toothed. Fruit-dots large, round, close to the margin. Rocky hillsides
in rich woods, rather common throughout our area. The heavy rootstock rises slightly above
the ground and is clothed at the crown with shaggy, brown scales. Its rising caudex, often
creeping for several inches over bare rocks, suggests the habit of a tree fern. In early spring
it sends up a graceful circle of large, handsome, bluish-green blades. The stipes are short
and densely chaffy. No other wood fern endures the winter so well. The fronds burdened with
snow lop over among the withered leaves and continue green until the new ones shoot up in the
spring. It is the most valuable of all the wood ferns for cultivation.

(2) THE MALE FERN

Aspídium Fìlix-mas. THELÝPTERIS FÌLIX-MAS Dryópteris Fìlix-mas. Nephròdium Fìlix-mas

Fronds lanceolate, pinnate, one to three feet high growing in a crown from a shaggy rootstock.
Pinnæ lanceolate, tapering from base to apex. Pinnules oblong, obtuse, serrate at the apex,
obscurely so at the sides, the basal incisely lobed, distant, the upper confluent. Fruit-dots
large, nearer the mid vein than the margin, mostly on the lower half of each fertile segment.

The male fern resembles the marginal shield fern in outline, but the fronds are thinner, are
not evergreen, and the sori are near the midvein. Its use in medicine is of long standing.
Its rootstock produces the well-known fìlix-mas of the pharmacist. This has tonic and astringent
properties, but is mainly prescribed as a vermifuge, which is one of the names given to it.
In Europe it is regarded as the typical fern, being oftener mentioned and figured than any
other. In rocky woods, Canada, Northfield, Vt., and northwest to the great lakes, also in many
parts of the world.

(3) GOLDIE'S FERN

Aspidium Goldiànum. THELYPTERIS GOLDIÀNA Dryopteris Goldiàna. Nephrodium Goldiànum

Fronds two to four feet high and often one foot broad, pinnate, broadly ovate, especially the
sterile ones. Pinnæ deeply pinnatifid, broadest in the middle. The divisions (eighteen or twenty
pairs) oblong-linear, slightly toothed. Fruit-dots very near the midvein. Indusium large, orbicular,
with a deep, narrow sinus. Scales dark brown to nearly black with a peculiar silky lustre.

A magnificent species, the tallest and largest of the wood ferns. It delights in rich woodlands
where there is limestone. Its range is from Canada to Kentucky. While not common, there are
numerous colonies in New England. It is reported from Fairfield, Me., Spencer and Mt. Toby,
Mass., and frequently west of the Connecticut River. We have often admired a large and beautiful
colony of it on the west side of Willoughby Mountain in Vermont. It is easily cultivated and
adds grace and dignity to a fern garden.

(4) THE CRESTED FERN

Aspidium cristàtum. THELÝPTERIS CRISTÀTA

Dryopteris cristàta. Nephrodium cristàtum

Fronds one to two feet long, linear-oblong or lanceolate, pinnate, acute. Pinnæ two to three
inches long, broadest at the base, triangular-oblong, or the lowest triangular. Divisions oblong,
obtuse, finely serrate or cut-toothed, those nearest the rachis sometimes separate. Fruit-dots
large, round, half way between the midvein and the margin. Indusium smooth, naked, with a shallow
sinus.

The short sterile fronds, though spreading out gracefully, are conspicuous only in winter;
while the fertile fronds, tall, narrow and erect, are found only in summer.

It is one of our handsomest evergreen ferns and even the large sori, with their dark spore
cases and white indusia, are very attractive. The fertile pinnæ have a way of turning their
faces upward toward the apex of the frond for more light. In moist land, Canada to Kentucky.

Var. Clintoniànum. Clinton's Wood Fern. Resembles the type, but is in every way larger. Divisions
eight to sixteen pairs. Fruit-dots near the midvein, the sides of the sinus often overlapping.
South central Maine to New York and westward. "Rare in New England attaining its best development
in western sections." (Dodge.) Mt. Toby, Mass., Hanover, N.H. July. Fine for cultivation.

CRESTED MARGINAL FERN

Aspídium cristàtum X marginàle

Both the crested fern and Clinton's fern appear to hybridize with the marginal shield fern
with the result that the upper part of the frond is like marginale and the lower like cristàtum,
including the veining and texture.

This form was discovered by Raynal Dodge, verified by Margaret Slosson and described by Geo.
E. Davenport, who had a small colony under cultivation in his fern garden at Medford, Mass.,
and to him the writer and other friends are indebted for specimens.

Found occasionally throughout New England and New Jersey. Other supposed hybrids have been
found between the marginal shield and the spinulose fern and its variety intermèdium, and with
Goldie's fern; also between the crested fern, including Clinton's variety and each of the others
mentioned; and, in fact, between almost all pairs of species of the wood ferns, although we
do not think they have been positively verified. Still other species of ferns are known to
hybridize more or less, as we saw in the case of Scott's spleenwort.

(5) BOOTT'S SHIELD FERN

Aspidium Boottii. THELÝPTERIS BOOTTII

Dryopteris Boottii. Nephrodium Boottii

Fronds one to three feet high, oblong-lanceolate, bipinnate, the upper pinnæ lanceolate, the
lower triangular with spinulose teeth. Sori in rows each side of the midvein, one to each tooth
and often scattering on the lower pinules. Indusium large, minutely glandular, variable.

This fern has been thought to be a hybrid between the crested and spinulose ferns, but is now
regarded as distinct. Like the crested fern its fertile fronds wither in autumn, while its
sterile blades remain green throughout the winter. It differs from it, however, by being twice
pinnate below, and from the typical spinulose fern by its glandular indusium; but from the
intermediate variety it is more difficult to separate it, as that also has indusiate glands.
The collector needs to study authentic specimens and have in mind the type, with its rather
long, narrow blade as an aid to the verbal description, and even then he will often find it
an interesting puzzle. Shaded swamps throughout our area.

(6) SPINULOSE SHIELD FERN

Aspidium spinulòsum. THELÝPTERIS SPINULÒSA

Dryopteris spinulòsa. Nephrodium spinulòsum

Stipes with a few pale brown deciduous scales. Fronds one to two and one-half feet long, ovate-lanceolate,
twice pinnate. Pinnæ oblique to the rachis, the lower ones broadly triangular, the upper ones
elongated. Pinnules on the inferior side of the pinnæ often elongated, especially the lower
pair, the pinnule nearest the rachis being usually the longest, at least in the lowest pinnæ.
Pinnules variously cut into spinulose-toothed segments. Indusium smooth, without marginal glands.

The common European type, but in this country far less common than its varieties. They all
prefer rich, damp woods, and because of their graceful outline and spiny-toothed lobes are
very attractive. They can be transplanted without great difficulty, and the fern garden depends
upon them for its most effective lacework.

Var. intermèdium has the scales of the stipe brown with darker center. Fronds ovate-oblong,
often tripinnate. Pinnæ spreading, oblong-lanceolate. Pinnules pinnately cleft, the oblong
lobes spinulose-toothed at the apex. Margin of the indusium denticulate and beset with minute,
stalked glands. In woods nearly everywhere--our most common form. Millions of fronds of this
variety are gathered in our northern woods, placed in cold storage and sent to florists to
be used in decorations.[A] As long as the roots are not disturbed the crop is renewed from
year to year, and no great harm seems to result. Canada to Kentucky and westward.

[Footnote A: Horticulture reports that twenty-eight million fern leaves have been shipped from
Bennington, Vt., in a single season; and that nearly $100,000 were paid out in wages.]

A tripinnate form of this variety discovered at Concord, Mass., by Henry Purdie, has been named
var. CONCORDIÀNUM. It has small, elliptical, denticulate pinnules and a glandular-pubescent
indusium.

Var. AMERICÀNUM (=dilatàtum, syn.). Fronds broader, ovate or triangular-ovate in outline. A
more highly developed form of the typical plant, the lower pinnæ being often very broad, and
the fronds tripinnate. Inferior pinnules on the lower pair of pinnæ conspicuously elongated.
A variety preferring upland woods; northern New England, Greenland to the mountains of North
Carolina, Pennsylvania, Michigan and northward.

THE BLADDER FERNS. Cystópteris

  "Mark ye the ferns that clothe these dripping rocks,
  Their hair-like stalks, though trembling 'neath the shock
  Of falling spraydrops, rooted firmly there."

The bladder ferns are a dainty, rock-loving family partial to a limestone soil. (The Greek
name cystópteris means bladder fern, so called in allusion to the hood-shaped indusium.)

(1) THE BULBLET BLADDER FERN

Cystópteris bulbífera. Fìlix bulbífera

Fronds lanceolate, elongated, one to three feet long, twice pinnate. Pinnæ lanceolate-oblong,
pointed, horizontal, the lowest pair longest. Rachis and pinnæ often bearing bulblets beneath.
Pinnules toothed or deeply lobed. Indusium short, truncate on the free side. Stipe short.

One of the most graceful and attractive of our native ferns; an object of beauty, whether standing
alone or massed with other growths. It is very easily cultivated and one of the best for draping.
"We may drape our homes by the yard," says Woolson, "with the most graceful and filmy of our
common ferns, the bladder fern." This fern and the maidenhair were introduced into Europe in
1628 by John Tradescant, the first from America.

It delights in shaded ravines and dripping hillsides in limestone districts. While producing
spores freely it seems to propagate its species mainly by bulblets, which, falling into a moist
soil, at once send out a pair of growing roots, while a tiny frond starts to uncoil from the
heart of the bulb. Mt. Toby, Mass., Willoughby Mountain, Vt., calcareous regions in Maine,
and west of the Connecticut River, Newfoundland to Manitoba, Wisconsin and Iowa; south to northern
Georgia, Alabama and Arkansas.

(2) THE COMMON BLADDER FERN

Cystopteris frágilis. Filix frágilis

Stipe long and brittle. Fronds oblong-lanceolate, five to twelve inches long, twice pinnate,
the pinnæ often pinnatifid or cut-toothed, ovate-lanceolate, decurrent on the winged rachis.
Indusium appearing acute at the free end. Very variable in the cutting of the pinnules.

The fragile bladder fern, as it is often called, and which the name frágilis suggests, is the
earliest to appear in the spring, and the first to disappear, as by the end of July it has
discharged its spores and withered away. Often, however, a new crop springs up by the last
of August, as if Nature were renewing her youth. In outline the fragile bladder fern suggests
the blunt-lobed Woodsia, but in the latter the pinnæ and pinnules are usually broader and blunter,
and its indusium splits into jagged lobes. Rather common in damp, shady places where rocks
abound. In one form or another, found nearly throughout the world though only on mountains
in the tropics.

KEY TO THE WOODSIAS

Stipes not jointed:
    Indusium ample, segments broad, frond without hairs.
                                          Obtuse Woodsia.
    Pinnæ hispidulous, with white jointed hairs beneath.
                                  Rocky Mountain Woodsia.
    Fronds bright green, pinnæ glabrous, oblong.
                                          Oregon Woodsia.
    Fronds dull green, lanceolate, glandular beneath.
                                      Cathcart's Woodsia.
Stipes obscurely jointed near the base:
    Fronds more or less chaffy, pinnæ oblong to ovate,
    crowded.                               Rusty Woodsia.
    Fronds linear, smooth, pinnæ deltoid or orbicular.
                                          Smooth Woodsia.
    Fronds lanceolate, a few white scales beneath; pinnæ
    deltoid-ovate.                        Alpine Woodsia.

THE WOODSIAS

Small, tufted, pinnately divided ferns. Fruit-dots borne on the back of simply forked, free
veins. Indusium fixed beneath the sori, thin and often evanescent, either small and open, or
early bursting at the top into irregular pieces or lobes. (Named for James Woods, an English
botanist.)

(1) RUSTY WOODSIA. Woódsia ilvénsis

Fronds oblong-lanceolate, three to ten inches high, rather smooth above, thickly clothed underneath
with rusty, bristle-like chaff. Pinnate, the pinnæ crowded, sessile, cut into oblong segments.
Fruit-dots near the margin often confluent at maturity. Indusium divided nearly in the center
into slender hairs which are curled over the sporangia. Stipes jointed an inch or so above
the rootstock.

The rusty Woodsia is decidedly a rock-loving fern, and often grows on high cliffs exposed to
the sun; its rootstock and fronds are covered with silver-white, hair-like scales, especially
underneath. These scales turn brown in age, whence the name, rusty. As the short stipes separate
at the joints from the rootstock, they leave at the base a thick stubble, which serves to identify
the fern. Exposed rocks, Labrador to North Carolina and westward. Rather common in New England.
Said to be very abundant on the trap rock hillocks about Little Falls, N.J., where it grows
in dense tufts.

(2) NORTHERN WOODSIA. ALPINE WOODSIA

Woodsia alpìna. Woodsia hyperbòrea

Fronds narrowly lanceolate, two to six inches long, smooth above, somewhat hairy beneath, pinnate.
Pinnæ triangular-ovate, obtuse, lobed, the lobes few and nearly entire. Fruit-dots rarely confluent.
Indusium as in Woodsia ilvensis.

Thought by some botanists to be a smooth form of Woodsia ilvensis. It was discovered in the
United States by Horace Mann, in 1863, at Willoughby Lake, Vt. Twenty years or more later it
was collected by C.H. Peck in the Adirondacks, who supposed it to be Woodsia glabélla. In 1897
it was rediscovered at Willoughby Lake by C.H. Pringle. New York, Vermont, Maine, and British
America. Rare.

(3) BLUNT-LOBED WOODSIA. Woodsia obtùsa

Fronds broadly lanceolate, ten to eighteen inches long, nearly twice pinnate, often minutely
glandular. Pinnæ rather remote, triangular-ovate or oblong, pinnately parted into obtuse, oblong,
toothed segments. Veins forked. Fruit-dots on or near the margin of the lobes. Indusium conspicuous,
at length splitting into several spreading, jagged lobes.

This is our most common species of Woodsia and it has a wider range than the others, extending
from Maine and Nova Scotia to Georgia and westward. On rocky banks and cliffs. The sori of
this species have a peculiar beauty on account of the star-shaped indusium, as it splits into
fragments. Var. angústa is a form with very narrow fronds and pinnæ. Highlands, New York. The
type grows in Middlesex County, Mass., but is rare.

(4) SMOOTH WOODSIA. Woodsia glabélla

Fronds two to five inches high, very delicate, linear, pinnate. Pinnæ remote at the base, roundish-ovate,
very obtuse with a few crenate lobes. Stipes jointed, straw-colored. Hairs of the indusium
few and minute.

On moist, mossy, mostly calcareous rocks, northern New England, Mount Mansfield, Willoughby,
and Bakersfield Ledge, Vt., Gorham, N.H., also Newfoundland, New York, and far to the northwest.
Not very common. It differs from the alpine species by the absence of scales above the joint.
As the name implies, the plant is smooth, except for the chaffy scales at or near the rootstock,
which mark all the Woodsias, and many other ferns, and which serve as a protective covering
against sudden changes in extremes of heat and cold.

(5) OREGON WOODSIA. Woódsia oregàna

Fronds two to ten inches high, smooth, bright green, glandular beneath, narrowly lance-oblong,
bipinnatifid. Pinnse triangular-oblong, obtuse, pinnatifid. Segments ovate or oblong, obtuse,
crenate, the teeth or margin nearly always reflexed. Indusium minute, concealed beneath the
sorus, divided into a few beaded hairs.

Like the obtuse Woodsia this fern has no joint near the base of the stipe, but is much smaller
and has several points of difference. Limestone cliffs, Gaspé Peninsula, southern shore of
Lake Superior, Colorado, Oregon to the northwest. Its eastern limit is northern Michigan.

(6) ROCKY MOUNTAIN WOODSIA. Woódsia scopulìna

Fronds six to fifteen inches long [smooth], lanceolate, pinnatifid. Pinnæ triangular-ovate,
the lowest pair shortened. Under surface of the whole frond hispidulous with minute, white
hairs and stalked glands. Indusium hidden beneath the sporangia, consisting mostly of a few
hair-like divisions.

In crevices of rocks, mountains of West Virginia, Gaspé Peninsula, Rocky Mountains, and westward
to Oregon and California.

(7) CATHCART'S WOODSIA. Woodsia Cathcartiàna

Fronds eight to twelve inches high, lanceolate, bipinnatifid, finely glandular-puberulent.
Pinnse oblong; the lower distant segments oblong, denticulate, separated by wide sinuses.

Rocky river banks, west Michigan to northeast Minnesota.

DENNSTAÉDTIA. Dicksònia

Fruit-dots small, globular, marginal, each on the apex of a vein or fork. Sporangia borne on
an elevated, globular receptacle in a membranous, cup-shaped indusium which is open at the top.

(Named in honor of August Wilhelm Dennstaed.)

HAYSCENTED FERN. BOULDER FERN

