HISTORICAL EPOCHS OF  THE FRENCH REVOLUTION;

WITH THE Judgment and Execution OF

LOUIS XVI.  KING OF FRANCE;

AND A LIST OF  THE MEMBERS OF THE NATIONAL CONVENTION,

Who voted FOR and AGAINST his DEATH.

PRICE 4s.

******

HISTORICAL EPOCHS OF THE FRENCH REVOLUTION

TRANSLATED FROM THE FRENCH OF H.  GOUDEMETZ,

A FRENCH CLERGYMAN EMIGRANT IN ENGLAND.

DEDICATED, BY PERMISSION, TO

His ROYAL HIGHNESS  the DUKE  of YORK,

BY THE REV.  DR.  RANDOLPH.

BATH,   PRINTED BY R. CRUTTWELL FOR THE AUTHOR; AND SOLD BY C. DILLY, POULTRY, LONDON:  THE
BOOKSELLERS OF BATH, &c. MDCCXCVI

******

DEDICATION.

TO HIS  ROYAL HIGHNESS  THE DUKE OF YORK.

SIR,
      WITH the design of serving an amiable and worthy man, I have
availed myself of your Royal Highness's permission to dedicate to you
the translation of a work, which, as a faithful narrative of events,
wants no additional comment to make it interesting.  A detail of
facts, in which your Royal Highness, in behalf of your country, has
been so honourably engaged, may not prove unwelcome in aid of
recollection; and a detail of facts, built on the experimental
horrors of popular power, and  which, proceeding from the wildness of
theory to the madness of practice, has swept away every vestige of
civil polity, and would soon leave neither law nor religion in the
world, cannot, either in point of instruction or warning, be
unreasonably laid  before my fellow-citizens at large.

Under the sanction, therefore, Sir, of your illustrious name, I willingly commit to them this
memorial.  And if an innocent victim of oppression  should thus derive a small, though painful,
subsistence  from a plain and publick (sic) recital of his country's crimes, I shall be abundantly
repaid for the little share I may have had in bringing it into notice; and by the  opportunity
it affords me of subscribing myself

Your ever grateful and devoted humble servant,

FRANCIS RANDOLPH.

BATH,  July 22, 1796

******

PREFACE

THE following sheets contain a journal of principal  events of the French Revolution.  The
best authorities  have been resorted to, and the facts are related without any comment.  The
reader will find a faithful outline of an interesting and momentous period of history, and
will see how naturally each error produced its corresponding misfortune.

Various causes contributed to effect a revolution in the  minds of Frenchmen, and led the way
to a revolution in the state.  The arbitrary nature of the government had been long submitted
to, and perhaps would have continued so much longer, if France had not taken part in the American
war.

The perfidious policy of VERGENNES, who, with a view of humbling the pride of England, assisted
the subject in arms against his Sovereign, soon imported into his own nation the seeds of liberty,
which it had helped to cultivate in a country  of rebellion; and the crown of France, as I
once heard it emphatically observed, was lost in the plains of America.  The soldier returned
to Europe with new doctrines instead  of new discipline, and the army in general soon grew
dissatisfied with the Monarch, on account of unusual, and,  as they thought, ignominious rigours
which were introduced into it from the military school of Germany.  The King also, from a necessity
of retrenchment, had induced his ministers to adopt some mistaken measures of economy respecting
the  troops, and thus increased the odium which pride had fostered, and by diminishing the
splendour of the crown, stripped it of its security and protection.

To this was added the wanton profusion of the Court in other expenses, and the external parade
and brilliancy, which, if they impoverish, often dazzle and gratify the people, was exchanged
for familiar entertainments, which gave rise to frequent jealousies among the nobles, and tended
to lower that sense of awe and respect for royalty among the people, which in monarchies it
is of the utmost importance to preserve.

At this time, also, philosophical discussion had reached its pinnacle of boldness.  Infidelity
had woven the web of discord in the human mind, which was now ripe for experiment, and ROUSSEAU
and VOLTAIRE were the favourite authors.

Previous to the year 1789, from the extreme disorder of the finances, it became necessary to
raise money by  extraordinary taxes, which the common powers of the parliament were deemed
insufficient to authorize; and afraid, in the present temper of the people, to impose upon
them  unusual burthens, ministers looked with solicitude for some other sanctions.

Monsieur DE CALONNE was unwilling to adopt so dangerous an expedient as that of assembling
the states-general; [Footnote: An Assembly consisting of deputies from the three orders of
citizens in France, namely, the clergy, the nobility, and the tiers-etat; which last included
every French citizen who was not of the clergy or nobility.] he therefore adopted the expedient
of summoning an assembly of notables, or eminent persons, chosen by the King from the different
parts of the kingdom.

This assembly did not prove so favourable to the  measures of the minister as he expected:
Monsieur DE CALONNE was displaced, and the assembly was soon after dissolved, having declared
itself incompetent to decide on the taxes proposed.

The King then commanded the parliament of Paris to register his edicts for successive loans
to the government; but his commands were rejected.  [Footnote: Chiefly, as it was supposed,
through the influence of the Duke of Orleans.]

In the meantime, that spirit of discussing philosophical subjects, which we have before mentioned,
now fixed itself on politics.  The people exclaimed against the weight of taxes, and the extravagance
of courtiers; they complained of peculiar exemptions from the general burthens, and of grievances
which arose from lettres-de -cachet, and other despotic powers of the government.

The King, desirous of yielding to the wishes of the people, recalled Monsieur NECKAR to the
administration, and in conformity to his advice, his Majesty declared his resolution of convening
the states-general.  But in order to regulate all matters relative to the meeting of this important
assembly, it was resolved to convoke the notables a second time.  Among these, a diversity
of opinion appeared respecting the comparative number of deputies to be sent by the Commons,
and the two other orders; the cardinal point on which the whole success of the revolution eventually
turned. [Footnote: The last assembly of the states-general, which had been held in France in
1614, was composed of 140 deputies from the order of the clergy, among whom were five cardinals,
seven archbishops, and 47 bishops; 132, representatives of the nobility; and 192 deputies from
the commons.  The Cardinal de JOYEUSE was president of the clergy; the Baron SENECEY of the
nobility; and the president of the commons was ROBERT MIRON, Prêvot-de-Marchands, (an officer
similar to that of mayor of Paris.)]  All the classes into which the notables were divided,
decided for an equality of deputies, except those in which MONSIEUR and the Duke of ORLEANS
presided.

In these, it was agreed that the representatives of the commons should be equal in number to
those of the other two states.  The ministry were of opinion that this double representation
was adviseable (sic), and persuaded themselves that, through their weight and influence they
should be able to prevent any mischief to be apprehended from this preponderance of the tiers-etat.
By their advice, the King issued an ordinance in January 1789, throughout the whole kingdom,
commanding the people to assemble in their bailiwicks, and to nominate deputies to represent
them in the states-general; viz. 300 for the clergy, 300 for the nobility, and 600 for the commons.

HAC FONTE DERIVATA CLADES.

******

N. B. The first legislature, which was called the National Assembly, has now the name of the
"Constituent Assembly."

The second is called the "Legislative Assembly;" and the third legislature is called "the National
Convention."

****** HISTORICAL EPOCHS OF THE FRENCH REVOLUTION.

******

1787.
March.          THE Assembly of Notables first convened under the
                  ministry of Mons. de Calonne, comptroller-general
                  of the finances.
1788.
August.         Mons.  Necker replaced at the head of the finances
                  on the dismission (sic) of Mons. de Calonne; and
                  Mons. de Lomenie, archbishop of Toulouse, made
                  prime minister.
Nov.            Mons. Necker persuades the King to call the
                  Notables together a second time.
1789.
January.        Letters issued in the name of the King for an
                  assembly of the States-general.  The clergy to
                  depute 300 representatives, the nobility the like
                  number, and the commons 600.
May         5.  Opening of the States-general at Versailles.
June       17.  The chamber of the Tiers-Etat (commons) declares
                  itself a national assembly.
             19.  The Tiers-Etat takes the famous oath, known by the
                  "serment au Jeu de Paume," not to separate until
                  the constitution should be established.
             23.  The King goes in person to the assembly--but his
                  presence, far from intimidating the members,
                  renders them so intractable that from this epoch
                  may be dated the first attacks upon the royal
                  authority.
             24.  Forty-eight of the nobles, with the Duke of Orleans
                  at their head, unite with the tiers-etat (third
                  estate, or commons).
                  A considerable number of the clergy follow their
                  example.
             28.  The King, from a desire of peace, requests the
                  whole body of nobility and clergy to unite in one
                  assembly with the commons; which is acceded to.
             29.  Great rejoicings in Paris on account of this union.
July       11.  The King in disgust dismisses Monsieur Necker.
             12.  The Prince de Lambesc appears at the Tuilleries
                  with an armed party of soldiers.
             13.  The city of Paris flies to arms.  The Bastille is
                  attacked, and taken by the populace;

             14.  Mons. de L'Aulnay, the governor, falls a victim to
                  the fury of the assailants.  Bertier, intendant of
                  Paris; Foulon, secretary of state; and de
                  Flesselle, prêvot des Marchands, (somewhat like
                  mayor of Paris) are massacred.  From, this period
                  the maxim was adopted, "that insurrection was the
                  most sacred of duties."
             15.  The King goes to the assembly to confer with it
                  upon the disturbances of Paris.  Many considerable
                  persons fly the country.
             16.  The Marquis de la Fayette, and Monsieur Bailly, are
                  nominated, one to command the national guards of
                  Paris, the other to be mayor of Paris.
             17.  In hopes of quieting the alarming tumults, the King
                  comes to Paris.  Bailly harangues him freely at the
                  Hotel de la Ville, (sic) and the King receives the
                  three-coloured cockade.
August      1.  Massacre of the mayor of St. Dennis.
              4.  Abolition of tithes, and of all feudal rights and
                  privileges.
                  Louis is proclaimed the restorer of French liberty.
              7.  The King is obliged to recall Necker.
             27.  The liberty of the press is established.
Sept.      15.  The person of the King is decreed to be inviolable;
                  and the crown of France hereditary and indivisible.
             29.  Decreed, that it be recommended that all church
                  plate be brought to the mint.
Oct.        1.  The King is  forced to accept and give the sanction
                  of  his approbation to the famous "Rights of Man."
              5.  The Marquis de la Fayette at the head of 30,000
                  Parisians marches to Versailles.
              6.  After murdering the King's guards under the windows
                  of the Palace, they forcibly conduct both him and
                  the Queen to Paris amidst the insults of the
                  populace, and with great danger of their lives.
             10.  Tayllerang-Perigord, bishop of Autun, proposes that
                  the nation should seize the property of the clergy.
             12.  Decreed, that the National Assembly be removed from
                  Versailles to Paris.
             15.  The Duke of Orleans obtains leave to go to England.
             19.  The first sitting of the National Constituent
                  Assembly at Paris.
             21.  The people of Paris hang a baker.
                  The Jacobin Club commenced at this time; first
                  known by the name of the "Club de la Propagande."
                  The name of Jacobins was derived from the house
                  where the club met, and which had belonged to the
                  religious order of Jacobins.
Nov.       22.  The commune of Paris makes a patriotic gift of its
                  silver buckles.
                  A general patriotic contribution is first
                  requested, and afterwards forced.
Dec.        7.  Decree upon the disturbances at Toulon.
                  Another for dividing France into 83 departments, 83
                  tribunals, 544 civil tribunals, 548 districts, and
                  43,815 municipalities.
             10.  Vandernoot, and the disaffected in Brabant, write
                  to the King and to the National Constituent
                  Assembly; but their letter is returned.
             25.  Mons. de Favras, knight of St. Louis, arrested.
1790.
January     1.  The King is stripped of most of his royal
                  prerogatives.
              4.  The assembly desires him to fix the amount of his
                  civil list.
              6.  The castle of Kéralier burnt by plunderers.
                  The three orders of the clergy, nobility, and
                  commons, suppressed as distinct orders of the
                  monarchy.
              7.  Decree for the form of a civic oath to be taken by
                  the national guards.
             13.  Decreed that Paris shall form one department.
                  Decree in favour of Jews; another to remove the
                  prejudices which are attached to the families of
                  criminals.
Feb.        1.  The King, after a long speech to the assembly,
                  takes the civic oath, together with all the
                  members.
             19.  De Favras executed.
             20.  Death of Joseph IId. emperor of Germany.
March.          Massacres and fires in Lower-Languedoc.
              7.  Grand review of the national guards in the Elysian
                  fields.
                  The scarcity of specie induces the necessity of
                  issuing paper money called assignats.
              8.  Decreed, that the colonies form a part of the
                  French empire.
             11.  Insurrection at Meaux.
             12.  The red-book (book of court-accounts) made
                  publick.(sic)
             14.  Insurrection at the national theatre.
             18.  Sale of the property of the church decreed, by
                  which the government is enabled to abolish the duty
                  on salt.
April.          The Prince of Conti takes the civic oath in the
                  municipality of Paris.
             11.  The Abbé‚ Maury and Viscount Mirabeau  attacked
                  by the populace on coming out of the assembly.
                  The assembly refuses to acknowledge the Roman
                  Catholick (sic) religion as the religion of the
                  state; and this resolution is followed by
                  forbidding all particularity of dress or form in
                  ecclesiastics.
             22.  General Paoli, at the head of a deputation from
                  Corsica, presents himself to the national assembly.
             24.  Insurrection at Marseilles.
May.            Report and decree upon  the disturbances at Mount
                  Auban.
                  Monastic vows prohibited in future.
             17.  Orders of knighthood and military decorations
                  abolished.
             22.  Decreed, that the right of making peace and war
                  belongs to the people.
             25.  The Parisians occupied with hanging several
                  robbers.
June.           Public Seminaries and academies of instruction
                  suppressed.
              9.  The King goes to the assembly, and requires 25
                  millions of livres for his civil list.
             10.  The Queen's dower fixed at four millions.
                  One million is voted for the King's brothers.
             16.  Massacres and disorders at Nismes (sic).
             19.  Suppression of nobility, of all titles and orders,
                  of armorial bearings, and of livery-servants.
July        3.  Justices of the peace appointed throughout the
                  kingdom.
             14.  Ceremony of a general federation, at which the King
                  is obliged to assist, to commemorate the destruction
                  of the Bastille.
                  Trial by jury introduced in criminal matters.
                  Judges to be chosen by cantons and districts; one
                  for the former, and five for the latter.
             26.  The constituent assembly publishes a civil
                  constitution for the acceptance of the clergy,
                  which they refuse to admit.
August.         Affair at Nancy--five regiments revolt.
                  Insurrection at Martinico (sic) announced.
                  Désilles shot at Nancy by the Swiss.
                  Mons. Necker, whose popularity declined, is obliged
                  to leave the kingdom precipitately.
                  The assembly, having declared the property of the
                  Crown to be that of the nation, grants to the King the
                  sum he required for his civil list.
Sept.           Horrid massacres in the colonies.
Oct.       28.  Fourteen castles are burned and plundered in
                  Dauphiny.
             30.  Outrageous conduct of two regiments at Béfort.
Nov.        2.  The clergy propose to raise four millions of livres
                  in their own body for the exigence of the state.
                  The assembly seizes the whole ecclesiastical
                  revenue, without any respect of persons or
                  property.
             13.  Pillage of the house of the Marshal de Castries at
                  Paris.
             21.  Duport-du-Terre appointed keeper of the seals.
             27.  The assembly requires that every ecclesiastic,
                  doing duty, shall swear to maintain with all his
                  power and interest the constitution, and every
                  thing that had been or should be ordained by its
                  decrees.
1791.

Jan.            The debts of the church decreed to be national.
                  The King refuses to sanction the above decrees
                  respecting the clergy, but is at length forced to
                  it by threats and terror.
              4.  The clergy in the national assembly refuse to comply
                  with the foregoing decree, and in consequence of
                  their refusal a law passes that their benefices
                  shall be filled by such of the clergy as will take
                  the oaths of allegiance to the state.
                  Abolition of all the parliaments and sovereign
                  courts of France.
                  The Count d'Artois finds it prudent to quit the
                  kingdom.
                  Out of 138 prelates only four take the
                  constitutional oath, namely, the archbishop of
                  Sens, the bishops of Viviers, Orleans, and Autun.
                  The latter alone carries his apostacy (sic) so far
                  as to consecrate other bishops, who were presented
                  to the vacant sees.
                  Horrid treatment at Chateau-Gouthier of Mad'lle de
                  la Barne de Joyeuse.
             10.  Decree about stamps.
             14.  Decreed, that bishops and parsons shall be elected
                  by the people.
             23.  A violent meeting at the Jacobin club.
             24.  Massacres at the village de-la-Chapelle near Paris.
             26.  Decree to enforce the oath by priests.
             29.  Mirabeau president of the constituent national
                  assembly.
February.       Deputation of Quakers to the assembly.
                  Decree to admit the free cultivation of tobacco.
                  Disorders in Le Querci.
             21.  The King's aunts stopped at Arnay-le-Duc, and
                  forced to shew their pass, and permission to retire
                  to Rome.  With difficulty they obtain leave to
                  proceed.
                  Insurrection at Vincennes near Paris.
March       4.  The pope issues two letters against the
                  ecclesiastical constitution of France, and the
                  clergy who had taken the oath to it.  He deprives
                  the archbishop of Sens, the Cardinal de Lomenie de
                  Brienne, of his cardinal's hat.
                  Massacres at St. Domingo.
              5.  Indisposition of the King.
              9.  Decreed, that the prisoners charged with treason
                  (lêze-nation) shall be conveyed to Orleans.
                  Gobet, a member of the assembly, appointed bishop
                  of Paris.
                  Insurrection and massacres at Douai.
             22.  Decree excluding women from the regency.
             25.  The majority of the Kings of France fixed at
                  eighteen years.
                  Discussion on the fate of the invalids.
                  Mons. de M'Nemara massacred at l'Isle-de-France.
             26.  Public functionaries compelled to residence.
             28.  The monarchical club at Paris attacked by the
                  populace with stones, and dispersed.
             29.  Report upon an insurrection at Toulon.
                  The minister of the church of St. Sulpice, who had
                  not conformed to the national oath, escapes with
                  great difficulty from the violence of the populace.
April       3.  The death of  Mirabeau announced to the assembly:
                  decreed, that he shall have the honours of the
                  Pantheon, (formerly the beautiful church of St.
                  Genevieve).
              7.  Decreed, that no deputy to the national assembly
                  shall be admissible into the ministry until four
                  years after the expiration of the legislature of
                  which he is a member.
              8.  Decreed that no deputy to the assembly shall accept
                  any favour from the executive power  for four
                  years.
                  Several nuns in Paris and elsewhere were publicly
                  whipped for persisting to adhere to the old forms
                  of worship.
             10.  Insurrection at Cevennes.
                  Report on the insurrection of a regiment in
                  Languedoc.
             13.  Engagement between the officers and garrison of
                  Weissembourg.
             14.  Riot at Nantz (sic) on account of the inauguration
                  of the three-coloured flag.
             17.  The sale of the property of the church is decreed.
             18.  The King proposes to go to St. Cloud; the people
                  oppose and stop him.
                  The King complains of this violence to the
                  national assembly, but with little effect.
             20.  Report of massacres in the county of Venaissin.
                  The King's ministers, through the influence or fear
                  of the national assembly, write to all the foreign
                  courts, that the King had placed himself at the
                  head of the revolution--from this epoch may be dated
                  the great emigrations of the nobility and other
                  considerable persons.
                  The Abbé Maury, the most intrepid defender of the
                  cause of the church and the King, retires
                  precipitately to Rome.
             23.  Sad recital in the assembly of distresses in St.
                  Domingo.
             26.  Assignats of five livres are issued.
             27.  Massacres in the Limousin.
             28.  Decreed, that soldiers may frequent jacobin
                  societies.
May         1.  The barriers are thrown open--all duties in the
                  interior parts of the kingdom abolished.
                  Civil war in the Venaissin.
              3.  The effigy of the pope (sic) burnt in the
                  Palais-Royal.
              7.  Decree permitting priests, who have not conformed,
                  to officiate in private.
                  Mons. de Massei massacred at Tulle.
                  Decree upon the people of colour.
             19.  Massacre in the Vivarais.
             26.  Decreed, that the Louvre and the Tuilleries united
                  shall be the habitation of the King, and that all
                  monuments of science and art shall be collected and
                  kept there.
             31.  Decreed, that the punishment of death shall be
                  inflicted without torture.  From thence came the
                  use of the guillotine;-an instrument of death so
                  called from its author, a member of the national
                  assembly.
June.           Letter of the Abbé Raynal to the assembly.
                  Persecutions against non-conforming priests.  Their
                  tithes given to the proprietors of the estates.
              5.  The King deprived by decree of the power of
                  granting pardons.
              7.  A law against regicides.
                  Conforming priests are everywhere put in possession
                  of the benefices of those who would not conform.
                  A general sale of ecclesiastical property.
             18.  Decreed, that all military men take an oath of
                  fidelity to the nation.
                  Insurrection at Bastia.
             21.  The King and royal family make their escape
             22.  from Paris; they had nearly reached the frontiers,
                  when they were stopped at Varennes,
             25.  and brought back ignominiously to Paris.
                  Count Dampierre is massacred under the King's eyes.
                  The Marquis de Bouillé writes a menacing letter to
                  the assembly on the subject of the King.
                  An order is intimated to the King to disband his
                  body guards.  All the royal functions are
                  suspended.  The King is kept a close prisoner.
                  Monsieur, the King's brother, escapes to Coblentz.
July        9.  M. de Cazelés resigns his place as a deputy.
             10.  The national guards ordered to the frontiers.
             11.  The body of Voltaire transferred to the Pantheon.
             14.  Grand celebration of the anniversary of this day.
             17.  Insurrection in the Champ de Mars--the red flag (the
                  signal of danger) continues flying a long time.
                  Disorders in the Pays-de-Caux, and at
                  Brie-Compte-Robert.
             23.  Violent decree against emigrant nobles.
                  The assembly proceeds rigorously against those who
                  accompanied the King in his flight.
                  The King himself is not considered so culpable.
                  All distinctions of nobility, and all titles, are
                  wholly abolished.
                  The ministers are required to give an account every
                  ten days to the assembly of the execution of its
                  decrees.
                  The decree on people of colour spreads
                  consternation at St. Domingo.
August.         Money is coined from the metal of the bells in
                  churches.
                  One hundred thousand livres voted to the academy of
                  science for the purpose of bringing weights and
                  measures to one uniform standard.
                  The title of Dauphin changed to that of Prince
                  Royal.
                  Rewards are decreed to all those who stopped the
                  King.
                  A committee is appointed to manage national
                  domains; that is, the confiscated property of the
                  King and clergy.
                  Decreed, that if within a month the King do not
                  take the oath to the nation, or if he retract it,
                  he shall be adjudged to have forfeited the crown.
                  Decreed, that the guard for the King shall not
                  exceed 1200 foot, and 600 horse.
                  Those who may be placed in succession to the throne
                  to have no other title than that of French princes.
                  Registers of the births, marriages, and burials, of
                  the royal family to be deposited in the archives of
                  the national assembly.
                  Suppression of the payment of a mark of silver,
                  which was heretofore required from such as were
                  deputed to the legislature.
                  Decreed, that every law relative to taxes shall be
                  independent of the royal sanction.
                  The ceremony of marriage to be considered
                  hereafter as a civil contract only.
                  Rousseau admitted to a place in the Pantheon.
                  The national assembly declares, that it will not
                  revise the constitution which it has just
                  established, before the expiration of thirty years.
Sept.           The completion of the constitution announced to the
                  people, and that it will admit of no change.  The
                  departments are all occupied in electing new
                  deputies to represent them in a second assembly.
                  Sixty members are appointed to carry the act of the
                  constitution to the King.
              4.  The King restored to liberty.
                  Suppression of the order of St. Esprit; the
                  decorations of the blue ribband to be appropriated
                  to the King and the Prince-royal only.  The King
                  declines to retain a distinction which he cannot
                  communicate.
                  Decreed, that the Rhine and Rhone be united by a
                  canal.
             14.  The King accepts the constitution in form; he takes
                  the oath in presence of the assembly; and is
                  crowned by the president with a constitutional
                  crown.
                  Great rejoicings throughout all France.
                  The national guard to take place of the King's.
                  Whipping, and burning in the hand, annulled.
                  Three days allowed to every person under accusation
                  to defend himself and repel the charge.
                  In consequence of the acceptance of the
                  constitution, all criminal proceedings are stopped;
                  all persons confined on suspicion of
                  anti-revolutionary principles set at liberty; no
                  more passports required; a general amnesty takes
                  place; and the decree against emigrants is revoked.
                  Disturbances at Arles--suppression of the high
                  national court of Orleans--and of all royal
                  notaries--national notaries appointed.
                  Prohibitory or commanding clauses in wills to be of
                  no avail henceforward.
                  Every sort of property dependent upon, or connected
                  with, churches or charities, is confiscated.
                  All the world admitted to the title and rank of
                  French citizen, without any distinction of country.
                  Decree to unite Avignon and the county of Venaissin
                  to France.
                  Certificates of catholicism suppressed, which
                  hitherto were required before admission into any
                  office.
                  Severe penalties against introducing titles of
                  nobility into any public document.
                  All the chambers and societies of commerce
                  abolished.
                  Jews admitted to the rights of French citizens.
                  The constituent assembly prepares to lay down its
                  powers, without rendering any account of its
                  proceedings.
                  Violent remonstrances against this.
                  Decree against clubs and popular associations.
             30.  The King goes in state to close the session of this
                  first or constituent assembly.
CHAPTER II.

1791.
Oct.        4.  The second assembly takes the name of the
                  Legislative Assembly, and is opened by the King
                  in person. It consists of 700 members.
                  An oath is taken to observe the law.
                  An administrator in one of the departments flies
                  with a large treasure.
             17.  Massacre at Avignon, with unusual horrors.  Jourdan
                  and his people destroy 600 victims in an ice-house.
                  Insurrection at Paris on account of religious
                  worship.
                  The Marquis de la Fayette resigns the command of
                  the Parisian guard.
                  The expressions "sire" and "majesty," applied
                  to the King, suppressed by decree.
                  Twenty-one committees formed out of the legislative
                  assembly to transact all business.
                  Riots at Montpellier.
                  The pictures of the Palace-royal sold for a million
                  eight hundred thousand livres.
             27.  Insurrection in Alsace.
             29.  Notice given to Monsieur the King's eldest brother,
                  to return to France, on pain of forfeiture of all
                  his rights, and confiscation.
                  One hundred millions of assignats issued.
                  Disturbances in Artois and Lower Normandy on
                  account of religious worship.
                  The archbishop of Ausch, and several bishops,
                  brought before the tribunals.
             30.  Insurrections in almost all parts of the kingdom,
                  on account of the prohibition of religious worship.
                  Charrier, ex-constituent, and nominated by the
                  people as successor to the Cardinal de
                  Rochefoucault, in the archbishoprick (sic) of
                  Rouen, ashamed of his usurpation, abdicates the
                  archiepiscopal dignity.
                  Violent decree against emigrants; the King opposes
                  his veto to it.
                  The King refuses his assent also to another equally
                  violent decree, for the banishment of all the
                  catholic priests who had not taken the oath
                  prescribed.
                  Guimper, the first constitutional see, is taken
                  possession of by D'Expilly, an ex-constituent,
                  i.e. a member of the last assembly, which had
                  taken the name of the constituent assembly.
                  Violent insurrection in the colonies, supposed to
                  be excited by some of the leading members of the
                  assembly.
Nov.            New decree for a civic oath.
                  In the legislative assembly the answers are read
                  from foreign powers, relative to the King's
                  acceptance of the constitution.
                  Massacres at Caen in Normandy; horrid treatment of
                  Mons. de Belsunce, a lieutenant-colonel.
                  Eighty-four persons of consideration thrown into
                  prison.
             10.  The Dunkirk carrier assassinated at Paris, and his
                  letters stolen.
             15.  The King confined to his apartment, under the guard
                  of a corporal.
             17.  Varnier denounced by Bazire, is sent to prison at
                  Orleans.
                  Pethion elected mayor of Paris.
             18.  He goes to the jacobins to thank them for having
                  obtained his election.
                  Manuel is appointed procureur syndic of the commune
                  of Paris (a place next in importance to that of
                  mayor).
             20.  Disorders at Montpellier.
             25.  Delatre committed to prison at Orleans.
             26.  Chabot enters the King's apartment with his hat on
                  his head.
                  Decreed, that non-conforming priests shall not make
                  use of the churches.
Dec.        1.  Three hundred millions of small assignats issued.
              2.  Insurrection at Brest.
              6.  Malvoisin, and twelve others, imprisoned at
                  Orleans.
             16.  Decreed, that every member of the Bourbon family
                  shall quit France in three days.
                  M. Loyauté sent to prison at Orleans.
             20.  Several castles burnt at Sens.
             24.  Insurrection in the departments of Loir et Cher.
                  The King goes to the assembly to discuss the
                  subject of war with foreign powers.
             27.  Lucknor and Rochambeau made marshals of France, and
                  with La Fayette appointed to command the armies.
                  M. de Narbonne goes to visit the frontiers.
                  Forty soldiers, who had been sent to the galleys,
                  are set at liberty.
                  Establishment of a new high national court.
                  Manuel causes the letters of Mirabeau, which were
                  found in the mayor's office, to be printed and
                  sold.
             28.  The Queen goes to the opera, and is much applauded.
             29.  Manifesto proposed by M. Condorcet, to acquaint the
                  world with the sentiments of the French nation, if
                  it should be forced into war.
             31.  Decreed, that the ceremonies of New-year's day
                  shall be abolished.
1792.

Jan.        1.  Egalité (duke of Orleans) ill received at the
                  Tuilleries.
              5.  Massacre of the minister of Chateau-neuf.
                  Motion of Herault, that foreign powers be required
                  to forbid the white cockade to be worn by
                  emigrants.
             11.  Carra proposes at the Jacobin club, that the crown
                  of France be offered to the Duke of York.
             15.  Plan of a decree for declaring war against the
                  Emperor.
             16.  Decreed, that Monsieur has forfeited the regency.
                  Three hundred millions of small assignats issued.
             17.  Fire and ravages at Port-au-Prince.
                  Great tumult at Paris on account of the monopoly of
                  of sugar and coffee.
             19.  Fire of La-Force.
             21.  A conforming priest, his wife, and children,
                  presented to the assembly, and loaded with caresses.
             27.  Summons to the Emperor, to declare whether or not
                  he is willing to live in peace with France.
             31.  Decreed, that all travellers in France must supply
                  themselves with a passport.
Feb.        1.  Decreed, that all those shall be imprisoned who
                  travel under a false name.
                  Eighty-four prisoners, who were confined in the
                  castle of Caen, set at liberty.
              2.  Letter of Manuel to the King beginning with these
                  words, "I do not love kings".
              5.  Fires and massacres at St. Domingo.
              6.  The Abbé Fauchet preaches at the Pantheon.
              7.  Riots at Paris on account of a false rumour of the
                  King's flight.
                  Great fires in the town of Haquenau.
                  Decreed, that the property of emigrants belongs to
                  the nation; order for its sequestration.
                  Riots at Noyon about corn.
                  Insurrection at Dunkirk.
             14.  The red bonnet becomes the general fashion.
                  Assassination at Mount Héri.
                  Insurrection at the Fauxbourg (sic) St. Marceau, on
                  account of the scarcity of sugar.
                  Struggle between the clubs of the Jacobins, and the
                  Feuillants; the latter so called from a religious
                  society of that name, at whose house they met.
             17.  De Lessart denounced by Fauchet.
             22.  Motion, that no deputy be permitted to go to the
                  clubs of Jacobins or Feuillants.
             28.  Treaty of Pilnitz between the Emperor and Prussia.
March       1.  Death of the Emperor Leopold II.
              3.  Seditions at Etampes; Simoneau, the mayor,
                  assassinated.
                  De Lessart, minister for foreign affairs, sent to
                  the prison of Orleans.
             15.  Death of Gustavus III. king of Sweden.
                  Total change of the King's ministers.
                  Decreed, that the King shall pay taxes like all
                  other persons.
             19.  Jourdan, and his accomplices at Avignon acquitted.
                  A new guard begins to do duty about the King.
                  Roland appointed by the King minister of the
                  interior department.
                  Insurrection at Poitou.
                  The Swiss Cantons demand from France the regiment
                  of Ernest.
                  Alienation of the domains of St. Lazare, and of
                  Mount-Carmel, two orders of knighthood, of which
                  Monsieur was president.
April       1.  Troubles in Provence and Dauphiny.
                  On the motion of Torne, constitutional bishop of
                  Bourges, all peculiar religious dresses are
                  abolished, and all secular congregations.
              6.  Pethion writes to the 48 sections, inviting them to
                  give a fête to the liberated soldiers of
                  Chateau-vieux.
             15.  A civic fête is given to the above soldiers, who
                  had been imprisoned for crimes.
             16.  Riots at the Hotel de Ville in Paris, on account of
                  the statues of la Fayette and Bailli.
             20.  The King goes to the national assembly to demand
                  whether it is willing to declare war.
                  War declared against the King of Bohemia and
                  Hungary.
                  M. de Castellane, bishop of Mendes, sent to prison
                  at Orleans.
             29.  The army of Dillon routed near Tournay, and that
                  general massacred by his own soldiers near
                  Lisle (sic).
                  The French routed near Mons under the command of
                  General Byron.
May         2.  Suppression of the military houses of Monsieur and
                  the Count d'Artois.
              6.  Desertion of the royal German regiment.
              8.  Report of the murder of several commissaries.
             10.  Pethion, in the commune of Paris,  presents a
                  silver sword to Réne Audu, a heroine of the 6th of
                  October 1789.
                  Decree concerning prisoners of war.
             11.  New disorders at Avignon.
             12.  Desertion of the regiment of Berchini.
             13.  M. Brival, a deputy, writes to the King to desire
                  that his cane may be restored to him, which was
                  taken from him at the gate of the Tuilleries.
                  Abbé Maury elevated to the dignity of an
                  archbishop, and appointed nuncio extra-ordinary of
                  the holy see, to the diet of Ratisbon.
                  Decree, depriving the brothers of the King of the
                  million which had been voted to them.
                  Renewal of the decree for the transportation of
                  priests, which the King still refuses to sanction.
             14.  Massacre of the Abbé Figuemont at Mentz.
             16.  Bavai taken by the Austrians.
             24.  Much pains taken to prove the existence of
                  a committee in favour of the Austrians.
             27.  Discontent in Paris on account of the King's
                  having a guard.
             28.  The King is forced to dismiss it.
             29.  Mareschal (sic) de Brissac, who commanded the
                  King's guard, sent to prison at Orleans.
             30.  The first column of the Prussian army arrives at
                  Frankfort.
June        3.  A civic fête in honour of M. Simoneau, mayor of
                  Etampes, massacred the 3d of March in an
                  insurrection.
              6.  Massacre at Brussels.
                  Reduction of the monies allowed for the pay and
                  entertainment of the King's ministers.
              8.  The King refuses to ratify the decree for encamping
                  20,000 men near Paris.
             13.  Roland, Claviere, and Servan, dismissed from the
                  ministry.
                  Ordered that all pedigrees of nobility be burnt,
                  and all papers relative thereto.
                  A number of patriotic gifts to support the
                  expence (sic) of the war.
                  The tree of liberty planted in all parts.
             20.  In order to force the King to sanction some decrees
                  to which he had given a negative, the people go to
                  the Tuilleries, break open the gates, and burst
                  into the apartments.  The King conducts himself
                  with great firmness.
                  The high national court at Orleans condemns
                  Monsieur, the Count d'Artois, and the Prince of
                  Condé, to be beheaded, and their property
                  consequently to be forfeited.
                  A new mode adopted for proving births, marriages,
                  and burials.
             26.  The department of La Somme offers 200 batallions,
                  to enforce respect to the King.  Several others
                  make similar offers.
             28.  La Fayette quits his army, and goes to complain to
                  the national representatives of party violence.
                  A petition against Pethion is signed at the houses
                  of all the notaries.
             30.  La Fayette returns to the army, and as soon as he
                  is departed, he is burnt in effigy at the palace
                  royal.
July        2.  Letter of the King to the French armies.
              3.  Suppression of all the staff-officers of the
                  national guard of Paris.
              4.  Decreed, that the nation is in danger.
                  The Duke of Brunswick arrives at Coblentz.
                  Distinguishing marks granted to the legislators and
                  administrators.
              6.  Dumourier goes to take the command of the army.
              7.  Pethion, mayor of Paris and Manuel, suspended, but
                  very soon after restored.
                  Ministers all changed.
             11.  A petition against the King signed at the Elysian
                  fields.
             14.  Anniversary of the federations observed with
                  great ceremony.
             19.  Massacre of M, de Saillant, chef-du-camp de Salés.
             20.  Proclamation of the King, on the dangers of the
                  country.
                  Decree, that the property of emigrants be sold.
                  Many of the constitutional priests sign a
                  recantation of their oaths, and not enough are
                  found to fill the vacant cures.
                  Massacres at Alais, Bourdeaux, Arles, and in other
                  places.
             28.  Decree, obliging people to mount guard under pain
                  of imprisonment.
                  Three hundred millions of assignats issued.
                  M. d'Espemenil, an ex-constituent, is knocked down
                  and poignarded at the Tuilleries, and with
                  difficulty saves his life.
             30.  The Marseillois arrive at Paris; ravages and
                  cruelties committed by them.
                  Cockades of ribbands proscribed.
                  Du Hamel massacred in the street of St. Florentin.
Aug.        3.  Decreed, that all Frenchmen be armed with pikes.
                  Invitation to foreigners to come and defend the
                  land of liberty.
              5.  Massacre at Toulon of nine members of the
                  magistracy, under the pretence of aristocracy.
                  A report is spread about the Tuilleries, that
                  the King intends to escape.
              8.  Decreed, by a majority of 426 to 224, that there is
                  no ground of accusation against La Fayette.
                  Several members complain of outrages committed on
                  them, on account of votes they had given.
             10.  Attack and pillage of the palace of the Tuilleries.
                  Massacre of the Swiss, and of a great number of the
                  King's followers.  Louis XVI. and his family fly
                  for safety to the assembly.
                  Horrible riots and outrages in Paris.
             11.  Continuation of frightful outrages and murders.
                  All foreign ambassadors quit France.
             12.  Roland, Clariere, and Servan, recalled to the
                  ministry.
                  Danton appointed minister of justice.
                  The statues of the King all thrown down.
                  Servan appointed minister of the war department; de
                  Monge, of the marine; Clavieres, of finances;
                  Roland, of the interior; and Le Brun, of foreign
                  affairs.
                  The King and his family are all conducted to the
                  Temple.
             14.  Several ex-ministers and royalists committed to
                  prison.
                  Decreed, that all the administrations of the
                  kingdom shall be new formed.
             15.  Persons departing, even with passports, stopped.
             17.  Establishment of a tribunal for the summary trial
                  of royalists.
             18.  The Austrians and Prussians enter the French
                  territory.
                  Decree against La Fayette; who, with part of
                  his staff, quits the army and falls into the
                  hands of the Austrians, by whom he is detained a
                  prisoner.
             20.  Montmorin, ex-minister of foreign affairs,
                  imprisoned.
             22.  M. D'Angremont guillotined at the Carouzel (sic).
             23.  Longwy taken by the Prussians.
             24.  M. de la Porte, comptroller of the civil list,
                  guillotined.
             25.  M. Durozoi, author of the gazette of Paris,
                  guillotined.
             26.  A civic festival, in honour of the sans-culottes
                  who were killed in the affair of the 10th of
                  August.
                  Decreed, that all ecclesiastics who have not taken
                  the national oath, shall be transported.  In the
                  number of these victims were 138 archbishops and
                  bishops, and sixty-four thousand priests of the
                  second order.
                  General Kellerman commands the army of Marshal
                  Luckner, and Dumourier that of General la Fayette.
             27.  In a sitting of the jacobins, Manuel causes an oath
                  to be taken, that every exertion will be used to
                  purge the earth of the pest of royalty.
             30.  Domiciliary visits, that is, nightly searches
                  in the citizens houses, for obnoxious persons.
Sept.       1.  Letter of the minister Roland, to all the
                  municipalities, to induce them to agree in finding
                  the King guilty.
                  M. Montmorin, governor of Fontainbleau,
                  although acquitted by the tribunal, is conveyed
                  back to prison by the people.
              2.  The city of Verdun is taken by the Prussians.
                  From the 2d (sic) to the 9th of this month, the
                  most horrid outrages perpetrated without ceasing,
                  7605 prisoners, &c. inhumanly murdered, and the
                  assassins publicly demand their wages.  Every house
                  is a scene of dismay.  Massacres and butcheries are
                  committed in all the prisons and religious houses.
                  These horrors drive a great number of inhabitants
                  from Paris.
                  The Duke de la Rochefoucault, ex-constituent and
                  president of the department of Paris, is torn to
                  pieces by the populace.
             10.  Massacre at Versailles of 53 prisoners from
                  Orleans, who, it appears, were summoned to Paris
                  for the express purpose of having them disposed of
                  in this expeditious manner.
                  Troops are enrolled for the frontiers.
                  A camp is formed close to Paris.
             13.  The French armies fall back towards Chalons.
             14.  The King accepts the constitution.
             15.  Decreed, that the King's person is inviolable,
                  and the crown of France indivisible and hereditary.
             16.  Robbery of the wardrobe of the crown.
                  Decree, formally allowing divorces.
             18.  Philips, of the club of jacobins, presents in a
                  little box, to the legislative assembly, the heads
                  of his father and mother, whom his patriotism, as
                  he said, had just sacrificed.
             19.  The last sitting of the legislative assembly.
CHAPTER III.

1792.
Sept.      20.  First sitting of the third legislature, which takes
                  the title of National Convention.  It consists of
                  745 members.
             21.  Decreed, that royalty is abolished, and that the
                  kingdom of France is a republic.
                  The battle of Grand-Pré gained by General
                  Dumouricr.
             22.  Danton resigns the ministry in order to take a
                  place in the convention.
             23.  The old Marshal Luckner is ordered to the bar of
                  the convention.
             27.  Mons. Cazotte, an author much esteemed, and who
                  with difficulty escaped from the assassins of the
                  2d of September, is conducted to the guillotine at
                  80 years of age.
             29.  The Austrians begin to bombard Lisle (sic).
                  Spires taken by the army of Gen. Custine.
Oct.        2.  The Duke of Brunswick, commanding the Prussians,
                  begins his retreat from France, and raises the
                  siege of Thionville.
              4.  The title of Citizen is substituted for those of
                  Monsieur and Madame by a decree.
              7.  The Austrians raise the siege of Lisle.
              8.  Massacre at Cambray.
              9.  The soldiers of General Dumourier massacre their
                  prisoners.
             10.  Servan quits the ministry.
                  Garat is appointed minister of justice.
             13.  Verdun evacuated by the Prussians.
             14.  A civic festival in honour of the conquest of
                  Savoy.
             18.  Nine emigrants guillotined in the Place-de-Greve.
             22.  The French retake Longwy.
             23.  Mayence taken by General Custine.
             24.  Great accusations of Roland to the convention.
             25.  The French territory evacuated by the Austrians and
                  Prussians.
             26.  Frankfort on the Main taken by the French.
             31.  A great number of returned emigrants denounced to
                  the commune of Paris.
Nov.        2.  All work at the camp near Paris is stopped.
              3.  The house of the deputy Marat is invested,
                  and the people demand his head.
              4.  Robespierre endeavours to acquit himself of the
                  charges brought against him by the deputy Louvet.
              6.  Report in the assembly of disturbances in the
                  department of Mayence and Loire.
                  Three hundred millions of assignats issued with new
                  emblems.
                  A discourse upon Atheism pronounced by Dupont, and
                  applauded by the convention.
                  The Princess de Rohan-Rochefort is sent to prison
                  for having written to the ex-minister Bertrand.
              7.  The battle of Gemappe--the Austrians are defeated
                  by superior numbers, and an immense artillery.
                  Dumourier after his victory takes Mons.
                  A revolt announced at Guadaloupe.
             10.  Decreed, that all emigrants who shall return
                  to France shall suffer death, whether men, women,
                  or children, not excepting those who had never
                  borne arms.
             12.  Ghent taken by the French.
             14.  Brussels taken by the French.
             19.  General Montesquieu emigrates.
             23.  De la Coste, ex-minister, and Du Fresne de St.
                  Leon, committed to the prison of the Abbaye.
             24.  Insurrection at Chartres and the neighbourhood, on
                  account of bread.
             25.  The King asks of the convention some Latin books,
                  that he may instruct his son himself.
             26.  Address from Finisterre to the convention,
                  denouncing the deputies Marat, Robespierre, Danton,
                  Chabot, Barire, and Merlin.  Buzot supports the
                  accusation.
             27.  Kersaint proposes to the convention to make a
                  descent upon England with one hundred thousand men,
                  and to sign an immortal treaty upon the Tower of
                  London, which shall fix the destiny of nations, and
                  confirm liberty for ever to the world.
                  The Belgians protest against a decree which
                  trenches on their sovereignty.
             30.  Decree, charging the municipalities to keep
                  registers of baptisms, marriages and buryings.
Dec.        1.  Pethion quits the mayoralty to become a member of
                  the convention.
                  Chambon is elected his successor.
                  Manuel gives up the place of procureur de la
                  commune for a seat in the convention; Chaumette
                  succeeds him.
              3.  Decreed that Louis Capet shall be brought to trial,
                  and that the convention shall be his judges.
              4.  Decreed, that whoever shall propose the restoration
                  of royalty shall suffer death.
              8.  The royal family is forbid the use of knives,
                  scissars,(sic) or razors; the King not to be
                  shaved, but his beard clipped with scissars.
              9.  The bust of Mirabeau torn from the Pantheon, and
                  dragged by the populace to the Place-de-Greve.
                  The minister of justice reads to the convention 150
                  addresses from the communes of Normandy in favour
                  of the King.
                  Philip Egalité renounces all eventual succession to
                  the crown of France, to assume the title of French
                  citizen.
             18.  The King is interrogated at the bar of the
                  convention.
                  Barrere is president.
                  He demands for his advocates Target and Tronchet,
                  the former refuses to defend him; but Mons. de
                  Malesherbes, making a voluntary offer of being his
                  defender, is accepted with Tronchet, and Monsieur
                  de Seze is added to them.
                  The mayor of Paris, the procureur de la commune, le
                  secretaire Greffier, and thirty municipal officers
                  on horseback, escorted the King's carriage when he
                  was going to the bar of the convention to be
                  interrogated, and to hear the act of his accusation
                  read.  The president said, "Louis,--The French
                  "people accuse you of having committed a multitude
                  "of crimes in order to establish tyranny upon the
                  "ruins of liberty."  The King having answered with
                  great precision and coolness, "Louis," said the
                  president, "a copy shall be given to you of your
                  accusations.  The convention permits you to retire,
                  and will acquaint you with the result of its
                  deliberations."
             14.  The charge d'affaires of Spain writes an earnest
                  letter in favour of the King, from his master.  The
                  convention treats it with neglect.
             16.  The French make themselves masters of
                  Aix-la-Chapelle.
                  The King is brought a second time to the bar of the
                  convention.  Monsieur de Seze makes an able speech
                  in his defence at the bar.  The King then speaks to
                  the convention: "My counsel has laid before you my
                  "justification and defence, I have nothing to add
                  "but this, that, in addressing you perhaps for the
                  "last time, I declare that my conscience reproaches
                  "me with no crime towards my country, and that my
                  "advocates have spoken nothing but the truth."
             27.  Generals Luckner and Rochambeau made marshals of
                  France.
1793
January.        Roland publishes a letter to oppose the calumnies
                  against him.
                  The loyal subjects of Brabant send an address to
                  the emperor.
                  Mont Blanc declared to be an 84th department, of
                  which Chamberry is the capital; this new department
                  contains 364,652 souls.
                  General Dumourier writes some severe truths to the
                  convention, and offers to give in his resignation,
                  disclaiming all pretensions to a dictatorship.
                  The convention rejects the King's appeal to the
                  people.
                  Prince Charles of Hesse-Philipstadt dies of wounds
                  he received at Frankfort.
                  The alien bill passed in England; in consequence of
                  which, persons suspected may be sent out of the
                  kingdom by the executive power.
                  The Prussians and Hessians drive the French from
                  Hocheim.
                  The King of Prussia publishes a declaration, that
                  his army enters Poland only because that country
                  was infested with French democratic madness.
                  Remarkable address of the department of Finisterre
                  against Marat and Robespierre.
                  La Fayette is conveyed to Magdebourg.
                  The Empress of Russia assigns lands in the Crimea
                  to French emigrants, and causes to be paid to the
                  Prince of Condé, at Frankfort, 200,000 rupees for
                  the expences of journey.
                  Dumourier goes to Paris while the convention is
                  debating about the King.  The jacobins insult him.
                  His army is said to be 120,000 strong.
                  General Custine celebrates at Mayence the festival
                  of liberty, by burning the archiepiscopal
                  ornaments.
             17.  The convention terminates its deliberations
             18.  concerning the King.  He is condemned to
             19.  death.  All endeavours to delay the execution of
                  the sentence are rejected.
                  Of the members of the convention, 366 vote for
                  death absolutely; 23 for death, but leaving it
                  hereafter to be discussed, when the execution
                  should take place; 8 for death, and a certain delay
                  or respite; 2 for death at the peace; 319 for
                  detention; and 2 for detention in irons.
                  Pelletier, one who voted for the King's death, is
                  assassinated at a tavern.
             20.  Louis hears with calmness the reading of his
                  sentence of death.  Allowed only two hours to take
                  a final leave of his wife, his children, and his
                  sister, who are frantic with grief.

             21.  Louis is conducted to the scaffold; his behaviour
                  is steady and dignified, he speaks a few words
                  protesting his innocence, forgiving his enemies,
                  and hoping that his death might restore peace to
                  his wretched country.  The commander of the troops
                  orders the drums and trumpets to strike up, that
                  his voice might be drowned, and that he should not
                  proceed.  In a minute after this, his head is
                  severed from his body.  A dead silence prevails in
                  Paris.  The places of public amusement and all
                  shops are shut up.  His last will soon after
                  published.
                  The minister Roland, after assisting at the King's
                  execution resigns his office, so do the deputies
                  Manuel and Kersaint.
             24.  The remains of Pelletier are placed with great
                  ceremony in the  Pantheon.
                  The French envoy at Naples demands and obtains an
                  audience of the King.
                  The convention decrees, that their army shall
                  consist of 502,000 men next campaign.
             26.  Dumourier leaves Paris for the army, with orders to
                  take Cologne, cost what it may.
                  Liege determines to unite itself with France.
                  Paris, who assassinated Pelletier, is arrested, but
                  shoots himself.
                  General mourning at London and Madrid for
                  Louis XVI.
                  The convention decrees the union of Nice to the
                  republic of France.
                  The British ministry signify to Mons. Chauvelin,
                  who had been ambassador from Louis XVI. that he is
                  no longer to be considered as such, and must quit
                  England.
                  The sections of Paris complain of want of
                  provisions.
                  Lanjuinais, speaking against the murders of the 2d
                  of September, says, that the number of victims,
                  assassinated that day, amounted to 8,000, others
                  say 12,000, and the deputy Louvet states them at
                  28,000.
Feb.        1.  The Convention declares war against the King of
                  England, and Stadtholder of Holland.
                  General Dumourier levies sixty millions of livres
                  on the abbeys in Brabant.
                  The nurse of Madame Royale requests permission to
                  see her in prison, but without success.
                  Proclamation by the Emperor, to assure to the
                  Belgians their ancient privileges.
                  Great debates in the convention about war.
                  The marines of Rochelle come to swear fidelity to
                  the convention.
                  Philip Egalité takes the oath, in quality of high
                  admiral of France.
                  The Marseillois leave Paris, and return home.
                  An engagement takes place at Mayence between the
                  national guard and the troops of the line, on the
                  subject of the King's death.
                  General Bournonville is recalled from the army, and
                  appointed minister of war.
                  Dumourier begins to lose ground in the esteem of
                  the people.
                  Eight hundred millions of assignats issued.
                  Citzen (sic) Basseville, secretary of the French
                  legation, is massacred by the people at Rome.
                  Chambon quits the mayoralty of Paris, and is
                  replaced by the ex-minister Pache.
                  The parliament of England votes for war.
                  The French take possession of Deux-Ponts; the duke
                  with difficulty escapes.
                  Lyons, opposes with energy the murderous plans of
                  the jacobins.
                  The Emperor solicits earnestly the triple
                  contingent from the empire.
                  New coinage in France, with the legend of
                  "Republique Francoise. (sic)"
                  The wife of the Emperor sacrifices some of her rich
                  ornaments to defray the cost of the war.
                  General Miranda sends to the convention the
                  magnificent key of gold, which was given by
                  Charles III. to the inhabitants of Louvain.
             17.  The French make an irruption into Holland, take the
                  fort St. Michel, surround Maestricht, and menace
                  Breda.
                  Lyons destroys the jacobin club, and burns the tree
                  of liberty.
                  Paris is in great disorder.
                  Dumourier addresses a proclamation to the Dutch
                  against the Stadtholder.  The States-general answer
                  it by a manifesto.
                  Condorcet reads a constitutional act to the
                  convention; the jacobins reject it.
                  The national convention of Liege decrees the
                  destruction of its cathedral.
                  Marat excites great tumult in the convention.
                  Venice acknowledges the republic; Bavaria observes
                  neutrality.
                  Custine transports the clergy of Mayence who refuse
                  to take the oath of liberty.
                  The French bombard Maestricht, which is defended by
                  the Prince of Hesse-Cassel.
                  The Grand Duke of Tuscany declares a neutrality
                  with regard to the French republic.
             25.  The British troops under the Duke of York sail from
                  England.
                  Breda surrenders to the French.
                  Dumourier bombards Gertruydenberg and Williamstadt
                  with Dutch artillery.
                  The Convention decrees that soldiers have a right
                  to elect their officers.  Marat urges this
                  decree, and strikes in the face several of those
                  who oppose it, even in the convention.
                  The Duke of York arrives at the Hague.
                  The  Stadtholder declares he will defend the
                  republic to the last.
             28.  The  Archduke Charles, the Prince of Cobourg, and
                  Duke of Wurtemburg, arrive at Duren.
                  The French merchants offer to send fifty
                  privateers to sea.
                  Discourse pronounced in the convention by
                  Anacharsis Cloots, on universal fraternity.
                  Riots in Paris at the houses of the bakers and
                  grocers.
                  Brussels desires, and obtains an union with France.
                  Revolution in Geneva after the French example.
                  The convention encourages addresses from all
                  quarters on the death of the tyrant.
                  Decreed, that the troops of the line shall form but
                  one body with the national guards.
                  All treaties of commerce and alliance, with powers
                  at war, are annulled.
                  The convention requires 300,000 men to
                  compleat (sic) their armies.
March       1.  Prince Cobourg beats the French near Altenhover.
                  The British troops land at Fort Ecluse.
                  The Austrians retake Aix-la-Chapelle.
                  Proclamation of Dumourier, to stir up the
                  inhabitants of Liege, Belgium, and Holland.
              2.  Carra denounces the farmers-general.
                  Deputy Rhul moves, that the property of foreign
                  princes be put up to sale.
              3.  The French raise the siege of Maestricht, and
                  besiege Williamstadt without success.  They
              4.  are beaten at Tongres by the Prussians.
                  Gertruydenberg surrenders to Gen. Dumourier.
                  Zurich, Bern, and other Swiss cantons acknowledge
                  the French republic.
                  Manuel accuses the jacobins (sic) of all the evils
                  since the revolution.
                  Dumourier imposes 120,000 florins upon the city of
                  Antwerp.
                  War declared against Spain.
              5.  The bloody capture of Liege by the Austrians.
                  Taking of Ruremond.
                  The Prussians gain some advantage near Mayence.
                  Upon the motion of Danton, it is decreed, that a
                  revolutionary-criminal tribunal be established.
                  All persons imprisoned for debt are released by the
                  convention.
                  Prince Cobourg requires from Liege six hundred
                  thousand florins.
                  Arrival of 14,000 Hanoverians in the Low-Countries.
                  The commune of Paris hoists a black flag, as a sign
                  of extreme danger to the country.
                  General Miranda imprisoned in chains at Brussels.
              9.  Dantzig submits itself to the King of Prussia.
                  Dumourier conveys to Lisle the treasures of the
                  churches of Brussels.
                  He stops the first commissioners of the convention,
                  and sends them to Paris; he reviews his troops at
                  Brussels, and marches to the enemy.
                  Robespierre demands that all despots be overturned,
                  and that liberty be established on the ruin of all
                  aristocracies.
                  Monsieur, regent of France, creates the Count
                  d'Artois lieutenant-general of the kingdom.
                  Decreed, that the palace of St. Cyr, near
                  Versailles, be destroyed.
                  Decreed, that plate be considered as merchandize.
                  La Source inveighs bitterly against the English
                  government.
                  It is calculated, that 150 divorces take place,
                  every month in Paris since the decree.
                  Dumourier causes the plate to be restored to the
                  churches of Belgium, of which they had been
                  plundered.
                  Buzot declaims in the tribune against the despotism
                  of the convention.
             10.  Epoch of the counter-revolutions in La Vendée.
                  The French abandon the siege of Williamstadt.
                  The Austrian advanced guard enters Tirlemont, but
                  are obliged again to evacuate it.
             16.  The States-general reward the garrison of
                  Williamstadt for their gallant defence.
             17.  The French and Austrian armies drawn up in order of
                  battle all day opposite to each other.
             18.  Bloody battle of Neerswinde, which lasts the whole
                  day.  The French wholly defeated.
             19.  The battle of Tirlemont; General Valence wounded,
                  and the French routed.
                  Dumourier suspected of treason at Paris.
             23.  Battle of Louvain between the French and Austrians.
                  The Prussians approach Mayence.
                  Dumourier demands a truce of six days to evacuate
                  the Low Countries.
                  The Empire declares war against France, in
                  consequence of a resolution of the diet of
                  Ratisbon.
                  The Austrians enter Louvain.  Prince Cobourg
                  refuses a truce to Dumourier.
                  The Duke Frederick of Brunswick quits the army on
                  account of his health.
                  The Prussians approach Mayence.
                  General Santerre solicits a discharge from the
                  command of the troops of Paris, that he may have
                  leisure to attend to the affairs of his brewery.
                  Chenier proposes an oaken crown as a reward for
                  republican generals.
                  Duhem complains to the convention, that the vessel
                  of state is near foundering.
                  Garat passes from the office of minister of justice
                  to that of the interior.
                  Discourse of Danton, to rouse the people en masse
                  (in a body.)
                  A constitutional priest, commanding a battalion,
                  begs the convention to preserve his rectory for him
                  whilst he goes to the frontiers.
                  The inhabitants of Frankfort write to Custine, that
                  they are not willing to receive the French
                  government.
                  Insurrection at Orleans.
             24.  The Austrians enter Brussels and Mechlin.
                  The Prussians pass the Rhine at St. Goar.
             26.  Antwerp submits to the Austrians.
                  The statue of Prince Charles of Loraine, which the
                  insurgents overturned, is restored.
             27.  Namur and Mons evacuated by the French.
                  The Archduke Charles appointed governor of the Low
                  Countries.
                  Danton proposes to the convention, that all
                  citizens be justified to kill any persons who are
                  hostile to the revolution, wherever they may find
                  them.
             29.  The Austrians enter Ghent.
                  At the end of this month, all Brabant has returned
                  to the dominion of the Emperor.
                  Tumults and plunders in private houses at Paris.
                  The convention summons Dumourier to its bar.
                  The French are driven out of Worms, and Spires.
April       2.  The convention sends Bournonville, the minister of
                  war, with four commissioners to arrest Dumourier;
                  but he, apprized of their intentions, seizes them,
                  and delivers them to the Prince of Cobourg.
                  Dumourier sends General Miaczinski to secure Lisle,
                  but he is suspected, and arrested there.
                  The French evacuate Breda and Gertruydenberg.
                  Dumourier, accompanied by Gen. Valance, and two
                  sons of Philip Egalité, together with some
                  regiments and the military chest, passes over to
                  the Austrians.
                  This step of Dumourier induces the convention to
                  declare itself permanent.
                  The German princes and nobles, who were detained
                  prisoners at Landau, are conveyed to Paris as
                  hostages for the commissioners who are kept by the
                  Austrians.
                  Domiciliary visits are recommended at Paris.
                  Mons. de Blanchland, governor of St. Domingo, is
                  guillotined at Paris, and dies with extraordinary
                  firmness.
                  Great congress held at Antwerp by the chiefs of the
                  allied armies.
                  Decreed, that henceforward commissioners shall
                  remain with the armies, and be invested with powers
                  unlimited.
                  Philip Egalité, his third son, his sister, and the
                  Prince of Conti (sic), conducted prisoners to
                  Marseilles.
                  The commune of Vernon is unwilling to suffer
                  Madame d'Orleans to depart, on account of her ill
                  heath, and they promise to answer with their lives
                  for their benefactress and friend.
                  The Prussians prepare for the siege of Mayence.
                  The creditors of Egalité fix his annual allowance
                  at about 8000l. a year.  His income is said to have
                  been between three and four hundred thousand a
                  year.
                  Gen. Dampierre forms the camp of Famars, the French
                  having retired from Holland.
                  Great debates in the convention on the subject of a
                  petition from 35 sections of Paris, against the
                  chiefs of the Mountain.
                  The English take the island of Tobago.
                  General Miaczinski, Compte (sic) d'Arenberg, and le
                  Compte Linanges, sent to the Abbaye at Paris, to
                  answer for the safety of the commissioners.
             12.  A long and violent tumult in the convention,
                  because the members come intoxicated.
             13.  Marat escapes from prison, and writes an insulting
                  letter to the convention; decree of accusation
                  against him.
             15.  Thirty-five sections of Paris demand the deposition
                  of Brissot, and twenty other members of the
                  convention.
                  Marat remains concealed, but his journal appears
                  every day.
                  Weissenau is destroyed by heavy artillery;
                  Dampierre makes a vigorous resistance.  A battle
                  between Valenciennes and Condé.
                  The garrison of Lisle makes a powerful sortie.
                  Dumourier is allowed no part in the operations
                  against France; at Frankfort he publishes his
                  contempt for Egalité, and respect for his sons.
             21.  The Elector of Mayence addresses a letter of thanks
                  to his subjects.  The bishop of Liege returns to
                  his dominions.
                  The French make themselves masters of Mont-Beliard.
                  America declares for neutrality.
                  Count d'Artois goes to Petersburgh (sic).
                  The Spaniards obtain considerable advantages near
                  Perpignan.
                  The royalists of La Vendée publish a manifesto,
                  against whom the convention orders twenty thousand
                  men to march.
                  Treaty between Great-Britain and Russia; another
                  between Great-Britain and Sardinia.
                  Great disorders at Marseilles and Aix.
             28.  The archduke Charles makes a solemn entry into
                  Brussels, as governor-general of the Low Countries;
                  400 citizens draw his coach.
                  Kellerman deposed from his command by the
                  convention.
                  The Emperor reproaches the Elector of Bavaria with
                  his neutrality, in a remarkable note.
                  Engagement between the French and Austrians near
                  Landau.
                  Dampierre declares that only 800 men accompanied
                  Dumourier.
                  Marat suffers himself to be conducted to prison.
                  The revolutionary tribunal acquits Marat; he is
                  conducted in triumph to the convention by the mob,
                  who force themselves into the seats of the members.
                  The commissioners of the convention, at Marseilles,
                  are obliged to fly.
                  The French make a brisk sally from Mayence.
                  An insurrection at Breslau, raised by a taylor,
                  (sic) and not suppressed without cannon.
             30.  Decreed, that the revolutionary tribunal shall be
                  suspended till the 1st of June next.
May         1.  Dampierre gives a bloody battle, to keep up a
                  communication between Condé and Valenciennes.
                  Deputies from Nantes require support from the
                  convention; they announce, that the war of La
                  Vendée has already cost the lives of 2000 patriots.
              3.  The King of Prussia, after several bloody fights,
                  with various success, drives the French from
                  Costheim.
                  Sallies are made every day from Valenciennes; Gen.
                  Mack is wounded in the arm.
                  Great fire in the port and magazines of
                  l'Orient (sic).
                  Twelve hundred millions of assignats issued.
                  Melancholy accounts laid before the convention, of
                  the wretched state of the interior parts of France.
              6.  Houchard attacks the Austrians near Landau.
                  The garrison of Mayence, and the camp of Famars,
                  make a sally; a number of men killed.
              8.  A warm attack at Costheim.
                  A battle also at Longwy.
                  This day was a day of general fighting, in all the
                  armies.
              9.  General Dampierre dies of his wounds.  Lamarche
                  takes the temporary command.
             10.  The convention holds its first sitting in the hall
                  of the Tuilleries, now called the National Palace.
                  Battle of Hasnon.  The convention is disposed to
                  grant to Dampierre the honour of the Pantheon; but
                  Danton proposed, and carried a decree, that no one
                  should obtain that honour till 20 years after his
                  death.
              7.  Custine is appointed general of the northern army.
                  The elector of Bavaria renounces his neutrality,
                  and orders his contingent of troops march.
                  General Miranda is acquitted by the revolutionary
                  tribunal; and receives a civic crown from the
                  people.
                  General Valence, who had gone over to the Austrians
                  with Dumourier, is ordered to quit the states of
                  the empire.
                  Interrogatory of Philip Egalité at Marseilles.
                  The popular tribunal, of Marseilles suspended,
                  because it was become more adverse to the jacobins
                  since the arrival of the Bourbons.
                  General Miaczinski condemned to death by the
                  revolutionary tribunal.
                  Santerre sent against the royalists of La Vendée.
                  Kellerman recovers the esteem of the convention,
                  and is employed again in the armies.
             17.  Custine attacks the Austrians near Landau with
                  30,000 men, and forces them to retire.
                  General Wurmser repasses the Rhine.
                  Every day there are skirmishes near Mayence.
                  Miaczinski is executed--his depositions against
                  Pethion, Gensonnet, and others, not being proved.
             23.  The allies attack the camp of Famars, and the whole
                  line from Orchies to Maubeuge.  A bloody action
                  during the whole day.  The French secretly during
                  the night abandoned the camp of Famars.
                  Riots in Paris, on account of the arrest of Hebert,
                  compiler of a gazette called Le-Pere-du-Chesne.
                  Count d'Artois joins his brother at Ham.
                  It appears that six patriotic merchants of Holland
                  had promised Dumourier four millions of florins,
                  provided he conquered the country.
                  Le Gendre proposes to exclude from the convention
                  all who voted for the appeal to the people.
                  The two parties in the convention come to actual
                  blows; and confusion and disorder continue for
                  three hours.
                  The anti-jacobins obtain the upper hand at Lyons,
                  and 400 persons are sacrificed.
             25.  Marat insults the convention.  Decreed, that any
                  member who shall call another villain, or
                  conspirator, or such-like names, shall be expelled
                  the convention.  Marat instantly violates this law.
                  Great tumults.
             26.  All printing-offices and presses, not in the
                  interest of the jacobins, such as those of Brissot,
                  Condorcet, Pru de l'Homme, Rabaut, &c. are
                  destroyed.
             27.  The elector of Bavaria, after receiving the
                  Emperor's note, becomes active; a part of his army
                  marches to Mayence.
             30.  Hebert is set at liberty.  The French from Landau
                  make an effort to deliver Mayence.
                  A bold sally is made from Mayence.  Prince Louis,
                  son of Prince Ferdinand, makes a vigorous
                  resistance.  The jacobins are victorious in Paris.
                  100,000 citizens are under arms all night.  The
                  tocsin (alarm bell) is ringing all day.
                  The forty-eight sections of Paris demand an act of
                  accusation against twenty members; among whom are,
                  Pethion, Brissot, Barbaroux, Chambon, Gorsas,
                  Guadet, Lanjuinais, Verniaud, &c.  Six escape, and
                  among them is Brissot.  Madame Roland is arrested;
                  her husband not to be found.
                  The convention in horrible tumult; and the
                  president (Isnard) unable to calm it, breaks up the
                  sitting.  The result of this famous day was to
                  devote twenty-two members to the guillotine, to
                  declare forty-one out of the protection of the law,
                  and to imprison seventy-one.
June.           A legion of French gentlemen sails from England to
                  Ostend.
                  A party of male and female negroes are presented to
                  the convention.
                  The generals of the French armies are as follows:
                  Custine commands the army of the North at Bouchain;
                  Houchard that of the Moselle, at Sar Louis;
                  Beauharnols, the army of the Rhine, at Wissenbourg;
                  Kellerman, that of the Alps, at Chamberry; Brunet,
                  that of Italy, at Nice; De Flers, that of the
                  Eastern Pyrenees, at Bayonne; Biron, the army of
                  the coasts of Nantes, at Nantes; and Wimpfer, that
                  of the coasts of  Cantal, at Bayeux.
              7.  The royalists in La Vendée obtain considerable
                  advantages.
                  Baron Trenck becomes a jacobin.
              9.  A bloody battle near Arlon.  The French very
                  numerous. General Schroeder forced to retreat.
                  Arlon pillaged by the French.
                  Discussion in the convention about a forced loan of
                  a milliard of livres.
                  The Prince of Waldec killed in an attack near Lisle
                  at the head of the Dutch.
                  Severe complaints from most of the departments
                  about the sitting of the 31st of May.
                  Saumur and Angers taken by the royalists.
             13.  Manifesto from the Marseilleois to the French
                  republicans against the convention.
             14.  The departments of Eure and Calvados declare that
                  the convention is not free.
                  The club of jacobins is shut up at Aix.
                  De-Ferraris, general of artillery, begins to
                  bombard Valenciennes.
                  The Prussians open trenches before Mayence.
                  Marat returns to the convention after a fortnight's
                  voluntary suspension.
                  Plan of a republican constitution read.
             18.  The revolutionary tribunal sends eighteen persons
                  to the guillotine.
                  General Wimpfer loses the confidence of the
                  convention, on account of the disorders in
                  Calvados.
             19.  The news reaches London of a naval action on the
                  18th of April between the French and English.
                  The army of the Emperor is stated to amount to
                  225,274 men, exclusive of artillery and the staffs.
                  Des-Forges nominated minister of foreign affairs.
                  Count Byland executed.
                  Dumourier arrives in London.  He is ordered to
                  leave England immediately, but in terms of
                  civility.
                  The royalists under Gaston suffer great losses near
                  Nantes.
             20.  Deputies assemble at Grenoble to give a judgment
                  upon the proceedings of the convention on the 31st
                  of May.
                  Ferrand, commandant of Valenciennes, exerts himself
                  by every means to prevent the inhabitants from
                  desiring to surrender.
                  Decree of accusation against Wimpfer.
             23.  Pethion and Lanjuinais escape. Decree of accusation
                  against Brissot.
                  The cathedral of Mayence burnt down; the Prussians
                  summon the city to surrender.
                  The Imperialists take Weissenau.
July        1.  The Queen is informed that she must separate
                  herself from her son, whose education is committed
                  to Simon, a shoemaker.
                  Barrere reports to the assembly, that an
                  insurrection has taken place in Corsica.
              8.  Condorcet is denounced by Chabot.
                  Buzot, Barbaroux, Gorsas, Lanjuinais, &c. are
                  declared traitors.  Some other members are decreed
                  to be in accusation.
                  General Sandos is delivered to the revolutionary
                  tribunal.
                  Biron is accused of incivism.
                  The French are forced to evacuate the camp of
                  Caesar on the Scheldt.
                  Condé surrenders by capitulation to his Imperial
                  Majesty.
                  Insurrection at Lyons, and in several other
                  departments.
                  Declaration by the chiefs of the royal and
                  catholick army of La Vendée.
                  Admiral Truguet complains to the convention of the
                  ill state of the marine.
             12.  Charlotte Corday assassinates Marat; he is buried
                  with great ceremony in the Pantheon.
                  Charlotte Corday is executed.
             14.  The republicans in La Vendée are defeated by the
                  royalists.
                  Deputies from St. Domingo complain of ravages by
                  the commissioners Polverel and Santonax, who are
                  declared to be in accusation.
                  Rigorous decree against Corsica.  General Paoli
                  declared a traitor.
                  The royalists continue their successes.
             23.  Mayence surrenders to the Prussians.
                  D'Arnaud-Baculard, an eminent writer, is
                  guillotined for having lodged an emigrant in his
                  house.
                  Decreed, that every soldier shall suffer death who
                  shall throw away his arms to fly from an enemy.
                  Decree of accusation against Gen. Custine.
             27.  General D'Oyre, the commandant of Mayence during
                  the siege, and all his staff, put under arrest by
                  the convention.
                  Valenciennes surrenders to the Duke of York.  The
                  Prince of Cobourg takes possession of it for the
                  Emperor.
             29.  Tremendous hail-storms at Paris.
                  General Custine is sent to the Abbaye.
                  Decreed, that every 10th of August shall be
                  celebrated as the festival of the unity and
                  indivisibility of the republic.
                  Ordered, that every knight of St. Louis shall
                  deposit his cross in his municipality.
                  Decreed, that no assignats, with the late King's
                  effigy, under the value of 100 livres, shall have
                  in future any value, but be received only at
                  present in payment of taxes.
                  Decreed, that all strangers in France, especially
                  English, be committed to prison.
                  Decreed, that all forests and all crops of corn in
                  La Vendée be burnt.
                  Decreed, that every vestige of royalty be
                  destroyed.
                  Decreed, that the trial of the Queen be commenced.
                  Decreed, that a camp of 300,000 men be formed
                  between Valenciennes and Paris.
                  The invention of the telegraph laid before the
                  convention.
                  The effects of the India company seized and sealed.
                  The members of the revolutionary tribunal doubled,
                  in order that they may be able to go through
                  business more expeditiously.
             31.  Engagement between the republicans and Sardinians.
                  Motion by Danton, to pass a national sponge over
                  the enormous number of assignats.
Aug.        1.  The convention regulates an uniformity of weights
                  and measures in the republic.
                  It denounces to all Europe the government of
                  England.
                  Ordered, that the Queen be sent to the ordinary
                  prison of the Conciergerie, and given up to the
                  revolutionary tribunal.
                  Chambon moves, that all castles be erased from the
                  face of the republic.
              2.  A fire in the arsenal of Huningen.
              7.  Decreed, that Pitt is the enemy of the human race.
              8.  All academics and literary societies, which had
                  been established by letters patent, suppressed by
                  decree.
                  A colossal statue of liberty is erected in the
                  place of that of Louis XV.
             14.  The new constitution accepted by the fedérés.
                  Decreed, upon the motion of Barrere, that the
                  nation will repair in mass to the frontiers; this
                  was the origin of requisitions.
             18.  The battle of Lincelles in favour of the allies.
                  The army of the convention enters Marseilles, after
                  dispersing the few troops which that city had
                  raised to oppose it.
                  Decree for a plan of education purely republican.
                  The convention charges its commissioners to spare
                  nothing to reduce Lyons, which is in a state of
                  rebellion.
                  A child appears at the bar of the convention,
                  saying, that instead of preaching up one self-made
                  God, the convention had established gods in the
                  principles of equality and the rights of man.
             28.  Custine is guillotined, at Paris.
                  Lord Hood addresses a proclamation to the Southern
                  provinces of France.
                  Lord Hood takes possession of Toulon, by agreement
                  with the chief men and inhabitants of the city, in
                  the name of Louis XVII.
                  Action between the Spaniards and the French under
                  Dagobert, in which the former lose their camp.
             29.  The Spaniards obtain advantages over another army
                  of the French towards the Western Pyrenees.
                  Within the last six months, twenty-seven generals
                  of the republican armies have been disgraced or
                  accused; of whom, five destroyed themselves, three
                  perished on the scaffold, and fourteen deserted to
                  the enemy.
             30.  Motion to imprison the wives and children of
                  emigrants.
                  Motion of Danton to cause the expence of the war to
                  fall upon merchants and the wealthy.
 Sept.      3.  Declaration of war by the King of Naples against
                  the French republic.
                  Poland is obliged to yield to the treaty of
                  partition proposed by Prussia.
                  Decreed, that every administrator of public
                  accounts, and every national agent shall give in an
                  exact statement of his fortune previous to the year
                  1791.
                  Le Brun and Claviere, ex-ministers, are deivered to
                  the revolutionary tribunal.
                  Energetic address from the convention to the French
                  people, respecting the treason at Toulon.
                  Decreed, that all foreign property in France,
                  especially English, shall be sequestered.
                  The convention resolves that new commissioners be
                  sent to St. Domingo, in the room of Polverel and
                  Santonax.
                  The Vendean generals write to the Count d'Artois,
                  inviting him to put himself at their head.
             11.  The city of Quesnoy surrenders to the Imperialists.
                  Robespierre declares to the convention, that the
                  country is in extreme danger.
                  The republicans are defeated at Chantonnay by the
                  royalists.
             12.  The Dutch are defeated at Menin.
                  The Duke of York is forced to raise the siege of
                  Dunkirk.
                  General Dumerbian, of the army in Italy, is
                  arrested.
                  Engagement between the royalists and republicans.
                  The Duke de Bethune-Charost arrested.
             14.  The French attack the combined armies in different
                  points near Weissembourg without any thing
                  decisive.
                  The Duke de Nivernois and other considerable
                  persons arrested.
                  Duhem states to the convention, that its
                  philanthropy cost France 120,000 persons last year.
                  The number of vessels found in Toulon by the
                  English was twenty-two ships of the line and five
                  frigates.
             15.  Decreed, that every young man from 18 to 25 must
                  immediately join the army.
                  Menin retaken by General Beaulieu.
             17.  The French fail in their attempt to pass the Rhine
                  at Huningen.
                  Decreed, that all former nobles and relations of
                  emigrants, shall be considered as suspected, and be
                  imprisoned.
                  Engagement between the Spaniards and French; the
                  former retire with loss.
             18.  The royalists near Saumur take the flying artillery
                  of the republicans.
             19.  The siege of Lyons is commenced.
                  Decreed, that all women shall carry tickets of
                  civism, and wear a three-coloured cockade.
                  Collot d'Herbois proposes to seize and bury all
                  counter-revolutionists under the land of liberty,
                  by means of mines.
                  Barrere proposes to banish all those who are averse
                  to republican government.
             20.  Decreed, that the vulgar aera (sic) be abolished,
                  and that a new manner be adopted of dividing days
                  and years, to be called the Republican Calendar.
                  The French attack the Duke of Brunswick, and are
                  repulsed near Bitche; several actions take place in
                  consequence.
             21.  Decreed, that no produce or manufacture of England
                  shall be imported into France or the colonies, but
                  in French bottoms; nor foreign ships convey the
                  commodities of France from one French port to
                  another, under pain of confiscation.
             22.  A great number of persons of distinction arrested.
                  The King of Prussia leaves his army, and returns to
                  Berlin.
                  The Prussians make the French to retreat in the
                  dutchy (sic) of Deux-ponts.
                  Two thousand millions of assignats issued.
             29.  Prince Cobourg passes the Sambre, and invests
                  Maubeuge.
                  Decreed that all fathers and mothers shall inform
                  where their children, in a state of requisition,
                  are concealed.
                  Barrere proposes, that as the French nation has
                  proclaimed liberty to the earth, it should proclaim
                  liberty also to the sea.
                  Madame Du Barry, General Houchard, General
                  Quetinau, and Marshal Luckner, are prisoners in the
                  Abbaye.
                  The Duchesses of Grammont and of Chatelet, with
                  many other nobles, are imprisoned in the Hotel de
                  la Force.
                  The number of prisoners in Paris is 2560.
                  The Queen remains in a dungeon of the Conciergerie,
                  her trial not yet commenced; nor that of the
                  deputies, who were put out of the protection of the
                  law.  Brissot, and others, taken and carried to
                  Paris.
 Oct.       1.  The French obtain a victory over the Sardinians in
                  the Tarentaise, and in Maurienne.  On the side of
                  Saorgio, the Sardinians have some advantages over
                  the French.
                  A great number of members are arrested in the very
                  convention, and delivered to the revolutionary
                  tribunal.
                  Drouet, who stopped the King at Varennes, falls
                  into the hands of the Austrians.
                  The constitutional bishop of Derdogne (sic)
                  presents his new wife to the convention.
              6.  Gorsas, a member of the convention, is arrested in
                  the Palais Royal, and guillotined  in 24 hours.
                  Disgrace of Generals Houchard, Schomberg, and
                  Landremont, who are replaced by Jourdan, Delmas,
                  and Moreau.
                  Thuriot complains to the convention, that Jourdan
                  is appointed to a command, and enjoys public
                  confidence; a man of blood, fire, and pillage,
                  whose name posterity will not read without horror.
                  The national agent, Hebert, reduces the prisoners
                  in the temple to the strictest regimen; the Queen
                  is served on pewter.
              8.  The allies gain considerable advantages over the
                  French at Toulon.
                  Cambon proposes to discredit specie in order to
                  raise the value of assignats.
                  Billaud Varennes proposes the immediate trial of
                  the Queen.
                  Arrest of all the members of the constituent
                  assembly, who protested against the constitution of
                  1791.
                  Republican women appear at the bar of the
                  convention, declaring that they, as well as men,
                  are conscious of their rights, and know how to
                  resist oppression.
              8.  Lyons, after some days of siege, is forced to
                  submit.  Barrere moves, that the city be destroyed,
                  and that a column be erected on the spot, with
                  these words engraven on it, "Lyons waged war
                  against liberty; Lyons is no more."
             13.  The allies make themselves masters of the Strong
                  and famous lines of Weissembourg.  Lauterbourg
                  surrenders to them next day.
                  All monuments of former Kings who were buried at
                  St. Denis, are destroyed by order of the
                  convention.
             15.  The Queen appears at the bar of the revolutionary
                  tribunal; Fouquier, the public accuser, reads the
                  list of injuries and grievances with which she is
                  charged, and immediately obtains a sentence of
                  death against her; she hears it with downcast eyes,
                  and without uttering a word.
             16.  Marie Antoinette of Austria, Queen of France, is
                  conveyed in a cart to the place of execution, her
                  hands tied behind her back, and with her back to
                  the horse's tail.  She mounted the scaffold
                  quickly, amidst acclamations of the people, which
                  excited only a smile of pity in her.  She looked
                  earnestly at the Tuilleries, and seemed to dwell
                  upon the place where her children were; before she
                  was fastened to the guillotine, she threw her eyes
                  up to heaven, and Soon after her head was severed
                  from her body.
                  Decreed, that the money of France be changed into
                  francs of gold and of silver, and into republicans.
                  Work-houses established to prevent begging.
                  General Ferrand, writing to the convention an
                  account of his exploits in Arragon and Catalonia,
                  says, that he expects to plant the tree of liberty
                  on the walls of Madrid next campaign.
                  Prince Cobourg, attacked by the French, raises the
                  siege of Maubeuge, and repasses the Sambre.
             17.  The French are successful in Piedmont.
                  It is announced to the convention, that the
                  intruding bishop of Moulins officiated in a red
                  bonnet, and with a pike instead of the cross and
                  mitre.
                  Every external sign of religion is abolished.  The
                  inscription on burying places is, "that death is
                  "only an eternal sleep."
             22.  André Dumont informs the convention from Abbeville,
                  that he was making the cross and crucifix to
                  disappear.  "I shall comprehend in my proscription
                  "all those black animals called priests."
                  The convention orders, that the news of the
                  conquest of La Vendée be sent to all the
                  departments.
             24.  The royalists again appear, and gain great
                  advantage over the republicans.
                  Decreed, that every city which surrenders without
                  standing one assault shall be razed to the ground.
                  Permission granted to women to regulate their
                  fortune, as well as their husbands.
                  The number of prisoners in Paris amounts to 4000.
                  The French attack the allies for six days
                  successively; always bringing up fresh troops;
                  constantly repulsed, they still return and take
                  possession of the post, if possible, at any
                  expence.
             27.  New decree against priests.
                  The French lose 3000 men in two actions; one
                  against Wurmser, and a second against the
                  Prussians.
                  The royalists of La Vendée compleatly (sic) defeat
                  the French republicans.
                  The French, who had taken Menin, Courtray, Furnes,
                  who besieged Nieuport, and threatened Ostend, are
                  obliged to retire, and evacuate all they had got in
                  Brabant.
                  The commissioners at Lyons write, that 800 workmen
                  are labouring to demolish the city, pursuant to an
                  order of the convention.  Lyons was the second city
                  of France.
             30.  The Duke of York retakes Marchiennes, and makes
                  1629 prisoners.
             31.  Twenty-one members of the convention guillotined in
                  37 minutes, viz. Brissot, Verniaud, Duprat, Valaze,
                  Gensonnet, Le Hardy, Ducos, Boyer, Fonfrede,
                  Boileau, Gardier, Du Chastel, Sillery, Fauchet,
                  Duperret, La Source, Carra, Beauvais, Mainville,
                  Antiboul, Végée, and La Case.
                  The royalists of La Vendée take the island of
                  Noirmoutier.
 Nov.       1.  Egalité conveyed from Marseilles to the prison of
                  the Conciergerie in Paris.
                  A column of Vendeans  passes the Loire at Ancenis.
                  Two actions between the Spaniards and French; the
                  latter lose between five and six thousand men.
                  A member proposes to guillotine all farmers and
                  labourers that monopolize.
                  Decreed, that all lead, iron, copper, and bells of
                  churches, shall be applied to the use of the war.
                  The British ambassador presses the Grand Duke of
                  Tuscany to join the allies.
                  Decreed, that natural children shall share
                  inheritances equally with legitimate; provided the
                  parents have no other husband or wife.
                  Spoils and plunder of the churches are daily sent
                  to the convention.
                  The grand master of Malta takes part with the
                  allies against France.
                  Philip Egalité (formerly Duke of Orleans) is
                  guillotined upon the scaffold to which he brought
                  his unfortunate King.
                  Lidon, a member of the convention, shoots  himself.
                  Complaints from all parts of want of bread.  The
                  inhabitants declare they have only a  quarter of a
                  pound of bread each a day.
                  Bailly, first mayor of Paris, guillotined.
                  General Beaulieu defeats the French, and forces
                  them to retreat to Philipville.
                  Ordered, that farmers of the national domains pay
                  their rents in kind.
                  Some persons are ordered to take away by night the
                  shrine of St. Genevieve, the patroness of Paris,
                  and whom the Parisians always respected peculiarly;
                  it is carried to the Mint.
              7.  Gabet and his constitutional clergy renounce in the
                  convention the sacerdotal character.
                  Madame Roland is condemned to death and executed
                  the same day, with five municipal officers of
                  Pont-de-Ce.
             11.  Festival of Reason, in the cathedral of Paris.
                  A woman is appointed to receive the homage there
                  which is denied to the Deity.
             12.  The royalists of La Vendée continue their
                  successes.
                  The Piedmontese still unsuccessful, losing their
                  camp and stores at La Magdeleine.
                  The national vengeance is at length glutted with
                  the blood of the inhabitants of Lyons; between 2
                  and 3000 persons have been massacred by tying them
                  together, and firing upon them with case-shot; and
                  the sabre finished those whose wounds were not
                  mortal.
                  Fort-Louis surrenders to the allies.  200 persons
                  are guillotined at Strasbourg for hesitating to pay
                  their proportion of a sum ordered to be raised in
                  that city within 24 hours.
                  Collot d'Herbois and Foucher, commissioners at
                  Lyons, write, that the work of destruction goes on
                  too slow. Mines and fires are necessary to forward
                  the demolition of so great a city.
                  The allies make a sally from Toulon, kill 2000
                  French, destroy the works, and take eleven pieces
                  of cannon.
                  Manuel and Cassy, members of the convention, and
                  Generals Houchard and Brunet, are guillotined.
             18.  Thuriot, Chabot, Bazire, L'Aunay, all deputies, are
                  imprisoned.  Chamfont cuts his throat.  Several
                  actions near Bitche, between the French and
                  Prussians; the latter are forced to retire.
                  On the other hand the French lose 8000 men in an
                  action against Wurmser.
                  The Sardinians after two actions are forced to
                  retreat.
                  Monsieur Lavordy, formerly comptroller of finances,
                  guillotined.
             26.  The Vendéans beat the republicans, and take the
                  post of Austrain.
                  The Sardinians under General Brentano repulse the
                  French.
                  The Spaniards obtain a victory.
                  Chambon, member of the convention, mayor of Paris
                  at the King's massacre, is put out of the
                  protection of the law, and killed by the
                  inhabitants of Tulle, among whom he had taken
                  refuge.
                  Gen. La Morbiere is guillotined.
             27.  The royalists of La Vendée take several towns in
                  Brittany; on the 19th they take Granville, but
                  evacuate it.
                  Barnave, a deputy to the first assembly, one of
                  the, authors of the revolution, and Duport, then
                  minister of justice, guillotined.
             29.  Project to erect a monument upon the Pont-Neuf,
                  representing the people as giants.
                  The convention receives from all parts the letters
                  of priesthood from the intruders.
                  Decreed, that a municipal officer with a red bonnet
                  shall inter the dead.
                  Robespierre declaims against the eagerness with
                  which they set about the work of destroying
                  religion.
                  A deputation of women appears at the bar with the
                  red bonnet.
                  Decree, offering rewards to every abjuring priest.
                  At Rochefort and other cities the pictures and
                  books of the churches are burned.
                  St. Domingo taken by the English.
                  The orator of the students of the republican school
                  comes to the bar, to assure the convention that he
                  and his comrades detest God.
                  Remonstrances of Mr. Drake, the British minister,
                  to the Senate of Genoa on the subject of
                  neutrality.
                  A member informs the convention that ten thousand
                  firelocks are made in Paris daily.
                  Decreed, that a colossal statue be erected in Paris
                  46 feet high, with the rights of man and the
                  constitutional act for a pedestal.
                  Furious declamation of Robespierre against the
                  British government.
             30.  General O'Hara, commander at Toulon, taken prisoner
                  by the French.
                  The inhabitants of Marly send to the convention all
                  the precious effects of the palace of Marly, and
                  all the iron of the famous works of that place.
                  Decreed, that all the lakes and marshes of the
                  republic be dried, and sowed with grain of various
                  sorts.
Dec.        1.  The Jacobins of Nantes drown 90 priests destined
                  for Guiana, by sinking the ship in which they were
                  embarked.
                  Madame du Barry, the Duke Chatelet, the two
                  Rabauts, members of the convention, Kersaint and
                  Noel, members also, are all guillotined.  The
                  ex-minister Claviere kills himself in prison.
                  One hundred and fifty persons guillotined at
                  Dunkirk.
                  The festival of an ass celebrated at Lyons, in
                  derision of religious worship.
                  Collot d'Herbois informs the convention of the
                  massacres which he has executed at Lyons.
                  The right wing of the Austrian army takes 1200
                  prisoners, and kills 1700.
                  The Prince of Condé takes 7 cannon, and kills 1300
                  men.
                  The Duke of Brunswick kills takes and (sic) 6000
                  men.
              3.  Wurmser defeats the army opposed to him, kills
                  10,000, and makes 5,000 prisoners.
              4.  The French evacuate Deux-Ponts, having lost immense
                  numbers of men and of artillery.
                  Raymond le Veuve is guillotined at Bourdeaux (sic).
                  The French attack the Austrian and Prussian armies
                  almost daily, and are constantly repulsed with
                  loss.
             11.  The French, notwithstanding their constant losses
                  continue to attack the lines of the allies.  They
                  lose 5000 in an attack near Haguenau.
                  Valadi is discovered and guillotined.
             12.  The royalists are defeated with great loss near
                  Mans.
                  In an action near La Guerche, the Vendéans kill
                  7000 republicans, and take their artillery.
                  Birateau, member of the convention, guillotined at
                  Bourdeaux.
                  The festival of reason celebrated in all cities of
                  France, as in Paris.
                  Madame de Villette, niece of Voltaire, dies on the
                  scaffold.
             14.  The French make an attack on the posts of the
                  allies on the side of Courtray, and are repulsed.
                  The general, with his aid-du-camp (sic) and staff
                  to the number of 25, are arrested at Lisle.
             16.  The French again attack the lines of Gen. Wurmser,
                  and are again repulsed with great loss.
             18.  The royalists of La Vendée are again victorious
                  near Concale.
                  Toulon is retaken by the republicans, its name is
                  changed on the motion of Barrere, to that of the
                  "Port of the Mountain."
                  Letter of Chabot from the prison of the Luxemburg
                  to the convention.
             20.  The Duke of Brunswick, near Weissembourg defeats
                  the French army, kills 10,000, and takes their camp
                  and baggage with 47 pieces of artillery.
                  Rejoicings in Paris on account of the retaking of
                  Toulon.
                  The French, after having so often attacked the
                  allies with great loss, and returned as often to
                  harrass (sic) them still, at length carry their
                  point.  They take 16 cannon, kill 500 men, and
                  recover the strong lines of Weissembourg.
             27.  The allies raise the siege of Landau.
1794.
Jan.        1.  The representatives of the people, in order to get
                  rid of prisoners in La Vendée direct that all of
                  them be thrown into the Loire.
              2.  The island of Noirmoutier is retaken by the
                  republicans; 800 royalists are killed and 1200 are
                  made prisoners.
              3.  The old marshal Luckner, and the son of General
                  Custine, guillotined.
              4.  Eight hundred emigrants perish in crossing the
                  Rhine.
                  The States of Brabant require great contributions
                  for the expence of the war.
                  Bourdon de L'Oise complains, that the minister is
                  still too monarchical, and he demands that one
                  purely republican be appointed.
                  The Prince of Talmond, one of the chiefs of the
                  royalists, is taken by the republicans near
                  Fougeres.  The remains of his army joins the
                  Chouans.
                  The Chouans, who now begin to be distinguished, are
                  so called from two brothers, gentlemen of that
                  name, who were particularly active in levying
                  troops in Brittany for the service of the
                  royalists.
              6.  Mons. d'Espremenil, a counsellor of the parliament
                  of Paris, and an ex-constituent, thrown into
                  prison.
                  General Cartaux sent to the Conciergerie.
                  Chambon, comptroller of finances, complains that
                  printing the names of emigrants on large paper is
                  too expensive, and moves that the small octavo be
                  used.
                  Decree of accusation against Roncin and Rossignol,
                  generals of the republic in La Vendée.
                  The revolutionary tribunal of Lyons, to please the
                  people, burns in effigy the Emperor, the Kings of
                  England, Spain, Prussia, and Sardinia, Mr. Pitt,
                  and the Pope.  The city of Toulon is also burnt in
                  the representation of a woman.
                  La Mourette, intruding bishop of Lyons, guillotined.
                  Herbert is convicted of having received from the
                  national treasury, for his journal "Le Pere du
                  Chesne," in June 1793, 123,000 livres, and in
                  October 60,000 livres.
             11.  Thomas Payne and Anacharsis Cloots imprisoned in
                  the Luxemburg.
                  Ordered by  the jacobin club of Paris, that all
                  sarcasms and philippics, uttered in their tribune
                  against the government and constitution of England,
                  be printed and sent to the patriots in the three
                  kingdoms.
                  The convention decrees, that all inscriptions on
                  monuments shall be in the French language.
                  Decreed, that all property real and personal of the
                  farmers-general shall belong to the nation.
                  Pondicherry surrenders to the British.
                  The president of the convention reads a letter from
                  Vitré.  "The souls of most of the royalists have
                  "been sent to the Eternal Father; we are every day
                  "destroying the Chouans, those infernal banditti."
                  The French are active in restoring the lines of
                  Weissembourg to cover the siege of Fort-Louis.
                  The Baron Latude guillotined; he had lived many
                  years in the Bastille, and was called the proof and
                  victim of despotism.
                  The committee of public safety remove Simon, the
                  shoemaker, from the office of tutor and preceptor
                  to the son of Louis XVI. confined in the Temple;
                  and resolve that there is no need of any other in
                  his place.
                  A manufacture is offered to the convention of
                  cloth made of two-thirds hair.
             19.  The chimney-sweepers request of the convention the
                  release of Abbé Fenelon, who had been a father to
                  them during 60 years.
             21.  The anniversary of the death of Louis XVI. is
                  declared in the convention a day of glory.
                  Between the 13th of December and the 24th of
                  January, 325 persons were guillotined at Lyons, and
                  330 shot.
                  Generals Wurmser and the Duke of Brunswick are
                  succeeded by Generals Braun and Moellendorff.
                  The female citizen Chapuis, daughter of the
                  general, demands to serve as a dragoon.
                  The Count d'Artois sends his diamonds to Marshal
                  Broglio for the use of emigrants.
                  Motion by Rhul against the Elector of Bavaria.
                  A deputation of Americans demand the release of
                  their countryman Thomas Payne.  The president
                  replies that he is an Englishman.
             27.  Decreed, that all castles in conquered countries
                  which cannot be used as hospitals shall be burned.
                  Decreed, that sixty-two millions of assignats shall
                  be at the disposition of the war-minister
             29.  every month. And that 95,000 cavalry be raised for
                  the next spring.
             30.  Upwards of three thousand peasants, prisoners from
                  La Vendée, are guillotined or shot at Nantes.
             31   Perigord Tayleyrand, bishop of Autun, ordered to
                  leave England.
Feb.        1.  Mons. La Borde, the former court banker, and father
                  of La Borde de Merville, an ex-constituent, is
                  forced to purchase his liberty with a large sum of
                  money.
                  The opera of "Toute la Gréce" is in great
                  vogue--the story of it is, that Philip, seeing all
                  Greece rising in a mass, begs for peace; Greece
                  refuses to make peace with a King.
                  Report to the convention, that excellent soap is
                  made of potatoes.
              4.  Slavery abolished in all the colonies.
                  Pichegru appointed commander of the army of the
                  North in the room of Jourdan.
                  The treasurer Cambon states to the convention that
                  last year 4,885,764 livres were coined of copper
                  and bell-metal.
                  A deputation of blacks appears at the bar to be
                  received as brethren.
                  Decreed, that every officer and soldier, of
                  whatever rank, shall have an equal quantity of
                  provisions, a man having but one stomach.
              7.  The 48 sections of Paris appear at the bar to
                  protest against any suspension of arms.
                  All mints for coining money suppressed, except that
                  of Paris.
                  The commune of Chamberry sends to the convention
                  twelve thousand marks [Footnote: Eight ounces
                  each.] of silver, together with the sword of Prince
                  Eugene, five feet long.
                  Manifesto of the Germanic body to justify the war
                  with France.
                  The Prince of Talmond and fourteen priests
                  guillotined.
                  One of the two brothers, of La Vendée, from whom
                  the Chouans took their name, is killed by the
                  republicans.
                  A bloody quarrel between the republican and
                  revolutionary soldiers of the French army.
                  The Vendeans obtain advantages at Cholet.
                  The Duke and Duchess of Luynes, and Mons de
                  Montmorency, an ex-constituent, imprisoned.
                  A work is published under the sanction of the
                  convention, proving that the national domains, that
                  is, the estates of the king (sic), the nobles, the
                  clergy, and the emigrants, are worth twenty
                  milliards of livres.
                  Deputies from the county of Mot Belliard demand its
                  union with France.
                  The old name of Marseilles is restored; it had been
                  forfeited by a decree, and was called "Sans-nom."
             18.  The Abbé Maury is promoted to the dignity of
                  cardinal.
                  Troops sent from Paris to La Vendée receive orders
                  to travel fourteen leagues a day.
             20.  Thomas Payne claims protection of the club of
                  Cordeliers, who return for answer the vote he gave
                  on the King's trial.
                  Mons. du Chaffault, lieut.-general of marines, an
                  officer of great services and high estimation, is
                  massacred in Poitou at the age of eighty-five
                  years.
                  The convention, on the motion of Barrere, decree a
                  political lent, in order to leave the more animal
                  food for the sick and aged.
                  A petition from Burgundy demands the death of young
                  Capet.
                  Death of Cardinal de Lomenie du Brienne, one of the
                  earliest promoters of the revolution.
                  St. Just makes a motion, the object of which is, to
                  excite the people to murder and vengeance, for 1200
                  years of crimes which had been committed against
                  them.
                  Motion by Danton for an agrarian law.
             26.  Report upon La Vendée.  It consists of sixteen
                  departments of forty square leagues, between the
                  Loire and the sea, from Painboeuf to Saumur.
                  The sister of Mirabeau is reduced to solicit alms
                  of the convention.
March.          Several sections of Paris complain to the
                  convention of a scarcity of provisions.
                  Decreed, that all the property of priests, either
                  banished or imprisoned, be confiscated for the use
                  of the state.
                  Danton makes a flaming republican speech to the
                  convention.
                  All horses of the plough put in requisition.
                  The number of prisoners in Paris amount to 6100.
              9.  The minister of justice proposes to institute a
                  committee of insurrection, to overturn all the
                  monarchies of Europe.
                  The sale of the property of emigrants amounted in
                  the year 1793 only to twenty millions of livres,
                  not half the real value of the estates of one
                  emigrant alone, the Duke de Montmorency.
                  The number of victims destroyed by the guillotine
                  or grape-shot at Lyons, to this date, amounted to
                  somewhat more than five thousand.
                  Populus, an ex-constituent, guillotined at Lyons.
                  The clubs of the jacobins and cordeliers form an
                  alliance.
                  At Nevers seventy-four priests, who refuse to take
                  the oath, are guillotined.  At Dijon fourteen
                  nobles suffer the same fate, because they used the
                  titles of Count and Baron.
                  The merchants of Bourdeaux are all arrested on the
                  same day, and condemned to the guillotine; but are
                  permitted to redeem their lives by paying one
                  hundred millions of livres, to which they are
                  forced to submit.
             14.  Robespierre invents a conspiracy, or pretended
                  treason, in order to secure his authority.
                  The wife of Momoro, who had played the part of
                  first goddess of reason, guillotined.
                  All strangers are banished from Paris.
                  The Vendeans are beat on the left bank of the Loire
                  by General Cordelier.
                  The convention states the expences of 1793 to be at
                  the rate of four hundred millions of livres a month.
             15.  Hebert and his partizans (sic) are arrested. The
                  jacobins betray the cordeliers.
             17.  Herault de Sechelles guillotined.
             21.  The Emperor forbids his subjects to make any
                  payments in France.
             24.  The island of Martinico submits wholly to the
                  English.
                  A secret is laid before the convention of removing
                  the impression of ink from paper, and of rendering
                  it as new.
                  Wives of emigrants forbid to marry foreigners.
                  Eight thousand men sent to La Vendée.
                  The revolutionary army is disbanded.
                  Means discovered to expel foul air, by burning
                  common salt moistened with oil of vitriol.
             30.  The brother of Abbé (now Cardinal) Maury
                  guillotined at Avignon.
             31.  Jourdan appointed commander in chief of the army of
                  the Moselle.
                  Barrere exclaims against atheism and irreligious
                  principles.
April       5.  Danton, Camille des Moulins, Fabre d'Eglantine, De
                  l'Aulnay, Chabot, La Croix, Philippeau, Bazire, and
                  Julien, all voters for the King's death, delivered
                  to the revolutionary tribunal, and guillotined.
                  Danton, when asked his name and quality, replied,
                  "a being now that in a few hours will be a
                  non-entity."
                  Camille des Moulins, being required to tell his
                  age, replied, "the same as the sans-culottes Jesus,
                  "34 years."
                  Westerman, who stiled (sic) himself the conqueror
                  of royalists, the Abbé d'Espagnac, and many others,
                  are guillotined.
              7.  Formal entry of the Emperor into Brussels.
                  Decreed, that the executive council be suppressed,
                  as incompatible with republican government.
                  Chambon states the expence, extraordinary and
                  revolutionary, 1,600,000,000 livres.
                  A deputation at the bar of the assembly demands,
                  that death be the order of the day.
                  The prisoners in Paris amount to 6763.
                  Dumas, a deputy, pretends to point out a method of
                  knowing a counter-revolutionist by his physiognomy.
                  St. Lucia taken by the English.
              9.  Gobet, intruding bishop of Paris, guillotined.
                  The honours of the pantheon voted to Rousseau.
             12.  The city of Oneglia taken by the French.
                  St. Just, in the convention, asks the question
                  "What is a King compared with a French citizen?"
             14.  The allies repulse the French on the Lys.
                  The daughter of Sultan Achmet III. who had fled
                  into France, and found refuge there during 64
                  years, obtains alms of the convention, viz. 6oo
                  livres, (about 25l. sterling.)
             18.  Laborde, a wealthy banker who had several times
                  redeemed his life by large sums of money, is
                  guillotined.
                  The principal members of the parliaments of Paris,
                  and of Toulouse, are guillotined.
             20.  The woods of Vitré and Rennes burned to dislodge
                  the royalists.
             21.  Gen. Beaulieu beats the French at Arlon.
             22.  Guadaloupe taken by the English.
                  The old Mons. de Malsherbes, one of the generous
                  defenders of Louis XVI. guillotined.
             24.  The allies beat the French near Cambray.
             26.  The Duke of York takes 35 pieces of cannon, and a
                  French general; he kills 5000 men, and makes 3000
                  prisoners.
                  To facilitate the sale of the lands of emigrants,
                  they are divided into lots of three hundred livres
                  each, and twenty years credit given.
             28.  The French seize Courtray the day of the annual
                  fair, and get a great booty.
             29.  General Clairfait gains a considerable advantage,
                  killing 3000 men, and taking several cannon.
             30.  Landrecy surrenders to the Emperor with a garrison
                  of 6ooo men.
                  In this month were executed, besides those
                  mentioned already, Monsieur d'Espréménil,
                  Chaumette, procureur of the commune of Paris, Gen.
                  Arthur Dillon, Hebert and Simon, deputies, Gen.
                  Roncin, Momoro, Anarcharsis Cloots, a deputy, Du
                  Buisson, Goutte, an intruding bishop, Gen. Beisser,
                  the Marquis of Chateau Briant, the Duchesses of
                  Chatelet and Grammont, the Viscountess de
                  Pont-Ville, Thouret and Chapellier, two very active
                  revolutionists.
                  Kosciusko puts himself at the head of a revolution
                  in Poland.
May         1.  In the prisons of Paris 22,000 persons are
                  confined, and in all the departments of France
                  653,000.
                  The Duke de Biron, upon sentence of death being
                  passed upon him by the revolutionary tribunal,
                  cried out, "I deserve it, for having betrayed my
                  "King and served his enemies."
                  The Count du l'Aigle, being also condemned, said to
                  the people, "It is not my head, it is bread and
                  "your King that you ought to demand."
                  Decreed, that all royal houses shall be kept for
                  the use and enjoyment of the people.
             10.  Robespierre obtains decrees to admit the existence
                  of a Supreme Being, and of the immortality of the
                  soul; and for the establishment of decadary
                  festivals.
                  In La Vendée, General Haxo, after the example of
                  General Moulin, blows his brains out, to avoid
                  being taken prisoner.
                  All letters coming into France are opened.
                  From the 29th of April to the 4th of May, 109
                  persons are guillotined in Paris, and many more in
                  the departments.
                  In the valley of Aost, 6000 French were killed by
                  the peasants of Piedmont.
                  Barrere announces the capture of a Spanish camp,
                  with two hundred cannon, and two thousand men.
                  All the farmers-general are accused in a mass, and
                  sent to the revolutionary tribunals,
                  The town of Sargio and Piedmontese camp taken by
                  the French.
             11.  Seventy-one persons, among whom are 27
                  farmers-general, are guillotined.
                  Madame Elizabeth, sister of the late King, is
                  carried before the revolutionary tribunal and
                  interrogated, " What is your name?" "Elizabeth
                  "Philippine Marie Helene de France."
                  "Your quality?" "Aunt of the King." These last
                  words are scarcely pronounced, when the tribunal
                  condemns her to death.
             12.  The next day she is conducted to the scaffold, with
                  25 persons who were guillotined in her presence; it
                  being directed that she should suffer the last.
                  She died at the age of thirty years, and left a
                  character of unblemished purity.
                  Decreed, that all aged and infirm priests be kept
                  in houses belonging to the republic.
                  Report upon mendacity.  Decreed, that the
                  convention will efface the name of beggary and
                  poverty from the annals of the republic.
                  The town and citadel of Bastia taken by the
                  English.
                  The commune of Sens writes to the convention, that
                  it has dug up all the bodies of the Capets that
                  were interred in their cathedral, in order to bury
                  them in ordinary ground.
                  An address to the French nation is prepared by
                  Barrere, and published by the convention,
                  concluding with these words: "Let the English
                  "slaves perish, and let Europe be free."
             13.  Revolutionary tribunals suppressed, except that of
                  Paris.
             14.  L'Huillier kills himself in prison, and Rebecqui
                  drowns himself--both active agents in the massacres
                  of Avignon, and of the 2d of September.
             15.  Kaunitz forces the French to repass the Sambre with
                  the loss of 5000 men.
             18.  The Duke of York, with 3500 men, is attacked by
                  15000 French, and forced to retreat.
                  General Beaulieu, near Bouillon, kills 3000 French,
                  and takes 700.
             22.  Battle near Tournay, lasts 16 hours; the French
                  lose 12,000 men, and the allies 3000.
                  A French army of 10,000 men penetrates into
                  Luxembourg.
             24.  Kaunitz takes 80 cannon, kills 2000 French, and
                  takes 3000.
                  Insurrection of the patriots at Liege.
                  The Emperor quits the army, and returns to Vienna.
             29.  Battle of Germersheim; the French lose 400 killed,
                  and 600 taken prisoners.
                  A plot to assassinate Robespierre and Collot
                  d'Herbois fails of success; the former obtains a
                  guard for his person.
June        1.  The British fleet under Lord Howe engages the
                  French; the latter loses eight sail of the line.
              2.  The convention decrees, that no Englishman or
                  Hanoverian shall be made prisoner in battle--no
                  quarter to be given, but all without reserve to be
                  put to the sword.
                  The Duke of York communicates this barbarous decree
                  to his army, in a manner that does honour to a
                  soldier and to a man.
                  The guillotine is destroyed by the people at St.
                  Brieux, and the revolutionary tribunal expelled.
              4.  The French are routed near Charleroy with the loss
                  of 4000 men.
                  The man who saved Collot d'Herbois from
                  assassination, obtains a pension of 1500 livres a
                  year.
                  Decreed, that the members of the convention, when
                  on duty, shall wear marks of distinction.
                  Proclamation of the Emperor to induce all Brabant
                  to rise in a mass.
                  A military school is instituted in the plain of
                  Sablons near Paris.
                  Decreed, that a new grammar be published, to give
                  to the language of liberty a character that is
                  suitable to it.
              8.  Jourdan, called Coupe-tête, general of the army at
                  Avignon, guillotined.
                  The son and daughter of Louis XVI. employed to make
                  shoes and shirts for the nation.
             10.  General Clairfait is obliged to retreat.
                  The French take Port-Vendre, Collieure, and St.
                  Elme.
             13.  A festival to the Eternal.  Robespierre acts the
                  part of Pontiff.  The ceremony is designed to
                  satisfy the people, by putting an end to atheism.
                  The members of the convention assume the
                  distinction of a plume of feathers in the hat, and
                  a three-coloured scarf.
                  The French army in Maritime Flanders amounts to
                  170,000 men.
                  The inviolability of the members of the convention
                  is renewed.
                  A large convoy from America with corn arrives in
                  France.
             16.  The French lose 7,000  men in an action near
                  Charleroy.
                  Ypres surrenders to the French--this conquest opens
                  all Brabant.
                  The numerous forces opposed to the allies oblige
                  them to retreat.
             20.  One milliard two hundred and five millions of
                  livres in assignats issued.
                  Port-au-Prince taken by the English.
                  The dread of the guillotine causes fifty thousand
                  persons to emigrate.
             21.  Commencement of a quarrel between Robespierre and
                  Bourdon de l'Oise, and another between Tallien and
                  Robespierre.
                  Ninety-four nuns transported to Africa.
                  Twenty-one members of the parliament of Toulouze
                  (sic) guillotined at Paris.
             26.  Every thing in France is put in requisition, men,
                  horses, provisions, and all sorts of property.
             28.  Some terrible conspiracy is supposed, and announced
                  to the public in order to authorise new massacres.
                  "Paris," says Barrere, "shall be henceforth the
                  "city with a hundred gates; each gate shall
                  "announce some triumph, or some revolutionary,
                  "epoch".
             29.  The French besiege Charleroy.
                  The number of persons guillotined this month is as
                  follows.  From the first to the  ninth of June, 100
                                                    On the  9th,   22
                                                           10th,   30
                                                           11th,   33
                                                           12th,    8
                                                           13th,   20
                                                From 14 to 17th   103
                                                     17 to 20th    50
                                                    On the 21st,   26
                                                           22d,    14
                                                           25th,   48
                                                           27th,   29
                  Total guillotined in Paris in the month of June 483

July            Religious worship abolished at Liege, the priests
                  banished, and the churches demolished.
              3.  Sir Gilbert Elliot receives the crown of Corsica in
                  the name of the King of Great-Britain.
                  Proclamation of the Stadtholder on the dangers
                  which threaten Holland.
                  A festival of the human race at Paris--it ends with
                  adopting poor children.
                  The French take Mons and Ostend; 87 persons
                  guillotined.
                  Newport also falls to the French--130 emigrants
                  shot.
                  Tournay taken by the same.  The British
              7.  forced to evacuate Alost.  Fifty persons condemned
                  to death.
              8.  The Austrians quit Brussels; the French enter it,
                  and retake Landrecy.
                  Spires, Mechlin, and Louvain, abandoned by the
                  allies.
                  Sixty persons guillotined at Brest.
                  Robespierre, in an address to the convention, is
                  heard for the first time with coolness.
                  The plunder of the churches of Brabant is sent to
                  the convention, together with two millions of
                  livres in specie from Mons.
             18.  Namur opens its gates to the French.
             19.  Revolution at Geneva.
                  The convention is charged in its accounts with 150
                  reams of paper a day;--each of its decrees costs
                  83,000 livres; on the first of April last, 6800
                  decrees had been passed by the three legislatures.
                  The members who compose the committee of public
                  safety, at this time of havoc and universal terror,
                  are Robespierre, Couthon, Billaud Varennes,
                  Barrere, Collot d'Herbois, Lindet, Prieur, Carnot,
                  and St. Just.
             26.  Robespierre denounces to the convention one hundred
                  of its members.  A party instantly rises against
                  him.  He is attacked by Billaud Varennes and
                  Tallien, and thunderstruck with the accusations
                  against him.
             27.  Robespierre endeavours to kill himself; the wound
                  not mortal.
             28.  All the following persons are guillotined this day:
                  Robespierre the elder and the younger, Couthon and
                  St. Just, members of the convention; Henriot,
                  commander in chief of the Parisian guard; La
                  Vallette, another commander; Dumas, president of
                  the revolutionary tribunal; Lescott Fleuriot, mayor
                  of Paris; Payan, chief agent of the commune;
                  Viviers, a criminal judge, and president of the
                  jacobin club; Simon, preceptor of the young Prince;
                  upwards of eighty municipal officers; one Deputy, a
                  commissioner with the army, and one general
                  officer, all partizans of Robespierre.
                  Tallien proclaims in the convention, that the day
                  of the tyrant's death is a festival for universal
                  fraternity.
                  From the 1st to the 19th of July were guillotined
                  in Paris, in all          406 persons.
                              On the 20th,   34
                                     21st,   29
                                     22d,    46
                                     24th,   30
                        From 25th to 27th   135
                                     28th,   22
                                     29th,   70
                  Total guillotined in July 772

Aug.        1.  At this time the guillotine remains unemployed.
                  The convention charges sixteen committees with the
                  management of public affairs.
              2.  The Spaniards are defeated--The French take
                  Fontarabia and St. Sebastian.
                  Pichegru, with 190,000 men, is commanded to conquer
                  Holland.
              3.  Prince Cobourg calls upon the States of Germany to
                  assemble and oppose with unanimity the alarming
                  mass of French troops which is on the point of
                  breaking in upon them.
              5.  The convention abolishes Robespierre's system of
                  terror.
                  Brussels gives a civic feast on account of its
                  union with France.
                  The French enter Treves, and summon Breda.
                  Pelet solicits the convention for the return of
                  order, of justice, and of commerce.
             10.  The English take possession of Calvi.
             11.  The states-general earnestly exhort the Dutch to
                  defend themselves.
             13.  A general release of prisoners confined in France
                  by order of Robespierre--they amounted to upwards
                  of 500,000.
                  Quesnoy retaken by the French, with 3000 men.
                  The telegraph first made use of.
             15.  An ambassador from America receives the fraternal
                  kiss.
             26.  L'Ecluse surrenders by capitulation to the French.
                  Ordered, that all persons may travel freely without
                  passports in the interior of the republic.
                  The new ambassador from Geneva received in the
                  convention.
             29.  Valenciennes surrenders; its garrison consisted of
                  8ooo men, of whom 1100 were emigrants.
             30.  Condé surrenders to the French.
                  Frèron and Tallien propose measures of moderation,
                  that is, a system opposite to that of terror.
Sept.       1.  The Emperor threatens to withdraw his troops, if
                  the circles of Germany do not support him better.
                  The academy cf arts and sciences of Paris discovers
                  a method of making pot-ash from the horse-chesnut
                  (sic).
                  Bois-le-Duc and Breda inundated.
                  The convention passes some decrees favourable to
                  the emigrants.
              5.  Rochelle and Montfort denounce the nobles and
                  priests.
              6.  An orator of one of the electoral clubs of Paris
                  presents a petition, which he is unable to read.
                  Bertier acquaints the convention that he has set at
                  liberty all prisoners in the North under 15 years
                  of age.
                  The convention receives numerous congratulations on
                  the death of Robespierre.
                  Tallien resigns his seat as member of the committee
                  of public safety.
                  Motion of Barrere against bankers and stockjobbers.
                  An attempt is made to assassinate Tallien, but he
                  escapes with some severe wounds.
             10.  The flag of the republic of Geneva is received into
                  the convention.
                  Merlin, of Thionville, makes an animated speech in
                  the convention against the jacobins.
                  The two ruling parties in the convention are, the
                  partizans of terror, called the Mountain. and the
                  Moderates.
                  Protests and placarts (sic) are stuck up in all
                  parts of Paris against the despotism of the
                  convention.
             11.  The convention decrees that all those shall be
                  subject to the laws against emigrants, who quitted
                  France since the 1st of July 1789, and did not
                  return before 9th of May 1792.
                  Decreed, that the nation will pay no more salaries
                  to ministers, or others officiating in any
                  religious worship.
                  Motion by Duhem to expel all that remains of the
                  family of Capet from the territory of the republic.
                  Report of Lindet on the state of France, in which
                  are marked its dangers, errors, and disasters.
                  The Spaniards are forced to give up the important
                  city of Bellegard to the French at discretion.
             12.  The Piedmontese are repulsed with considerable
                  loss.
             13.  Great commotions at Marseilles.
             15.  Ordered, that the remains of Marat be interred in
                  the Pantheon.
             16.  The British and Hanoverians pass the Rhine with
                  some loss.  The Duke of York retires to Nimeguen.
                  Ceremonies established for the observance of the
                  days called "Sans-culottides," which are the
                  supplementary days of the republican calendar.
                  General Clairfait marches towards Cologn (sic), and
                  passes the Roar (sic).
                  The French invest Maestricht, and take possession
                  of Aix-la-Chapelle, Malmedi, and Spa.
                  Balloons are used by the French to make
                  observations of their enemy's proceedings.
                  Twenty-nine waggons loaded with gold and silver, to
                  the value of 18,359,404 livres are brought to Paris
                  from Belgium.
                  The throne of the Elector of Treves is among the
                  spoils.
             25.  A national festival is celebrated at Paris on
                  account of the evacuation of the French territory
                  by the enemy.
             27.  Crêvecoeur surrenders by capitulation to the
                  French.
             30.  The allies still continue to retreat.
                  Decreed, that all directories and all municipal
                  bodies of the republic shall be purified; and all
                  revolutionary committees reorganized.
Oct.        1.  General Clairfait passes the Rhine.
                  Keyserslautern taken by the Prussians.
              3.  The French enter Juliers.  The body of Rousseau
                  transferred to the Pantheon.
              4.  Bommel and Bois-le-Duc surrender to the French.
                  The garrison of Nimeguen sallies, and kills 2000
                  French.
                  Proclamation of the Prince of Orange, exhorting the
                  Dutch to resist the enemy in a body (en masse.)
              5.  Lyons permitted to resume its name--confiscation,
                  and massacres are suspended there.
              6.  The convention addresses the French people to
                  acquaint them that henceforward the order of the
                  day shall be "severe, but not atrocious or
                  "sanguinary justice."
                  Pichegru makes himself master of Cologne, Gueldres,
                  and Cleves.
                  French soldiers who died this campaign in the
                  hospitals at Lisle, amount to 47,000.
                  The English pass the Rhine.  The French enter
                  Bonne (sic).
                  The chiefs of the royal and catholic armies in
                  Bretagne make a solemn appeal, to the French
                  people, to incite them to rally about the standards
                  of religion and of the King.
                  The following contributions were levied by the
                  French in Brabant:
                                                              Livres.

                                     At   Antwerp          10,000,000
                                          Ghent             7,000,000
                                          Brussels          5,000,000
                                          Bruges            4,000,000
                                          Mechlin           1,260,076
                                          Lierre              500,000
                                          Oudenarde           500,000
                                          Ipres             1,000,000
                                          Alost             4,000,000
                                          Ostend            2,000,000
                                          Courtray          3,000,000
                                          Ath                 150,000
                                          Mons              1,640,875
                                          Louvain           2,000,000
                                          Namur             5,000,000
                                          Huy                 126,171
                                                     Total 51,177,122

             12.  The Russians entirely defeat the Poles under
                  Kosciusko, and take Warsaw.
                  The French take Worms; and pass the Rhine.
             20.  The British and Dutch defeated on the banks of the
                  Meuse.
             25.  The French take Coblentz and Venloo.
                  Six thousand young women put in requisition in
                  Brabant to attend the hospitals.
                  The states of Holland openly abandon the interests
                  of the Stadtholder.
                  Great numbers of emigrants shot at Ipres, Neuport,
                  and l'Ecluse.
                  Freron, the journalist, attacks furiously in the
                  convention the remains of Robespierre's party.
                  Proclamation by General Washington to check the
                  buds of rebellion in America.
                  Assignats burned to the 30th of September last,
                  amounted to 2,367,000,000 livres.
                  All public ordinances by the representatives of the
                  people begin in this form, "The thunder of God: in
                  "the name of the representatives of the people, it
                  "is commanded under pain of death, &c."
                  Address from the court of Madrid to stimulate the
                  Spanish nation against the French.
                  Motion by Baraillon to imprison all those who have
                  had national property conveyed to them under its
                  value, and those who have laid waste the lands and
                  houses of emigrants and of condemned persons; and
                  all those who have misapplied public money.
                  Decree to abolish the jacobin club.
Nov.        4.  Rhinfeld surrenders at discretion; Maestricht by
                  capitulation.
                  Nimeguen surrenders.
                  French commissaries proclaim liberty at Martinico.
                  Billaud Varennes endeavours in vain to revive the
                  jacobins.
                  The convention offers full pardon to the rebels of
                  La Vendée who will lay down their arms and serve
                  the republic.
                  Guadaloupe is retaken by the French.
                  Cambon reports that assignats in circulation amount
                  to 6,400,000,000 of livres, and the expence of the
                  present year to 2,200,000,000 livres.
                  Addresses of congratulation from all parts on the
                  overthrow of the jacobins.
             17.  The Spaniards defeated by the French.
                  Republican General Dugommier killed.
             20.  The Spaniards again defeated--three generals taken.
                  St. Fernard, Figueras, and Aspaetta, surrender.
             30.  Grave surrenders to the French.
                  Carrier and his bloody accomplices decreed to be in
                  a state of accusation.
                  Decreed, that all emigrants be for ever banished
                  from the republic, their property confiscated, and
                  their return punished with death.
Dec.        1.  The French make several unsuccessful attempts on
                  the side of Mayence, but are repulsed with loss.
              7.  Ten members of the revolutionary committee of
                  Paris, convicted of peculation (sic) and abuse of
                  power, are condemned to twenty years imprisonment,
                  and to stand six hours in the pillory at the Place
                  de Grêve, the place of common executions.
                  The municipality of Nantes forbid all persons to
                  drink the water of the river Loire, on account of
                  the infection from the dead bodies which were
                  victims of Carrier's cruelty.
              8.  The seventy-one members who had been proscribed by
                  Robespierre resume their seats in the convention.
             11.  The French pass the Waal, attack the Hanoverians,
                  and retire.
             12.  Utrecht taken by the French.
             19.  The Dutch send commissaries to Paris to treat of
                  peace.
             25.  The Austrians retire across the Rhine. The French
                  pass the Meuse, having taken fort St. André.  The
                  Dutch regiments of Hohenloe and Bentinck lay down
                  their arms.
             26.  The English quit Bommel abandoning their artillery.
                  The law which forbad quarters to the English and
                  Hanoverians is repealed.
                  Clundest surrenders to the French.
                  Loizeroles submits to be imprisoned and to be put
                  to death in the stead of his son.
             30.  The decree of Robespierre revoked, which condemned
                  those to death who had connection with nobles or
                  clergy.  All his laws decreed to be reviewed, and a
                  plan proposed of forgiving all revolutionary
                  crimes.
                  The French take 120 pieces of cannon, and 1600
                  prisoners.
                  A great fire in the arsenal of Landau.
                  Pensions decreed to men of letters.
                  Upon a motion by Clauzel, a prosecution is decreed
                  against all the accomplices of Robespierre, who is
                  called "the butcher of the French people."
                  The British parliament votes almost unanimously for
                  the prosecution of the war.
                  Carrier suffers on the scaffold for all his
                  atrocities.
1795.
Jan.        1.  The salary of members of the convention raised from
                  18 to 36 livres a day. "Keep your 36 livres, (said
                  "some persons on this subject) but let us have a
                  "Louis."
                  The people of Lyons drag about the streets the bust
                  of Marat, Challier, and Pelletier de St. Fargeau,
                  who had but lately been objects of their idolatry.
                  A woman appears at the bar of the convention,
                  furnished with scythes, by means of which it was
                  stated that a woman and child could mow five acres
                  in a day. Honourable mention!
                  Decreed, that the sovereignty of the people is
                  inalienable, and that they have a right to chuse
                  (sic) any form of government except royalty.
              3.  The French are dislodged from their position at
                  Wardenberg by the English and Austrians.
                  The French attack the British rear-guard.
              9.  The whole British army passes the Rhine.
             10.  The French army passes the Waal in different points
                  at the time on the ice, and takes possession of
                  Thiel.  All the rivers of Holland and the Low
                  Countries are frozen over so as to bear the
                  heaviest weights, and favour the operations of the
                  French extremely.
                  Cambon states the number of livres in circulation
                  in the form of assignats to amount to
                  9,600,000,000; and he proposes a lottery to reduce
                  the number to four milliards (each one thousand
                  million).
                  Mercier makes a bold speech in the convention
                  against the abolition of religious worship.
             14.  The French attack the British along their whole
                  line from Arnheim to Amerongen.
                  The Prince of Orange and his son resolve to quit
                  the Hague.
                  The states of Holland agree with the French to
                  deliver up their country to them.  The Fleet of
                  Holland is locked up by the ice, and shares the
                  fate of the country.
                  An imposition of one million of livres in specie is
                  laid upon Liege, and a thousand livres a day for
                  every day's delay.
                  Hostages are sent from Liege to Paris.
                  Utrecht summoned and taken without opposition.
                  Wurcum, Dorcum, and Dort, taken.
             18.  Pichegru sends detachments to take possession of
                  Leyden, Amsterdam, and the Hague.
                  The Princess of Orange and her daughter-in-law
                  depart for England.
                  Tallien moves in the convention to put to death all
                  the partizans of the system of terror which covered
                  France with bastilles and scaffolds.
                  Breda, Bergen-op-Zoom, Gertruydenberg, and
                  Williamstadt, open their gates to the French, upon
                  hearing that Holland was given up.
                  The French generals require that within the space
                  of one month Holland shall supply them with 200,000
                  quintals [Footnote: 100lbs. each.] of flour,
                  1,000,000 of rations of hay, 200,000 rations of
                  straw, 1,000,000 bushels of wheat, 150,000 pair of
                  shoes, 200,000 shirts, 20,000 pair of boots, 20,000
                  coats and waistcoats, 30,000 pair of breeches,
                  150,000 pantaloons, 50,000 hats, and 12,000 oxen.
             28.  Duhem is ordered to the Abbaye prison, for saying
                  that aristocracy and royalism were triumphant.  He
                  is refused admittance, there being no room.
             31.  Report on the finances states that the expences of
                  the last month exceeded the receipt by 218,779,475
                  livres.
                  Dubois Crancé, on the state of the republic,
                  reports, that eleven hundred thousand men are under
                  arms.
Feb.        2.  A ship is laid on the stocks at Brest called "the
                  "Avenger of the Country," intended to carry 136
                  guns; 24 feet longer, and 3 feet wider, than any
                  ever built.
                  The assembly of the provisionary representatives of
                  the United Provinces acknowledges the rights of man
                  and the sovereignty of the people, dismisses the
                  states-general, abolishes the office of
                  stadtholder, suppresses the regency of the Hague,
                  and appoints a new committee of the India company.
                  A deputation from the people of colour thanks the
                  convention for liberty granted to the negroes
                  (sic).
                  Disturbances at Rouen, and other great cities.
                  Four presses of false assignats seized at Paris.
                  Ordered, that deputies be sent to the colonies
                  beyond the Cape of Good-Hope.
              4.  Gouly harangues the convention to inflame it
                  against England, which has usurped, as he said, a
                  tyrannic dominion over the sea.
                  Petitioners appear at the bar, demanding bread.
                  Zealand capitulates.
                  The republic of Basle acknowledges the French
                  republic.
                  A decree upon religious worship, which seems to
                  allow it more liberty than of late.
                  Rovere in full convention charges Syeyes with
                  having been an instrument and counseller of
                  Robespierre.
              8.  Tumults at the theatres in Paris.
              9.  The sections of Paris demand the trial of Barrere,
                  of Collot d'Herbois, and Billaud Varennes.
             10.  The convention ratifies a treaty of peace with
                  Tuscany.
                  The administration of Belgium addresses the
                  convention, desiring an union with France.
             11.  Barrere, Collot d'Herbois, and Billaud Varennes,
                  decreed to be under arrest.
                  Antwerp informs the convention that 40,000 Belgians
                  are ready to join the army of the republic, and
                  give the last blow to the impious coalition of
                  crowned tyrants.
                  The convention appoints to the command of its eight
                  armies Pichegru as commander in chief, Jourdan,
                  Moreau, Kellerman, Sharer, Moncey, Clancaux, and
                  Hoche.
             14.  Deputies are nominated for the East-Indies.
             16.  The Dutch announce that they have begun the great
                  work of their regeneration.
             17.  Decreed, that all letters belonging to Robespierre
                  be printed.
             19.  Suspension of arms between the royalists of La
                  Vendée and the republicans.
                  Assassinations at Avignon.
             23.  Conferences between Charette and the commissioners
                  of the convention.
                  The French bombard Luxemburg.
                  Emigrants enrolled in London for an expedition to
                  the coast of France.
                  The liberty granted to the press gives public
                  writers an opportunity of expressing their
                  sentiments boldly of the convention, and of the
                  revolution.
             27.  Charette, Stofflet, and their officers, dine with
                  the French commissioners.
             28.  Charette joyously received at Nantes.
                  Cambon states that the expences of this month
                  exceed the revenue by 443,164,974 livres.
March       1.  A reward is offered for destroying wolves.
              4.  Carnot presents the following description of the
                  last campaign, viz. 27 victories, of which, 8 were
                  pitched battles.  120 actions of smaller
                  importance.  88,000 enemies killed, and 91,000 made
                  prisoners.  116 places or strong cities taken, of
                  which 36 were by siege or blockade; 230 forts or
                  redoubts; 800 pieces of cannon, 70,000 muskets,
                  1,900,000 pounds of powder, and 90 stands of
                  colours, taken by the republic.
                  Victory of Admiral Hotham in the Mediterranean.
                  Commotions in Paris for want of provisions.
                  Eleven persons massacred at Toulon.
                  Insurrection at Bourdeaux.
                  The convention has many debates about Barrere and
                  his associates.
                  The Dutch are required to give up to the French
                  republic all the coined money in their possession.
                  Rouzet tells the convention it is time that France
                  should resume her rank among civilized nations.
              5.  A committee is appointed to prepare a constitution
                  (the third in five years).
                  Boursault reports that the war in La Vendée is
                  extinguished, but that another had broken out,
                  called that of the Chouans.
                  Le Sage denounces the wind which blew down the flag
                  from the convention-hall.
                  Decreed, that the 71 deputies proscribed by
                  Robespierre resume their places.
             14.  The treaty of peace with the Vendéans read in the
                  convention, except the secret articles.
                  Boissy d'Anglas harangues upon the atrocities in
                  France, which he attributes to royalists.
             17.  A committee is appointed to treat with foreign
                  powers.
                  Carletti is received as ambassador from the Grand
                  Duke of Tuscany.
April       1.  Tumults in Paris for bread and a constitution.
              2.  Tumults continued at Paris and Amiens.
                  Barrere, Collot d'Herbois, Vadier, and
                  Billaud-Varennes, condemned to be transported to
                  Guyana.
              4.  Tumults continue.
              5.  The King of Prussia makes peace with the republic.
                  Motion made to discredit the republican calendar as
                  an act of despotism worthy of Robespierre.  Fails
                  of success.
                  The convention takes a guard of 554 life-guard men,
                  and sixty of the artillery.
                  The newspapers of Paris speak of the convention
                  with great boldness.
                  To quiet the people, it is given out that corn is
                  coming in from all quarters.
                  Admiral Renaudin receives orders to put to sea.
                  Baron de Stael is sent as ambassador from the King
                  of Sweden to engage in friendship and alliance with
                  the convention.
                  Rhull ventures to pronounce in the convention an
                  eulogy on the old monarchy.
                  The deficit in the last month amounts to
                  660,000,000 livres,
                  Discourse of Thibadeau to inflame republicanism.
                  Several communes petition for their former churches
                  and worship; the convention passes to the order of
                  the day.
                  Fortier, compiler of the paper called "The
                  "Political Correspondence" imprisoned for saying
                  "that if all the monsters who murdered Louis XVI.
                  were dead, not a Frenchman would shed a tear over
                  "the tomb of any one of them."
                  Sylverster, from the tribune, assures the French
                  people that notwithstanding the scarcity there is
                  no danger of starving.
                  Cambon, who had been treasurer three years and a
                  half, arrested.
                  The convention grants to the Duchess of Bourbon
                  relief to the amount of 18,000 livres; about 70l.
                  according to the value of assignats.
                  Credit appears to revive; 270 livres in assignats
                  for the louis.
                  Patroles (sic) are doubled in Paris; much
                  apprehension is entertained.
             19.  The convention announces peace with the Chouans.
May         1.  Decrees severe against emigrants.
                  Preliminary articles signed between France and
                  Holland.
                  Seventy persons massacred in a tumult at Lyons.
                  On the motion of Dubois Crancé, decreed, that three
                  milliards of assignats be issued.
              S.  The Spaniards defeated near Figueras.
                  Motion to permit a loss of two per cent. a month on
                  assignats.
                  Vernier, successor to Cambon, states the expence of
                  the last campaign at 3,000,000,000 in assignats;
                  and the last month at 738 millions.
             15.  An alliance offensive and defensive concluded at
                  the Hague between France and Holland; the first
                  article excludes the Stadtholder for ever; the
                  second assures to France one million of livres for
                  the expence of the war.
                  A vigorous action near Mayence.
                  Great agitation at Naples; several disturbers of
                  the peace imprisoned.
                  A deputy complains earnestly against the facility
                  with which divorces are obtained.
                  The Sardinians defeated near Mount St. Bernard.
                  Decreed, that Le Bon be brought to trial charged
                  with cruelties equal to Carrier's.
                  Twenty members of the revolutionary tribunal
                  guillotined.
             20.  An alarming insurrection of the people of Paris
                  against the convention; Ferrand, a deputy, is
                  massacred at the feet of the president; the
                  assassin of Ferrand is condemned
             22.  to death, but is rescued by the people; the
             23.  suburb St. Antoine marches against the convention,
                  which is in extreme danger and
             24.  alarm; divisions take place among the insurgents,
                  and they lose their force at once.  After having
                  had the advantage some time, the terrorists are
                  overcome by the moderates.
                  The convention resumes its deliberations, disarms
                  the fauxbourgs, decrees the arrest of a great
                  number of its own members, and orders the immediate
                  execution of fifty of the chiefs of the
                  insurrection.
                  Decreed, that Barrere's transportation be
                  suspended, and that he be tried again, his sentence
                  being too mild.
                  The terrorists rise at Toulon, as at Paris, and are
                  subdued with much difficulty and bloodshed.
             25.  The Chouans, seeing themselves betrayed and
                  deceived by a phantom of a treaty which had been
                  held out to them as secure and permanent, again
                  take up arms.
             28.  Rhull blows his brains out.
                  A petition is presented to the convention demanding
                  a separation of the supreme powers, as the only
                  means of guarding against tyranny.
                  The Spaniards are again defeated by Kellerman.
                  A camp of 3000 men, chiefly cavalry, formed at the
                  Tuilleries.
                  A proclamation of the convention to French seamen
                  concludes thus, "War, eternal war, against the
                  "English."
                  Lanjuinais obtains a decree for freedom of
                  religious worship.
             31.  Decreed, that the revolutionary tribunals, created
                  May 13, 1793, be suppressed.
                  Ordered, that the tribunals prosecute the authors
                  and accomplices of the massacres of Sept. 2, 1792.
                  The convention, afraid that Barrere's trial should
                  take up too much time, decrees that he be
                  transported to Africa.
                  Among the papers of the jacobins is found an order
                  of the old committee of public safety to pay
                  100,000 livres for printing the correspondence of
                  that society.
                  A journalist in Paris ventures to write thus:
                  "Legislators, do not exhaust your strength and
                  "genius in discovering that which has been done
                  "before your time; give us the best government you
                  "can; consider that the people of France were the
                  "happiest and the longest so of any people; give us
                  "the laws we have been used to."
June        1.  The commune of Valenciennes deliberates in a full
                  assembly whether it should continue to acknowledge
                  the convention; or whether it should not arrest the
                  representative Lamar.
              5.  Dutch ambassadors are received in the convention,
                  and the treaty of alliance between the republics
                  ratified.
              6.  The Vendéans declare that the treaty with them is
                  shamefully evaded; and they again take up arms.
                  Their brave leader Charette publishes a manifesto.
                  Decreed, that the property of those condemned or
                  executed since the establishment of the
                  revolutionary tribunals shall be restored to their
                  families; except those of Louis Capet, and his
                  wife, of Philip Egalité, and Madame du Barré (sic).
                  Decree to apply the palace of Versailles to
                  national uses.
                  Assignats burned to this month amount to
                  2,623,680,000 livres.
              7.  The fortress of Luxemburg, almost impregnable,
                  surrenders to the French from want of provisions.
              8.  Louis Charles, the descendant of 60 Kings, the son
                  of Louis XVI. whom the royalists acknowledged as
                  King since the 21st of Jan. 1793, under the name of
                  Louis XVII. in the eleventh year of his age,
                  finished his unhappy life and vain reign in the
                  prison of the Temple, where he had been confined
                  near three years without communication with any
                  friend.  History alone will hereafter instruct the
                  world whether or not he died a natural death, as
                  the convention took great pains to have it
                  believed.
             11.  Decree in favour of those whom the tyranny of
                  Robespierre caused to fly from the kingdom.
                  A motion is well received to declare the produce of
                  the next harvest public property.
                  General Santerre, long detained in prison, and
                  released at the death of Robespierre is again
                  denounced.
                  Proposed "' to change the odious name of
                  "revolutionary committee, and to suppress the
                  "infamous red bonnet, as being only the symbol of
                  "blood."
             14.  The republicans receive a severe check at
                  Grand-Champ from the royalists.
                  The law repealed which forbad the wives and
                  daughters of emigrants to marry foreigners.
                  The republicans charge the royalists with violating
                  the late treaty.  The latter retort the charge.
                  The republicans claim the victory of the 14th ult.
                  The nephew of General Dubois writes a letter full
                  of invective and gall against the convention.
                  All sorts of pastry forbidden, on account of the
                  scarcity of corn.
                  The decree which declares all assignats, bearing
                  the King's bust, to be of no value in future, takes
                  away from private property one milliard, 665
                  millions, and 157 thousand livres.
                  The expence for public instruction amounts to
                  300,400,000 livres.
             20.  Romme, Goujon, Duquesnoy, Soubrany, Duroy, and
                  Bourbotte, members of the convention, and active
                  leaders in the late riots, are executed.
             23.  Boissy d'Anglas reads a new constitution, which the
                  convention proposes to read article by article.
                  Insurrection at Arras for bread.
                  The convention orders a school of 200 apprentices
                  to watch-making.
             26.  Bellisle is summoned by the English, and returns a
                  resolute answer of defiance.
                  A complete victory obtained over the Spaniards.
              2.  The emigrants in England are put under the orders
                  of Puissaye, and disembark at Quiberon.
                  The deputies Peyssard and Forrestier condemned to
                  prison.  Prieur de la Marne and Albitte escape
                  judgment by flight.
                  The value of a louis-d'or is up to 1000 livres.
                  All citizens from 16 to 60 commanded to serve in
                  the national guard; and in their oath to swear
                  these words, "Hatred against Kings".
                  Decreed, that murders, which were to be punished
                  with 20 years imprisonment, shall in future be
                  punished with death.
                  A member proposes that the convention should look
                  back and punish all judiciary assassinations,
                  abuses of authority, massacres, and arbitrary acts
                  committed since the 1st of Sept. 1792.  The
                  convention passes to the order of the day, saying,
                  that such retrospect would involve half of France.
                  All the members of the revolutionary committee of
                  Brest are delivered over to the tribunals.
                  The Vendeans have further successes.
                  Fresh massacres are committed at Maçon.
                  A section of Paris demands of the convention that
                  it should efface the inscriptions on the gates of
                  churches, by which the nation, at the instance of
                  Robespierre, granted a certificate of existence to
                  the Supreme Being, and insured immortality to the
                  soul.
                  The churches in Paris are opened, and service
                  performed with great ceremony.
             22.  Lord Bridport engages the French fleet, and takes
                  three sail of the line.
             30.  The convention decrees that the daughter of the
                  late King shall be given up to the Emperor, in
                  exchange for the commissioners whom Dumourier had
                  put into the hands of the Austrians.
July        1.  The powers of the administrative bodies at Lyons
                  are suspended, and the mayor ordered to the bar of
                  the convention.
                  The "Reveil du Peuple"(awakening of the people), a
                  new song against the terrorists, is in great vogue.
                  Lanjuinais proposes to suppress the publication of
                  the votes of the convention, which costs the nation
                  2,300,000 livres annually.
                  Report of Genissieu in favour of transported
                  priests.
                  Tallien and Blad, members of the convention,
                  ordered to repair instantly as representatives to
                  the department of La Vendée.
              2.  Le Bon, pale and trembling, enters the convention,
                  and begins his defence: "His crimes (he observes)
                  "are those of the convention itself, under whose
                  "orders he acted."
              3.  Horrid massacres in the Southern provinces.
                  Various skirmishes between the French and Austrians
                  reported.
                  Bread 16 livres a pound in Paris.
                  Bloody action at Chatillon between the Chouans and
                  republicans.
                  The convention decrees that France is a republic,
                  one and indivisible.
              6.  Le Bon continues his defence.
                  Bresson asserts that it is impossible to make
                  France a democratic republic; he votes for a
                  senate, an executive power, and censors.
                  A member complains that the rights of man only, and
                  not the duties of man, are subjects of
                  consideration.
             14.  Anniversary of the French revolution celebrated.
                  Project of a national tontine.
                  A loan of a milliard at three per cent.
                  Lanthenas reads a motion from Thomas Paine, he not
                  being able to speak French.
                  Mons. d'Hervilly is wounded near Aurai (sic).
                  Warm action between the republicans and Chouans
                  near L'Orient.
                  Le Bon proceeds with his defence.
                  Disorders at St. Malo; and at Lyons.
             15.  The royalists attack the camp of St. Barb; forced
                  to retreat.
             16.  The Spaniards again defeated.
             17.  Le Bon decreed to be in a state of accusation.
                  Report of a complete overthrow of a Spanish army.
                  Tumults at the theatres.
                  France contains 28,000 square leagues of 2280
                  toises.  Each league contains 3,850 acres (arpents)
                  which make 105,400,000 acres.  Valuing the acres
                  one with another at 150 livres each, the total
                  value of the lands would be 15,810,000,000. The
                  debts of the republic at this time are
                  17.500,000,000, and these are secured by the lands;
                  there is a deficit therefore of 1,690,000,000.
             20.  The regiment of Hervilly murders its officers, and
                  8oo of them desert, giving the word of order to the
                  republican general.
                  The emigrants at Quiberon, being betrayed to
                  General Hoche, a general attack is made on them,
                  and almost all are cut to pieces.  The brave Count
                  Sombreuil, after distinguished proofs of generous
                  gallantry, is taken prisoner.
                  The prisoners are ordered to Vannes, with General
                  Sombreuil, the bishop of Dol, and other
                  considerable persons.
                  Tallien, in his reports to the convention, states
                  the loss of the royalists at 10,000 men and that of
                  the republicans as trifling; his whole report
                  appears extravagant.
                  Another victory over the Spaniards is gained by the
                  republicans.
                  Peace is concluded with Spain.
                  Fresh, but unsuccessful, attempts are made to
                  induce the convention to give up the republican
                  calendar.
             23.  Ordered, that the committee of legislation make a
                  report upon all the laws relative to divorce.
             28.  Read in the convention the treaty concluded at
                  Basle between France and Spain.
                  The convention decrees two festivals, one in honour
                  of the fall of Robespierre, the other of the 10th
                  of August.
             30.  Mons. Querini, ambassador from Venice, arrives at
                  Paris.
                  Report of another victory obtained over the
                  Spaniards the 17th of this month.
                  A plot discovered at Rome to open the prisons, to
                  put to death the principal persons of the
                  government, and burn the houses of the cardinals.
                  A proclamation from Louis XVIII. to all his
                  subjects, dated Verona.
                  The chiefs of the royalist army solicit succours
                  from the British government.
Aug.        1.  Motion by La Riviere "to pursue with national
                  "justice all execrable terrorists".
                  Comartin, Jarry, Boisgontier, and eight chiefs of
                  the Chouans, contrary to the faith of the treaty,
                  are seized and brought up to Paris.
              2.  The convention ratifies the peace with Spain.
                  The laws of divorce suspended.
                  All the departments make great complaints to the
                  convention of a scarcity.
              3.  The eight chiefs of the Chouans, Comartin, Jarry,
                  Gazel, la Nourraye, Salignac, Dufour, Boisgontier,
                  and de la Haye, delivered to the military tribunal.
                  Disorders at St. Omer's.
                  The workmen at the wharfs (sic) at Paris refuse to
                  work without two hundred livres a day wages.
              4.  Boudin moves to put an end to the revolution.
              6.  The colonies decreed a part of the French empire.
              8.  Journalists denounced; several deputies arrested,
                  among whom is Lequinis.
                  More deputies denounced; Dupin, Piori, Po, Massieu,
                  Chaudron, Rousseau, Fourche, and la Planche,
                  decreed in a state of accusation.
                  The Count Sombreuil, the Bishop of Dol, and 600
                  emigrants, condemned by the tribunal of Vannes to
                  be shot.
             13.  In the prisons of Paris 4413 persons are confined.
                  Nantes in great distress.
                  The convention discusses the subject of a
                  constitution.
                  A deputation from Belgium demands to be united with
                  the French republic.
             16.  Treaty of friendship between the French nation and
                  the regency of Tunis.
                  The convention decrees a new constitution.
                  The King of Spain ratifies the treaty of peace with
                  France.
                  The convention annuls all revolutionary sentences
                  passed since March 13th, 1793, except those of the
                  tribunals of Paris.
                  The emigrants not comprized in the exceptions are
                  for ever proscribed.
             21.  The convention decrees that two-thirds of the
                  succeeding legislature shall be chosen out of the
                  present convention.
                  Violent declamation of Tallien  against emigrants
                  and royalists.
                  All clubs or popular societies are by the decree of
                  the convention abolished.
                  The Count d'Artois lands in England on his way to,
                  and with the design of forming a junction with,
                  Charette.
                  A new mode of preserving corn discovered by a
                  physician of Montpelier.
             22.  Tumults in the theatres of Paris.
                  The convention brings large bodies of troops into
                  Paris.
                  Boissy d'Anglas, presenting a picture of France
                  triumphant on all sides, and forcing Kings to court
                  its friendship and alliance, beseeches the
                  convention to distinguish the last moments of its
                  existence by acts of beneficence, healing all
                  wounds, drying up tears, and repairing by the force
                  of justice those evils which tyrants had brought
                  upon the world.
             24.  Lyons is denounced as attached to royalty.
             25.  The constitution is declared to be perfected.
                  The word Sans-Culotides is excluded from the
                  calendar.
             28.  The section of Mail complains that the capital is
                  filled with troops.
                  Treaty of peace between the Landgrave of
                  Hesse-Cassel and France.
                  Several sections complain of the number of troops
                  in Paris, and of the election of two-thirds of the
                  present convention into the next legislature.
                  General Montesquieu, and the ex-constituent
                  Talleyrand Perigord, recalled by a decree into
                  France.
             30.  Much discontent in Paris; the sections make
                  considerable movements; every thing seems to
                  forebode an explosion.
             31.  The constitution is laid before the people for
                  their acceptance, and approved of in general; but
                  the election of two-thirds disliked
Sept.       1.  Decreed, that the property of transported priests,
                  which had been confiscated by former laws, shall be
                  restored to their families.
                  Decreed, that no minister may officiate in public
                  or private without having submitted to the laws of
                  the republic.
                  Decreed, that Louise Marie Adelaide de Bourbon
                  Penthievre, wife of Philip Egalité, be restored to
                  liberty.
              6.  Dusseldorff taken by the French; the army of the
                  Sambre and the Meuse passes the Rhine under General
                  Jourdan.
                  The section of the French theatre denounces the
                  members of the deputation of Paris to the
                  convention, as authors of the crimes of the 2d of
                  Sept. 1792, and 31st May 1794.
                  Decreed, that the relations of emigrants be
                  excluded from every employment administrative or
                  judiciary.
                  Of six thousand three hundred and thirty-seven
                  primary assemblies, containing 958,226 persons,
                  914,800 voted for accepting the constitution,
                  41,892 rejected it, (so the convention reports);
                  consequently it was decreed that the new
                  constitution is become a fundamental law of the
                  state.
                  As to the re-election of the two-thirds--of 270,338
                  voters, 167,757 voted for the re-election and
                  95,373 against it.
                  The convention declares the enlargement from prison
                  of all terrorists who had been imprisoned since the
                  death of Robespierre.
                  The committee of marine writes thus to the
                  convention: "We are going to prepare arms in our
                  "arsenals and forges against the most perfidious of
                  "our enemies, against the haughty England, which
                  "must fall under the efforts of a nation which has
                  "subdued the rest of Europe."
             20.  The army of Pichegru having passed the Rhine near
                  Manheim, this city surrenders itself to the French
                  by capitulation, of which one of the articles is,
                  that the Palatinate shall be considered a neutral
                  country.
                  The convention addresses the Parisians, to inform
                  them that if any attack be made upon the national
                  representatives, the convention will remove to
                  Chalons-sur-Maire (sic).  The convention, which
                  never had so much apprehension for its safety,
                  ordered the republican columns to march to its
                  defence.
                  Decreed, that every member of the convention shall
                  make a declaration of his fortune before, and since
                  the revolution.
                  Joubert, representative of the people, writes to
                  the convention, that the French, since their
                  passage of the Rhine, have taken 371 pieces of
                  cannon, 331,000 pounds of powder, and other stores.
                  Decreed, that Belgium and all the countries which
                  are, or shall be, conquered from the House of
                  Austria, shall be incorporated with the French
                  republic.
                  The section of Le Pelletier writes severe truths to
                  the convention.
                  The salaries settled by the constitution upon the
                  750 members of the next legislature, amount to 174
                  millions of livres a year.  The salary of the five
                  members of the executive directory amounts to
                  20,400,000 livres.
                  According to the new organization, Belgium and the
                  county of Liege form nine departments, of which,
                  the chief towns are Bruges, Ghent, Antwerp,
                  Brussels, Liege, Maestricht, Mons, Namur, and
                  Luxemburg.
                  A funeral ceremony in honour of the victims of
                  decemviral tyranny.
                  A famous resolution of 33 sections of Paris is the
                  cause of a terrible explosion hereafter.
                  Proclamation of the convention on the danger which
                  threatens.
                  An afflicting picture given of the state of the
                  Southern provinces of France, by a representative
                  of the people who was an eye witness of it.
                  The primary and permanent assemblies of Paris
                  demand of the convention the re-imprisonment of the
                  terrorists, and enquiry into the conduct of the
                  committees of government.
Oct.        5.  An extraordinary fermentation agitates all Paris.
                  A civil war is ready to break out.  The clashing of
                  arms, the general beating of drums, and the cannon,
                  are heard on all sides.  Several bloody engagements
                  take place between the sections and
                  conventionalists.  Two thousand dead bodies lie in
                  the streets.  The party of the convention, by the
                  aid of the troops of the line and of a formidable
                  artillery, defeats the insurgents.
                  Execution and proscription of the chiefs and movers
                  of the insurrection.
                  Tallien renews his motion to transport all those
                  who did not like a republican government.
                  The Count d'Artois, under convoy of Sir John
                  Warren, takes possession of l'Isle Dieu (sic).
                  A French squadron of six sail of the line falls in
                  with a valuable British convoy from the
                  Mediterranean, and captures the Censeur, a 74 gun
                  ship, and several merchantmen.
                  Vernier, the organ of the committee of finances,
                  proposes to substitute money made of some metal in
                  the place of 18 milliards of assignats in
                  circulation.
                  The inhabitants of Versailles supplicate the
                  convention to take into consideration the sad state
                  of their commune.
                  A horrible picture is laid before the convention of
                  massacres in the South; the banks of the Rhone and
                  of the Durance are said to be covered with dead
                  carcases, upon which the dogs are feeding.
                  Garnier de Saintes addresses from the tribune the
                  royalists of France.  "Insects," (says he) "return
                  "to your nothingness; ye shall perish, whilst we
                  "shall be masters of the world, with which we will
                  "share our fortune and our liberty."
                  Tallien prophesies, that before three months a
                  counter-revolution will be effected; and he
                  therefore advises his colleagues to make their
                  political testament.
                  Thibadeau immediately accuses Tallien of all the
                  calamities of the  revolution.
                  Clairfait and Wurmser compel the French to repass
                  the Rhine precipitately, and obtain great
                  advantages over them.
                  Baudin, the organ of the committees of government,
                  proposes to the convention to adopt a plan of a
                  general amnesty for any act regarding the
                  revolution, excepting always the banished priests,
                  the emigrants, the fabricators of forged assignats,
                  and the assassins of the South.
                  As to the punishment of death, it is not to be
                  abolished till peace be established.
             24.  Rewbell pretends that the new government cannot
                  establish itself but by calling in the assignats,
                  and substituting an augmentation of taxes.
                  The convention, having proclaimed an amnesty,
                  declares its sittings at an end; and to make up the
                  500 members who are to remain, it constitutes
                  itself into an electoral body.
                  Le Bon is condemned to death by the criminal
                  tribunal of Amiens.
                  The colonists of St. Domingo, who are at Paris,
                  nominate their deputies to the new legislature.
             26.  From the 12th to the end of this month the
                  Austrians continue without ceasing to pursue the
                  French, and to destroy them in great numbers.

CHAPTER IV.

                  THE new legislature, or fourth assembly of the
                  French, enters upon its office.  It is composed of
                  a legislative body of 500 members; of a council of
                  ancients 250; of an executive directory of 5
                  members; and of 6 ministers, viz. for the interior
                  department, for the war, for justice, for the
                  admiralty, for foreign affairs, and for finances.
                  The five members of the executive directory are, La
                  Reveillere, le Paux, la Tourneur, Carnot, Rewbell,
                  and Barras; all ex-deputies of the national
                  convention.
Nov.            The legislative body is employed in discussing a
                  decree passed in the last sitting of the
                  convention, which imposed a tax of six milliards on
                  the landed property, and two milliards upon
                  industry.
                  The criminal tribunal acquits Gen. Menon, suspected
                  of having taken part in the, rebellion of the
                  sections.
                  The depreciation of assignats is at this time so
                  great, that a pair of shoes costs 300 livres, a
                  yard of cloth 3000, a bushel of potatoes 120, a
                  pound of bread 40, a pound of coffee and of sugar
                  175, a pound of candles and of soap 80 livres each;
                  a louis-d'or is worth 4,600 livres.
                  The executive directory obtains a grant of three
                  milliards, to be at its discretion distributed
                  among the different offices.
                  The subsistence of Paris not being assured, it is
                  decreed, that 250 quintals (each 100lbs. weight) be
                  levied on the departments bordering on Paris.
                  The Cape of Good-Hope is taken by the English.
                  The trial of Comartin, one of the chiefs of the
                  Chouans, occupies at present the military tribunal,
                  and all Paris.
                  The republican generals, and many deputies of the
                  convention are implicated in this affair.
                  A ship full of emigrants, among whom are the Duke
                  de Choiseul and the Count de Montmorency, is driven
                  by a tempest into Calais.  They are given up to the
                  criminal tribunal of that city.
                  Besides the sum above granted to the executive
                  directory, twenty-one millions more are allowed to
                  them.  Thirty millions more added for the expences
                  of the legislative body.
             23.  Public and formal audiences are given by the
                  executive directory to foreign ambassadors.
                  Insurrection of 15,000 peasants in the Velay.
                  Manheim is taken by the Austrians; 394 pieces of
                  cannon are found in it.
                  Worms and Spires are retaken by the Austrians.
                  Decreed, that the executive directory may sell the
                  moveable or personal property of the republic, (le
                  mobilier) even to the timber in the national
                  forests.
Dec.            According to the report upon the finances, the
                  arrears due amount to 3,500,000,000 livres; the
                  debt to the national bank is 31,000,000 in specie,
                  and 7,500,000 in specie to foreigners.
                  The service of the next month requires
                  20,220,000,000 in assignats.
                  Letter from the directory to the legislative body
                  declaring, that the state is in the most calamitous
                  situation; that the springs of government are
                  almost broken, that the public treasure is
                  exhausted, and that they are threatened with evils,
                  which may overwhelm the republic.
                  Decreed, that a forced loan shall be levied of
                  600,000,000 in specie upon a million of citizens.
                  It is computed that by means of three hundred
                  millions in specie, thirty milliards of assignats
                  will be taken out of circulation.  In this forced
                  loan assignats are to be taken at one per cent.
                  A motion is made to sell Compiegne, Fontainbleau,
                  Chantilly, Ramboullet, Meudon, St. Germaine, St.
                  Cloud, Choisy, Vincennes, and the wood of Boulogne.
                  The legislative body decrees 1500 millions for the
                  service of the armies.
                  Boissy d'Anglas proposes to restrain the liberty of
                  the press.
                  The city of Deux-Ponts taken by the French under
                  General St. Eyr (sic).
                  The supplying Paris alone with provisions costing
                  350 millions every ten days, the directory
                  acquaints the legislative body that the funds
                  granted for that purpose are exhausted.
                  Decreed, that the directory shall nominate all the
                  judges not elected by the primary assemblies.
                  All the ministers agree in declaring that every
                  thing is lost, if haste be not made in procuring
                  funds.
                  Merlin of Douai, minister of justice, writes to all
                  the criminal tribunals, to perform their duty with
                  energy towards the emigrants, against whom the
                  republic had sworn eternal war till death.
                  New successes of the republicans in Italy.
                  The Austrians continue to obtain advantages over
                  Pichegru and Jourdan.
                  Gronville, envoy from the republic to Copenhagen,
                  is threatened with recall if his Danish Majesty
                  does not acknowledge the French republic.
                  Cambon, to exculpate himself from charges of
                  misconduct, publishes an account, setting forth,
                  that during forty-four months of his administration
                  there were issued only 11,578,056,623 livres in
                  assignats, and in the ten months and a half after
                  him there were issued 17,852,226,000 livres in
                  assignats.

THE THIRD EDITION.

BY H. GOUDEMETZ, A French Clergyman, Emigrant in England.

TO THE TRULY HUMANE AND BENEVOLENT, WHOSE LIBERALITY THE AFFLICTED STRANGER HAS SO LARGELY
EXPERIENCED, THIS LITTLE PUBLICATION, HONOURED WITH THEIR PATRONAGE AND PROMOTED BY THEIR MUNIFICENCE,
is, IN TESTIMONY OF THE GRATITUDE WITH WHICH HIS HEART OVERFLOWS, MOST THANKFULLY AND RESPECTFULLY
INSCRIBED,

BY THEIR EVERLASTINGLY OBLIGED AND DEVOTED HUMBLE SERVANT,

H.  GOUDEMETZ,

******

JUDGMENT

AGAINST

LOUIS XVI.

IN the National, Convention of France, [Footnote: N.B. In this Convention, 76 were ex-nobles;
between 50 and 60 ex-priests; the rest consisted of lawyers, merchants, husbandmen, and a great
number of artisans, men who had no property, but what they acquired by spoil from the rich.]
on the 17th, 18th, and 19th days of January, 1793, the three following questions were successively
put to the vote.

QUESTION THE FIRST.

Is LOUIS guilty or not?

Of the 745 members of the Convention, 20 were absent, 5 sick, 27 gave modified opinions, 693
voted in the affirmative.

President "I declare in the name of the National Convention LOUIS "CAPET to be found guilty
of a conspiracy against the liberty of the "nation, and of an attempt to disturb the public
security."

QUESTION THE SECOND.

Shall the sentence to be passed upon LOUIS be referred to the sanction of the people?

The result of the appel nominal on this question was; 3 sick; 20 absent; 10 refused to vote;
283 voted for, and 424 against it.

President "I declare in the name of the National Convention, that its "sentence shall not be
submitted to an appeal to the people."

QUESTION THE THIRD

What punishment shall be inflicted upon LOUIS?

The appel nominal for the definitive sentence, by DEPARTMENTS.

******

[Editor's note: The decisions of the members of the convention are given Department by Department
and the list is followed by an alphabetical list of the members with the page number on which
each appears.  For this reason it has been decided that the page numbers of the original publication
should be shown from this point.]

******

N.B.  The first column expresses the name and quality of the voters; the second, the manner
in which they gave their votes; in the third, those who voted for death absolutely are distinguished
by the mark +; those for death with restrictions as to the time, by the letter D; those for
detention, banishment, &c. by the letter O; absentees (a); not voted, by (nv); sick by (m);
the fourth column shows the fate or punishment of many of the members; A signifying assassinated;
G guillotined; I imprisoned; M massacred; P proscribed and S suicides.

******

Page 151

1. HAUTE GARONNE (TOULOUSE)

Mailhe       Death...............................................+
Delmas       Death...............................................+
Projean      Death...............................................+
Perès        "We are a Political  body, and not a court of
             "justice; we cannot make ourselves, judges without
             "becoming despots.  I vote for confinement
             "(reclusion) and afterwards banishment."..........O
Julien       Death...............................................+  G
Calès        Death...............................................+
De Sacy      Death, with respite (avec sursis)...................D
Mazade       "I do not think I have power to judge; I am for
             "confinement."......................................O
Rouzet       Detention...........................................O  I
Drulhe       Detention...........................................O

2. GERS (AUSCH)

La Plaigne   Death...............................................+  I Montaut      Death...............................................+
I

Page 152

Descamps     Death...............................................+  I Dubarran     Death...............................................+
I La Guire     Death...............................................+ Cappin       Detention...........................................O
Jehon        Death...............................................+ Bousquet     Death, with
discussion as to the time...............D Moysset      Detention...........................................O
I

3. GIRONDE (BOURDEAUX)

Vergniault   Death...............................................+  G
Gensonnè     Death...............................................+  G
Guadet       Death, with respite.................................D PG
Jay          Death...............................................+
Ducos        Death...............................................+  G
Gazeau       Death...............................................+
De Leyre     Death...............................................+  I
Fonfrede     Death...............................................+  G
Grangeneuve  "Although many Of my colleagues have manifested
             "sentiments ill agreeing with the impartiality of a
             "court of judicature; and have employed all
             "possible means of influence, in order to extort
             "from the national convention a sentence of death;
             "I vote for confinement only." .....................O  G

Page 153

Du Plantier  Death, with respite.................................D La Caze      Confinement
and banishment..........................O  G Bergoin      Confinement.........................................O

4. L'HERAULT (MONTPELLIER)

Cambon       Death...............................................+  I
Bonnet       Death...............................................+  S
Rouyer       Death...............................................+  I
Viennet      "An accumulation of power being monstrous, I
             "declare myself incompetent to give any other
             "sentence than for confinement."....................O
Fabre        Death...............................................+
Curèe        Confinement or deportation..........................O
Cambacerès   Death, in case of invasion only.....................O
Brunel       Confinement.........................................O
Castillon    Confinement and banishment..........................O  P

Page 154

5. ISLE ET VILAINE (RENNES)

Pastoret     Dead during the appeal.
Duval        Death...............................................+
Sevestre     Death...............................................+
Chaumont     Death...............................................+
Lanjuinais   "We have no right to put to death a vanquished
             "enemy.  I vote for confinement or banishment.".....O  P
Beaugeard    Death...............................................+
Dubignon     Confinement.........................................O
Mauxel       Confinement until we have peace.....................O
Fermont      "As a man, I do not think I have a right to take
             "away the life of another.  As a legislator, I
             "never will vote for death."........................O  I
Le Breton    "If two-thirds of the votes were required, I might
             vote for death."....................................O  I
Obelin       Confinement and banishment..........................O  I

Page 155

6. INDRE (CHATEAUROUX)

Thibaut      Death...............................................+ Le Jeune     Death...............................................+
Pepin        I am deputed only to make laws......................O Porcher      Confinement
and banishment..........................O Derazey      Confinement.........................................O
I Boudin       Confinement or deportation..........................O Mainville    Confinement.........................................O
G

7. INDRE ET LOIRE (TOURS)

Gardien      "I fear neither factions nor robbers, their
             "menaces shall never prevail on me; I think
             "myself free, because I have no fear.  Detention."..O  G
Nioche       Death...............................................+
J. Dupont    Death...............................................+
Ruelle       Death...............................................+
Pottier      Death...............................................+

Page 156

Isabeau      Death...............................................+
Bodin        "A sacrifice of human blood can never be the,
             "foundation of liberty.  Consequently I vote for
             "banishment.".......................................O
Champigny    Confinement or deportation..........................+
Vigèe        Confinement or banishment...........................O  G

8. ISERE (GRENOBLE)

Baudran      Death...............................................+
Rèal         "I have no doubt but that if the people were
             "consulted, they would choose the mildest
             "punishment.  I therefore must in consequence
             "give my vote for detention.".......................O
Genevois     Death...............................................+
Charrel      Death...............................................+
Amar         Death...............................................+  I
Genissieu    Death...............................................+
Servonat     "Let my vote expose me or not to abuse or menaces,
             "I pronounce boldly for confinement or
             "banishment.".......................................O

Page 157

Prunelle de
Lierre       "The National Convention ought to consult only
             "justice.  I therefore give my opinion for
             "banishment.".......................................O
Vaublanc     Detention.......................................... O
Boissieu     "Not having the commission of a judge, I do not
             "consider myself as qualified to apply penal
             "laws.".............................................O

9. JURA (ST. CLAUDE)

Grenot       Death...............................................+  I
Prost        Death...............................................+
Laurenceot   "Notwithstanding the menaces which have been
             "thrown out, I vote for detention.".................O  I
Amyon        Death...............................................+  I
Ferroux      Death...............................................+  I
Bonguyode    "Is it not time, that the blood of Frenchmen
             should cease to flow?  I vote for perpetual
             "imprisonment.".....................................O
Vernier      Confinement.........................................O  P

Page 158

Babey        Confinement or banishment...........................O  I Le Montey    Confinement.........................................O

10. LES LANDES (DOL)

D'Artigoyte  Death...............................................+  P
Dirès        Death...............................................+
Ducos l'ainé Death...............................................+  G
Gadroy       "I will not, like others, invoke the penal code,
             "since we have lost sight of those wholesome forms
             "that were instituted for all citizens.  Besides,
             "I do not think, that we have a right to inflict
             "the punishment of death; nor does the interest of
             "my country require it."............................O
Saurine      "My constituents have not deputed me to be a
             "criminal judge."...................................O
Le Franc     Confinement or banishment...........................O

Page 159

11. LOIRE ET  CHER (BLOIS)

Brisson      Death...............................................+
Foussedoire  Death...............................................+  I
Chabot       Death...............................................+  G
(ex capuchin)
Fressine     Death...............................................+
Le Clerc     "The punishment of death being an outrage against
             "humanity, and my powers not being unlimited, I can
             "vote only for detention."..........................O
Vanaille     Death...............................................+
Gregoire     Absent by commission................................a

12. HAUTE LOIRE (PUY)

Raynault     Death...............................................+ Delcher      Death...............................................+
Flageas      Death...............................................+ Faure        Death...............................................+
I Bonnet fils       Death...............................................+ Barthelemy   Death,
with discussion as to the time...............+  D Camus        Absent by commission................................a
I

Page 160

13. LOIRE INFERIEURE (NANTES)

Chaillon     "I have not been deputed to exercise the functions
             "of a juré.  I hold my commission from good men,
             "who are enemies of tyranny and of every
             "accumulation of power."............................O
Le Fevre     Confinement or banishment...........................O  I
Meaulle      Death...............................................+  P
Millinet     Confinement or banishment...........................O
Villiers     Death...............................................+
Jarry        Confinement.........................................O  I
Fouchè       Death...............................................+
Coustard     Banishment..........................................O  G

14. LOIRET (ORLEANS)

Delaguelle   Death...............................................+ Lombard-la   Death...............................................+
-chaux

Page 161

J. B. Louvet Death...............................................+  P
Leonard      Death...............................................+  I
-Bourbon
La Boissiere Death with respite..................................D  G
Garan-Coulon "I maintain that liberty cannot subsist with this
             "usurpation of power.  Tyranny is always there,
             "where some men are above the laws, and others
             "below them.".......................................O
Le Page      "Nature has impressed upon my heart an invincible
             "aversion to the shedding of blood.  My opinion is,
             "that one man has not a right to condemn another
             "man to death.".....................................O
Guerin       "I cannot prevail upon myself to put to death a
             "vanquished enemy.".................................O  P
Gentil       Confinement.........................................O
Pellè        Confinement.........................................O

15. LOT (CAHORS)

Cledel       Death...............................................+ St. Andrè,   Death...............................................+
I noble

Page 162

Mont Mayan   Death...............................................+
Delbret      Death, with respite.................................D
Cavaignan    Death...............................................+
Alboys       "The fear of poignards has no influence upon
             "my heart.  No man can be punished but by virtue
             "of some law antecedent to the offence."............O
Ansy         Confinement.........................................O  E
Boygnes      Confinement.........................................O
Salleles     Confinement.........................................O
Cayla        Absent through sickness.............................m

16. LOT ET GARONNE (AGEN)

Vidalot      Death...............................................+
Paganel      Death...............................................+
Boussion     Death...............................................+
Fournel      Death...............................................+
Claverie     "I cannot pronounce upon the fate of Louis but
             "according to the constitution.  Now the
             "constitution speaks only of the forfeiture of
             "the crown."........................................O

Page 163

Gayet-la
-Prade       "Not to oppose the constitution to the penal code,
             "I choose rather to vote for confinement."..........O
Noguer       "Having examined my conscience as a public man, I
             "give my opinion for detention."....................O
Laurent      Confinement.........................................O
Laroche      Confinement or banishment...........................O
Dorisy       Confinement.........................................O

17. LA LOZERE (MENDE)

Random       Death...............................................+  I
Servierre    Death...............................................+
Monestier    Death...............................................+
Barrot       "As the death of Louis does not appear to me to
             "be necessary, or even useful to the republic,
             "I vote for detention.".............................O
Aubert       Confinement.........................................O
Pellet       Absent by commission................................a

Page 164

18. MAINE ET LOIRE (ANGERS)

Choudieu     Death...............................................+  I
De l'Aulnay  Death...............................................+  G
 l'ainè
Le Paux      Death...............................................+  P
Le Clerc     Death...............................................+
Pèrard       Death...............................................+
De.
Houilliere   "I am not a judge; I am merely a legislator.
             "Consequently I can vote only for detention.".......O
D'Andenac    Confinement.........................................O
 l'ainè
D'Andenac    Confinement or deportation..........................O
 le jeune
Pilastre     Banishment..........................................O
De l'Aulnay  Confinement.........................................O
 le jeune
Le Maignan   Confinement.........................................O

Page 165

19. LA MANCHE (COUTANCES)

Le Moine     Death...............................................+
Ribet        Death, with respite.................................D
Le Tourneur  Death...............................................+
Le Carpentier Death..............................................+
Bonnesoeur   Death...............................................+
Laurence     Death...............................................+
Havin        Death...............................................+
Hubert       Death...............................................+
Gervais
-sauvè       "If the people had been willing to accumulate
             "upon my head the various functions of accuser,
             "juryman, and legislator, the burthen would have
             "been above my strength.  I vote for confinement."..O
Pinel        I vote freely for detention.........................O
Poisson      Banishment..........................................O
Engerrand    Confinement.........................................O
Bretel       Confinement.........................................O

Page 166

20. LA MARNE (RHEIMS)

Prieur       Death...............................................+  I
Thuriot      Death...............................................+  I
Ch. Charlier Death...............................................+
De la Croix  Death...............................................+  G
 de Constant
De Villers   Death...............................................+
Armonville   Death, with discussion as to time...................D
Drouet,      Death...............................................+  I
maitre
de postes
Vatelier     Death...............................................+
Poulain      Confinement.........................................O
Blanc        Banishment..........................................O  I

21. LA HAUTE MARNE (LANGRES)

Guillardin   Death...............................................+ Monnel       Death...............................................+

Page 167

Roux         Death...............................................+
Valdruche    Death...............................................+
Rousseau     Death, with discussion as to the time...............D
La Loi       Death...............................................+
Wandelin
 -court      "I except against myself (je me suis recusè)
             "as judge; therefore I can vote only for
             "confinement, as a measure of general safety."......O

22. MAYENNE (LAVAL)

Bissy,       Death...............................................+
 le jeune
Esnè         Death...............................................+  I
Du Rocher    Death...............................................+
Enjubaut     Death...............................................+  I
Serveau      Death...............................................+
Villars      "As the stability of a republic does not depend
             "upon the life, or death of a single individual,
             "and killing a tyrant is the last resource of
             "tyranny, I vote for confinement."..................O

Page 168

Le Jeune     "The law of death not being applicable to the
             "case before us, I abstain from pronouncing
             "judgment of death."................................O
Plaichard
-chottiere   Perpetual confinement...............................O

23. LE MEURTHE (NANCY)

Malarme      Death...............................................+
Levasseur    Death...............................................+
Bonneval     Death...............................................+
Salle        "My opponents have said, Do not appeal to the
             "people, because the people would not vote for
             "death; but for my part I wish not to vote, but
             "as the people would do."...........................O PG
Molveau      "Convinced that the day, on which the head of
             "Louis should fall, would probably be that of
             "the establishment of a new tyranny; and
             "apprehensive that his death would be for France,
             "what that of Charles 1. was for England, I give
             "my opinion for confinement or banishment.".........O

Page 169

Lalande      Confinement and banishment..........................O Zangiacomi   Confinement
and banishment..........................O Michel       Confinement and banishment..........................O

24. LA MEUSE (VERDUN)

Pons         Death...............................................+
Moreau       "The safety of the state does not appear to me to
             "require the death of Louis; I am for banishment."..O
Roussel      "Far from being dangerous, I think it sound
             "policy to let Louis live.".........................O
Baroche      "The judiciary power being no part of my
             "commission, I vote for confinement."...............O

Page 170

Harmand      "I cannot bring the punishment from the penal,
             "code, since you have discarded all the forms
             "of it.  I am therefore for banishment."............O
Marquis      "I am for provisional confinement.".................O
Tocquot      Confinement and banishment..........................O
Humbert      Confinement and banishment......................... O

25. MORBIHAN (VANNES)

Lequinio     Death...............................................+
Audrein      Death...............................................+
Le Hardy     "Farewell to the liberty of my country, if we are
             "to be every thing at once.  No! we are not judges.
             "The death of Kings has never been salutary to
             "liberty.  If the convention were to judge, I
             "should wish to see at least sixty of its members
             "excluded. I am for confinement."...................O  G

Page 171

Corbel       "A measure of safety is preferable to a rigorous
             "application of the law.  I therefore vote for
             "provisional confinement."..........................O
Gillet       "Inaccessible to fear, I assert that capital
             "punishment is useless and dangerous.
             "Perpetual confinement."............................O  M
Le Mailland  Confinement and banishment..........................O
Michel       Confinement and banishment..........................O
Rouault      Confinement.........................................O  I

26. LA MOSELLE (METZ)

Anthoine     Death...............................................+
Bar          Death...............................................+
Nentz        Death...............................................+  I
Thirion      Death...............................................+  I
Becker       "Neither the menaces with which this tribune has
             "resounded, nor those puerile fears, with which
             "people have sought to fill us, shall make me
             "act contrary to my Sentiments, which is for
             "confinement and banishment.".......................O

Page 172

Merlin       Confinement.........................................O Couturier    Absent on commission................................a
Blaux        Confinement.........................................O  I

27. LA NIEVRE (NEVERS)

Saustrault   Death...............................................+
Damrobe      Death...............................................+
Le Fiot      Death...............................................+
Guilrault    Death, with discussion as to time...................D
Legendre     Death...............................................+
La Planche   Death...............................................+
Jourdan      "The punishment of death is contrary to my
             "principles.  I cannot put a fellow-creature to
             "death."....................................... ....O  G

Page 173

28. NORD (DOUAY)

Merlin       Death...............................................+ Duhem        Death...............................................+
I Cochet       Death, with discussion as to time...................D Fockedey     Confinement.........................................O
Senault      Death...............................................+  P Carpentier   Death...............................................+
P Pryese       Death...............................................+ Sallengros   Death...............................................+
Poultier     Death, with discussion as to time...................D  G Aoust        Death...............................................+
G Gossuin      Absent upon commission..............................a

29. OISE (BEAUVAIS)

Couppè       Death...............................................+  I Calon        Death...............................................+

Page 174

Isorè        Death...............................................+ Ch. Villette Confinement
and banishment..........................O  M Delamare     Confinement or banishment...........................O
I Massieu, evêque intrus      Death...............................................+  P Cloots.
Baron Prussien   Death...............................................+  G Portier      Death,
with respite.................................D Bèzare       Death...............................................+
Bourdon      Death...............................................+  P Godefroy     Absent upon
commission..............................a

30. L'ORNE (ALENÇON)

Valazè       Death...............................................+  G
La
Hosdiniere   Death...............................................+
Desrouais    Death...............................................+
Dubois       Death...............................................+
Beauprè      Death, with respite.................................D
Colombel     Death...............................................+
Thomas       "If the enemy invade our territories, I vote for
             "death; otherwise for detention."...................O
Duguè
d'assey      "Having never been able to satisfy that I could
             "be both legislator and judge at once, I vote for
             "detention."........................................O  I

Page 175

Fourney      "The constitution has not inflicted the
             "punishment of death upon Kings who may be guilty
             "of conspiracy.  I am therefore for confinement
             "and banishment."...................................O

31. DEPARTMENT DE PARIS

Robespierre  "The tyrant has deserved death.  I vote for
 l'ainè      "death."............................................+  G
Avocat d'Arras
Danton,
avt.       "I vote for death"..................................+  G
Collot
d'Herbois,
comedian   Death...............................................+  B
Billaud Va
-rennes      Death...............................................+  B
Cam.
Dèsmoulins   Death...............................................+  G
journaliste
Marat,       Death...............................................+  A
journaliste
La
Vicomterie   Death...............................................+  I
Legendre,
butcher    Death...............................................+

Page 176

Raffron      Death...............................................+
Panis        Death...............................................+  I
Serjeant     Death...............................................+  P
Robert       Death, with discussion as to time...................D
Freron       Death...............................................+
Beauvais     Death, with discussion as to time...................D  G
Fabre
d'Eglantine, Death...............................................+  G
journaliste
Osselin      Death...............................................+  G
Robespierre
 le jeune    Death...............................................+  G
David,
artiste    Death...............................................+  I
Boucher      Death...............................................+
Laignelot    Death, with discussion as to time...................D  I
Thomas       Confinement.........................................O
Manuel       "Laws of blood ought not to be among the
             "principles of a republic.  The right of death
             "belongs only to nature.  Louis is laid low
             "upon the ground; it is too easy to kill him,
             "for me to give the blow."..........................O  G
Dussault     "A man may be, in my opinion an excellent patriot,
             "without putting to death his fallen enemy.  I vote
             "for confinement and banishment."...................O  P

Page 177

D'Orleans,
 called
 Egalitè     "My conscience tells me that Louis deserves death." +  G

32. PAS DE CALAIS (ARRAS)

Garnet       Death...............................................+
Duquesnoy    Death...............................................+  S
Le Bas       Death...............................................+  S
Guffroy      Death...............................................+
Bollet       Death...............................................+
Varlet       "I vote for detention, because the nation ought
             "not to be influenced by sentiments of revenge."....O
Enlard       "My conscience points it out as my duty to have
             "nothing to do with the penal code.  I am for
             "confinement and banishment.".......................O

Page 178

Dannon       "The experience of those nations, who have put
             "their King to death, proves the contrary of
             "what you hope for.  I am for confinement and
             "transportation."...................................O
Personne     Confinement and banishment..........................O
Tho. Payne   Confinement and banishment..........................O  I
Magniez      Confinement and banishment..........................O

33. PUY DE DOME (CLERMONT)

Couthon      Death...............................................+  G
Gibergues    Death...............................................+  I
Maignet      Death...............................................+
Romme        Death...............................................+  S
Soubrany     Death...............................................+  G
Rudelle      Death...............................................+
Monestier    Death...............................................+
La Loue      Death...............................................+
Blanval      Death, with discussion as to time...................D
Du Laure     Death...............................................+  P
Bancal       "The thirst of vengeance and of blood is found
             "only in individuals and factions; but never in a
             "great nation.  I think, besides, that the
             "majority of French citizens would not vote for
             "actual death.  A legislator ought to resist all
             "private passions which surround him, to brave
             "with firmness every danger, and to obey nothing
             "but his conscience and his reason.  I am for
             "detention."........................................O  I

Page 179

Girot
 -pouzol     Confinement and banishment..........................O
..
34. HAUTES PYRÉNNÉES (SIC) (TARBES)

Barrere,
ex-noble   Death...............................................+  B
Ferrand      Death...............................................+  M
La Crampe    Death...............................................+
Dupont       "Behind this mausoleum I see a lion springing
             "from his den, and a dangerous enemy substituted
             "in the place of a vanquished one.  I vote for
             "confinement."......................................O
Picquè       "I am for death; but not till after the cessation
             "of hostilities."...................................D
Gertoux      Confinement and banishment..........................O

35. BASSES PYRÉNNÉES (PAU)

Sanadon,
eveque
intrus      "Being a legislator, I am not a judge.  I cannot
             "vote but for confinement.".........................O  P
Pèmartin     "I am only at liberty to adopt a measure of
             "safety, which is, confinement or banishment."......O
Comte        "I am for the same punishment as the last
             "speaker."..........................................O
Meillant     "It Would, in my judgment, be a most mistaken
             "measure to cut off that head, which may one
             "day become useful.  Confinement and
             "banishment.".......................................O

Page 181

Casenave     "The accumulation of so many inconsistent powers
             "appears to me, notwithstanding the paradoxes
             "and sophisms which art has invented in the
             "course of this proceeding, to be a monstrous
             "tyranny, in which I am not willing to bear a
             "part.  The only punishment applicable to Louis
             "is forfeiture of the crown.".......................O  P
Neveu        "I fulfil my duty in voting for confinement.".......O

36. PYRÉNNÉES ORIENTALES (PERPIGNAN)

Montegot     Death...............................................+
Cazanies     Death...............................................+
Biroteau     "During the war I vote for confinement; and
             "after peace is established, for death."............O  G
Guyter       Confinement and banishment..........................O  I
Fabre        Absent through sickness.............................m

Page 182

37. HAUT RHIN (COLMAR)

Ritter       Death...............................................+
La Porte     Death...............................................+
Joannot      Death...............................................+
Pflieger     Death...............................................+
Dubois       "I am not a judge.  This character belongs to
             "none of us.  If we were judges, we should
             "perform the duties Of such, and observe forms.
             "I am for provisional confinement.".................O
Albert       Provisional confinement.............................O
Rewbel       Absent through sickness.............................m

38. BAS RHIN (STRASBOURG)

Laurent      Death...............................................+ Bentabole    Death...............................................+
Louis        Death...............................................+  P

Page 183

Arbogast     "I see the security of the republic depends on
             "the detention of Louis until time of peace.".......O
Christiani   Confinement.........................................O
Dentzell     Confinement.........................................O  I
Simon        Absent upon commission..............................a  G
Rhull        Absent upon commission..............................a  S
Erman        Absent through sickness.............................m

39. RHONE ET LOIRE (LYON)

Dupuis, fils Death...............................................+
Dubonchet    Death...............................................+
Pressavin    Death...............................................+
Noel Pointe  Death...............................................+
L'Evêque     Death...............................................+
Chasset      "The convention, by its conduct in the violation
             "of judiciary forms, has convinced me that it
             "does not mean to place itself in the situation
             "of a judge.  It is therefore not permitted me
             "to  vote for death.  I am for confinement until
             "the time of peace."................................O

Page 184

Michel       "Reasons of state and of public good make me
             "incline to detention.".............................O
Patrin       "The existence of Louis is useful; his death.
             "dangerous."........................................O
Lanthenas    "My opinion is, that Louis deserves death; but
             "only in case of a foreign war."....................O  I
Eusset       Death...............................................+
Moulin       "I vote for death; but not until all the Bourbons
             "are expelled.".....................................O
Vitet        Confinement.........................................O  P
Fournier     Confinement.........................................O
Bezaud       Confinement and banishment..........................O
Forest       Confinement and banishment..........................O

40. HAUTE SAONE (VESOUL)

Gourdan      Death...............................................+ Siblot       Death...............................................+

Page 185

Bolot        Death...............................................+ Dormier      Death...............................................+
Vigneron     Confinement and banishment..........................O Chauvier     Confinement
and banishment........................ .O Balivet      Confinement and banishment..........................O

41. SAONE ET LOIRE (MACON)

Carra,
journal
-iste       Death...............................................+  G
Gelin        Death...............................................+
Guillermin   Death...............................................+
Reverchon    Death...............................................+
Bodot        Death...............................................+
Guilmardet   Death, with discussion as to time...................D
Mailly       Death...............................................+
Montgilbert  "If the enemies invade the French territory, then
             "only I am of opinion that Louis should die.".......O
Moreau       Death...............................................+
Masuyer      Confinement till the peace..........................O PG

Page 186

Bertucat     "I cannot judge arbitrarily in this case.
             "Perpetual confinement."............................O

42. LA SARTHE (LE MANS)

Richard      Death...............................................+
Primaudiere  Death...............................................+
Phelippeau   Death...............................................+  G
Boutrone     Death...............................................+
Levasseur    Death...............................................+  I
Froger       Death...............................................+
Letourneur   Death...............................................+
Syeyes       "Death, (adding) without a word more"...............+
Salmon       "I am for detention; lest the anarchists and
             "ambitious find in the death of Louis more food
             "for their intrigues."..............................O  I
Chevalier    "The law does not permit me to pronounce any
             "other sentence than forfeiture of the crown."......O  I

Page 187

43. SEINE ET OISE (VERSAILLES)

Lecointre    Death...............................................+  I
Bassal       Death...............................................+  P
Audoin       Death...............................................+  P
Treilhard    Death...............................................+
Tallien      Death.............................................. +
Chenier      Death...............................................+  G
Royt         "I vote for death, but not until after the
             "constitution has been ratified."...................O
Mercier      "The sentence of death is impolitic and dangerous.
             "The phantom of a King may be of marvellous
             "service to us.  Perpetual confinement."............O  P
Kersaint     "I do not think myself called forth to pronounce
             "a judicial sentence.  And if I were a judge, I
             "should vote in mercy, and not in hatred.  I have
             "no notion of a great nation acting from revenge;
             "in this struggle the inequality of the parties
             "makes it shocking.  I am for confinement until
             "the time of peace."................................O  G

Page 188

Dupuis       Confinement.........................................O Alquier      Death, after
the peace..............................D Gorsas, journa -liste      Detention...........................................O
G Haussman     Absent by commission................................a Hèrault de Sechelles,
avocat -general    Absent by commission................................a  G

44. SEINE INFERIEURE (ROUEN)

Albite       Death...............................................+  p
Pocholles    Death...............................................+
Vincent      "To condemn Louis to death is to provoke a civil.
             "war, to ruin the nation, to overturn the state,
             "and to destroy liberty altogether.  I am for
             "confinement and banishment.".......................O  G

Page 189

Bailleul     "Consider that before posterity the illusion will
             "cease, and the passions will be no more.  You
             "wish for the happiness of the people, and the head
             "of Louis is your security for it.  I vote for
             "detention."........................................O  I
Mariette     "I have only the quality of legislator; that of
             "judge is inconsistent with it.  I vote for
             "banishment.".......................................O
Doublet      "The evils which the death of Stuart brought upon
             "England, make me vote for detention."..............O  I
Rualt        "It is very strange that people are so earnest to.
             "follow the penal code, when they have not
             "followed, in the forms of proceeding, any one of
             "the articles of criminal legislation.  I vote for
             "provisional confinement."..........................O  P
Faure,
libraire   Confinement and banishment..........................O
Bourgeois    Confinement and transportation......................O
Hardy,
medicin    Confinement and banishment..........................O

Page 190

Yger         Confinement and banishment..........................O
Hecquet      Confinement and banishment..........................O  I
Duval,       Confinement and banishment..........................O
 avocat
Lefevre,
 juge      Confinement and banishment..........................O
Blutel       Confinement and banishment..........................O  I
Delahaye     Confinement.........................................O  P

45. SEINE ET MARNE (MELUN)

Mauduit      Death...............................................+
Tellier      Death...............................................+  S
Cordier      Death...............................................+
Bernard      "I am for death, but not until after the
             "constitution is settled."..........................O
Bailly de    "I consider Louis as an hostage necessary to public
 Juilly      "tranquility.  I am for confinement and
             "banishment.".......................................O  P
Himbert      "I have the fullest conviction that I cannot act as
             "a judge.  You have annulled the high national
             "court, and are you not afraid that history will
             "accuse you of having usurped a power which did not
             "belong to you?  I am for confinement and
             "banishment.".......................................O

Page 191

De France    "Since all judiciary forms are trampled under foot,
             "I vote for confinement.............................O
Vigny        Confinement and banishment..........................O
Geoffry,     Confinement.........................................O
 l'ainè
Opoix        Confinement and banishment..........................O
Bernier      Provisional confinement.............................O

46. LES DEUX SEVRES (NIORT)

Lecointepuy
-raveau      Death...............................................+
Dubreuil     Death...............................................+  I
Cochon       Death...............................................+
L'Official   "I declare that I have no power to judge
             "criminally.".......................................O
Jard-        Confinement and transportation......................O
 panviller

Page 192

Anguis       Confinement and transportation......................O Du Chatel    Absent through
sickness.............................m  G

47. LA SOMME (AMIENS)

Saladin      Death...............................................+  I
Dumont       Death...............................................+
Delecloy     Death...............................................+
Scellier     Death...............................................+
Florent      "Although my opinion does not seem to be that which
-louvet      "will prevail, I vote for detention."...............O  P
Du Festel    "My electoral assembly was so far from designing to
             "give me a judicial power, that when it nominated
             "me a deputy, it appointed two haut jures"
             [Footnote: They are appointed in every department
             to try all causes, civil and criminal."] "at the
             "same time.  Confinement and banishment."...........O

Page 193

Sillery,     "My constituents were not so senseless as to
noble      "accumulate upon my head all sorts of powers.  I
             "vote for banishment................................O  G
De Veritè    "I cannot be accuser and judge in the same cause.
             "Confinement and banishment.........................O  P
Rivery,      Confinement.........................................O
avocat
Gantois      Confinement and banishment..........................O
Martin       Confinement.........................................O
 St. Prix
Asselin,     Confinement.........................................O
avocat

48. LE TARN (CASTRES)

La Source    Death...............................................+  G
La Combe     Death...............................................+
 St. Michel
Campmas      Death...............................................+
Gourry       "As soon as you shall have voted the expulsion of
             "all the Bourbons, I will vote for the death of
             "Louis; but not before."............................O

Page 194

Soloniac     Confinement and banishment..........................O Marvejols    Confinement
and banishment..........................O Rochegude    Confinement and banishment..........................O
Meyer        Confinement and transportation......................O D'Ambermènil Absent by illness...................................m
I

49. LE VAR (TOULON)

Escudier     Death...............................................+  I Ricard       Death...............................................+
I Charbonier   Death...............................................+  I D'Espinassy  Death...............................................+
Isnard       Death...............................................+  P Roubaud      Death, with
discussion as to time...................D Barras       Death...............................................+
Antiboul     Confinement.........................................O  G

Page 195

50. LA VENDEE (FONTENAY-LE-COMTE)

Goupilleau,  Death...............................................+  P
 l'ainè
Goupilleau,  Death...............................................+
 le jeune
Maignen      Death...............................................+
Fayo         Death...............................................+
Musset       Death, with discussion as to time...................D
Garros       Death...............................................+
Gaudin       "I cannot  imagine  that the French people
             "delegated to us a despotic power--that is, a power
             "to make laws and to apply them.  I am for
             "confinement and banishment.".......................O  I
Girard       Confinement and banishment..........................O
Morisson     "I do not think that Louis is subject to our
             "jurisdiction; therefore I abstain from voting."....nv

Page 196

51. LA VIENNE (POITIERS)

Piozzy       Death...............................................+
Martineau    Death...............................................+
Ingrand      Death...............................................+
Thibaudot    Death...............................................+
Creuzè-      "I do not think that men who make laws can order
 la-touche   "the death of any man.  I vote for confinement and
             "banishment.........................................O
Creuzè-      Confinement.........................................O
 paschal
Dutroubor-   Confinement and banishment..........................O
 nier
Bion         Confinement and banishment..........................O

52. LA HAUTE VIENNE (LIMOGES)

Gay Vernon   Death...............................................+

Page 197

Lesterp      "For death, in case of an hostile invasion."........O  P
 beauvais
Bordas       "As a measure of safety, I decide for confinement.".O
Faye         "My conscience forbids me to vote for death.".......O
La Croix     Confinement and banishment..........................O  G
Rivaud       Confinement.........................................O
Soulignac    Confinement.........................................O  P

53. LES VOSGES (EPINAL)

Perrin       Death...............................................+
Poulain      Death, but not till after the constitution.......   O
 grand-prè
Souhait      Confinement.........................................O
Baland       Confinement.........................................O
Couhey       Confinement and banishment..........................O
Bresson      "Judges prostrate themselves before a law that is
             "equal for all, but we have violated equality to
             "make an exception against a single individual.
             "Judges have a bandage of ice (bandeau glace) upon
             "their forehead, but hatred against Louis burns and
             "devours us.  Judges reject severe opinions, but we
             "publish with pride the rigour of our judgments.
             "Judges mitigate the horror of a condemnation by
             "the expression of pity, but our aversion pursues
             "Louis even under the axe of the executioner.  From
             "hence I conclude that we are not judges, and that
             "I cannot vote but for confinement."................O  I

Page 198

Noël         Absent by commission................................a  G Hugo         Absent by
commission................................a

54. L'YONNE (AUXERRE)

Le Pelletier Death...............................................+  A
 de St. Fargeau
Maure        Death...............................................+  S

Page 199

Herard       Death...............................................+ J. Boileau   Death...............................................+
G Turreau      Death...............................................+  I Bourbotte    Death...............................................+
G Finot        Death, with discussion as to time...................D Precy        Death, but
not till after the constitution..........O Chatelain    Confinement and banishment..........................O

55. L'AIN (BOURG-EN-BRESSE)

Deydier      Death...............................................+ Merlin       Death...............................................+
Gautier      Death...............................................+ Royer        Confinement
and banishment..........................O  I Mollet       Confinement.........................................O

56. L'AISNE (LAON)

Quinette     Death...............................................+  I Jean de Brie Death...............................................+

Page 200

St. Just     Death...............................................+  G
Beffroy      Death...............................................+
Petit        Death...............................................+
Fiquet       Death...............................................+
Loisel       Death, with discussion as to time...................D
Boucheron    Death, with discussion as to time...................D
Condorcet,
 academicien  "The  punishment of death is contrary to my
                "principles; I shall never vote for it. I vote
                "for the heaviest punishment of the penal code
                "which does not amount to death."................* PM
Dupin,          "I am of the Same opinion with Monsieur
                "Condorcet; that is, I vote for confinement in
                "chains."........................................*
Belin           "I vote for death only in case of invasion
                "by the enemy."..................................O

             [Footnote: * N.B. These two are in the report said
             to have voted for chains.]

Page 201

57. L'ALLIER (MOULINS)

Vidalin      Death...............................................+ Martel       Death...............................................+
Beauchamp    Death...............................................+ Chevalier    "I think it
my duty not to vote."...................nv

58. HAUTES ALPES (GAP)

Izoard       Confinement.........................................O
Barety       Confinement.........................................O
Borel        Confinement.........................................O
Caseneuve    Confinement.........................................O I
Serres       "My country, my conscience, my love of liberty,
             "dictate my vote for detention."....................O

Page 202

59. BASSES ALPES (DIGNE)

Maysse       Death...............................................+  I
Derbès       Death...............................................+
 la tour
Savornin     Death...............................................+
Peyze        Death...............................................+  G
Verdallin    "I vote for detention, because the death of Louis
             "would only cause tyranny to revive."...............O
Reguis       Confinement and banishment..........................O

60. L'ARDECHE (PRIVAS)

Gleizal      Death...............................................+
Soubeyran    "I vote for death, but not till the expulsion of
             "all the Bourbons.".................................O

Page 203

Gamon        "I am for the same punishment, but in case of
             "invasion by the enemy."............................O
St. Martin   "I would have Louis live, because the pretensions
             "to royalty will be without any danger, so long as
             "they shall rest on his head.  I am for life and
             "confinement."......................................O
Garilhe      "Every irrevocable act which is not ratified by the
             "people, is void.  I am therefore for confinement.".O  I
Boissi-      Confinement and transportation......................O
 d'Anglas
Corin-       Confinement and banishment..........................O
 Fustier

61. ARDENNES (MEZIERES)

Ferry        Death...............................................+ Dubois       Death...............................................+
Robert       Death...............................................+

Page 204

Monesson     "I consent to death, provided that you first expel
             "all the Bourbons.".................................O
Vermond      "If there shall be an invasion, I vote for death."..O
Bodin        Banishment..........................................O
Thierrier    Perpetual detention.................................O
Blondel      Confinement; death in case of invasion..............O

62. ARRIEGE (FOIX)

Vadier       Death...............................................+  B
Espert       Death...............................................+  P
Clauzel      Death...............................................+
Camp         Death...............................................+
 Martin
Lakanal      Death...............................................+
Gaston       Death, with discussion as to time...................D

63. AUBE (TROYES)

Courtois     Death...............................................+ Robin        Death...............................................+

Page 205

Garnier      Death...............................................+
Rabaut       "Persuaded that the ashes, from the funeral pile of
 St. Etienne "kings, like the ashes of martyrs, only produce
             "others; satisfied also that my nation ought not to
             "have the ferocity of the tiger which tears to
             "pieces, but the courage of the lion which despises,
             "I vote for preserving Louis as an hostage."........O  G
Perrin       Confinement and banishment..........................O  G
Bonnemain    Confinement and deportation.........................O
Douge        Confinement and deportation.........................O
Pierret      Confinement and deportation.........................O
Duval        Confinement and banishment..........................O

64. L'AUDE (CARCASSONE)

Azema        Death...............................................+ Girard       Death...............................................+
Bonnet       Death...............................................+ Ramel        Death...............................................+
G

Page 206

Morin        Confinement.........................................O Tournier     Confinement
and banishment..........................O  I Marragon     Death...............................................+
Periès       Confinement and transportation......................O  I

65. L'AVEYRON (RHODES)

Camboulas    Death...............................................+
Jos.         Death...............................................+
 la Combe
Seconds      Death...............................................+
Louchet      Death...............................................+
Baux         Death...............................................+
Godefroy-    "Eternal justice forbids us to condemn Louis to
 Ysarn       "to death; because it abhors aggravation, and the
             "making of ex-post-facto criminal laws, in order to
             "apply them to acts that are past.  Now there is no
             "written law which inflicts this punishment upon
             "Louis for any act, before he was hurled from the
             "throne into a prison.  I satisfy myself in voting
             "for confinement."..................................O

Page 207

St. Martin-  Confinement and banishment..........................O
 Valogues
Lobinès      Confinement and banishment..........................O
Bernard      Confinement and banishment..........................O
 St. Afrique

66. BOUCHES DU RHONE (AIX)

Duprat       Death...............................................+  G Rebecqui     Death...............................................+
S Barbaroux    Death...............................................+ PS Bayle        Death...............................................+
I Granet       Death...............................................+  P Gasparin     Death...............................................+
G Rovere       Death...............................................+ Pelissier    Death, with
discussion as to time...................D Laurent      Death, with discussion as to time...................D

Page 208

Durand       "I see more inconvenience in the death of Louis,
 Maillane    "than in his existence.  I vote therefore for
             "confinement."......................................O
Du Perret    Confinement and banishment..........................O  G

67. CALVADOS (CAEN)

Bonnet       Death...............................................+
Taveau       Death...............................................+
Jouenne      Death...............................................+
Dubois       Death, only in case of invasion.....................O
 Dubais
Fauchet
evêque      "The convention has no right to accumulate, to
  intrus    "confound, and to exercise all powers.  It is the
             "right of tyranny alone.  I may be subjected to it,
             "but I never will practise (sic) it.  I am no
             "judge, and therefore can only vote for detention.".O  G
Vardon       "I declare myself incompetent.".....................nv

Page 209

L'Homond     Confinement.........................................O
Doulcet,
pontè-      Confinement and banishment..........................O
  coulant
Cussy        "I do not think that the glory or the interest of
             "the French people permit them to strike a
             "vanquished enemy.  I vote for confinement."........O  G
Le Got       Confinement.........................................O
Ph.          Confinement and banishment..........................O  I
  Belleville
Dumont       Confinement and banishment..........................O

68. CANTAL (ST. FLOUR)

Milhau       Death...............................................+
La Coste     Death...............................................+  I
Tarriè       Death...............................................+
Peuvergue    "My conscience tells me that the death of Louis
             "would be  prejudicial to the republic."............O
Thibault     Confinement and banishment..........................O

Page 210

Meseujac     Confinement and banishment..........................O Chabanon     Confinement
and banishment..........................O Jos. Maille  Absent with leave...................................a

69. LA CHARENTE (ANGOULEME)

Bellegarde   Death...............................................+ Chedanau     Death, with
discussion as to time...................D Guinberteau  Death...............................................+
Chazaud      Death...............................................+  G Brun         Death...............................................+
Ribereau     Death...............................................+  I Cuvelier     Death...............................................+
De Vars      Confinement and banishment..........................O Maulde       Confinement
and banishment..........................O

70. CHARENTE INFERIEURE (SAINTES)

Bernard      Death...............................................+  I Nion         Death...............................................+

Page 211

Echasseriaux Death...............................................+
Brèard       Death...............................................+
Ruamps       Death...............................................+  I
Lozeau       Death, with discussion as to time...................D
Vinet        Death...............................................+
Garnicr      Death...............................................+
Giraud       "As a legislator I think it most beneficial that
             "Louis should live."................................O
D'Autriche   "I declare that my sentiments are subject to no
             "undue influence of any sort.  So far are we from
             "being judges as well as legislators, that you
             "decided yesterday that we are not judges; I mean,
             "by your resolution, that this question should be
             "determined by a simple majority of votes.".........O
De Chezeau   Confinement and banishment..........................O  G

71. LE CHER (BOURGES)

Foucher      Death...............................................+ La Brunerie  Death...............................................+

Page 212

Peltier      Death...............................................+
Alasseur     "What says history?  Caesar was assassinated, and
             "had a successor.  The English sacrificed their
             "tyrant, and returned to their chains.  Rome
             "banished her kings, and had liberty.  I am for
             "banishment.".......................................O
Baucheton    Confinement.........................................O
Dugêne       Confinement.........................................O

72. LA CORREZE (TULLES)

Brival       Death...............................................+ Lannot       Death, with
discussion as to time...................D  I Borie        Death...............................................+
I Chambon      Death...............................................+  G Lidon        Death...............................................+
S Penieres     Death...............................................+ Lafond       "I think
it my duty to abstain from voting." .......nv

Page 213

73. CORSE (Corsica) (BASTIA)

Salicetti    Death...............................................+
Chiappe      "Having nothing to do with the application of
             "punishment.  I consider only the security of my
             "fellow citizens, which is the supreme law; in a
             "word, I am for detention.".........................O
Andrèe       "The punishment for Louis can be no other than that
             "of forfeiture."....................................O
Bansio       "I flatter myself that I shall deserve well of my
             "country in voting for detention."..................O
Peraldi      Confinement and banishment..........................O
Casabianca   Provisional confinement.............................O
Mottedo      Confinement.........................................O

74. COTE D'OR (DIJON)

Bazire       Death...............................................+  G
Guyton-      Death...............................................+
 morveau

Page 214

Prieur       Death...............................................+  P
Oudot        Death...............................................+
Treilhard    Death...............................................+
Guyot        Death, with discussion as to time...................D
Berthier     Death...............................................+
Lambert      "That I may not accumulate all functions, I think
             "it is my duty to abstain from pronouncing any
             "juridical (sic) punishment.".......................O
Marcy        "The convention may set itself up for a jury; but
             "it can be only to judge the crime, and not the
             "criminal.  To pass a definitive judgment upon
             "Louis is, in my opinion, an outrage against the
             "definitive will of the nation.  To pronounce
             "sentence of death, is an usurpation of the right
             "of the Sovereign.  I will not be a judge--I
             "cannot, and I ought not to be one.
             " Representatives of the people!  You have
             "destroyed the despot; suffer the man to live.  Let
             "him drag in captivity a groveling life.  You are
             "the depositaries of French honour.  Europe has her
             "eyes upon you.  Posterity is advancing.  It will
             "judge you, and its voice will pass through ages." .O

Page 215

Rameau       "It is not in your power to give me the quality of
             "judge, which I have not received from the
             "sovereign.  Accordingly I do not think myself
             "bound by this monstrous decree." ..................O

75. COTES DU NORD (ST. BRIEUX)

Londe        Death...............................................+
Couppè       "Of the two punishments proposed to be inflicted on
             "Louis, I choose the mildest, that is detention."...O
Champeaux    "My constituents have deputed me to make laws, and
             "not to judge.".....................................O

Page 216

Guyomard     "The re-union of all powers characterises
             "despotism, whether it be in an individual, or in a
             "body of men.  It is bad policy to multiply the
             "number of our enemies fourfold, and to lavish the
             "blood of our brethren.  Shall we then, by
             "punishing Louis, augment the list of victims still
             "more?  I vote for confinement.".............. .....O
Gondelin     "I am not afraid of menaces.  I am ready to
             "sacrifice my blood for my country.  I vote,
             "according to my conscience, for detention."........O
Gautier,     Perpetual confinement...............................O
 le jeune
Fleury       Perpetual confinement...............................O  I
Giraud       Perpetual confinement...............................O

76. LA CREUSE (GUERET)

Huguet       Death...............................................+  I Guyes        Death...............................................+

Page 217

De Bourges   "In my capacity as legislator, I am unwilling to
             "deliberate and to give my vote upon the question,
             "what punishment shall be inflicted on Louis."......O
Tenier       "As history teaches, that from the ashes of one
             "king another springs up, I vote for detention."....O
Coutisson    Confinement.........................................O
Jaurand      Confinement.........................................O
Baraillon,   Provisional confinement.............................O
physician

77. LA DORDOGNE (PERIGUEUX)

La Marque    Death...............................................+  I Pinet        Death...............................................+
Lacoste      Death...............................................+ Taillefer    Death...............................................+
P Peussard     Death...............................................+  I Allafort     Death...............................................+
Lambert      Confinement.........................................O

Page 218

Bouquier     Death...............................................+
Roux-        Death...............................................+
 fazillac
Meynard      "My  reason tells me, that I cannot both make and
             "apply the law; it tells me, that I cannot destroy
             "the effect of the law, in order to substitute my
             "own will in its place; it tells me in short, that
             "the blending of powers is too arbitrary for the
             "government of a free people, and that I ought not
             "to vote, but (as a measure of public safety) for
             "provisional confinement." .........................O

78. DOUBS (BESANCON)

Michaud      Death...............................................+ Vernety      Death...............................................+
Monnot       Death...............................................+ Besson       Death...............................................+

Page 219

Guyrot       "I do not condemn Louis to death, because, when I
             "open the penal code, I see that other forms were
             "necessary, other judges, and other principles.
             "I am for confinement.".................... ........O
Sèguin       Confinement, and banishment.........................O

79. LA DROME (ROMANS)

Julien       Death...............................................+  I
Santeyra     Death...............................................+
Boisset      Death...............................................+
Jacomin      Death...............................................+
Collaud de   Death, in case only of invasion.....................O
 la Salcette
Fayolle      "I have never been satisfied that the convention
             "should set itself up for a court of justice.
             "Confinement."......................................O  I
Martinet     Confinement.........................................O
Marbos       Confinement.........................................O
Gèrente      Confinement.........................................O

Page 220

80. L'EURE (EVREUX)

Lindet,      Death...............................................+
 l'ainê,
evêque
    intrus
Buzot        Death...............................................+  P
Duroy        Death...............................................+  G
Bouillerot   Death...............................................+
Lindet       Death...............................................+
  le jeune
Richou       "Foreseeing that the death of Louis will be the
             "source of bitter misfortunes, I should regard
             "myself as unworthy the name of citizen, if I voted
             "for his punishment.  Confinement and banishment."..O  P
Le Marechal  "That I may not be reproached with having swerved
             "from my mission, and with having set an example of
             "the most monstrous tyranny, I vote for
             "confinement."......................................O

Page 221

Vallèe       "I am for provisional confinement, and for death in
             "case the French territory be invaded.".............O  I
Savary       Confinement.........................................O  I
Topsent      Confinement.........................................O

81. L'EURE ET LOIRE (CHARTRES)

La Croix     Death...............................................+
Brissot      Death...............................................+  G
Pethion,     Death...............................................+ PM
maire de
  Paris
Le Sage      Confinement.........................................O  P
Loiseau      Death, with delay...................................+
Châles       Death...............................................+  P
Fremenger    Death...............................................+
Giroust      "Having no power to vote but as a legislator, I am
             "for detention."....................................O  I
Bourgeois    Confinement.........................................O

Page 222

82. FINISTERRE (QUIMPER)

Boham        Death...............................................+
Blad         Death...............................................+  I
Guernoi      Death...............................................+
Guermeur     Death...............................................+
Gommaire     "Considering the past events which I have seen,
             "considering the present events which I now behold,
             "and considering those future events which I
             "apprehend, I am of opinion that the life of Louis
             "is of more value to the republic than his death."..O
Marcè        Confinement and banishment..........................O
Queince      Confinement and transportation......................O
Kervelegan   "I am of the same opinion as the last.".............O
Kleber       Confinement.........................................O

Page 223

83. LE GARD (NISMES)

Jal          Death...............................................+
Leyris       Death...............................................+
Vouland      Death...............................................+  P
Chazal,      Death...............................................+  I
 fils
Tavernel     "Death, but not until after the ratification of the
             "constitution.".....................................O
Aubry        The same............................................O  P
Rabaut-      The same............................................O  G
 pommier
Balla        Confinement.........................................O

The Names of the above-mentioned Voters in alphabetical order.

N.B. The figures refer to the page.

Alasseur     212 Baudran      156 Bolot         185 Carpentier le 165
Albert       182 Bansio       213 Bonguyode     157 Carpentier    173
Albite       188 Baux         206 Bonnemain     205 Carra         185
Alboys       162 Bazire       213 Bonnesoeur    165 Casabianca    213
Allafort     217 Bayle        207 Bonnet        153 Caseneuve     201
Alquier      188 Beauchamp    201 Bonnet        208 Casenave      181
Amar         156 Beaugeard    154 Bonnet        159 Castillon     153
Ambermèuil   194 Beauprè      174 Bonnet        205 Cazanies      181
Amyon        157 Beauvais     176 Bonneval      168 Caze          153
Andrèe       213 Becker       171 Bordas        197 Cavaignan     162
Andrè (St.)  161 Beffroy      200 Borel         201 Cayla         162
Anguis       192 Belin        200 Borie         212 Chabanon      210
Ansy         162 Bellegarde   210 Boucher       176 Chabot        159
Antiboul     194 Belleville   209 Boucheron     200 Châles        221
Anthoine     171 Bentabole    182 Boudin        155 Chaillon      160
Aoust        173 Bezaud       184 Bouillerot    220 Chambon       212
Arbagast     183 Bergoin      153 Bouquier      218 Champeaux     215
Armonville   166 Bernard      190 Bourbotte     199 Champigny     156
Artigoyte D' 158 Bernard      210 Bourdon       161 Charbonier    194
Asselin      193 Bernard St.      Bourdon       174 Charlier      166
Aubert       163  Afrique     207 Bourgeois     189 Charrel       156
Aubry        223 Bernier      191 Bourgeois     221 Chasset       183
Audoin       187 Berthier     214 Bourges (de)  217 Chatelain     199
Audrein      170 Bertucat     186 Bousquet      152 Chaumont      154
Aulnay de l' 164 Besson       218 Boussion      162 Chauvier      185
Aulnay de l' 164 Bezere       174 Boutrone      186 Chaux (la)    160
Azema        205 Billaud Va-      Boygnes       162 Chazal        223
     B.           rennes      175 Brèard        211 Chazàud       210
Babey        158 Bion         196 Brisson       159 Chedanau      210
Bailly de Ju-    Biroteau     181 Breson        197 Chenier       187
  illy       190 Bissy        167 Bretel        165 Chevalier     186
Baland       197 Blad         222 Breton (le)   154 Chevalier     201
Bailleuil    189 Blanc        166 Brissot       221 Chiappe       213
Ballivet     185 Blanval      178 Brival        212 Choudieu      164
Balla        223 Blaux        172 Brun          210 Christiani    183
Bancal       178 Blondel      204 Brunel        153 Claverie      162
Bar          171 Blutel       190 Brunerie (la) 211 Clauzel       204
Baraillon    217 BOdin        156 Buzot         220 Cledel        161
Barbaroux    207 Bodin        204       C.          Clerc (le)    159
Barety       201 Bodot        185 Calès         151 Clerc le)     164
Barras       194 Boham        222 Calon         173 Cloots        174
Barrere      179 Boileau      199 Cambacerès    153 Cochet        173
Baroche      169 Boisset      219 Cambon        153 Cochon        191
Barrott      163 Boissi-D'An-     Camboulas     206 Cointe-pui
Barthelemy   159   glas       203 Campmartin    204  -raveau (le) 191
Bas (le)     177 Boissiere la 161 Campmas       193 Cointre (le)  187
Bassal       187 BOissieu     157 Camus         159 Collau de la
Baucheton    212 Bollet       177 Cappin        152  Salcette     219

Collot           Derasey      155      E.          Gamon          203
 d'Herbois   175 Descamps     152 Echasseriaux 211 Gantois        193
Colombel     174 Desmoulins   175 Egalitè      177 Garan
Combe (la)   206 Despinassy   194 Enlard       177  -coulon       161
Combe St.        Desrouais    174 Engerrand    165 Gardien        155
 Michel (la) 193 Devars       210 Enjubault    167 Garilhe        203
Condorcet    200 Deydier      199 Ermann       183 Garnier        205
Comte        180 Dirès        158 Escudier     194 Garnier        211
Corbel       170 Dorisy       164 Esni         167 Garnot         177
Cordier      190 Dormier      185 Espert       204 Garros         195
COrinfustier 203 Doublet      189 Eusset       184 Gasparin       207
Coste (la)   209 Douge        205      F           Gaston         204
Couhey       197 Doulcet      209 Fabre        153 Gaudin         195
Couppè       173 Drouet       166 Fabre        181 Gautier        199
Couppè       215 Drulhe       151 Fabre d'Eg -     Gautier        216
Courtois     204 Dubarran     152  lantine     176 Gayet          163
Coustard     160 Dubibgnon    154 Fauchet      208 Gayvernon      197
Couthon      178 Dubois       174 Faure        189 Gazeau         152
Coutisson    217 Dubois       182 Faure        159 Gelin          185
Couturier    172 Dubois       203 Faye         197 Genevois       156
Crampe (la)  179 Dubois-Du-       Faye         195 Genissieu      156
Creuzè-la-        bais        208 Fayolle      219 Gensonnè       152
 Tonche      196 Dubouchet    183 Fermont      154 Gentil         161
Creuzè-pas-      Dubreuil     191 Ferrand      179 Gèrente        219
 chal        196 Duchatel     192 Ferry        203 Geoffroy       191
Croix (de la)166 Ducos        152 Ferroux      157 Gertoux        180
Croix (la)   197 Ducos        158 Fevre (le)   160 Gervais-fauvè  165
Croix (la)   221 Dufestel     192 Finot        199
Curèe        153 Dugêne       212 Fiot (le)    172 Gibergues      178
Cussy        209 Duguè-dassy  174 Figuet       200 Gillet         171
Cuvelier     210 Duhem        173 Flageas      159 Girard         195
    D.           Dumont       192 Fleury       217 Girard         205
Damrobe      172 Dumont       209 Florent-lou-     Girot-pou-zol  179
D'Andenac    164 Duperret     208  vet         192
D'Andenac    164 Dupin        200 Fockedey     173 Giraud         211
Dannon       179 Duplantier   153 Fonfrede     152 Giraud         216
Danton       175 Dupont       155 Forest       184 Giroust        221
David        176 Dupont       179 Fouchè       160 Gleizal        202
D'Autriche   211 Duprat       207 Foucher      211 Godefroy       174
Debrie       199 Dupuis       183 Fournel      162 Gommaire       222
De Chezeau   211 Dupuis       188 Fourney      175 Goudelin       216
Delamare     174 Duquesnoi    177 Fournier     184 Goupilleau     195
Delbret      162 Durand-mail-     Foussedoire  159 Goupilleau     195
Delaguelle   160  lane        208 Franc (le)   158 Gourdan        184
Delcher      159 Duroy        220 France (de)  191 Gorsas         188
Delahaye     190 Dussault     176 Fremenger    221 Goussuin       173
Delecloy     192 Dutroubour-      Freron       176 Gourry         193
Delmas       151  nier        196 Fressine     159 Granet         207
Dentzell     183 Duval        154 Froger       186 Grangeneuve    152
Derbes-la-       Duval        190      G.
 tour        202 Duval        205 Gadroy       158 Gregoire       159

Grenot       157 Jeune (le)    155 Loiseau      221 Mellinet      160
Guadet       152 Jeune (le)    167 Loisel       200 Mercier       187
Guerin       161 Joannot       182 L'onde       215 Merlin        172
Guermeur     222 Jourdan       172 Lozeau       211 Merlin        173
Guernoi      222 Jouenne       208 Louchet      206 Merlin        199
Guffroy      177 Julien        151 Loue (la)    178 Meyer         194
Guillardin   166 Julien        219 Louis        182 Meynard       218
Guillermin   185 Just (St.)    200 Louvet       192 Meseujac      210
Guilmardet   185      K.           Louvet       161 Michaud       218
Guilrault    172 Kersaint      187       M.         Michel        169
Guinberteau  210 Kervelegan    222 Maignen      195 Michel        171
Guire (la)   152 Kleber        222 Maignan (le) 164 Michel        184
Guyès        216      L.           Magniez      178 Milhan        209
Guyomard     216 Lacoste       217 Maignet      181 Moine (le)    165
Guyot        214 Laignelot     176 Mailhe       151 Mollet        199
Guyrot       219 Lakanal       204 Maille       210 Molveau       168
Guyter       181 Lafond        212 Mailland         Mounel        166
Guyton-mor-      Lambert       214  Durand      218 Monnot        218
 veau        213 Lambert       217 Mailland (le)171 Moneson       204
      H.         Lalande       169 Maillv       185 Monestier     163
Hardy        189 Lanjuinais    154 Mainville    155 Monestier     178
Hardi (le)   170 Lannot        212 Maysse       202 Montant       151
Harmand      170 Lanthenas     183 Malarmè      168 Montégot      181
Hauffmann    188 Laroche       163 Manuel       176 Montey (le)   158
Havin        165 Laurence      165 Marat        175 Montgilbert   185
Hecquet      190 Lauranceot    157 Marbos       219 Montmayan     162
Herard       199 Laure (du)    178 Marcè        222 Moreau        185
Herault de       Laurent       207 Marcy        214 Moreau        169
 Sechelles   188 Lefevre       190 Marèchal (le)220 Morin         206
Himbert      190 Lecointre     187 Mariette     189 Morisson      195
Homond L'    209 Lecointe-         Marque (la)  217 Mottedo,      213
Hosdiniere   174  puyraveau    191 Marquis      170 Moulin        184
Houilliere de164 Laurent       182 Marragon     206 Moysset       152
Hubert       165 Laurent       163 Martel       201 Musset        195
Hugo         198 Legendre      172 Martin St.   203       N.
Huguet       216 Legendre      175 Martin St.       Nentz         171
Humbert      170 Legot         209  Prix        193 Neveu         180
  I./J.          LequiniO      174 Martin St.       Nioche        155
Ingrand      196 Lesterp-           valogues    217 Nion          210
Isabeau      156  beauvais     196 Martineau    196 Noël          198
Isnard       194 Letourneur    186 Martinet     219 Noël pointe   183
Izoard       201 L'Eveque      183 Marvejols    194 Noguer        163
Izore        174 Levasseur     168 Massieu      174       0.
Jacomin      219 Levasseur     186 Mauduit      190 Obelin        154
Jal          223 Leyris        223 Maure        198 Official (L') 191
Jard pan-        Leyze (de)    152 Mauld        210 OpOiX         191
 viller      191 Lidon         212 Mauzel       154 Osselin       176
Jarrv        160 Lindet        220 Marade       151 Oudot         214
Jaurand      217 Lindet        220 Masuyer      185       P.
Jay          152 Lobinès       207 Meaulle      160 Paganel       162
Jehon        152 Loi (la)      167 Meillant     180 Page (le)     161

Panis         176 Primaudiere   186 Ruamps       211 Thomas       174
Pastoret      154 Projean       151 Ruelle       155 Thomas       176
Padrin        184 Prost         157 Rudelle      178 Thuriot      166
Paux (le)     164 Prunel        157      S.          Tocquot      170
Payne         178 Pryese        173 Sacy (de)    151 Topsent      211
Pelissier     207     Q.            Sage (le)    221 Tournier     206
Pellè         161 Queince       222 Saladin      192 ToUrneur le  165
Pellet        163 Quinette      199 Salicetti    213 Treilhard    187
Pelletier, le 198      R.           Salle        168 Treilhard    214
Peltier       212 Rabaut pom-       Salleles     162 Turreau      199
Pemartin      180  mier         223 Sallengtos   173     V.
Penieres      212 Rabaut St.        Salmon       186 Vadier       204
Pepin         155  Etienne      205 Sanadon      180 Valazè       174
Perard        164 Raffron       176 Savornin     202 Valdruche    167
Peraldi       213 Rameau        215 Santeyra     219 Valleè       221
Perès         151 Ramel         205 Saurine      159 Valogues     207
Perès         206 Randon        163 Savary       221 Vardon       208
Perrin        197 Raynault      159 Saustrault   172 Varlet       177
Perrin        205 Rèal          156 Scellier     192 Vatelier     166
Personne      178 Rebecqui      207 Seconds      206 Vaublanc     157
Pethion       221 Reguis        202 Seguin       219 Venaille     159
Petit         200 Reverchon     185 Senault      173 Vergniault   152
Peussard      217 Rewbell       182 Serjeant     176 Verdallin    202
Peuvergne     209 Ribereau      210 Serres       201 Viritè (de)  193
Peyz          202 Ribet         165 Serveau      167 Vermond      204
Pflieger      182 Ricard        194 Serviere     163 Vernety      218
Phelippeaux   186 Richard       186 Servonat     156 Vernier      157
Picquè        180 Richou        220 Sevestre     154 Vicomterie
Pierret       205 Ritter        182 Siblot       184  (la)        175
Pilastre      164 Rivaud        197 Sillery      193 Vidalin      201
Pinel         165 Rivery        193 Simon        183 Vidalot      162
Pinet         217 Rhull         183 Soloniac     194 Vicunet      153
Piozzy        196 Robert        176 Soubeyran    202 Vigneron     185
Plaichart         Robert        203 Soubrany     178 Viguy        191
 chottiere    168 Robin         204 Souhait      197 Villars      167
Plaigne (la)  151 Robespierre   175 Soulignac    197 Villiers (de)166
Planche (la)  172 Robespierre   176 Source (la)  193 Villers      160
Pocholles     188 Roche-gude    194 Syeyes       186 Villette     174
Poisson       165 Rocher (du)   194      T.          Vigèe        156
Pons          169 Romme         178 Taillefer    217 Vincent      188
Porcher       155 Rouault       171 Tallien      187 Vinet        211
Porte (la)    182 Roubaud       194 Tarriè       209 Vilet        184
Portier       174 Rovere        207 Taveau       208 Vouland      223
Potrier       155 Rousseau      167 Tavernel     223      W.
Poulain       166 Roussel       169 Tellier      190 Wandelin
Poulain grand     Roux          167 Tenier       217  -court      167
 Prè          197 Roux-fazillac 218 Thibaut      155      Y.
Poultier      173 Rouzet        151 Thibault     209 Yger         190
Precy         199 Rouyer        153 Thibaudot    196 Ysarn Godf.  206
Pressavin     183 Royer         199 Thierrier    204      Z.
Prieur        166 Royt          187 Thirion      171 Zangiacomi   169
Prieur        214 Rualt         189

******

RESULT OF THE THIRD SCRUTINY.

PRESIDENT VERGNIAULT.

"CITIZENS!

     "I am going to pronounce the sentence of rigour against Louis.
"When justice has spoken, humanity should then make her voice heard.
"I intreat the members and the tribune to observe profound silence.
"The assembly is composed of 745 members: 1 of these is dead--6 are
"sick--2 absent without assigning any reason--11 are absent with
"leave--4 have not voted; the total is 24, which, being deducted
"from 745, there remain 721 voters, of whom the absolute majority is
"361.

 "36 are for death, leaving the time of it to be discussed hereafter.
  "9 for death, with respite.
  "2 for death, after a peace.
  "2 for chains.
"319 for confinement.
"366 for death.

"CITIZENS,

"The punishment pronounced against Louis is DEATH."

******

THE APPEAL OF LOUIS XVI.

"I OWE it to my honour, I owe it to my family, not to subscribe to an "accusation which I have
not merited.  I declare therefore, that I "bring an appeal to the nation at large from the
judgment passed "against me; and I give to my defenders all necessary powers, in "order that
this present appeal may be inserted in the Journals of "the Convention."

Refused!

The ADDRESS of Mons. DE SEZE, one of the defenders of the King, to the Convention.

         "THE ratification by the French people, which Louis demands,
"is the exercise of a natural and sacred right which belongs to
"every person accused; it is the right of every man, and
"consequently of Louis.  If we did not prefer this claim in his
"defence, it was because it was not in our power to foresee that the
"National Convention would resolve upon judging him; or, if it did
"judge him, that it would condemn him.  We now learn, that the fatal
"decree, which condemns Louis to death, has been carried by a
"majority of five votes only.  Permit me, Citizens, to represent to
"you, in the name of humanity, in the name of that sacred principle
"which calls for every mitigation in favour of the accused, that this
"circumstance, so very extraordinary, may well engage you
"voluntarily to accede to the proposed ratification.  I demand it in
"the name of justice, in the name of our country, in the name of
"humanity.  Exercise your own high powers; but do not astonish France
"by the exhibition of a judgment that must appear terrible, when the
"surprising minority comes to be considered.

         "Citizens, permit me to adjure you once more in the name of
"Louis XVI. and to conclude with suggesting to you, whether, whilst
"you are contending for the security of the nation, and its real
"interest, you will not tremble, when you reflect, that the safety of
"the republic, the Security of the French empire, and the happiness
"of 25 millions of people, may possibly depend upon five votes."

******

FOURTH APPEL NOMINAL.

         THE object of this fourth appeal was to know whether the
execution of Louis might be deferred; 310 were for respite, and 380
against it.  Thus, by a majority of 70 votes, it was decreed, that
the sentence against Louis XVI. should be executed without delay.

******

THE EXECUTION OF LOUIS XVI.

21st JANUARY, 1793.

         THE minister of justice and the heads of the administrative
corps, having proceeded to the Temple on Sunday the 20th of January,
about four in the evening, notified to Louis the warrant for his
execution.  "I demand," said the King, "a respite of three days to
"prepare myself for appearing before God.  To assist me in this work,
"I desire to have Mr. Edgeworth, (an Irish clergyman) with whom I may
"freely communicate.  I desire that he may be secured from all
"uneasiness, or apprehension, on account of this charitable office
"which he shall perform for me.  I desire to be relieved from that
"perpetual watch which the council-general has set over me for some
"days.  I demand in this interval the privilege of seeing my family
"when I shall desire it, and without witnesses.  I could also wish,
"that the Convention would, as speedily as may be, set about
"determining the fate of my family, and permit them to see each other
"freely and commodiously, when they shall think proper.

   "I recommend to the liberality of the nation all those persons who
"have been attached to me.  Among my pensioners there are many aged
"men, women, and children, who have no other means of subsistence."

   Of all there requisitions Louis obtained only that of seeing his
family without witnesses.  It was the first time since his
imprisonment.  The interview lasted two hours.  It is impossible to
express the horror of the moment, when he was obliged to tear himself
away from them.  On his return to his apartment, the King passed a
almost the whole of the night in prayer.  He then laid down and slept
a few hours, and early in the morning betook himself again to prayer.

   The 21st of January, at half past eight o'clock, Santerre, the
commandant-general, came to signify to Louis the order for his going
to execution.  Having requested three minutes to speak with his
confessor, he then turned to Santerre, and told him that he was ready
to follow him.

   The King crossed the first court of the Temple on foot; he then
entered the coach of Pethion, the mayor of Paris, with his Confessor
and two Gendarmes.  His route lay along, the Boulevards, which were
lined with above two hundred thousand men in arms.  All the way Louis
was deeply engaged in reading the prayers appointed for persons at
the point of death.

   Being, arrived at the Place de Louis XV. which was the place of
execution, about ten o'clock in the morning, he alighted from the
carriage with calmness, took off his clothes himself, remaining in
his white under-waistcoat, untied his cravat, and opened the collar
of his shirt; he then threw himself upon his knees to receive the
last benediction of his Confessor, got up immediately after, and
ascended the scaffold alone.  At that moment his Confessor cried out
to him, "Son of St. Louis, you are going up to Heaven!"  [Footnote;
Other accounts state, that it was when the King had just prepared
himself for the stroke of the fatal instrument, that Mons. Edgeworth,
his confessor, called out (in the imperative) with a loud voice,
"Enfant de Saint Louis, montez au Ciel."  "Son of St. Louis, mount up
"to Heaven."]

Far from opposing those who came to cut off his hair, and bind his hands, " Do with me," said
he, "what you will, it is the last "sacrifice."  He then made a motion with his hand to obtain
"silence.--"I die perfectly innocent of all the pretended crimes laid "to my charge--I forgive
all those who have had any hand in my "misfortunes, and I pray that my blood may be of use
in restoring "happiness to France--and you, unhappy people!" ......

   At these words, the unfeeling Santerre gave orders that the drums
should beat, crying out to the King, "that he had not brought him
"there to declaim, but to die."  At that instant his head was severed
from his body! ......

   The corpse was immediately conveyed to the Magdalene
burying-ground, and thrown into a pit twelve feet deep, into which a
considerable quantity of quicklime was cast.

   It is said, that after crying out, "Vive la Nation!"
"Vive la Republique!" some volunteers dipped their pikes, and
others their handkerchiefs, in the blood of the victim.  One person
alone had the courage to cry out, Grace, and was instantly cut down
with a sabre.

   Thus died Louis XVI. King of France and Navarre.  He was born the
23d of August, 1754, ascended the throne the 10th of May, 1774, and
reigned eighteen years and three months.

******

   The following dates relative to the destiny of this prince have
been brought together and contrasted.

   21st April, 1770, Marriage of Louis at Vienna, and delivery of the
ring.

   21st June, 1770, Great rejoicings at Paris on account of his
marriage.

   21st January, 1772, Festival doings in the city on account of the
birth of the first Dauphin.

   21st June, 1791, The King's departure, or rather flight to
Varennes.

   21st September, 1792, Abolition of Royalty.

   21st January, 1793, Louis beheaded.

******

THE LAST WILL OF LOUIS XV1.

   IN the name of the most holy Trinity, Father, Son, and Holy Ghost,
this day, the 25th of December, 1792, I, Louis XVI. by name, King of
France, having been four months shut up with my family in the Tower
of the Temple, at Paris, by those who were my subjects, and
deprived of all communication whatever, even, since the 11th of this
month, with my family; being moreover involved in a trial, of which
it is impossible to foresee the issue, on account of the passions of
men, and for which there is no pretence nor motive in any existing
law, having none but God for witness to my thoughts, and to whom I
can address myself, I here declare, in his presence, my last will and
sentiments.

   I leave my soul to GOD my creator; I beseech him to receive it in
his mercy; not to judge it according to its merits, but to those of
our Lord Jesus Christ, who offered himself as a sacrifice to GOD his
Father for us men, unworthy of it as we are, and I more than any.

   I die in the faith of our holy mother the catholic, apostolic, and
Roman Church, which derives her powers in an uninterrupted succession
from St. Peter, to whom Jesus Christ had entrusted them; I firmly
believe and acknowledge all that is contained in the apostles'
creed, the commandments of God, and of the church; the sacraments and
mysteries, such the Catholic Church teaches, and has always taught
them; I never pretended, to be a judge of the different modes of
explaining the dogmas which divide the church of Jesus Christ; but I
have always trusted, and shall always trust, if God grants me life,
to the decisions that the ecclesiastical superiors, together with the
holy catholic church, give and shall give, according to the
discipline of the church since Jesus Christ.  I pity with all my
heart our brethren who may be in error, but I do not pretend to judge
them; nor do I love them the less in Jesus Christ, according to what
christian charity teaches us, and I pray God to forgive me all my
sins: I have scrupulously sought to know them, to detest them, and to
humble myself in his presence.  Not being permitted to make use of
the ministry of a catholic priest, I pray God to receive the
confession which I have made to him of them; and above all, my
sincere repentance for having put my name (though against my will) to
acts that may be contrary to the discipline and faith of the catholic
church, to which I have always been sincerely and faithfully united.
I pray God to accept my firm resolution, if he grants me life, to
make use as soon as possible of the ministry of a catholic priest,
that I may accuse myself of all my sins, and receive the sacrament of
penance.  I beseech all those whom I may have inadvertently offended,
(for I do not remember to have knowingly given offence to any person)
and those to whom I may have given bad examples, or caused scandal,
to forgive the injuries they think I may have done them.

   I implore all charitable persons to join their prayers to mine, to
obtain from God the pardon of my sins; I, with all my heart, forgive
those who are become my enemies, although I have not given them any
reason to be so; and I beseech God to forgive them, as well as those
who, through a false or mistaken zeal, have brought many misfortunes
on me.

   I recommend to God, my wife and children; my sisters, my aunts, my
brothers, and all those who are attached to me, either by the ties of
blood, or in any other way whatever.  I particularly beseech God to
cast a merciful eye on my wife, my children, and my sister, who have
long suffered with me, to support them by his grace, if they should
happen to lose me, and as long as they remain in this perishable
world.

   I recommend my children to my wife; I never doubted her maternal
tenderness for them.  I above all recommend to her to make them good
christians, and honest people; to make them consider the grandeurs of
this world (if they be condemned to possess them) only as dangerous
and perishable possessions, and to direct their attention to
Eternity, the only solid and durable glory.  I beg of my sister to
continue her tenderness to my children, and to be a mother to them,
if they should have the misfortune of losing her who is such.

   I intreat my wife to forgive me all the afflictions she suffers
for my sake, and the sorrows I may have given her in the course of
our union; as she may be certain that I have no fault to find with
her, even where she may think she has cause to reproach herself.

   I earnestly recommend to my children, after what they owe to God,
(which is the first of all duties) to live always in harmony with one
another, to be submissive and obedient to their mother, and grateful
to her for all the care and trouble she takes for them out of regard
to my memory.  I desire them to consider my sister as their second
mother.

   I recommend to my Son, if he has the misfortune to become King, to
remember that he owes himself entirely to his fellow citizens; that
he must forget all hatred and resentment, and particularly all that
relates to the misfortunes and afflictions that I endure; that he can
only make the people happy by reigning according to the laws, but at
the same time, that a King cannot make himself respected, and do all
the good he wishes, without having the necessary authority; and that
otherwise, being restrained in his operations, and not inspiring
respect, he is rather hurtful than useful.

   I recommend to my son to take as much care of all those persons
who were attached to me, as the circumstances he may be in will allow
him; to recollect that it is a sacred debt which I have contracted
towards the children or the relations of those who have died for me,
and those who suffer for my sake.  I know that there are several
persons among those who ought to have been attached to me, who have
not acted towards me as they ought, and have even been ungrateful
towards me; but I forgive them, (often in time of trouble and
confusion, men are not masters of themselves) and I beg my son, if he
finds the opportunity, to think only of their misfortunes.

   I wish I could here give a testimony of my gratitude to those who
have shown a true and disinterested affection for me.  If, on the one
hand, I have been sensibly affected with the ingratitude and
disloyalty of those, to whom I had shewn at all times only kindness
to them, their relations, or friends; on the other hand, I have had
the consolation to receive proofs of disinterested affection and
regard from several others.  I beg them to accept my best thanks.

   In the present state of things, I should fear to expose them if I
spoke more explicitly; but I particularly recommend to my son to
embrace every opportunity of discovering them.

   Nevertheless, I think I should wrong the national feeling, if I
were not openly to recommend to my son Messieurs De Chamilly and Hue,
whose sincere affection for me induced them to shut themselves up
with me in this melancholy abode, and who ran the risque (sic) of
being the unfortunate victims of their attachment.  I also recommend
Cleri, with whose attentions I have had all reasons to be satisfied
ever since he has been with me.  As he is the person who has remained
with me to the last, I request Messieurs de la Commune to give him my
clothes, my books, and the other trifles which have been deposited at
the Council of the Commune.

   I also very willingly forgive those who guarded me, for their ill
treatment, and the constraint which they thought necessary to keep me
under.  I have found some feeling and compassionate minds; may they
enjoy in their hearts the pleasure that their turn of thinking must
afford them.

   I request Messieurs De Malsherbes, Tronchet, and De Seze, to
receive my best thanks, and assurances of my gratitude for all the
care and attention they have shown me.

   I conclude with declaring before GOD, being ready to appear before
him, that I cannot reproach myself with any of those crimes that have
been laid to my charge.

   Made and copied in the Tower of the Temple, the 25th of December,
1792.

                                            (Signed)           LOUIS.

                        And undersigned BEAUDRAIS, Municipal Officer.

******

A LIST OF MANY OF THE MOST CONSIDERABLE SUFFERERS UNDER THE FRENCH REVOLUTION

Note.  The letter R at the head of a name Signifies Revolutionary; D means doubtful, i.e. a
character not fully known; L signifies Loyalist, and an innocent victim.  The letters at the
end of a name signify A assassinated; I imprisoned; G guillotined; M massacred; P proscribed;
S suicide.

L  De Favras, knight of the order of St. Louis                      G
R  De Clermont-Tonnere, marèschal of France, ex-constituent; that
   is, member of the first national assembly                        M
L  De Clermont-d'Amboise, cordon bleu; i.e. knight of the Holy
   Ghost                                                            G
L  D'Halouville, sub-governor of the dauphin                        M
L  Le Vicomte de Maillè, marèschal-de-camp                          M
R  Le Due de la Rochefoucault, ex-constituent                       M
L  Le Vicomte de Broves, colonel, ex-constituent                    M
L  The celebrated Durosoy, compiler of the Paris Gazette            G
L  Delaporte, intendant of the civil list                           G
L  L'Abbè Rastignac, an author and ex-constituent                   M
L  L'Abbè Lenfant, preacher to the King                             M
L  The prisoners of the Convent des Carmes, to the number of 140    M
L  The prisoners of l'Abbaye St. Germain, to the number of 162      M
L  The prisoners in seminary of St. Fermin, to the number of 92     M
D  The prisoners in the Hotel de la Force, 167                      M
D  The prisoners of the Grand Chatelet, 214                         M
D  The prisoners in the Conciergerie, 85                            M
D  The prisoners of the Castle of Bicêtre, 153                      M
L  The prisoners of the Cloister of the Bernardins, 73              M
L  The prisoners from Orleans butchered at Versailles, 57           M
L  Le Comte de Montmorin, minister and secretary of state           M
L  Dulau, Archbishop of Arles                                       M
L  De la Rochefoucault, bishop of Beauvais                          M
L  De la Rochefoucault, bishop of Saintes                           M
L  L'Abbè de Puysegur, vicar-general of Rheims                      M
L  De la Mothe, body-guard of the Count D'Artois                    M
L  The Princess de Lamballe                                         M
L  The Marquis de Montmorin, governor of Fontainebleau              M
L  Delessart, minister and secretary of state                       M
L  The Duke de Brissac, marèchal de France                          M
L  The bishop of Mendes                                             M
R  Mounier, president of the constituent assembly                   P
R  The two brothers Lameth, ex-constituents                         P
R  All the members du cotè gauche of the first assembly, i.e.
   those who were originally for the revolution, and distinguished
   themselves by sitting on the left side of the hall               P
   Louis XVI. the object of lamentation to every true Frenchman     G
R  Basseville, agent of the republic at Rome                        M
R  General Marquis de la Fayette, ex-constituent                    I
R  General Winphen, ex-constituent                                  P
L  The Marquis d'Angremont                                          G
L  De Blackmann, major of the Swiss guards                          G
L  De Cazotte, a man of letters, upwards of 80 years of age         G
R  General Montesquieu, ex-constituent                              P
R  The celebrated Count Mirabeau, expelled from the pantheon.
   (Depantheonisè.)
R  Chabroud, advocate to the Duke of Orleans, ex-constituent        P
D  Le Comte de Tally Tollendal, ex-constituent                      P
D  Le Comte de Cazalès, ex-constituent                              P
D  Baron de Beaumarchais, author of Figaro                          P
L  D'Abancourt, minister of war                                     M
R  Duperron, administrator of police                                M
L  Thierry, principal valet de chambre of the King                  M
L  Chantraine, master of the wardrobe to the King                   M
D  De Rhuliers, commandant of the household cavalry, (la
   gendarmerie a cheval)                                            M
L  Dom. Chevreux, general of the benedictines                       M
L  De St. Palaye, counsellor (sic) of the chamber of accompts       M
L  Maussabrê, aide-du-camp to the Duke de Brissac                   M
R  Desmarais, chief in the office of assignats                      M
R  Amelot, director of the Caisse de l'Extra-ordinaire              M
R  Garat, cashier of the public treasure                            M
L  Hèbert, general of the Eudists, (a monastic order) and confessor
   to the King                                                      M
L  Deprès, vicar-general of Paris                                   M
L  Langlade, vicar-general of Rouen                                 M
L  Bonneau, vicar-general of Lyons                                  M
L  Defoucault, vicar-general of Arles                               M
L  Defargue vicar-general of Toulon                                 M
L  Delubersac, almoner to the King's sisters                        M
L  Turmenyes, grand master of Navarre                               M
L  Comte de St. Mart, colonel                                       M
L  Dewittgestein, lieutenant-general and cordon rouge, i.e.
   commander of the order of St. Louis                              M
L  The Abbè de Boisgelin, agent-general of the clergy of France     M
L  Thirty Swiss officers                                            M
L  De Rohan Chabot, brother of the Prince of Lèon                   M
L  Dechamplost, principal valet de chambre of the King              M
L  Thirty officers of the King's guards                             M
D  Romainvilliers, chef de division                                 M
L  Decharnois, a man of letters                                     M
D  Delachesnaye, chef de division                                   M
R  General Dumourier                                                P
R  De Bournonville, minister of war                                 I
R  General Dillon                                                   M
R  The two sons of the Duke of Orleans                              P
L  De Blanchelande, governor of St. Domingo                         G
R  De Perigord, bishop of Autun, first author of the schism in
   France                                                           P
R  Charlotte Corday, who assassinated Marat                         G
R  General Paoli, of Corsica                                        P
R  General Custine, ex-constituent                                  G
R  The intruding bishop of Ausch                                    P
R  General Guetineau                                                G
R  General Servan                                                   P
R  General Biron                                                    G
L  Marie Antoinette, Queen of France                                G
R  The Duke of Orleans, called Egalitè                              G
R  Bailly, ex-constituent and first mayor of                        G
R  Roland minister of justice at the time of the King's trial       S
R  Madame Roland, his wife                                          G
L  Duchesne, intendant of Madame                                    G
R  General Houchard                                                 G
R  General Roulè                                                    G
L  Gilbert Desvoisins, president of the parliament of Paris         G
R  Ysambert, brigadier-general of the republican army               G
D  The two brothers Raba, Jews of Bourdeaux, worth a million        G
D  The mother-in-law, of Pethion, the mayor of Paris                G
R  General Brunet                                                   G
L  Delaverdy, comptroller-general of the finances                   G
L  About thirty thousand French gentlemen emigrated.
L  Near sixty thousand ecclesiastics transported out of France
R  General la Morliere                                              G
L  De Bèrulle, first president of the parliament of Grenoble        G
D  Harrop of London, a merchant in Paris                            G
R  Barnave, advocate, ex-constituent                                G
R  Duport-dutertre, ex-minister of justice                          G
R  Emmery, president at the time of administering the oath; a jew   G
L  The Countess du Barry, mistress of Louis XV.                     G
D  The Duke du Chatelet, colonel of the French guards               G
R  Le Brun, ex-minister of the home department                      G
D  Dietrick, mayor of Strasbourg                                    G
R  General Arthur Dillon                                            G
R  General Beauregard                                               P
R  Garat, minister of the republic                                  G
R  Champfort, of the French academy                                 S
R  Hydius, deputé suppleant, i.e. one chosen to supply a vacancy  S
R  Clavieres, minister of public contributions                      S
R  Luckner, revolutionary marshal of France                         G
D  The son of General Custine, aged 25 years                        G
R  General Stengel                                                  P
R  Delomenie, archbishop of Sens, decardinalisè, degraded from
   the dignity of cardinal                                          S
L  De Champenetre, an officer of the French guards                  G
R  General Ferriere                                                 P
D  Jolly, ex-minister of finances                                   P
L  Boucher d'Argis, lieutenant criminel (sic) Chatelet de Paris     G
R  General la Vallette                                              P
R  General 0-moran                                                  P
R  General Beauharnois                                              P
R  General Ferrand                                                  P
R  General Landremont                                               P
R  General Schomberg                                                G
R  General Beysser                                                  G
R  General Hedonville                                               P
R  General Dumesnil                                                 P
R  General Demars                                                   P
R  General Barthelemy                                               P
R  General Protaux                                                  M
L  Clery, a person in the King's confidence                         I
R  Anacharsis Cloots, called the orator of mankind                  G
R  Chauvelin, ambassador in England                                 P
R  General Duhoux                                                   P
L  Some thousands of victims at Lyons                               G
L  Similar victims in thousands at Toulon                           G
L  The Countess of Lauraguais                                       G
L  The Count of Troussebois, lieutenant-colonel                     G
L  The Prince Jules de Rohan                                        I
L  The Duke and Duchess of Luynes                                   I
L  The Duchess of Montmorency                                       I
R  General Le Tanducre                                              I
R  General D'Ortoman                                                I
L  De Levis, marshal of France                                      I
L  The Prince Charles of Hesse D'Armstadt                           I
L  Gueau de Reverseau, intendant of the finances                    G
R  The Countess de Genlis                                           P
R  General Westermann                                               G
L  The Duchess of Richlieu                                          I
L  Duchaffaud, lieutenant-general of the naval forces               M
R  La Mourette, intruding bishop of Lyons                           G
L  Maussion intendant of Rouen                                      G
L  The Countess de la Rochefoucault                                 G
R  Chapelier, advocate at Rennes, ex-constituent                    G
R  Viscount de la Roque                                             G
L  Count de Chateau-vieux, cordon-rouge                             G
R  Charrier de la Roche, intruding bishop of Rouen                  G
R  De Quincon, ex-constituent                                       G
R  Buffet, ex-constituent                                           G
R  Perisse du Luc, ex-constituent                                   G
L  The Princess of Monaco                                           I
L  Countess of Choiseul                                             I
R  General Carteaux                                                 I
D  Count de Choiseul la Baume                                       I
L  Marquis of Briant, lieutenant-general in the King's army         I
L  Le Marquis de Pujet                                              G
R  Hèbert, national agent                                           G
R  Roncin, commander of the revolutionary army                      G
R  Montmoro, administrator of the department of Paris               G
R  Dubuisson, commissary of the executive power                     G
L  Comte de Balleroy, lieutenant-general                            G
R  Gouttes, intruding bishop of Autun                               G
L  De Champcenetz, governor of the Tuilleries                       I
R  Antonelle, mayor of Arles, ex-constituent                        I
R  General Santerre                                                 I
R  Deforgues, minister of the republic                              I
R  The Abbè d'Espagnac                                              G
L  De Chamberon, carmelite of St. Denis                             G
L  Dom. Courtin, superior general of Clugny                         G
L  De Tourzell governess of the royal children                      I
L  De Tourzel, the son and daughter of the foregoing                I
L  Le Comte de Querhoent, marechal du camp                          G
L  De Vergennes, formerly minister of foreign affairs               I
L  De Vergennes, his son                                            I
L  La Tour du Pin, formerly minister at war                         I
L  Madame Chauvelin de la Bourdonnois                               I
L  The Duchess de Charost                                           I
R  Clavieres, brother of the ex-minister                            I
L  Pelletier de Rosambeau, president of the parliament of Paris     G
L  Devendeuil, director of the India Company                        I
L  Delahaye, farmer-general                                         G
L  The Abbè Maury, brother of the cardinal of that name             G
L  The Countess de Suffren                                          I
L  The Count de Raincourt, lieut.-general                           I
R  Thouret, advocate of Rouen, ex-constituent                       G
L  The Marquis Delamotte-Senoux                                     G
L  The Marquis de St. Germain d'Apehon, colonel                     G
R  Parè, ex-minister of the home-department                         I
R  Gobet, intruding bishop of Paris                                 G
R  Chaumette, procureur of la commune de Paris                      G
R  The wife of Camile Desmoulins, the journalist                    G
R  The wife of Montmoro, the first goddess of reason                G
R  The wife  of Hébert, national agent                              G
R  Grammont, comedian and adjutant in the army                      G
R  Lacroix, commissary of the executive power                       G
R  Chevalier de St. Huruge, a flaming revolutionist                 I
L  Count D'Aubusson, cordon rouge                                   I
R  Van Eupen, a Brabanter                                           G
L  De Sarron, De Gourgues, De Champlatreux and D'Ormessen, all
   four presidents of the parliament of Paris                       G
L  The Marquis de la Roche Lambert                                  I
L  Madame de Choiseul-Meuse                                         I
L  De la Borde, banker to the court                                 G
R  General Hoche                                                    I
R  The Duke de Bethune Charost                                      G
L  De Beausset, lawful bishop of Alais                              I
R  Selle, inspector-general of the military effects of the army     G
L  The, Countess de Montmorin                                       I
R  General Ramel                                                    G
R  Vincent, national agent                                          G
L  De Cheville, intendant d'Orleans                                 I
L  Duval D'Esprèmenil, counsellor of the parliament of Paris and
   ex-constituent                                                   G
L  Madame Joly de Fleury, lady of the advocate-general              G
L  De Malsherbe, counsellor of state and one of the defenders of
   Louis                                                            G
L  Mademoiselle de Malsherbe                                        G
L  Marquis de Chateau Briant                                        G
L  The Marchioness de Chateau Briant                                G
L  Duchess du Chatelet                                              G
L  Duchess de Grammont                                              G
L  Anisson du Perron, printer to the King                           G
L  Mademoiselle de Bethissy, 17 years of age                        I
D  The wife of General Schomberg                                    I
R  The father of General Santerre                                   I
L  The Duke de Villeroy, first captain of the body-guards           G
R  Count D'Estaing, vice-admiral of France                          G
L  Count de la Tour du Pin, lieut.-general                          G
R  Count de Bethune Charost                                         G
D  Count du Prat, colonel                                           G
L  De Crosne, intendant of Rouen, and formerly lieutenant of police
   at Paris                                                         G
L  De Nicolai, president of the grand council                       G
L  Angran, lieutenant civil de Paris                                G
L  The Countess du Bussy                                            G
L  Terray, intendant de Lyon                                        G
L  Madame Terray, his lady                                          G
R  Coffinel, solicitor of the Queen's trial, and judge of the
   revolutionary tribunal                                           G
L  Troussebois de Bellesise, a canoness, aged 81 years              G
R  Jourdan, of Avignon, surnamed Coupe-tete                         G
R  Grouvelle, agent for Denmark, and registrar of the convention at
   the time of the King's death                                     P
R  Le Flotte, minister of the republic                              I
R  Du Fourney, a furious jacobin                                    P
L  Marquis de Choiseul la Baum, and his steward                     G
L  De Willerval, knight of St. Louis                                G
D  Count de Levis, colonel, ex-constituent                          G
R  Picquet, aide-de-camp to General La Fayette                      G
D  The two Tassins, famous bankers in Paris                         G
L  Count de Sombreuil, governor of the invalids, and his son        G
L  The Prince de Rohan Rochefort                                    I
D  The Comte de Laval Montmorency                                   I
R  Servaux, agent to the committee of general safety                I
D  Musquinet de la Fage                                             G
L  Gattey, bookseller in Paris                                      G
D  De Tolozan, general of brigade                                   I
L  Thorin de la Thane, captain in the Swiss guards                  I
L  Gigot Boisbernier, canon of Sens                                 I
L  Ariaque de Guybeville, honorary president of the parliament of
   Paris                                                            G
L  Gougenet, governor of the India company                          G
L  Du Chillan, marèchal du camp                                     G
L  Le Noir, formerly lieutenant de police in Paris                  G
R  La Ville, member of the revolutionary committee                  G
R  La Peize, member of the revolutionary committee                  G
L  Duport, counsellor of the parliament of Paris                    G
L  Camus de la Ribourgere                                           G
L  The president Roland                                             G
L  The president Hocquart                                           G
L  The Count de Blin                                                G
L  Le pere D'Anquetil, an author                                    I
R  Schneider, public accuser at Strasburgh                          G
R  General Chapuis                                                  I
L  De Pommeuse, counsellor of the great chamber                     G
R  General Goguet                                                   M
R  The brother of Hebert, national agent                            I
R  The two brothers of the ex-minister Du-Portail                   G
L  The Marquis de Jancourt, ex-constituent                          G
D  Almost all the farmers general                                   G
   Madame Elizabeth of France, sister of Louis XVI.                 G
L  The Count de Sourdeval                                           G
D  The Count Lomenie de Brienne, minister of war                    G
R  De Lomenie, coadjutor of Sens                                    G
R  Chevalier de Lomenie                                             G
D  Le Comte de Lomenie, colonel                                     G
L  De Serilly, treasurer at war                                     G
L  De Serilly, major of Swiss guards                                G
L  Chambertrand, dean and vicar-general of Sens                     G
L  The Marchioness de l'Aigle                                       G
L  The Marchioness de Senozan                                       G
L  The Marchioness de Crussot d'Amboise                             G
L  The Countess de Montmorin                                        G
L  The Countess de Rossay                                           G
L  Madame de Serilly, aged 31                                       G
L  A great number of religieuses, (nuns)                            G
R  Pache, mayor of Paris                                            I
R  Ansi, ex-legislator                                              I
L  De Beauvilliers, and his wife                                    I
R  L'Huillier, national agent                                       S
L  The Count de Lastie                                              I
R  The brother of General Santerre                                  I
R  Moreau, adjutant of the army                                     G
D  De Marguerite, mayor of Nismes, ex-constituent                   G
R  General Haxo                                                     S
R  General Moulin                                                   S
L  Brillon de St. Cyr, maitre des comptes                           G
L  Beller, auditor of accounts                                      G
R  General Charbonnier                                              I
D  Count de Levis Mirepoix, ex-constituent                          G
L  De Vigneron, president of the parliament of Nancy                G
R  Donadieu, general of brigade                                     G
L  The Marquis d'Apremont                                           G
D  The Marquis de Bieville, and his son                             G
L  The Marquis de Trans                                             G
L  The Viscount de la Vallette                                      G
D  William Newton, an Englishman                                    G
D  The Baron de Marguerite                                          G
L  Fourteen members of the parliament of Toulouse                   G
L  The Prince de Rohan Rochefort                                    G
D  The Count de Laval Montmorency                                   G
D  The Count de Pons                                                G
L  De Sartine, son of the heretofore minister of state              G
L  Madame de St. Amaranthe                                          G
L  The Prince de St. Maurice                                        G
L  The Viscount de Boissancourt                                     G
L  The widow of Mons. D'Esprèmènil                                  G
R  Michonis, municipal officer of Paris                             G
L  The Count de Mesnil                                              G
D  Defreteau, counsellor of the parliament  of Paris,
   ex-constituent                                                   G
R  Dom. Gerle, a Carthusian, ex-constituent                         I
R  Quevremont, physician to Egalitè                                 I
D  The Marquis de Chassenet                                         I
R  The wife, the daughter, and the son-in-law of the mayor Pache    I
R  Ginguenet, a patriotic poet                                      I
L  De Rosset, count de Fleury                                       G
L  The Abbè Tremouille, grand dean of Strasbourg                    G
L  The Count de Gamaches, standard-bearer of the horse-guards       G
L  De Briffeuil, ecclesiastical counsellor of the great chamber of
   Paris                                                            G
L  Le Brasseur, formerly intendant of the marine                    G
L  Eleven new members of the parliament of Toulouse                 G
L  Peruchot, directeur des fermes                                   G
L  De Varennes, formerly major of infantry                          G
R  The celebrated advocate Linguet                                  G
L  Twenty-two young ladies, from 17 to 25 years of age              G
L  De Mouchy, marshal of France                                     G
L  The lady of the Marshal de Mouchy                                G
L  The lady of the Marshal de Biron                                 G
D  The widow of the General Biron                                   G
R  Victor de Broglie, ex-constituent                                G
L  De St. Priest brother of the heretofore minister                 G
R  Phillippe, a deputy supplèant                                    I
L  The Count de Polastron                                           G
L  The Marquis de la Guiche                                         I
L  Lambert, formerly comptroller-general of the finances            G
L  Chamilly, valet de chambre to the King                           G
L  Madame du Portal, abbess of Joui                                 G
L  The Marquis de St. Didier                                        G
R  Two of the legionary chiefs of the national guard                G
L  Pichard, president of Bourdeaux                                  G
L  Vicq. D'Asyr, a celebrated physician at Paris                    G
R  D'Aoust, De Lattre and Du Verger, three generals of the
   republican army                                                  G
L  The Abbè de Salignac de Fenèlon, aged 85 years                   G
L  De Fenèlon, son of the ambassador at the Hague                   G
L  De Bacquencourt, counsellor of state                             G
L  The duke de Gesvres, cordon bleu                                 G
L  The Prince d'Henin, captain of the guards of the Count d'Artois  G
L  De Nicolas, president of the chamber of accounts                 G
L  Ysabeau de Mouvel, registrar of the parliament                   G
L  De la Baume, marechal du camp                                    G
L  De Boisgelin, marechal du camp                                   G
L  Ten young women not more than twenty years of age                G
L  Two young men of 14 and 17 years (fate not stated-Editor)
L  The Marquis de la Roche du Maine                                 G
L  De Giac, maitre de requètes                                      G
L  The Count de Chastenier                                          G
L  Debesse, bailly de Malthe                                        G
L  From the 5th to the 10th Of July, 1794 are reckoned 295 persons  G
L  The Viscount de Damas, and his son                               G
L  De Verdieres, general-officer                                    G
L  De L'Aupespine, canon of St. Claud                               G
L  Random de la Tour, treasurer of the King's household             G
L  De Boisgelin, cordon bleu, and his wife                          G
L  The Abbè Royer, counsellor of state                              G
L  The Abbè Radix, counsellor in the parliament of Paris            G
L  Geoffroi D'Assy, cashier of the general receipts                 G
L  De Pènant, president of the chamber of accounts                  G
L  De Pènant, president of the court of Aides, and his son          G
L  Dom. Nonan, prior of the Carthusians at Paris                    G
L  The Chevalier de Puyvert, officer of the navy                    G
L  The son of the immortal Buffon                                   G
L  Macdonald, colonel of the regiment de Foix                       G
L  Rapin Thoyras, captain of artillery                              G
L  De Montarly, captain of infantry                                 G
L  Clermont, mayor of Salines, ex-constituent                       G
R  Marcandier, journalist of Paris                                  G
R  La Croix, member of the committee de Surveillance                G
D  Imbert, officer of the Marêchausseè                              G
L  Le Comte de Faudoas, captain of cavalry                          G
L  The daughter of the above, aged eighteen years                   G
L  Souchet d'Alvinant, governor of the King's pages                 G
L  Rousseau, fencing-master to the royal children                   G
L  Huet d'Ambrun, maitre de requètes'                               G
L  La Chapelle, commissary of the King's houshold (sic)             G
L  Sixteen Carmelites of Compeigne   (sic)                          G
L  Conin de St. Luc, president of the parliament of Bretagne        G
R  Legris, registrar of the revolutionary tribunal                  G
L  De Blancheland, son of the governor of St. Domingo, aged
   20 years                                                         G
L  The lady of the Marshal de Noailles, aged 70 years               G
L  The lady of Viscount de Noailles, aged 35                        G
L  The Dutchess d'Ayen, aged 57 years                               G
L  De Talaru, cordon rouge                                          G
L  The Marquis de la Roche Lambert                                  G
L  Boutin, formerly treasurer of the navy                           G
L  La Borde, farmer-general                                         G
L  Lassond des Essarts, chef d'escadron                             G
R  General de Flers                                                 G
R  Gossin, ex-constituent                                           G
D  The Marchioness de la Fayette                                    I
L  The Baron St. Ouin                                               G
L  Perrot, president of la Cour des Aides                           G
L  Perrot, president of the chamber of accompts                     G
L  De la Morelle, president of the great council                    G
L  The son of Morelle, aged 18 years                                G
L  Papillon de la Fertè, comptroller of the privy-purse             G
L  Count de Hauteford                                               G
L  De Carboniere, canon and count of St. Claude                     G
L  Madame de Montmorency, abbess of Montmartre                      G
L  The lady of Marshal de Levis                                     G
L  Marquis d'Harbouville                                            G
L  The Baroness d'Hinnisdal                                         G
L  Tardien-Malessy, marèschal de camp                               G
L  The Countess des Vieux                                           G
L  The wife and daughter of Marèschal Tardien Malessy               G
L  The Baron de Blaizel                                             G
L  D'Ornano, marèschal de camp                                      G
D  De Nicolai, son of the president, aged 24 years                  G
L  Moreau, architect of the city of Paris                           G
L  Melin, formerly clerk of the war-office                          G
L  Geoffrey d'Assy cashier-general of the finances                  G
L  De la Chalotais, procureur-general of the parliament of Rennes   G
L  The Count de Menil-durand                                        G
L  De Pernot, marèschal de camp, aged 80                            G
L  Durand de Bignel, colonel of 100 Swiss                           G
L  The son of the Viscount de Millé                                 G
L  Count D'Ailly                                                    G
L  De Champagney, colonel of the regiment de Flandres               G
L  De Goudrecourt, lieutenant of the King's guard                   G
D  Edelman, a celebrated musician                                   G
L  An hundred and fifty-one persons at Rennes                       G
R  The Deputy Le Bas                                                G
L  The Count de Forestier                                           G
L  The Viscount de Gavrey                                           G
L  The Prince de Mont-Bason de Rohan                                G
R  Gouy d'Arcy, ex-noble, ex-constituent                            G
R  Du Salm Kirbourgh, sovereign prince in Germany                   G
R  General Beauharnois                                              G
L  Baron Trenck                                                     G
R  Chenier, author of the tragedy of Cha. IX.                       G
L  The Marquis de Montalambert                                      G
D  Crequi de Montmorency                                            G
D  The Duke de Clermont-Tonnere                                     G
L  The Marquis de Crussol d'Amboise                                 G
L  The Countess d'Ossun                                             G
L  De St. Simon, bishop of Agde                                     G
L  The Count de Thiars                                              G
L  The Countess de Narbonne Pellet                                  G
L  The Princess Grimaldi-Monaco                                     G
L  The Marquis d'Usson                                              G
L  The two Trudaines, counsellors of  the parliament of Paris       G
L  The Countess de Perigord                                         G
L  The lady of the Marèschal D'Armentieres                          G
L  The Comte de Soyecourt                                           G
L  The Princess de Chimay                                           G
L  The Marquis de Carcado                                           G
R  Hauriot and La Vallette, commandants of the armed force at Paris G
L  The Duke of St. Aignan                                           G
L  The Duchess of St. Aignan                                        G
R  Dumas, president of the revolutionary tribunal                   G
R  Lescot-Fleuriot, mayor of Paris                                  G
R  Payan, president of the commune de Paris                         G
R  Vivier, criminal judge, and president of the jacobinS            G
R  Simon, a Shoemaker, preceptor to Louis XVII.                     G
R  Eighty municipal officers of Paris                               G
R  One deputy, a commissioner with the army                         G
R  One patriotic general officer                                    G
R  Maximilien Robespierre, advocate of Arras, ex-constituent, and
   member of the convention, who enjoyed for a long time the
   absolute power of a dictator, aged 35 years                      G
R  George Couthon, advocate of Clermont, and member of the
   convention, aged 38 years                                        G
R  De St. Just, ex-noble, member of the convention, aged 26 years   G
R  Robespierre, the younger, advocate of Arras, and member of the
   convention, aged 27 years                                        G
R  Le Mounier, one of the principal actors in the massacre Of 2d of
   September, 1792                                                  G
R  The Baron de la Tude                                             G
L  The Prince de Talmont                                            G
R  General La Poype                                                 P
L  De Sablonnay, marèchal de camp                                   G
L  The Viscount de Meleur                                           G
L  Le Baron de Clermont-Tonnere                                     G
L  The son of General Precy                                         G
R  Coffinel, judge of the revolutionary tribunal                    G
R  Fouquier Tinville, public accuser                                G
R  Le Bon, deputy of the convention                                 G
L  The Marquis de Beauvoir                                          G
R  Guillotin, ex-constituent                                        G
R  De la Harpe, literateur                                          I
R  L'Abbè de Lille                                                  I
R  Van-Eupen, Brabançon                                             G
R  General Turreau                                                  P
R  Carrier, deputy of the convention                                G
R  106 Jacobins of Marseilles                                       G
R  General Dugommier                                                M
R  Bouchotte, war minister                                          I
R  Trial, comedian                                                  G
R  General Polier                                                   M
   Admiral Martin                                                   G
R  130 Jacobins of Lyons                                            M
R  Goujon, deputy of the convention                                 S
L  La Marquis de Boisbèranger                                       G
R  Francoeur, director of the opera                                 G
L  Cazault, president of the parliament of Bourdeaux                G
L  Cormatin, chief of the Chouans                                   B
L  The Bishop of Dol                                                M
L  Le Chevalier de Sombreuil                                        M
L  De Tintinuiac, officer                                           M
L  Le Comte de la Villeneuve                                        G
R  The General Serrurier                                            P
L  Le Comte de Linange                                              I
L  Le Comte de Colloredo                                            I
L  Le General Stofflet                                              M
L  Le General Charrette                                             M

