AN ILLUSTRATED HISTORY OF IRELAND FROM AD 400 TO 1800

by

MARY FRANCES CUSACK

'The Nun of Kenmare'

Illustrations by Henry Doyle

1868

TO THE

RIGHT HONORABLE JUDGE O'HAGAN,

AND TO

HIS SISTER MARY,

FOUNDRESS AND ABBESS OF SAINT CLARE'S CONVENT, KENMARE,

THIS VOLUME

IS AFFECTIONATELY AND RESPECTFULLY DEDICATED

By

The Author.

List of Full-Page Illustrations

ETC.

THE EMIGRANTS' FAREWELL SPECIMENS OF ANCIENT IRISH MANUSCRIPTS ST. PATRICK GOING TO TARA KING
BRIAN BOROIMHE KILLED BY THE VIKING MARRIAGE OF EVA AND STRONGBOW INTERVIEW BETWEEN MACMURROUGH
AND THE OFFICERS OF RICHARD II. INTERVIEW BETWEEN ESSEX AND O'NEILL MASSACRE AT DROGHEDA IRETON
CONDEMNING THE BISHOP OF LIMERICK GRATTAN'S DEMAND FOR IRISH INDEPENDENCE O'CONNELL REFUSING
TO TAKE THE OATH IRELAND AND AMERICA

PREFACE

TO THE SECOND EDITION.

A demand for a Second Edition of the "Illustrated History of Ireland," within three months
from the date of the publication of the First, consisting of 2,000 copies, is a matter of no
little gratification to the writer, both personally and relatively. It is a triumphant proof
that Irishmen are not indifferent to Irish history--a fault of which they have been too frequently
accused; and as many of the clergy have been most earnest and generous in their efforts to
promote the circulation of the work, it is gratifying to be able to adduce this fact also in
reply to the imputations, even lately cast upon the ecclesiastics of Ireland, of deficiency
in cultivated tastes, and of utter neglect of literature.

Nor, as a Catholic and a religious, can I fail to express my respectful gratitude and thankfulness
for the warm approbation which the work has received from so many distinguished prelates. A
few of these approbations will be found at the commencement of the volume--it was impossible
to find space for all. It may be, however, well to observe, that several of the English Catholic
bishops have not been less kind and earnest in their commendations, though I have not asked
their permission to publish their communications. Some extracts are given from the reviews,
which also are necessarily condensed and limited; and, as the Most Rev. Dr. Derry has observed,
the press has been most favorable in its criticisms. Even those who differed from the present
writer toto coelo, both in religion and politics, have not been less commendatory, and, in
some instances, have shown the writer more than ordinary courtesy.

Nor should I omit to acknowledge the encouragement which so many gentlemen, both English and
Irish, have given to the work, and the assistance they have afforded in promoting its circulation.
In a circular, quite recently published in London, and addressed to the members of a society
for the republication of English mediæval literature, gentlemen are called on by the secretary,
even at the risk, as he himself admits, of "boring them, by asking them to canvass for orders,
like a bookseller's traveller," to assist in obtaining additional subscribers to the series,
and he requests every subscriber "to get another at once." I am happy to say that, without
such solicitation on our part, many Irish gentlemen have done us this kindness, and have obtained
not one, but many orders from their friends. I confidently hope that many more will exert themselves
in a similar manner, for the still wider dissemination of the Second Edition. It is a time,
beyond all others, when Irish history should be thoroughly known and carefully studied. It
is a disgrace to Irishmen not to know their history perfectly, and this with no mere outline
view, but completely and in detail. It is very much to be regretted that Irish history is not
made a distinct study in schools and colleges, both in England and Ireland. What should be
thought of a school where English history was not taught? and is Irish history of less importance?
I have had very serious letters complaining of this deficiency from the heads of several colleges,
where our history has been introduced as a class-book.[A]

There are some few Irish Catholics who appear to think that Irishmen should not study their
history--some because they imagine that our history is a painful subject; others, because they
imagine that its record of wrongs cannot fail to excite violent feelings, which may lead to
violent deeds. I cannot for one moment admit that our history is either so very sorrowful,
or that we have cause to do anything but rejoice in it. If we consider temporal prosperity
to be the summum bonum of our existence, no doubt we may say with truth, like the Apostle,
that of all peoples we are "most miserable;" but we have again and again renounced temporal
advantages, and discarded temporal prosperity, to secure eternal gain; and we have the promise
of the Eternal Truth that we shall attain all that we have desired. Our history, then, far
from being a history of failures, has been a history of the most triumphant success--of the
most brilliant victories. I believe the Irish are the only nation on earth of whom it can be
truly said that they have never apostatized nationally. Even the most Catholic countries of
the Continent have had their periods of religious revolution, however temporary. Ireland has
been deluged with blood again and again; she has been defeated in a temporal point of view
again and again; but spiritually--NEVER! Is this a history to be ashamed of? Is this a history
to regret? Is this a history to lament? Is it not rather a history over which the angels in
heaven rejoice, and of which the best, the holiest, and the noblest of the human race may justly
be proud?

On the second count, I shall briefly say that if Irish history were taught in our Irish colleges
and schools to children while still young, and while the teacher could impress on his charge
the duty of forgiveness of enemies, of patient endurance, of the mighty power of moral force,
which has effected even for Ireland at times what more violent measures have failed to accomplish,
then there could be no danger in the study. Perhaps the greatest human preservative of the
faith, for those whose lot may be cast hereafter in other lands, would be to inculcate a great
reverence for our history, and a true appreciation of its value. The taunt of belonging to
a despised nation, has led many a youth of brilliant promise to feel ashamed of his country,
and almost inevitably to feel ashamed of his faith. A properly directed study of Irish history
would tend much to remove this danger. During the debate on the Irish Church question, Mr.
Maguire, M.P. for Cork, significantly remarked on the effect produced by the "deliberate exclusion"
of any instruction in Irish history from National schools. It does seem curious that national
history should be a forbidden subject in National schools, and this fact makes the appellation
of "National" seem rather a misnomer. The result of this deliberate exclusion was graphically
described by the honorable member. The youth comes forth educated, and at a most impressible
age he reads for the first time the history of his country, and burns with indignant desire
to avenge her many wrongs. The consequences are patent to all. It is, then, for the advantage
of England, as well as of Ireland, that Irish history should be made the earliest study of
Irish youth; nor is it of less importance that Irish history should be thoroughly known by
Englishmen. It is the duty of every Englishman who has a vote to give, to make himself acquainted
with the subjects on which his representative will give, in his name, that final decision which
makes his political opinion the law of the land. I suppose no one will deny that the Irish
Question is the question of the day. The prosperity of England, as well as the prosperity of
Ireland, is involved in it. No educated man, however humble his station, has a right to assist
in returning a member to Parliament without clearly comprehending the principles of his representative.
But unless he has some comprehension of the principles themselves, it is of little use for
him to record his vote. I do not say that every English voter is bound to study Irish history
in detail, but I do say that, at the present day, he is bound to know what the Irish themselves
demand from England; and if he considers their demands reasonable, he should record his vote
only for those who will do their utmost to obtain the concessions demanded. A man is unworthy
of the privilege of voting, if he is deficient either in the intellect or the inclination to
understand the subject on which he votes.

But it is of still more importance that members of Parliament should read--and not only read,
but carefully study--the history of Ireland. Irishmen have a right to demand that they shall
do so. If they undertake to legislate for us, they are bound in conscience and in honour to
know what we require, to know our past and our present state. Englishmen pride themselves on
their honour; but it is neither honorable to undertake to govern without a thorough knowledge
of the governed, or to misrepresent their circumstances to others whose influence may decide
their future.

It was manifest from the speech of her Majesty's minister, on the night of the all-important
division on the Irish Church question, that he either had not studied Irish history, or that
he had forgotten its details. If his statements are correctly reported by the press, they are
inconceivably wild. It may be said that the circumstances in which he found himself obliged
him to speak as he did, but is this an excuse worthy of such an honorable position? The Normans,
he is reported to have said, conquered the land in Ireland, but in England they conquered completely.
The most cursory acquaintance with Irish history would have informed the right honorable gentleman,
that the Normans did not conquer the land in Ireland--no man has as yet been rash enough to
assert that they conquered the people. The Normans obtained possession of a small portion,
a very small portion of Irish land; and if the reader will glance at the map of the Pale, which
will be appended to this edition, at the proper place, he will see precisely what extent of
country the English held for a few hundred years. Even that portion they could scarcely have
been said to have conquered, for they barely held it from day to day at the point of the sword.
Morally Ireland was never conquered, for he would be a bold man who dared to say that the Irish
people ever submitted nationally to the English Church established by law. In fact, so rash
does the attempt seem even to those who most desire to make it, that they are fain to find
refuge and consolation in the supposed introduction of Protestantism into Ireland by St. Patrick,
a thousand years and more before that modern phase of religious thought appeared to divide
the Christian world.

But I deny that Ireland has ever been really conquered; and even should the most sanguinary
suggestions proposed in a nineteenth-century serial be carried out, I am certain she could
not be. Ireland has never been permanently subdued by Dane or Norman, Dutchman or Saxon; nor
has she ever been really united to England. A man is surely not united to a jailer because
he is bound to him by an iron chain which his jailer has forged for his safe keeping. This
is not union; and the term "United Kingdom" is in fact a most miserable misnomer. Unity requires
something more than a mere material approximation. I believe it to be possible that England
and Ireland may become united; and if ever this should be accomplished, let no man forget that
the first link in the golden chain issued from the hands of the right honorable member for
South Lancashire, when he proposed equality of government on religious questions--the first
step towards that equality of government which alone can effect a moral union of the two countries.
It might be treasonable to hint that some noble-hearted men, who loved their country not wisely
but too well, and who are paying in lifelong anguish the penalty of their patriotism, had anything
to do with the formation of this golden chain--so I shall not hint it.

I believe the Fenian movement, at one time scouted as a mere ebullition, at another time treated
as a dangerous and terrible rebellion, has done at least this one good to England--it has compelled
honest and honorable men to inquire each for himself what are the grievances of Ireland, and
why she continues disaffected to English rule. For men who are honest and honorable to make
such inquiries, is the first step, and a certain step, towards their remedy; and as I glanced
down the list of the ayes in the division, I could see the names of men who, in England, have
been distinguished during years for their private and public virtues, and who have been lavish
in their charities whenever their own countrymen required their assistance.

There can be little doubt that a new era has dawned upon old Erinn's shores. It remains to
be proved if her sons shall be as faithful in prosperity as they have been in adversity. It
remains to be proved, if opportunities are afforded us of obtaining higher intellectual culture
without the danger of the moral deterioration which might have attended that culture under
other circumstances, whether we shall avail ourselves of them to the full. May we not hope
that Ireland will become once more famous both for learning and sanctity. The future of our
nation is in the hands of the Irish hierarchy. No government dare refuse anything which they
may demand perseveringly and unitedly. The people who have been guided by them, and saved by
them for so many centuries, will follow as they lead. If their tone of intellectual culture
is elevated, the people will become elevated also; and we shall hear no more of those reproaches,
which are a disgrace to those who utter them, rather than to those of whom they are uttered.
Let our people be taught to appreciate something higher than a mere ephemeral literature; let
them be taught to take an interest in the antiquities and the glorious past of their nation;
and then let them learn the history of other peoples and of other races. A high ecclesiastical
authority has declared recently that "ecclesiastics do not cease to be citizens," and that
they do not consider anything which affects the common weal of their country is remote from
their duty. The clergy of the diocese of Limerick, headed by their Dean, and, it must be presumed,
with the sanction of their Bishop, have given a tangible proof that they coincide in opinion
with his Grace the Archbishop of Westminster. The letter addressed to Earl Grey by that prelate,
should be in the hands of every Irishman; and it is with no ordinary gratification that we
acknowledge the kindness and condescension of his Grace in favouring us with an early copy of it.

This letter treats of the two great questions of the day with admirable discretion. As I hope
that every one who reads these pages possesses a copy of the pamphlet, I shall merely draw
attention to two paragraphs in it: one in which Fenianism is treated of in that rational spirit
which appears to have been completely lost sight of in the storm of angry discussion which
it has excited. On this subject his Grace writes: "It would be blindness not to see, and madness
to deny, that we have entered into another crisis in the relation of England and Ireland, of
which '98, '28, and '48 were precursors;" and he argues with clearness and authority, that
when Englishmen once have granted justice to Ireland, Ireland will cease to accuse England
of injustice.

To one other paragraph in this remarkable letter, I shall briefly allude: "I do not think Englishmen
are enough aware of the harm some among us do by a contemptuous, satirical, disrespectful,
defiant, language in speaking of Ireland and the Irish people." From peculiar circumstances,
the present writer has had more than ordinary opportunities of verifying the truth of this
statement. The wound caused by a sarcastic expression may often fester far longer than the
wound caused by a hasty blow. The evil caused by such language is by no means confined entirely
to Protestants. There are, indeed, but few English Catholics who speak contemptuously of Ireland,
of its people, or of its history; but, if I am to credit statements which have been made to
me on unquestionable authority, there are some who are not free from this injustice. A half-commiserating
tone of patronage is quite as offensive as open contempt; and yet there have been instances
where English Catholic writers, while obliged to show some deference to Ireland and the Irish,
in order to secure the patronage and support of that country for their publications, have at
the same time, when they dared, thrown out insinuations against peculiarities of Irish character,
and made efforts to discredit Irish historical documents.

I had intended, in preparing the Second Edition of the "Illustrated History of Ireland," to
omit the original Preface, in order to leave more space for the historical portion of the work.
When this intention was mentioned, several laymen and ecclesiastics expostulated so earnestly
against it, that I have been obliged to yield to their request. I am aware that some few persons
objected to my remarks on the state of land laws in Ireland, or rather on the want of proper
land laws; but the opinion of those interested in maintaining an evil, will always be averse
to its exposure; and I cannot conceive how any one who desires an injustice to be removed,
can object to a fair and impartial discussion of the subject. An English writer, also, has
made some childish remarks about the materials for Irish history not being yet complete, and
inferred that in consequence an Irish history could not yet be written. His observations are
too puerile to need refutation. I have been informed also that some objection has been made
to a "political preface;" and that one gentleman, whose name I have not had the honour of hearing,
has designated the work as a "political pamphlet." Even were not Irish history exceptional,
I confess myself perplexed to understand how history and politics can be severed. An author
may certainly write a perfectly colourless history, but he must state the opinions of different
parties, and the acts consequent on those opinions, even should he do so without any observation
of his own. I never for a moment entertained the intention of writing such a history, though
I freely confess I have exercised considerable self-restraint as to the expression of my own
opinion when writing some portions of the present work. You might as well attempt to write
an ecclesiastical history without the slightest reference to different religious opinions,
as attempt to write the history of any nation, and, above all, of Ireland, without special
and distinct reference to the present and past political opinions of the different sections
of which the nation is composed. Such suggestions are only worthy of those who, when facts
are painful, try to avert the wound they cause by turning on the framer of the weapon which
has driven these facts a little deeper than usual into their intellectual conception; or of
those uneducated, or low-minded, even if educated persons, who consider that a woman cannot
write a history, and would confine her literary efforts to sensation novels and childish tales.
I am thankful, and I hope I am not unduly proud, that men of the highest intellectual culture,
both in England and Ireland, on the Continent of Europe, and in America, have pronounced a
very different judgment on the present work, and on the desire of the writer to raise her countrywomen
to higher mental efforts than are required by the almost exclusive perusal of works of fiction.
If women may excel as painters and sculptors, why may not a woman attempt to excel as an historian?
Men of cultivated intellect, far from wishing to depreciate such efforts, will be the first
to encourage them with more than ordinary warmth; the opinions of other persons, whatever may
be their position, are of little value.

On the Irish Church question I feel it unnecessary to say more than a word of congratulation
to my countrymen, and of hearty thanks for the noble conduct of so many Englishmen at this
important crisis. Irish Protestants have been quite as national as Irish Catholics; and now
that the fatal bane of religious dissension has been removed, we may hope that Irishmen, of
all classes and creeds, will work together harmoniously for the good of their common country:
and thus one great means of Irish prosperity will be opened. The Irish are eminently a justice-loving
people. Let justice once be granted to them, and there is that in their national character
which will make them accept as a boon what others might accept as a right.

In concluding the Preface to this Edition, I cannot omit to express my grateful thanks to Sir
William Wilde, and other members of the Royal Irish Academy, through whose kindness I obtained
the special favour of being permitted to copy some of the most valuable illustrations of Irish
antiquities contained in their Catalogue, and which has enabled the reader, for the first time,
to have an Irish history illustrated with Irish antiquities--a favour which it is hoped an
increase of cultivated taste amongst our people will enable them to appreciate more and more.
To John O'Hagan, Esq., Q.C., I owe a debt of gratitude which cannot easily be repaid, for the
time he bestowed on the correction of the proofs of the First Edition, and for many kind suggestions,
and much valuable advice. I am indebted, also, to M.J. Rhodes, Esq., of Hoddersfield, for a
liberal use of his library, perhaps one of the most valuable private libraries in Ireland,
and for permitting me to retain, for a year and more, some of its most costly treasures. The
same kindness was also granted by the Rev. D. M'Carthy, Professor of Sacred Scripture and Hebrew
at Maynooth, who is himself doing so much for its ecclesiastical students by his valuable literary
labours, and who was one of the first to urge me to undertake this work. In preparing the Second
Edition, I am not a little indebted to the Rev. James Gaffney, C.C., M.R.I.A., of Clontarf,
who, even during the heavy pressure of Lenten parochial duties, has found time to give me the
benefit of many important suggestions, and to show his love of Ireland by deeming no effort
too great to further a knowledge of her glorious history. I am also indebted to the Rev. John
Shearman, C.C., M.R.I.A., of Howth, for the valuable paper read before the R.I.A., on the "Inscribed
Stones at Killeen Cormac;" and to many other authors who have presented me with their works;
amongst the number, none were more acceptable than the poems of Dr. Ferguson, and the beautiful
and gracefully written Irish before the Conquest, of Mrs. Ferguson, whose gifts are all the
more treasured for the peculiar kindness with which they were presented.

To my old friend, Denis Florence MacCarthy, Esq., M.R.I.A., who should be the laureate of Ireland--and
why should not Ireland, that land of song, have her laureate?--I can only offer my affectionate
thanks, for his kindnesses are too numerous to record, and are so frequent that they would
scarcely bear enumeration. At this moment, Roderick O'Flanagan, Esq., M.R.I.A., has found,
or rather made, leisure, amongst his many professional and literary occupations, to prepare
the valuable and important map of Irish families, which will be given gratis to all subscribers,
and in which W.H. Hennessy, Esq., M.R.I.A., at present employed by Government on the important
work of publishing ancient Irish MS., will also give his assistance.

To many of the gentlemen in Cork, and principally to Nicholas Murphy, Esq., of Norwood, and
Eugene M'Sweeny, Esq., I cannot fail to offer my best thanks, for the generous help they have
given in promoting the sale of the First Edition, and for over-payments of subscriptions, made
unasked, and with the most considerate kindness, when they found the heavy cost of the First
Edition was likely to prove a loss to the convent, in consequence of expenses which could scarcely
be foreseen in the increased size of the work, and the high class of engravings used, which
demanded an immense outlay in their production. The subscribers to the Second Edition are indebted
to not a few of the subscribers to the First, many of them priests with limited incomes, for
the generosity which has enabled them to obtain this new issue on such favourable terms. It
is with feelings of no ordinary pleasure that I add also the names of the Superioresses of
nearly all the convents of the order of Our Lady of Mercy and of the order of the Presentation,
to the list of our benefactors. With the exception of, perhaps, two or three convents of each
order, they have been unanimous in their generous efforts to assist the circulation of the
Irish History, and of all our publications; and this kindness has been felt by us all the more
deeply, because from our own poverty, and the poverty of the district in which we live, we
have been unable to make them any return, or to assist them even by the sale of tickets for
their bazaars. Such disinterested charity is, indeed, rare; and the efforts made by these religious--the
true centres of civilization in Ireland--to promote the education and to improve the moral
and intellectual tone of the lower and middle classes, are beyond all praise, combined, as
these efforts are, with never-ceasing labour for the spiritual and temporal good of the poor
in their respective districts. Nor should I omit a word for the friends across the wide Atlantic,
to whom the very name of Ireland is so precious, and to whom Irish history is so dear. The
Most Rev. Dr. Purcell, Archbishop of Cincinnati, has pronounced the work to be the only Irish
history worthy of the name. John Mitchel has proclaimed, in the Irish Citizen, that a woman
has accomplished what men have failed to do; and Alderman Ternan, at a banquet in New Fork,
has uttered the same verdict, and declares that there, at least, no other history can compete
with ours, although Moore and D'Arcy Magee have preceded us in their efforts to promote the
knowledge of what Ireland has been, and the hope of what Ireland may yet become.

M.F.C. ST. CLARE'S CONTENT, KENMARK, CO. KERRY, May 8th, 1868.

FOOTNOTES:

[A] The Rev. U. Burke, of St. Jarlath's College, Tuam, has a note on this subject, in a work
which he is at this moment passing through the press, and which he kindly permits me to publish.
He says: "This book [the "Illustrated History of Ireland"] ought to be in the hands of every
young student and of every young Irish maiden attending the convent schools. Oh, for ten thousand
Irish ladies knowing the history of Ireland! How few know anything of it! The present volume,
by Sister Francis Clare, is an atoning sacrifice for this sin of neglect."

I am aware that the price of the "Illustrated History of Ireland," even in its present form,
although it is offered at a sacrifice which no bookseller would make, is an obstacle to its
extensive use as a school history. We purpose, however, before long, to publish a history for
the use of schools, at a very low price, and yet of a size to admit of sufficient expansion
for the purpose. Our countrymen must, however, remember that only a very large number of orders
can enable the work to be published as cheaply as it should be. It would save immense trouble
and expense, if priests, managers of schools, and the heads of colleges, would send orders
for a certain number of copies at once. If every priest, convent, and college, ordered twelve
copies for their schools, the work could be put in hands immediately.

PREFACE

TO THE FIRST EDITION.

The history of the different races who form an integral portion of the British Empire, should
be one of the most carefully cultivated studies of every member of that nation. To be ignorant
of our own history, is a disgrace; to be ignorant of the history of those whom we govern, is
an injustice. We can neither govern ourselves nor others without a thorough knowledge of peculiarities
of disposition which may require restraint, and of peculiarities of temperament which may require
development. We must know that water can extinguish fire, before it occurs to us to put out
a fire by the use of water. We must know that fire, when properly used, is a beneficent element
of nature, and one which can be used to our advantage when properly controlled, before we shall
attempt to avail ourselves of it for a general or a particular benefit. I believe a time has
come when the Irish are more than ever anxious to study their national history. I believe a
time has come when the English nation, or at least a majority of the English nation, are willing
to read that history without prejudice, and to consider it with impartiality.

When first I proposed to write a History of Ireland, at the earnest request of persons to whose
opinion. I felt bound to defer, I was assured by many that it was useless; that Irishmen did
not support Irish literature; above all, that the Irish clergy were indifferent to it, and
to literature in general. I have since ascertained, by personal experience, that this charge
is utterly unfounded, though I am free to admit it was made on what appeared to be good authority.
It is certainly to be wished that there was a more general love of reading cultivated amongst
the Catholics of Ireland, but the deficiency is on a fair way to amendment. As a body, the
Irish priesthood may not be devoted to literature; but as a body, unquestionably they are devoted--nobly
devoted--to the spread of education amongst their people.

With regard to Englishmen, I cannot do better than quote the speech of an English member of
Parliament, Alderman Salomons, who has just addressed his constituents at Greenwich in these
words:--

     "The state of Ireland will, doubtless, be a prominent subject of
     discussion next session. Any one who sympathizes with distressed
     nationalities in their struggles, must, when he hears of the
     existence of a conspiracy in Ireland, similar to those combinations
     which used to be instituted in Poland in opposition to Russian
     oppression, be deeply humiliated. Let the grievances of the Irish
     people be probed, and let them be remedied when their true nature
     is discovered. Fenianism is rife, not only in Ireland, but also in
     England, and an armed police required, which is an insult to our
     liberty. I did not know much of the Irish land question, but I know
     that measures have been over and over again brought into the House
     of Commons with a view to its settlement, and over and over again
     they have been cushioned or silently withdrawn. If the question can
     be satisfactorily settled, why let it be so, and let us conciliate
     the people of Ireland by wise and honorable means. The subject of
     the Irish Church must also be considered. I hold in my hand an
     extract from the report of the commissioner of the Dublin
     Freeman's Journal, who is now examining the question. It stated
     what will be to you almost incredible--namely, that the population
     of the united dioceses of Cashel, Emly, Waterford, and Lismore is
     370,978, and that of those only 13,000 are members of the
     Established Church, while 340,000 are Roman Catholics. If you had
     read of this state of things existing in any other country, you
     would call out loudly against it. Such a condition of things, in
     which large revenues are devoted, not for the good of the many, but
     the few, if it does not justify Fenianism, certainly does justify a
     large measure of discontent. I am aware of the difficulties in the
     way of settling the question, owing to the fear of a collision
     between Protestants and Catholics; but I think Parliament ought to
     have the power to make the Irish people contented."

This speech, I believe, affords a fair idea of the opinion of educated and unprejudiced Englishmen
on the Irish question. They do not know much about Irish history; they have heard a great deal
about Irish grievances, and they have a vague idea that there is something wrong about the
landlords, and something wrong about the ecclesiastical arrangements of the country. I believe
a careful study of Irish history is essential to the comprehension of the Irish question; and
it is obviously the moral duty of every man who has a voice in the government of the nation,
to make himself master of the subject. I believe there are honest and honorable men in England,
who would stand aghast with horror if they thoroughly understood the injustices to which Ireland
has been and still is subject. The English, as a nation, profess the most ardent veneration
for liberty. To be a patriot, to desire to free one's country, unless, indeed, that country
happen to have some very close connexion with their own, is the surest way to obtain ovations
and applause. It is said that circumstances alter cases; they certainly alter opinions, but
they do not alter facts. An Englishman applauds and assists insurrection in countries where
they profess to have for their object the freedom of the individual or of the nation; he imprisons
and stifles it at home, where the motive is precisely similar, and the cause, in the eyes of
the insurgents at least, incomparably more valid. But I do not wish to raise a vexed question,
or to enter on political discussions; my object in this Preface is simply to bring before the
minds of Englishmen that they have a duty to perform towards Ireland--a duty which they cannot
cast aside on others--a duty which it may be for their interest, as well as for their honour,
to fulfil. I wish to draw the attention of Englishmen to those Irish grievances which are generally
admitted to exist, and which can only be fully understood by a careful and unprejudiced perusal
of Irish history, past and present. Until grievances are thoroughly understood, they are not
likely to be thoroughly remedied. While they continue to exist, there can be no real peace
in Ireland, and English prosperity must suffer in a degree from Irish disaffection.

It is generally admitted by all, except those who are specially interested in the denial, that
the Land question and the Church question are the two great subjects which lie at the bottom
of the Irish difficulty. The difficulties of the Land question commenced in the reign of Henry
II.; the difficulties of the Church question commenced in the reign of Henry VIII. I shall
request your attention briefly to the standpoints in Irish history from which we may take a
clear view of these subjects. I shall commence with the Land question, because I believe it
to be the more important of the two, and because I hope to show that the Church question is
intimately connected with it.

In the reign of Henry II., certain Anglo-Norman nobles came to Ireland, and, partly by force
and partly by intermarriages, obtained estates in that country. Their tenure was the tenure
of the sword. By the sword they expelled persons whose families had possessed those lands for
centuries; and by the sword they compelled these persons, through poverty, consequent on loss
of property, to take the position of inferiors where they had been masters. You will observe
that this first English settlement in Ireland was simply a colonization on a very small scale.
Under such circumstances, if the native population are averse to the colonization, and if the
new and the old races do not amalgamate, a settled feeling of aversion, more or less strong,
is established on both sides. The natives hate the colonist, because he has done them a grievous
injury by taking possession of their lands; the colonist hates the natives, because they are
in his way; and, if he be possessed of "land hunger," they are an impediment to the gratification
of his desires. It should be observed that there is a wide difference between colonization
and conquest The Saxons conquered what we may presume to have been the aboriginal inhabitants
of England; the Normans conquered the Saxon: the conquest in both cases was sufficiently complete
to amalgamate the races--the interest of the different nationalities became one. The Norman
lord scorned the Saxon churl quite as contemptuously as he scorned the Irish Celt; but there
was this very important difference--the interests of the noble and the churl soon became one;
they worked for the prosperity of their common country. In Ireland, on the contrary, the interests
were opposite. The Norman noble hated the Celt as a people whom he could not subdue, but desired
most ardently to dispossess; the Celt hated the invader as a man most naturally will hate the
individual who is just strong enough to keep a wound open by his struggles, and not strong
enough to end the suffering by killing the victim.

The land question commenced when Strongbow set his foot on Irish soil; the land question will
remain a disgrace to England, and a source of misery to Ireland, until the whole system inaugurated
by Strongbow has been reversed. "At the commencement of the connexion between England and Ireland,"
says Mr. Goldwin Smith, "the foundation was inevitably laid for the fatal system of ascendency--a
system under which the dominant party were paid for their services in keeping down rebels by
a monopoly of power and emolument, and thereby strongly tempted to take care that there should
always be rebels to keep down." There is a fallacy or two in this statement; but let it pass.
The Irish were not rebels then, certainly, for they were not under English dominion; but it
is something to find English writers expatiating on Irish wrongs; and if they would only act
as generously and as boldly as they speak, the Irish question would receive an early and a
most happy settlement.

For centuries Ireland was left to the mercy and the selfishness of colonists. Thus, with each
succeeding generation, the feeling of hatred towards the English was intensified with each
new act of injustice, and such acts were part of the normal rule of the invaders. A lord deputy
was sent after a time to rule the country. Perhaps a more unfortunate form of government could
not have been selected for Ireland. The lord deputy knew that he was subject to recall at any
moment; he had neither a personal nor a hereditary interest in the country. He came to make
his fortune there, or to increase it. He came to rule for his own benefit, or for the benefit
of his nation. The worst of kings has, at least, an hereditary interest in the country which
he governs; the best of lord deputies might say that, if he did not oppress and plunder for
himself, other men would do it for themselves: why, then, should he be the loser, when the
people would not be gainers by his loss?

When parliaments began to be held, and when laws were enacted, every possible arrangement was
made to keep the two nations at variance, and to intensify the hostility which already existed.
The clergy were set at variance. Irish priests were forbidden to enter certain monasteries,
which were reserved for the use of their English brethren; Irish ecclesiastics were refused
admission to certain Church properties in Ireland, that English ecclesiastics might have the
benefit of them. Lionel, Duke of Clarence, when Viceroy of Ireland, issued a proclamation,
forbidding the "Irish by birth" even to come near his army, until he found that he could not
do without soldiers, even should they have the misfortune to be Irish. The Irish and English
were forbidden to intermarry several centuries before the same bar was placed against the union
of Catholics and Protestants. The last and not the least of the fearful series of injustices
enacted, in the name of justice, at the Parliament of Kilkenny, was the statute which denied,
which positively refused, the benefit of English law to Irishmen, and equally forbid them to
use the Brehon law, which is even now the admiration of jurists, and which had been the law
of the land for many centuries.

If law could be said to enact that there should be no law, this was precisely what was done
at the memorable Parliament of Kilkenny. If Irishmen had done this, it would have been laughed
at as a Hibernicism, or scorned as the basest villany; but it was the work of Englishmen, and
the Irish nation were treated as rebels if they attempted to resist. The confiscation of Church
property in the reign of Henry VIII., added a new sting to the land grievance, and introduced
a new feature in its injustice. Church property had been used for the benefit of the poor far
more than for the benefit of its possessors. It is generally admitted that the monks of the
middle ages were the best and most considerate landlords. Thousands of families were now cast
upon the mercy of the new proprietors, whose will was their only law; and a considerable number
of persons were deprived of the alms which these religious so freely distributed to the sick
and the aged. Poverty multiplied fearfully, and discontent in proportion. You will see, by
a careful perusal of this history, that the descendants of the very men who had driven out
the original proprietors of Irish estates, were in turn driven out themselves by the next set
of colonists. It was a just retribution, but it was none the less terrible. Banishments and
confiscations were the rule by which Irish property was administered. Can you be surprised
that the Irish looked on English adventurers as little better than robbers, and treated them
as such? If the English Government had made just and equitable land laws for Ireland at or
immediately after the Union, all the miseries which have occurred since then might have been
prevented. Unfortunately, the men who had to legislate for Ireland are interested in the maintenance
of the unjust system; and there is an old proverb, as true as it is old, about the blindness
of those who do not wish to see. Irish landlords, or at least a considerable number of Irish
landlords, are quite willing to admit that the existence of the Established Church is a grievance.
Irish Protestant clergymen, who are not possessed by an anti-Popery crochet--and, thank God,
there are few afflicted with that unfortunate disease now--are quite free to admit that it
is a grievance for a tenant to be subject to ejection by his landlord, even if he pays his
rent punctually.

I believe the majority of Englishmen have not the faintest idea of the way in which the Irish
tenant is oppressed, not by individuals, for there are many landlords in Ireland devoted to
their tenantry, but by a system. There are, however, it cannot be denied, cases of individual
oppression, which, if they occurred in any part of Great Britain, and were publicly known,
would raise a storm, from the Land's End to John o' Groat's House, that would take something
more than revolvers to settle. As one of the great objects of studying the history of our own
country, is to enable us to understand and to enact such regulations as shall be best suited
to the genius of each race and their peculiar circumstances, I believe it to be my duty as
an historian, on however humble a scale, not only to show how our present history is affected
by the past, but also to give you such a knowledge of our present history as may enable you
to judge how much the country is still suffering from present grievances, occasioned by past
maladministration. Englishmen are quite aware that thousands of Irishmen leave their homes
every year for a foreign country; but they have little idea of the cause of this emigration.
Englishmen are quite aware that from time to time insurrections break out in Ireland, which
seem to them very absurd, if not very wicked; but they do not know how much grave cause there
is for discontent in Ireland. The very able and valuable pamphlets which have been written
on these subjects by Mr. Butt and Mr. Levey, and on the Church question by Mr. De Vere, do
not reach the English middle classes, or probably even the upper classes, unless their attention
is directed to them individually. The details of the sufferings and ejectments of the Irish
peasantry, which are given from time to time in the Irish papers, and principally in the Irish
local papers, are never even known across the Channel. How, then, can the condition of Ireland,
or of the Irish people, be estimated as it should? I believe there is a love of fair play and
manly justice in the English nation, which only needs to be excited in order to be brought to act.

But ignorance on this subject is not wholly confined to the English. I fear there are many
persons, even in Ireland, who are but imperfectly acquainted with the working of their own
land laws, if, indeed, what sanctions injustice deserves the name of law. To avoid prolixity,
I shall state very briefly the position of an Irish tenant at the present day, and I shall
show (1) how this position leads to misery, (2) how misery leads to emigration, and (3) how
this injustice recoils upon the heads of the perpetrators by leading to rebellion. First, the
position of an Irish tenant is simply this: he is rather worse off than a slave. I speak advisedly.
In Russia, the proprietors of large estates worked by slaves, are obliged to feed and clothe
their slaves; in Ireland, it quite depends on the will of the proprietor whether he will let
his lands to his tenants on terms which will enable them to feed their families on the coarsest
food, and to clothe them in the coarsest raiment If a famine occurs--and in some parts of Ireland
famines are of annual occurrence--the landlord is not obliged to do anything for his tenant,
but the tenant must pay his rent. I admit there are humane landlords in Ireland; but these
are questions of fact, not of feeling. It is a most flagrant injustice that Irish landlords
should have the power of dispossessing their tenants if they pay their rents. But this is not
all; although the penal laws have been repealed, the power of the landlord over the conscience
of his tenant is unlimited. It is true he cannot apply bodily torture, except, indeed, the
torture of starvation, but he can apply mental torture. It is in the power of an Irish landlord
to eject his tenant if he does not vote according to his wishes. A man who has no conscience,
has no moral right to vote; a man who tyrannizes over the conscience of another, should have
no legal right. But there is yet a deeper depth. I believe you will be lost in amazement at
what is yet to come, and will say, as Mr. Young said of penal laws in the last century, that
they were more "fitted for the meridian of Barbary." You have heard, no doubt, of wholesale
evictions; they are of frequent occurrence in Ireland--sometimes from political motives, because
the poor man will not vote with his landlord; sometimes from religious motives, because the
poor man will not worship God according to his landlord's conscience; sometimes from selfish
motives, because his landlord wishes to enlarge his domain, or to graze more cattle. The motive
does not matter much to the poor victim. He is flung out upon the roadside; if he is very poor,
he may die there, or he may go to the workhouse, but he must not be taken in, even for a time,
by any other family on the estate. The Irish Celt, with his warm heart and generous impulses,
would, at all risks to himself, take in the poor outcasts, and share his poverty with them;
but the landlord could not allow this. The commission of one evil deed necessitates the commission
of another. An Irish gentleman, who has no personal interest in land, and is therefore able
to look calmly on the question, has been at the pains to collect instances of this tyranny,
in his Plea for the Celtic Race. I shall only mention one as a sample. In the year 1851, on
an estate which was at the time supposed to be one of the most fairly treated in Ireland, "the
agent of the property had given public notice to the tenantry that expulsion from their farms
would be the penalty inflicted on them, if they harboured any one not resident on the estate.
The penalty was enforced against a widow, for giving food and shelter to a destitute grandson
of twelve years old. The child's mother at one time held a little dwelling, from which she
was expelled; his father was dead. He found a refuge with his grandmother, who was ejected
from her farm for harbouring the poor boy." When such things can occur, we should not hear
anything more about the Irish having only "sentimental grievances." The poor child was eventually
driven from house to house. He stole a shilling and a hen--poor fellow!--what else could he
be expected to do? He wandered about, looking in vain for shelter from those who dared not
give it. He was expelled with circumstances of peculiar cruelty from one cabin. He was found
next morning, cold, stiff, and dead, on the ground outside. The poor people who had refused
him shelter, were tried for their lives. They were found guilty of manslaughter only, in consideration
of the agent's order. The agent was not found guilty of anything, nor even tried. The landlord
was supposed to be a model landlord, and his estates were held up at the very time as models;
yet evictions had been fearfully and constantly carried out on them. Mr. Butt has well observed:
"The rules of the estate are often the most arbitrary and the most sternly enforced upon great
estates, the property of men of the highest station, upon which rents are moderate, and no
harshness practised to the tenantry, who implicitly submit." Such landlords generally consider
emigration the great remedy for the evils of Ireland. They point to their own well-regulated
and well-weeded estates; but they do not tell you all the human suffering it cost to exile
those who were turned out to make room for large dairy farms, or all the quiet tyranny exercised
over those who still remain. Neither does it occur to them that their successors may raise
these moderate rents at a moment's notice; and if their demands are not complied with, he may
eject these "comfortable farmers" without one farthing of compensation for all their improvements
and their years of labour.

I have shown how the serfdom of the Irish tenant leads to misery. But the subject is one which
would require a volume. No one can understand the depth of Irish misery who has not lived in
Ireland, and taken pains to become acquainted with the habits and manner of life of the lower
orders. The tenant who is kept at starvation point to pay his landlord's rent, has no means
of providing for his family. He cannot encourage trade; his sons cannot get work to do, if
they are taught trades. Emigration or the workhouse is the only resource. I think the efforts
which are made by the poor in Ireland to get work are absolutely unexampled, and it is a cruel
thing that a man who is willing to work should not be able to get it. I know an instance in
which a girl belonging to a comparatively respectable family was taken into service, and it
was discovered that for years her only food, and the only food of her family, was dry bread,
and, as an occasional luxury, weak tea. So accustomed had she become to this wretched fare,
that she actually could not even eat an egg. She and her family have gone to America; and I
have no doubt, after a few years, that the weakened organs will recover their proper tone,
with the gradual use of proper food.

There is another ingredient in Irish misery which has not met with the consideration it deserves.
If the landlord happens to be humane, he may interest himself in the welfare of the families
of his tenantry. He may also send a few pounds to them for coals at Christmas, or for clothing;
but such instances are unhappily rare, and the alms given is comparatively nothing. In England
the case is precisely the reverse. On this subject I speak from personal knowledge. There is
scarcely a little village in England, however poor, where there is not a committee of ladies,
assisted by the neighbouring gentry, who distribute coals, blankets, and clothing in winter;
and at all times, where there is distress, give bread, tea, and meat. Well may the poor Irish
come home discontented after they have been to work in England, and see how differently the
poor are treated there. I admit, and I repeat it again, that there are instances in which the
landlord takes an interest in his tenantry, but those instances are exceptions. Many of these
gentlemen, who possess the largest tracts of land in Ireland, have also large estates in England,
and they seldom, sometimes never, visit their Irish estates. They leave it to their agent.
Every application for relief is referred to the agent. The agent, however humane, cannot be
expected to have the same interest in the people as a landlord ought to have. The agent is
the instrument used to draw out the last farthing from the poor; he is constantly in collision
with them. They naturally dislike him; and he, not unnaturally, dislikes them.

The burden, therefore, of giving that relief to the poor, which they always require in times
of sickness, and when they cannot get work, falls almost exclusively upon the priests and the
convents. Were it not for the exertions made by the priests and nuns throughout Ireland for
the support of the poor, and to obtain work for them, and the immense sums of money sent to
Ireland by emigrants, for the support of aged fathers and mothers, I believe the destitution
would be something appalling, and that landlords would find it even more difficult than at
present to get the high rents which they demand. Yet, some of these same landlords, getting
perhaps £20,000 or £40,000 a-year from their Irish estates, will not give the slightest help
to establish industrial schools in connexion with convents, or to assist them when they are
established, though they are the means of helping their own tenants to pay their rent. There
are in Ireland about two hundred conventual establishments. Nearly all of these convents have
poor schools, where the poor are taught, either at a most trifling expense, or altogether without
charge. The majority of these convents feed and clothe a considerable number of poor children,
and many of them have established industrial schools, where a few girls at least can earn what
will almost support a whole family in comfort. I give the statistics of one convent as a sample
of others. I believe there are a few, but perhaps only a very few other places, where the statistics
would rise higher; but there are many convents where the children are fed and clothed, and
where work is done on a smaller scale. If such institutions were encouraged by the landlords,
much more could be done. The convent to which I allude was founded at the close of the year
1861. There was a national school in the little town (in England it would be called a village),
with an attendance of about forty children. The numbers rose rapidly year by year, after the
arrival of the nuns, and at present the average daily attendance is just 400. It would be very
much higher, were it not for the steady decrease in the population, caused by emigration. The
emigration would have been very much greater, had not the parish priest given employment to
a considerable number of men, by building a new church, convent, and convent schools. The poorest
of the children, and, in Ireland, none but the very poorest will accept such alms, get a breakfast
of Indian meal and milk all the year round. The comfort of this hot meal to them, when they
come in half-clad and starving of a winter morning, can only be estimated by those who have
seen the children partake of it, and heard the cries of delight of the babies of a year old,
and the quiet expression of thankfulness of the elder children. Before they go home they get
a piece of dry bread, and this is their dinner--a dinner the poorest English child would almost
refuse. The number of meals given at present is 350 per diem. The totals of meals given per
annum since 1862 are as follows:--

During the year 1862 ...... 36,400
  "     "       1863 ...... 45,800
  "     "       1864 ...... 46,700
  "     "       1865 ...... 49,000
  "     "       1866 ...... 70,000
  "     "       1867 ...... 73,000

       Making a total of   320,900

There were also 1,035 suits of clothing given.

The Industrial School was established in 1863. It has been principally supported by English
ladies and Protestants. The little town where the convent is situated, is visited by tourists
during the summer months; and many who have visited the convent have been so much struck by
the good they saw done there, that they have actually devoted themselves to selling work amongst
their English friends for the poor children.

The returns of work sold in the Industrial School are as follows:--

                          £  s. d.
Work sold in 1863 .....  70  3  6-1/2
 "     "     1864 ..... 109 18  5
 "     "     1805 ..... 276  1  3-1/2
 "     "     1866 ..... 421 16  3
 "     "     1867 ..... 350  2  4-1/2

   Making a total of £1,228  1 10-1/2

The falling off in 1867 has been accounted for partly from the Fenian panic, which prevented
tourists visiting Ireland as numerously as in other years, and partly from the attraction of
the French Exhibition having drawn tourists in that direction. I have been exact in giving
these details, because they form an important subject for consideration in regard to the present
history of Ireland. They show at once the poverty of the people, their love of industry, and
their eagerness to do work when they can get it. In this, and in other convent schools throughout
Ireland, the youngest children are trained to habits of industry. They are paid even for their
first imperfect attempts, to encourage them to go on; and they treasure up the few weekly pence
they earn as a lady would her jewels. One child had in this way nearly saved up enough to buy
herself a pair of shoes--a luxury she had not as yet possessed; but before the whole amount
was procured she went to her eternal home, where there is no want, and her last words were
a message of love and gratitude to the nuns who had taught her.

The causes of emigration, as one should think, are patent to all. Landlords do not deny that
they are anxious to see the people leave the country. They give them every assistance to do
so. Their object is to get more land into their own hands, but the policy will eventually prove
suicidal. A revolutionary spirit is spreading fast through Europe. Already the standing subject
of public addresses to the people in England, is the injustice of certain individuals being
allowed to hold such immense tracts of country in their possession. We all know what came of
the selfish policy of the landowners in France before the Revolution, which consigned them
by hundreds to the guillotine. A little self-sacrifice, which, in the end, would have been
for their own benefit, might have saved all this. The attempt to depopulate Ireland has been
tried over and over again, and has failed signally. It is not more likely to succeed in the
nineteenth century than at any preceding period. Even were it possible that wholesale emigration
could benefit any country, it is quite clear that Irish emigration cannot benefit England.
It is a plan to get rid of a temporary difficulty at a terrific future cost. Emigration has
ceased to be confined to paupers. Respectable farmers are emigrating, and taking with them
to America bitter memories of the cruel injustice which has compelled them to leave their native
land.

Second, How misery leads to emigration. The poor are leaving the country, because they have
no employment. The more respectable classes are leaving the country, because they prefer living
in a free land, where they can feel sure that their hard earnings will be their own, and not
their landlord's, and where they are not subject to the miserable political and religious tyranny
which reigns supreme in Ireland. In the evidence given before the Land Tenure Committee of
1864, we find the following statements made by Dr. Keane, the Roman Catholic Bishop of Cloyne.
His Lordship is a man of more than ordinary intelligence, and of more than ordinary patriotism.
He has made the subject of emigration his special study, partly from a deep devotion to all
that concerns the welfare of his country, and partly from the circumstance of his residence
being at Queenstown, the port from which Irishmen leave their native shores, and the place
where wails of the emigrants continually resound. I subjoin a few of his replies to the questions
proposed:--

     "I attribute emigration principally to the want of employment."

     "A man who has only ten or twelve acres, and who is a
     tenant-at-will, finding that the land requires improvement, is
     afraid to waste it [his money], and he goes away. I see many of
     these poor people in Queenstown every day."

     "I have made inquiries over and over again in Queenstown and
     elsewhere, and I never yet heard that a single farmer emigrated and
     left the country who had a lease."

Well might Mr. Heron say, in a paper read before the Irish Statistical Society, in May, 1864:
"Under the present laws, no Irish peasant able to read and write ought to remain in Ireland.
If Ireland were an independent country, in the present state of things there would be a bloody
insurrection in every county, and the peasantry would ultimately obtain the property in land,
as they have obtained it in Switzerland and in France." That the Irish people will eventually
become the masters of the Irish property, from which every effort has been made to dispossess
them, by fair means and by foul, since the Norman invasion of Ireland, I have not the slightest
doubt. The only doubt is whether the matter will be settled by the law or by the sword. But
I have hope that the settlement will be peaceful, when I find English members of Parliament
treating thus of the subject, and ministers declaring, at least when they are out of office,
that something should be done for Ireland.

Mr. Stuart Mill writes: "The land of Ireland, the land of every country, belongs to the people
of that country. The individuals called landowners have no right, in morality or justice, to
anything but the rent, or compensation for its saleable value. When the inhabitants of a country
quit the country en masse, because the Government will not make it a place fit for them to
live in, the Government is judged and condemned, It is the duty of Parliament to reform the
landed tenure of Ireland."

More than twenty years ago Mr. Disraeli said: "He wished to see a public man come forward and
say what the Irish question was. Let them consider Ireland as they would any other country
similarly circumstanced. They had a starving population, an absentee aristocracy, an alien
Church, and, in addition, the weakest executive in the world. This was the Irish question.
What would gentlemen say on hearing of a country in such a position? They would say at once,
in such case, the remedy is revolution--not the suspension of the Habeas Corpus Act. But the
connexion with England prevented it: therefore England was logically in the active position
of being the cause of all the misery of Ireland. What, then, was the duty of an English minister?
To effect by policy all the changes which a revolution would do by force." If these words had
been acted upon in 1848, we should not have had a Fenian insurrection in 1867. If a peaceful
revolution is to be accomplished a few persons must suffer, though, in truth, it is difficult
to see what Irish landlords could lose by a fair land law, except the power to exercise a tyrannical
control over their tenants. I believe, if many English absentee landlords had even the slightest
idea of the evil deeds done in their names by their agents, that they would not tolerate it
for a day. If a complaint is made to the landlord, he refers it to his agent. It is pretty
much as if you required the man who inflicted the injury to be the judge of his own conduct.
The agent easily excuses himself to the landlord; but the unfortunate man who had presumed
to lift up his voice, is henceforth a marked object of vengeance; and he is made an example
to his fellows, that they may not dare to imitate him. The truth is, that the real state of
Ireland, and the real feelings of the Irish people, can only be known by personal intercourse
with the lower orders. Gentlemen making a hurried tour through the country, may see a good
deal of misery, if they have not come for the purpose of not seeing it; but they can never
know the real wretchedness of the Irish poor unless they remain stationary in some district
long enough to win the confidence of the people, and to let them feel that they can tell their
sorrows and their wrongs without fear that they shall be increased by the disclosure.

Third, one brief word of how this injustice recoils upon the heads of the perpetrators, and
I shall have ended. It recoils upon them indirectly, by causing a feeling of hostility between
the governors and the governed. A man cannot be expected to revere and love his landlord, when
he finds that his only object is to get all he can from him--when he finds him utterly reckless
of his misery, and still more indifferent to his feelings. A gentleman considers himself a
model of humanity if he pays the emigration expenses of the family whom he wishes to eject
from the holding which their ancestors have possessed for centuries. He is amazed at the fearful
ingratitude of the poor man, who cannot feel overwhelmed with joy at his benevolent offer.
But the gentleman considers he has done his duty, and consoles himself with the reflection
that the Irish are an ungrateful race. Of all the peoples on the face of the globe, the Irish
Celts are the most attached to their families and to their lands. God only knows the broken
hearts that go over the ocean strangers to a strange land. The young girls who leave their
aged mothers, the noble, brave young fellows who leave their old fathers, act not from a selfish
wish to better themselves, but from the hope, soon to be realized, that they may be able to
earn in another land what they cannot earn in their own. I saw a lad once parting from his
aged father. I wish I had not seen it. I heard the agonized cries of the old man: "My God!
he's gone! he's gone!" I wish I had not heard it. I heard the wild wailing cry with which the
Celt mourns for his dead, and glanced impulsively to the window. It was not death, but departure
that prompts that agony of grief. A car was driving off rapidly on the mountain road which
led to the nearest port. The car was soon out of sight. The father and the son had looked their
last look into each other's eyes--had clasped the last clasp of each other's hands. An hour
had passed, and still the old man lay upon the ground, where he had flung himself in his heart's
bitter anguish; and still the wail rung out from time to time: "My God! he's gone! he's gone!"

Those who have seen the departure of emigrants at the Irish seaports, are not surprised at
Irish disaffection--are not surprised that the expatriated youth joins the first wild scheme,
which promises to release his country from such cruel scenes, and shares his money equally
between his starving relatives at home, and the men who, sometimes as deceivers, and sometimes
with a patriotism like his own, live only for one object--to obtain for Ireland by the sword,
the justice which is denied to her by the law.

I conclude with statistics which are undeniable proofs of Irish misery. The emigration at present
amounts to 100,000 per annum.

From the 1st of May, 1851, to the 31st of December, 1865, 1,630,722 persons emigrated. As the
emigrants generally leave their young children after them for a time, and as aged and imbecile
persons do not emigrate, the consequence is, that, from 1851 to 1861, the number of deaf and
dumb increased from 5,180 to 5,653; the number of blind, from 5,787 to 6,879; and the number
of lunatics and idiots, from 9,980 to 14,098. In 1841, the estimated value of crops in Ireland
was £50,000,000; in 1851, it was reduced to £43,000,000; and in 1861, to £35,000,000. The number
of gentlemen engaged in the learned professions is steadily decreasing; the traffic on Irish
railways and the returns are steadily decreasing; the live stock in cattle, which was to have
supplied and compensated for the live stock in men, is fearfully decreasing; the imports and
exports are steadily decreasing. The decrease in cultivated lands, from 1862 to 1863, amounted
to 138,841 acres.

While the Preface to the Second Edition was passing through the press, my attention was called
to an article, in the Pall Mall Gazette, on the Right Rev. Dr. Manning's Letter to Earl Grey.
The writer of this article strongly recommends his Grace to publish a new edition of his Letter,
omitting the last sixteen pages. We have been advised, also, to issue a new edition of our
HISTORY, to omit the Preface, and any remarks or facts that might tend to show that the Irish
tenant was not the happiest and most contented being in God's creation.

The Pall Mall Gazette argues--if, indeed, mere assertion can be called argument--first, "that
Dr. Manning has obviously never examined the subject for himself, but takes his ideas and beliefs
from the universal statements of angry and ignorant sufferers whom he has met in England, or
from intemperate and utterly untrustworthy party speeches and pamphlets, whose assertions he
receives as gospel;" yet Dr. Manning has given statements of facts, and the writer has not
attempted to disprove them. Second, he says: "Dr. Manning echoes the thoughtless complaints
of those who cry out against emigration as a great evil and a grievous wrong, when he might
have known, if he had thought or inquired at all about the matter, not only that this emigration
has been the greatest conceivable blessing to the emigrants, but was an absolutely indispensable
step towards improving the condition of those who remained at home;" and then the old calumnies
are resuscitated about the Irish being "obstinately idle and wilfully improvident," as if it
had not been proved again and again that the only ground on which such appellations can be
applied to them in Ireland is, that their obstinacy consists in objecting to work without fair
remuneration for their labour, and their improvidence in declining to labour for the benefit
of their masters. It is the old story, "you are idle, you are idle,"--it is the old demand,
"make bricks without straw,"--and then, by way of climax, we are assured that these "poor creatures"
are assisted to emigrate with the tenderest consideration, and that, in fact, emigration is
a boon for which they are grateful.

It is quite true that many landlords pay their tenants to emigrate, and send persons to see
them safe out of the country; but it is absolutely false that the people emigrate willingly.
No one who has witnessed the departure of emigrants dare make such an assertion. They are offered
their choice between starvation and emigration, and they emigrate. If a man were offered his
choice between penal servitude and hanging, it is probable he would prefer penal servitude,
but that would not make him appreciate the joys of prison life. The Irish parish priest alone
can tell what the Irish suffer at home, and how unwillingly they go abroad. A pamphlet has
just been published on this very subject, by the Very Rev. P. Malone, P.P., V.F., of Belmullet,
co. Mayo, and in this he says: "I have seen the son, standing upon the deck of the emigrant
ship, divest himself of his only coat, and place it upon his father's shoulders, saying, 'Father,
take you this; I will soon earn the price of a coat in the land I am going to.'" Such instances,
which might be recorded by the hundred, and the amount of money sent to Ireland by emigrants
for the support of aged parents, and to pay the passage out of younger members of the family,
are the best refutation of the old falsehood that Irishmen are either idle or improvident.

AN

ILLUSTRATED HISTORY OF IRELAND.

CHAPTER I

Celtic Literature--Antiquity of our Annals--Moore--How we should estimate Tradition--The Materials
for Irish History--List of the Lost Books--The Cuilmenn--The Saltair of Tara, &c.--The Saltair
of Cashel--Important MSS. preserved in Trinity College--By the Royal Irish Academy--In Belgium.

The study of Celtic literature, which is daily becoming of increased importance to the philologist,
has proved a matter of no inconsiderable value to the Irish historian. His publishers, who
had less scruples, or more utilitarian views, insisted on the completion of his task. Whatever
their motives may have been, we may thank them for the result. Though Moore's history cannot
now be quoted as an authority, it accomplished its work for the time, and promoted an interest
in the history of one of the most ancient nations of the human race.

There are two sources from whence the early history of a nation may be safely derived: the
first internal--the self-consciousness of the individual; the second external--the knowledge
of its existence by others--the ego sum and the tu es; and our acceptance of the statements
of each on matters of fact, should depend on their mutual agreement.

The first question, then, for the historian should be, What accounts does this nation give
of its early history? the second, What account of this nation's early history can be obtained
ab extra? By stating and comparing these accounts with such critical acumen as the writer may
be able to command, we may obtain something approaching to authentic history. The history of
ancient peoples must have its basis on tradition. The name tradition unfortunately gives an
a priori impression of untruthfulness, and hence the difficulty of accepting tradition as an
element of truth in historic research. But tradition is not necessarily either a pure myth
or a falsified account of facts. The traditions of a nation are like an aged man's recollection
of his childhood, and should be treated as such. If we would know his early history, we let
him tell the tale in his own fashion. It may be he will dwell long upon occurrences interesting
to himself, and apart from the object of our inquiries; it may be he will equivocate unintentionally
if cross-examined in detail; but truth will underlie his garrulous story, and by patient analysis
we may sift it out, and obtain the information we desire.

A nation does not begin to write its history at the first moment of its existence. Hence, when
the chronicle is compiled which first embodies its story, tradition forms the basis. None but
an inspired historian can commence In principio. The nation has passed through several generations,
the people already begin to talk of "old times;" but as they are nearer these "old times" by
some thousands of years than we are, they are only burdened with the traditions of a few centuries
at the most; and unless there is evidence of a wilful object or intent to falsify their chronicles,
we may in the main depend on their accuracy. Let us see how this applies to Gaedhilic history.
The labours of the late lamented Eugene O'Curry have made this an easy task. He took to his
work a critical acumen not often attained by the self-educated, and a noble patriotism not
often maintained by the gifted scions of a country whose people and whose literature have been
alike trodden down and despised for centuries. The result of his researches is embodied in
a work[1] which should be in the hands of every student of Irish history, and of every Irishman
who can afford to procure it. This volume proves that the early history of Ireland has yet
to be written; that it should be a work of magnitude, and undertaken by one gifted with special
qualifications, which the present writer certainly does not possess; and that it will probably
require many years of patient labour from the "host of Erinn's sons," before the necessary
materials for such a history can be prepared.

The manuscript materials for ancient Irish history may be divided into two classes: the historical,
which purports to be a narrative of facts, in which we include books of laws, genealogies,
and pedigrees; and the legendary, comprising tales, poems, and legends. The latter, though
not necessarily true, are generally founded on fact, and contain a mass of most important information,
regarding the ancient customs and manner of life among our ancestors. For the present we must
devote our attention to the historical documents. These, again, may be divided into two classes--the
lost books and those which still remain. Of the former class the principal are the CUILMENN,
i.e., the great book written on skins; the SALTAIR OF TARA; the BOOK OF THE UACHONGBHAIL (pron.
"ooa cong-wall"); the CIN DROMA SNECHTA; and the SALTAIR OF CASHEL. Besides these, a host of
works are lost, of lesser importance as far as we can now judge, which, if preserved, might
have thrown a flood of light not only upon our annals, but also on the social, historical,
and ethnographic condition of other countries. The principal works which have been preserved
are: the ANNALS OF TIGHERNACH (pron. "Teernagh"); the ANNALS OF ULSTER; the ANNALS OF INIS
MAC NERINN; the ANNALS OF INNISFALLEN; the ANNALS OF BOYLE; the CHRONICUM SCOTORUM, so ably
edited by Mr. Hennessy; the world-famous ANNALS OF THE FOUR MASTERS; the BOOK OF LEINSTER;
the BOOK OF LAWS (the Brehon Laws), now edited by Dr. Todd, and many books of genealogies and
pedigrees.

For the present it must suffice to say, that these documents have been examined by the ordinary
rules of literary criticism, perhaps with more than ordinary care, and that the result has
been to place their authenticity and their antiquity beyond cavil.

Let us see, then, what statements we can find which may throw light on our early history, first
in the fragments that remain of the lost books, and then in those which are still preserved.

The CUILMENN is the first of the lost books which we mentioned. It is thus referred to in the
Book of Leinster:[2] "The filés [bards] of Erinn were now called together by Senchan Torpéist
[about A.D. 580], to know if they remembered the Táin bó Chuailgné in full; and they said that
they knew of it but fragments only. Senchan then spoke to his pupils to know which of them
would go into the countries of Letha to learn the Táin which the Sai had taken 'eastwards'
after the Cuilmenn. Eminé, the grandson of Nininé, and Muirgen, Senchan's own son, set out
to go to the East."

Here we have simply an indication of the existence of this ancient work, and of the fact that
in the earliest, if not in pre-Christian times, Irish manuscripts travelled to the Continent
with Irish scholars--Letha being the name by which Italy, and especially what are now called
the Papal States, was then designated by Irish writers.

The SALTAIR OF TARA next claims our attention; and we may safely affirm, merely judging from
the fragments which remain, that a nation which could produce such a work had attained no ordinary
pitch of civilization and literary culture. The Book of Ballymote,[3] and the Yellow Book of
Lecan,[4] attribute this work to Cormac Mac Art: "A noble work was performed by Cormac at that
time, namely, the compilation of Cormac's Saltair, which was composed by him and the Seanchaidhe
[Historians] of Erinn, including Fintan, son of Bochra, and Fithil, the poet and judge. And
their synchronisms and genealogies, the succession of their kings and monarchs, their battles,
their contests, and their antiquities, from the world's beginning down to that time, were written;
and this is the Saltair of Temair [pron. "Tara," almost as it is called now], which is the
origin and fountain of the Historians of Erinn from that period down to this time. This is
taken from the Book of the Uachongbhail."[5]

As we shall speak of Cormac's reign and noble qualities in detail at a later period, it is
only necessary to record here that his panegyric, as king, warrior, judge, and philosopher,
has been pronounced by almost contemporary writers, as well as by those of later date. The
name Saltair has been objected to as more likely to denote a composition of Christian times.
This objection, however, is easily removed: first, the name was probably applied after the
appellation had been introduced in Christian times; second, we have no reason to suppose that
King Cormac designated his noble work by this name; and third, even could this be proven, the
much maligned Keating removes any difficulty by the simple and obvious remark, that "it is
because of its having been written in poetic metre, the chief book which was in the custody
of the Ollamh of the King of Erinn, was called the Saltair of Temair; and the Chronicle of
holy Cormac Mac Cullinan, Saltair of Cashel; and the Chronicle of Aengus Ceilé Dé [the Culdee],
Saltair-na-Rann [that is, Saltair of the Poems or Verses], because a Salm and a Poem are the
same, and therefore a Salterium and a Duanairé [book of poems] are the same."[6]

The oldest reference to this famous compilation is found in a poem on the site of ancient Tara,
by Cuan O'Lochain, a distinguished scholar, and native of Westmeath, who died in the year 1024.
The quotation given below is taken from the Book of Ballymote, a magnificent volume, compiled
in the year 1391, now in possession of the Royal Irish Academy:--

    Temair, choicest of hills,
    For [possession of] which Erinn is now devastated,[7]
    The noble city of Cormac, son of Art,
    Who was the son of great Conn of the hundred battles:
    Cormac, the prudent and good,
    Was a sage, a filé [poet], a prince:
    Was a righteous judge of the Fené-men,[8]
    Was a good friend and companion.
    Cormac gained fifty battles:
    He compiled the Saltair of Temur.
    In that Saltair is contained
    The best summary of history;
    It is that Saltair which assigns
    Seven chief kings to Erinn of harbours;
    They consisted of the five kings of the provinces,--
    The Monarch of Erinn and his Deputy.
    In it are (written) on either side,
    What each provincial king is entitled to,
    From the king of each great musical province.
    The synchronisms and chronology of all,
    The kings, with each other [one with another] all;
    The boundaries of each brave province,
    From a cantred up to a great chieftaincy.

From this valuable extract we obtain a clear idea of the importance and the subject of the
famous Saltair, and a not less clear knowledge of the admirable legal and social institutions
by which Erinn was then governed.

The CIN OF DROM SNECHTA is quoted in the Book of Ballymote, in support of the ancient legend
of the antediluvian occupation of Erinn by the Lady Banbha, called in other books Cesair (pron.
"kesar"). The Book of Lecan quotes it for the same purpose, and also for the genealogies of
the chieftains of the ancient Rudrician race of Ulster. Keating gives the descent of the Milesian
colonists from Magog, the son of Japhet, on the authority of the Cin of Drom Snechta, which,
he states, was compiled before St. Patrick's mission to Erinn.[9] We must conclude this part
of our subject with a curious extract from the same work, taken from the Book of Leinster:
"From the Cin of Drom Snechta, this below. Historians say that there were exiles of Hebrew
women in Erinn at the coming of the sons of Milesius, who had been driven by a sea tempest
into the ocean by the Tirrén Sea. They were in Erinn before the sons of Milesius. They said,
however, to the sons of Milesius [who, it would appear, pressed marriage on them], that they
preferred their own country, and that they would not abandon it without receiving dowry for
alliance with them. It is from this circumstance that it is the men that purchase wives in
Erinn for ever, whilst it is the husbands that are purchased by the wives throughout the world
besides."[10] The SALTAIR OF CASHEL was compiled by Cormac Mac Cullinan King of Munster, and
Archbishop of Cashel. He was killed in the year 903. This loss of the work is most painful
to the student of the early history of Erinn. It is believed that the ancient compilation known
as Cormac's Glossary, was compiled from the interlined gloss to the Saltair; and the references
therein to our ancient history, laws, mythology, and social customs, are such as to indicate
the richness of the mine of ancient lore. A copy was in existence in 1454, as there is in the
Bodleian Library in Oxford (Laud, 610) a copy of such portions as could be deciphered at the
time. This copy was made by Shane O'Clery for Mac Richard Butler.

The subjoined list of the lost books is taken from O'Curry's MS. Materials, page 20. It may
be useful to the philologist and interesting to our own people, as a proof of the devotion
to learning so early manifested in Erinn:--

     "In the first place must be enumerated again the Cuilmenn; the
     Saltair of Tara; the Cin Droma Snechta; the Book of St. Mochta;
     the Book of Cuana; the Book of Dubhdaleithe; and the Saltair of
     Cashel. Besides these we find mention of the Leabhar buidhe
     Sláine or Yellow Book of Slane; the original Leabhar na
     h-Uidhre; the Books of Eochaidh O'Flannagain; a certain book
     known as the Book eaten by the poor people in the desert; the Book
     of Inis an Duin; the Short Book of St. Buithe's Monastery (or
     Monasterboice); the Books of Flann of the same Monastery; the Book
     of Flann of Dungeimhin (Dungiven, co. Derry); the Book of Dun da
     Leth Ghlas (or Downpatrick); the Book of Doiré (Derry); the Book
     of Sabhall Phatraic (or Saull, co. Down); the Book of the
     Uachongbhail (Navan, probably); the Leabhar dubh Molaga, or
     Black Book of St. Molaga; the Leabhar buidhe Moling, or Yellow
     Book of St. Moling; the Leabhar buidhe Mhic Murchadha, or Yellow
     Book of Mac Murrach; the Leabhar Arda Macha, or Book of Armagh
     (quoted by Keating); the Leabhar ruadh Mhic Aedhagain, or Red
     Book of Mac Aegan; the Leabhar breac Mhic Aedhagain, or Speckled
     Book of Mac Aegan; the Leabhar fada Leithghlinne, or Long Book of
     Leithghlinn, or Leithlin; the Books of O'Scoba of Cluain Mic Nois
     (or Clonmacnois); the Duil Droma Ceata, or Book of Drom Ceat; and
     the Book of Clonsost (in Leix, in the Queen's County)."

 (temp. St.
Patrick, circa A.D. 430.)]

Happily, however, a valuable collection of ancient MSS. are still preserved, despite the "drowning"
of the Danes, and the "burning" of the Saxon. The researches of continental scholars are adding
daily to our store; and the hundreds of Celtic MSS., so long entombed in the libraries of Belgium
and Italy, will, when published, throw additional light upon the brightness of the past, and,
it may be, enhance the glories of the future, which we must believe are still in reserve for
the island of saints and sages.[11]

The list of works given above are supposed by O'Curry to have existed anterior to the year
1100. Of the books which Keating refers to in his History, written about 1630, only one is
known to be extant--the Saltair-na-Rann, written by Aengus Céile Dé.

The principal Celtic MSS. which are still preserved to us, may be consulted in the Library
of Trinity College, Dublin, and in the Library of the Royal Irish Academy. The latter, though
founded at a much later period, is by far the more extensive, if not the more important, collection.
Perhaps, few countries have been so happy as to possess a body of men so devoted to its archæology,
so ardent in their preservation of all that can be found to illustrate it, and so capable of
elucidating its history by their erudition, which, severally and collectively, they have brought
to bear on every department of its ethnology. The collection in Trinity College consists of
more than 140 volumes, several of them are vellum,[12] dating from the early part of the twelfth
to the middle of the last century. The collection of the Royal Irish Academy also contains
several works written on vellum, with treatises of history, science, laws, and commerce; there
are also many theological and ecclesiastical compositions, which have been pronounced by competent
authorities to be written in the purest style that the ancient Gaedhilic language ever attained.
There are also a considerable number of translations from Greek, Latin, and other languages.
These are of considerable importance, as they enable the critical student of our language to
determine the meaning of many obscure or obsolete words or phrases, by reference to the originals;
nor are they of less value as indicating the high state of literary culture which prevailed
in Ireland during the early Christian and the Middle Ages. Poetry, mythology, history, and
the classic literature of Greece and Rome, may be found amongst these translations; so that,
as O'Curry well remarks, "any one well read in the comparatively few existing fragments of
our Gaedhilic literature, and whose education had been confined solely to this source, would
find that there are but very few, indeed, of the great events in the history of the world with
which he was not acquainted."[13] He then mentions, by way of illustration of classical subjects,
Celtic versions of the Argonautic Expedition, the Siege of Troy, the Life of Alexander the
Great; and of such subjects as cannot be classed under this head, the Destruction of Jerusalem;
the Wars of Charlemagne, including the History of Roland the Brave; the History of the Lombards,
and the almost contemporary translation of the Travels of Marco Polo.

There is also a large collection of MSS. in the British Museum, a few volumes in the Bodleian
Library at Oxford, besides the well-known, though inaccessible, Stowe collection.[14]

The treasures of Celtic literature still preserved on the Continent, can only be briefly mentioned
here. It is probable that the active researches of philologists will exhume many more of these
long-hidden volumes, and obtain for our race the place it has always deserved in the history
of nations.

The Louvain collection, formed chiefly by Fathers Hugh Ward, John Colgan, and Michael O'Clery,
between the years 1620 and 1640, was widely scattered at the French Revolution. The most valuable
portion is in the College of St. Isidore in Rome. The Burgundian Library at Brussels also possesses
many of these treasures. A valuable resumé of the MSS. which are preserved there was given
by Mr. Bindon, and printed in the Proceedings of the Royal Irish Academy in the year 1847.
There are also many Latin MSS. with Irish glosses, which have been largely used by Zeuss in
his world-famed Grammatica Celtica. The date of one of these--a codex containing some of Venerable
Bede's works--is fixed by an entry of the death of Aed, King of Ireland, in the year 817. This
most important work belonged to the Irish monastery of Reichenau, and is now preserved at Carlsruhe.
A codex is also preserved at Cambray, which contains a fragment of an Irish sermon, and the
canons of an Irish council held A.D. 684.

FOOTNOTES:

[1] Work.--Lectures on the MS. Materials of Ancient Irish History. This work was published
at the sole cost of the Catholic University of Ireland, and will be an eternal monument of
their patriotism and devotion to literature. A chair of Irish History and Archæology was also
founded at the very commencement of the University; and yet the "Queen's Colleges" are discarding
this study, while an English professor in Oxford is warmly advocating its promotion. Is the
value of a chair to be estimated by the number of pupils who surround it, or by the contributions
to science of the professor who holds it?

[2] Leinster.--Book of Leinster, H.2.18, T.C.D. See O'Curry, p. 8.

[3] Ballymote.--Library R.I.A., at fol. 145, a.a.

[4] Lecan.--Trinity College, Dublin, classed H.2.16.

[5] Uachongbhail.--O'Curry's MS. Materials, p. 11.

[6] Same.--Ibid. p. 12. The Psalms derived their name from the musical instrument to which
they were sung. This was called in Hebrew nebel. It obtained the name from its resemblance
to a bottle or flagon. Psaltery is the Greek translation, and hence the name psalm.

[7] Devastated.--This was probably written in the year 1001, when Brian Boroimhé had deposed
Malachy.

[8] Fené-men.--The farmers, who were not Fenians then certainly, for "Cormac was a righteous
judge of the Agraria Lex of the Gaels."

[9] Erinn.--Keating says: "We will set down here the branching off of the races of Magog, according
to the Book of Invasions (of Ireland), which was called the Cin of Drom Snechta; and it was
before the coming of Patrick to Ireland the author of that book existed."--See Keating, page
109, in O'Connor's translation. It is most unfortunate that this devoted priest and ardent
lover of his country did not bring the critical acumen to his work which would have made its
veracity unquestionable. He tells us that it is "the business of his history to be particular,"
and speaks of having "faithfully collected and transcribed." But until recent investigations
manifested the real antiquity and value of the MS. Materials of Ancient Irish History, his
work was looked on as a mere collection of legends. The quotation at present under consideration
is a case in point. He must have had a copy of the Cin of Drom Snechta in his possession, and
he must have known who was the author of the original, as he states so distinctly the time
of its compilation. Keating's accuracy in matters of fact and transcription, however, is daily
becoming more apparent. This statement might have been considered a mere conjecture of his
own, had not Mr. O'Curry discovered the name of the author in a partially effaced memorandum
in the Book of Leinster, which he reads thus: "[Ernín, son of] Duach [that is], son of the
King of Connacht, an Ollamh, and a prophet, and a professor in history, and a professor in
wisdom: it was he that collected the Genealogies and Histories of the men of Erinn in one book,
that is, the Cin Droma Snechta." Duach was the son of Brian, son of the monarch Eochaidh, who
died A.D. 305.

[10] Besides.--O'Curry, page 16.

[11] Sages.--M. Nigra, the Italian Ambassador at Paris, is at this moment engaged in publishing
continental MSS.

[12] Vellum.--The use of vellum is an indication that the MSS. must be of some antiquity. The
word "paper" is derived from papyrus, the most ancient material for writing, if we except the
rocks used for runes, or the wood for oghams. Papyrus, the pith of a reed, was used until the
discovery of parchment, about 190 B.C. A MS. of the Antiquities of Josephus on papyrus, was
among the treasures seized by Buonaparte in Italy.

[13] Acquainted.--O'Curry's MS. Materials, page 24.

[14] Collection.-A recent writer in the Cornhill says that Lord Ashburnham refuses access to
this collection, now in his possession, fearing that its contents may be depreciated so as
to lessen its value at a future sale. We should hope this statement can scarcely be accurate.
Unhappily, it is at least certain that access to the MSS. is denied, from whatever motive.

CHAPTER II.

Tighernach and his Annals--Erudition and Research of our Early Writers--The Chronicum Scotorum--Duald
Mac Firbis--Murdered, and his Murderer is protected by the Penal Laws--The Annals of the Four
Masters--Michael O'Clery--His Devotion to his Country--Ward--Colgan--Dedication of the Annals--The
Book of Invasions--Proofs of our Early Colonization.

Our illustration can give but a faint idea of the magnificence and extent of the ancient abbey
of Clonmacnois, the home of our famous annalist, Tighernach. It has been well observed, that
no more ancient chronicler can be produced by the northern nations. Nestor, the father of Russian
history, died in 1113; Snorro, the father of Icelandic history, did not appear until a century
later; Kadlubeck, the first historian of Poland, died in 1223; and Stierman could not discover
a scrap of writing in all Sweden older than 1159. Indeed, he may be compared favourably even
with the British historians, who can by no means boast of such ancient pedigrees as the genealogists
of Erinn.[15] Tighernach was of the Murray-race of Connacht; of his personal history little
is known. His death is noted in the Chronicum Scotorum, where he is styled successor (comharba)
of St. Ciaran and St. Coman. The Annals of Innisfallen state that he was interred at Clonmacnois.
Perhaps his body was borne to its burial through the very doorway which still remains, of which
we gave an illustration at the end of the last chapter.

The writers of history and genealogy in early ages, usually commenced with the sons of Noah,
if not with the first man of the human race. The Celtic historians are no exceptions to the
general rule; and long before Tighernach wrote, the custom had obtained in Erinn. His chronicle
was necessarily compiled from more ancient sources, but its fame rests upon the extraordinary
erudition which he brought to bear upon every subject. Flann, who was contemporary with Tighernach,
and a professor of St. Buithe's monastery (Monasterboice), is also famous for his Synchronisms,
which form an admirable abridgment of universal history. He appears to have devoted himself
specially to genealogies and pedigrees, while Tighernach took a wider range of literary research.
His learning was undoubtedly most extensive. He quotes Eusebius, Orosius, Africanus, Bede,
Josephus, Saint Jerome, and many other historical writers, and sometimes compares their statements
on points in which they exhibit discrepancies, and afterwards endeavours to reconcile their
conflicting testimony, and to correct the chronological errors of the writers by comparison
with the dates given by others. He also collates the Hebrew text with the Septuagint version
of the Scriptures. He uses the common era, though we have no reason to believe that this was
done by the writers who immediately preceded him. He also mentions the lunar cycle, and uses
the dominical letter with the kalends of several years.[16]

Another writer, Gilla Caemhain, was also contemporary with Flann and Tighernach. He gives the
"annals of all time," from the beginning of the world to his own period; and computes the second
period from the Creation to the Deluge; from the Deluge to Abraham; from Abraham to David;
from David to the Babylonian Captivity, &c. He also synchronizes the eastern monarchs with
each other, and afterwards with the Firbolgs and Tuatha Dé Danann of Erinn,[17] and subsequently
with the Milesians. Flann synchronizes the chiefs of various lines of the children of Adam
in the East, and points out what monarchs of the Assyrians, Medes, Persians, and Greeks, and
what Roman emperors were contemporary with the kings of Erinn, and the leaders of its various
early colonies. He begins with Ninus, son of Belus, and comes down to Julius Cæsar, who was
contemporary with Eochaidh Feidhlech, an Irish king, who died more than half a century before
the Christian era. The synchronism is then continued from Julius Cæsar and Eochaidh to the
Roman emperors Theodosius the Third and Leo the Third; they were contemporaries with the Irish
monarch Ferghal, who was killed A.D. 718.

The ANNALS and MSS. which serve to illustrate our history, are so numerous, that it would be
impossible, with one or two exceptions, to do more than indicate their existence, and to draw
attention to the weight which such an accumulation of authority must give to the authenticity
of our early history. But there are two of these works which we cannot pass unnoticed: the
CHRONICUM SCOTORUM and the ANNALS OF THE FOUR MASTERS.

The Chronicum Scotorum was compiled by Duald Mac Firbis. He was of royal race, and descended
from Dathi, the last pagan monarch of Erinn. His family were professional and hereditary historians,
genealogists, and poets,[18] and held an ancestral property at Lecain Mac Firbis, in the county
Sligo, until Cromwell and his troopers desolated Celtic homes, and murdered the Celtic dwellers,
often in cold blood. The young Mac Firbis was educated for his profession in a school of law
and history taught by the Mac Egans of Lecain, in Ormonde. He also studied (about A.D. 1595)
at Burren, in the county Clare, in the literary and legal school of the O'Davorens. His pedigrees
of the ancient Irish and the Anglo-Norman families, was compiled at the College of St. Nicholas,
in Galway, in the year 1650. It may interest some of our readers to peruse the title of this
work, although its length would certainly horrify a modern publisher:--

"The Branches of Relationship and the Genealogical Ramifications of every Colony that took
possession of Erinn, traced from this time up to Adam (excepting only those of the Fomorians,
Lochlanns, and Saxon-Gaels, of whom we, however, treat, as they have settled in our country);
together with a Sanctilogium, and a Catalogue of the Monarchs of Erinn; and, finally, an Index,
which comprises, in alphabetical order, the surnames and the remarkable places mentioned in
this work, which was compiled by Dubhaltach Mac Firbhisigh of Lecain, 1650." He also gives,
as was then usual, the "place, time, author, and cause of writing the work." The "cause" was
"to increase the glory of God, and for the information of the people in general;" a beautiful
and most true epitome of the motives which inspired the penmen of Erinn from the first introduction
of Christianity, and produced the "countless host" of her noble historiographers.

Mac Firbis was murdered[19] in the year 1670, at an advanced age; and thus departed the last
and not the least distinguished of our long line of poet-historians. Mac Firbis was a voluminous
writer. Unfortunately some of his treatises have been lost;[20] but the CHRONICUM SCOTORUM
is more than sufficient to establish his literary reputation.

The ANNALS OF THE FOUR MASTERS demand a larger notice, as unquestionably one of the most remarkable
works on record. It forms the last link between the ancient and modern history of Ireland;
a link worthy of the past, and, we dare add, it shall be also worthy of the future. It is a
proof of what great and noble deeds may be accomplished under the most adverse circumstances,
and one of the many, if not one of the most, triumphant denials of the often-repeated charges
of indolence made against the mendicant orders, and of aversion to learning made against religious
orders in general. Nor is it a less brilliant proof that intellectual gifts may be cultivated
and are fostered in the cloister; and that a patriot's heart may burn as ardently, and love
of country prove as powerful a motive, beneath the cowl or the veil, as beneath the helmet
or the coif.

Michael O'Clery, the chief of the Four Masters, was a friar of the order of St. Francis. He
was born at Kilbarron, near Ballyshannon, county Donegal, in the year 1580, and was educated
principally in the south of Ireland, which was then more celebrated for its academies than
the north. The date of his entrance into the Franciscan order is not known, neither is it known
why he,

    "Once the heir of bardic honours,"

became a simple lay-brother. In the year 1627 he travelled through Ireland collecting materials
for Father Hugh Ward, also a Franciscan friar, and Guardian of the convent of St. Antony at
Louvain, who was preparing a series of Lives of Irish Saints. When Father Ward died, the project
was taken up and partially carried out by Father John Colgan. His first work, the Trias Thaumaturgus,
contains the lives of St. Patrick, St. Brigid, and St. Columba. The second volume contains
the lives of Irish saints whose festivals occur from the 1st of January to the 31st of March;
and here, unfortunately, alike for the hagiographer and the antiquarian, the work ceased. It
is probable that the idea of saving--

          "The old memorials
    Of the noble and the holy,
    Of the chiefs of ancient lineage,
    Of the saints of wondrous virtues;
    Of the Ollamhs and the Brehons,
    Of the bards and of the betaghs,"[21]

occurred to him while he was collecting materials for Father Ward. His own account is grand
in its simplicity, and beautiful as indicating that the deep passion for country and for literature
had but enhanced the yet deeper passion which found its culminating point in the dedication
of his life to God in the poor order of St. Francis. In the troubled and disturbed state of
Ireland, he had some difficulty in securing a patron. At last one was found who could appreciate
intellect, love of country, and true religion. Although it is almost apart from our immediate
subject, we cannot refrain giving an extract from the dedication to this prince, whose name
should be immortalized with that of the friar patriot and historian:--

"I, Michael O'Clerigh, a poor friar of the Order of St. Francis (after having been for ten
years transcribing every old material that I found concerning the saints of Ireland, observing
obedience to each provincial that was in Ireland successively), have come before you, O noble
Fearghal O'Gara. I have calculated on your honour that it seemed to you a cause of pity and
regret, grief and sorrow (for the glory of God and the honour of Ireland), how much the race
of Gaedhil, the son of Niul, have passed under a cloud and darkness, without a knowledge or
record of the obit of saint or virgin, archbishop, bishop, abbot, or other noble dignitary
of the Church, or king or of prince, of lord or of chieftain, [or] of the synchronism of connexion
of the one with the other." He then explains how he collected the materials for his work, adding,
alas! most truly, that should it not be accomplished then, "they would not again be found to
be put on record to the end of the world." He thanks the prince for giving "the reward of their
labour to the chroniclers," and simply observes, that "it was the friars of the convent of
Donegal who supplied them with food and attendance." With characteristic humility he gives
his patron the credit of all the "good which will result from this book, in giving light to
all in general;" and concludes thus:--

"On the twenty-second day of the month of January, A.D. 1632, this book was commenced in the
convent of Dun-na-ngall, and, it was finished in the same convent on the tenth day of August,
1636, the eleventh year of the reign of our king Charles over England, France, Alba, and over
Eiré."

There were "giants in those days;" and one scarcely knows whether to admire most the liberality
of the prince, the devotion of the friars of Donegal, who "gave food and attendance" to their
literary brother, and thus had their share in perpetuating their country's fame, or the gentle
humility of the great Brother Michael.

It is unnecessary to make any observation on the value and importance of the Annals of the
Four Masters. The work has been edited with extraordinary care and erudition by Dr. O'Donovan,
and published by an Irish house. We must now return to the object for which this brief mention
of the MS. materials of Irish history has been made, by showing on what points other historians
coincide in their accounts of our first colonists, of their language, customs, and laws; and
secondly, how far the accounts which may be obtained ab extra agree with the statements of
our own annalists. The Book of Invasions, which was rewritten and "purified" by brother Michael
O'Clery, gives us in a few brief lines an epitome of our history as recorded by the ancient
chroniclers of Erinn:--

"The sum of the matters to be found in the following book, is the taking of Erinn by [the Lady]
Ceasair; the taking by Partholan; the taking by Nemedh; the taking by the Firbolgs; the taking
by the Tuatha Dé Danann; the taking by the sons of Miledh [or Miletius]; and their succession
down to the monarch Melsheachlainn, or Malachy the Great [who died in 1022]." Here we have
six distinct "takings," invasions, or colonizations of Ireland in pre-Christian times.

It may startle some of our readers to find any mention of Irish history "before the Flood,"
but we think the burden of proof, to use a logical term, lies rather with those who doubt the
possibility, than with those who accept as tradition, and as possibly true, the statements
which have been transmitted for centuries by careful hands. There can be no doubt that a high
degree of cultivation, and considerable advancement in science, had been attained by the more
immediate descendants of our first parents. Navigation and commerce existed, and Ireland may
have been colonized. The sons of Noah must have remembered and preserved the traditions of
their ancestors, and transmitted them to their descendants. Hence, it depended on the relative
anxiety of these descendants to preserve the history of the world before the Flood, how much
posterity should know of it. MacFirbis thus answers the objections of those who, even in his
day, questioned the possibility of preserving such records:--"If there be any one who shall
ask who preserved the history [Seanchus], let him know that they were very ancient and long-lived
old men, recording elders of great age, whom God permitted to preserve and hand down the history
of Erinn, in books, in succession, one after another, from the Deluge to the time of St. Patrick."

The artificial state of society in our own age, has probably acted disadvantageously on our
literary researches, if not on our moral character. Civilization is a relative arbitrary term;
and the ancestors whom we are pleased to term uncivilized, may have possessed as high a degree
of mental culture as ourselves, though it unquestionably differed in kind. Job wrote his epic
poem in a state of society which we should probably term uncultivated; and when Lamech gave
utterance to the most ancient and the saddest of human lyrics, the world was in its infancy,
and it would appear as if the first artificer in "brass and iron" had only helped to make homicide
more easy. We can scarce deny that murder, cruel injustice, and the worst forms of inhumanity,
are but too common in countries which boast of no ordinary refinement; and we should hesitate
ere we condemn any state of society as uncivilized, simply because we find such crimes in the
pages of their history.

The question of the early, if not pre-Noahacian colonization of Ireland, though distinctly
asserted in our annals, has been met with the ready scepticism which men so freely use to cover
ignorance or indifference. It has been taken for granted that the dispersion, after the confusion
of tongues at Babel, was the first dispersion of the human race; but it has been overlooked
that, on the lowest computation, a number of centuries equal, if not exceeding, those of the
Christian era, elapsed between the Creation of man and the Flood; that men had "multiplied
exceedingly upon the earth;" and that the age of stone had already given place to that of brass
and iron, which, no doubt, facilitated commerce and colonization, even at this early period
of the world's history. The discovery of works of art, of however primitive a character, in
the drifts of France and England, indicates an early colonization. The rudely-fashioned harpoon
of deer's horn found beside the gigantic whale, in the alluvium of the carse near the base
of Dummyat, twenty feet above the highest tide of the nearest estuary, and the tusk of the
mastodon lying alongside fragments of pottery in a deposit of the peat and sands of the post-pliocene
beds in South Carolina, are by no means solitary examples. Like the night torch of the gentle
Guanahané savage, which Columbus saw as he gazed wearily from his vessel, looking, even after
sunset, for the long hoped-for shore, and which told him that his desire was at last consummated,
those indications of man, associated with the gigantic animals of a geological age, of whose
antiquity there can be no question, speak to our hearts strange tales of the long past, and
of the early dispersion and progressive distribution of a race created to "increase and multiply."

The question of transit has also been raised as a difficulty by those who doubt our early colonization.
But this would seem easily removed. It is more than probable that, at the period of which we
write, Britain, if not Ireland, formed part of the European continent; but were it not so,
we have proof, even in the present day, that screw propellers and iron cast vessels are not
necessary for safety in distant voyages, since the present aboriginal vessels of the Pacific
will weather a storm in which a Great Eastern or a London might founder hopelessly.

Let us conclude an apology for our antiquity, if not a proof of it, in the words of our last
poet historian:--

     "We believe that henceforth no wise person will be found who will
     not acknowledge that it is possible to bring the genealogies of the
     Gaedhils to their origin, to Noah and to Adam; and if he does not
     believe that, may he not believe that he himself is the son of his
     own father. For there is no error in the genealogical history, but
     as it was left from father to son in succession, one after another.

     "Surely every one believes the Divine Scriptures, which give a
     similar genealogy to the men of the world, from Adam down to
     Noah;[22] and the genealogy of Christ and of the holy fathers, as
     may be seen in the Church [writings]. Let him believe this, or let
     him deny God. And if he does believe this, why should he not
     believe another history, of which there has been truthful
     preservation, like the history of Erinn? I say truthful
     preservation, for it is not only that they [the preservers of it]
     were very numerous, as we said, preserving the same, but there was
     an order and a law with them and upon them, out of which they could
     not, without great injury, tell lies or falsehoods, as may be seen
     in the Books of Fenechas [Law], of Fodhla [Erinn], and in the
     degrees of the poets themselves, their order, and their laws."[23]

FOOTNOTES:

[15] Erinn.--O'Curry, page 57. It has also been remarked, that there is no nation in possession
of such ancient chronicles written in what is still the language of its people.

[16] Years.--See O'Curry, passim.

[17] Erinn.--Eire is the correct form for the nominative. Erinn is the genitive, but too long
in use to admit of alteration. The ordinary name of Ireland, in the oldest Irish MSS., is (h)Erin,
gen. (h)Erenn, dat. (h)Erinn; but the initial h is often omitted. See Max Müller's Lectures
for an interesting note on this subject, to which we shall again refer.

[18] Poets.--The Book of Lecain was written in 1416, by an ancestor of Mac Firbis. Usher had
it for some time in his possession; James II. carried it to Paris, and deposited it in the
Irish College in the presence of a notary and witnesses. In 1787, the Chevalier O'Reilly procured
its restoration to Ireland; and it passed eventually from Vallancey to the Royal Irish Academy,
where it is now carefully preserved.

[19] Murdered.--The circumstances of the murder are unhappily characteristic of the times.
The Celtic race was under the ban of penal laws for adherence to the faith of their fathers.
The murderer was free. As the old historian travelled to Dublin, he rested at a shop in Dunflin.
A young man came in and took liberties with the young woman who had care of the shop. She tried
to check him, by saying that he would be seen by the gentleman in the next room. In a moment
he seized a knife from the counter, and plunged it into the breast of Mac Firbis. There was
no "justice for Ireland" then, and, of course, the miscreant escaped the punishment he too
well deserved.

[20] Lost.--He was also employed by Sir James Ware to translate for him, and appears to have
resided in his house in Castle-street, Dublin, just before his death.

[21] Betaghs.--Poems, by D.F. Mac Carthy.

[22] Noah.--This is a clear argument. The names of pre-Noahacian patriarchs must have been
preserved by tradition, with their date of succession and history. Why should not other genealogies
have been preserved in a similar manner, and even the names of individuals transmitted to posterity?

[23] Laws.--MacFirbis. Apud O'Curry, p. 219.

CHAPTER III.

First Colonists--The Landing of Ceasair, before the Flood--Landing of Partholan, after the
Flood, at Inver Scene--Arrival of Nemedh--The Fomorians--Emigration of the Nemenians--The Firbolgs--Division
of Ireland by the Firbolg Chiefs--The Tuatha Dé Dananns--Their Skill as Artificers--Nuada of
the Silver Hand--The Warriors Sreng and Breas--The Satire of Cairbré--Termination of the Fomorian
Dynasty.

[A.M. 1599.]

We shall, then, commence our history with such accounts as we can find in our annals of the
pre-Christian colonization of Erinn. The legends of the discovery and inhabitation of Ireland
before the Flood, are too purely mythical to demand serious notice. But as the most ancient
MSS. agree in their account of this immigration, we may not pass it over without brief mention.

The account in the Chronicum Scotorum runs thus:--

"Kal. v.f.l. 10. Anno mundi 1599.

"In this year the daughter of one of the Greeks came to Hibernia, whose name was h-Erui, or
Berba, or Cesar, and fifty maidens and three men with her. Ladhra was their conductor, who
was the first that was buried in Hibernia."[24] The Cin of Drom Snechta is quoted in the Book
of Ballymote as authority for the same tradition.[25] The Book of Invasions also mentions this
account as derived from ancient sources. MacFirbis, in the Book of Genealogies, says: "I shall
devote the first book to Partholan, who first took possession of Erinn after the Deluge, devoting
the beginning of it to the coming of the Lady Ceasair," &c. And the Annals of the Four Masters:
"Forty days before the Deluge, Ceasair came to Ireland with fifty girls and three men--Bith,
Ladhra, and Fintain their names."[26] All authorities agree that Partholan was the first who
colonized Ireland after the Flood. His arrival is stated in the Chronicum Scotorum to have
taken place "in the sixtieth year of the age of Abraham."[27] The Four Masters say: "The age
of the world, when Partholan came into Ireland, 2520 years."[28]

Partholan landed at Inver[29] Scene, now the Kenmare river, accompanied by his sons, their
wives, and a thousand followers. His antecedents are by no means the most creditable; and we
may, perhaps, feel some satisfaction, that a colony thus founded should have been totally swept
away by pestilence a few hundred years after its establishment.

The Chronicum Scotorum gives the date of his landing thus: "On a Monday, the 14th of May, he
arrived, his companions being eight in number, viz., four men and four women." If the kingdom
of Desmond were as rich then as now in natural beauty, a scene of no ordinary splendour must
have greeted the eyes and gladdened the hearts of its first inhabitants. They had voyaged past
the fair and sunny isles of that "tideless sea," the home of the Phoenician race from the earliest
ages. They had escaped the dangers of the rough Spanish coast, and gazed upon the spot where
the Pillars of Hercules were the beacons of the early mariners. For many days they had lost
sight of land, and, we may believe, had well-nigh despaired of finding a home in that far isle,
to which some strange impulse had attracted them, or some old tradition--for the world even
then was old enough for legends of the past--had won their thoughts. But there was a cry of
land. The billows dashed in wildly, then as now, from the coasts of an undiscovered world,
and left the same line of white foam upon Eire's western coast. The magnificent Inver rolled
its tide of beauty between gentle hills and sunny slopes, till it reached what now is appropriately
called Kenmare. The distant Reeks showed their clear summits in sharp outline, pointing to
the summer sky. The long-backed Mangerton and quaintly-crested Carn Tual were there also; and,
perchance, the Roughty and the Finihé sent their little streams to swell the noble river bay.
But it was no time for dreams, though the Celt in all ages has proved the sweetest of dreamers,
the truest of bards. These men have rough work to do, and, it may be, gave but scant thought
to the beauties of the western isle, and scant thanks to their gods for escape from peril.
Plains were to be cleared, forests cut down, and the red deer and giant elk driven to deeper
recesses in the well-wooded country.

Several lakes are said to have sprung forth at that period; but it is more probable that they
already existed, and were then for the first time seen by human eye. The plains which Partholan's
people cleared are also mentioned, and then we find the ever-returning obituary:--

"The age of the world 2550, Partholan died on Sean Mhagh-Ealta-Edair in this year."[30]

The name of Tallaght still remains, like the peak of a submerged world, to indicate this colonization,
and its fatal termination. Some very ancient tumuli may still be seen there. The name signifies
a place where a number of persons who died of the plague were interred together; and here the
Annals of the Four Masters tells us that nine thousand of Partholan's people died in one week,
after they had been three hundred years in Ireland.[31]

The third "taking" of Ireland was that of Nemedh. He came, according to the Annals,[32] A.M.
2859, and erected forts and cleared plains, as his predecessors had done. Three bands were
said to have emigrated with their respective captains. One party wandered into the north of
Europe, and are believed to have been the progenitors of the Tuatha Dé Dananns; others made
their way to Greece, where they were enslaved, and obtained the name of Firbolgs, or bagmen,
from the leathern bags which they were compelled to carry; and the third section sought refuge
in the north of England, which is said to have obtained its name of Briton from their leader,
Briotan Maol.[34]

The fourth immigration is that of the Firbolgs; and it is remarkable how early the love of
country is manifested in the Irish race, since we find those who once inhabited its green plains
still anxious to return, whether their emigration proved prosperous, as to the Tuatha Dé Dananns,
or painful, as to the Firbolgs.

According to the Annals of Clonmacnois, Keating, and the Leabhar-Gabhala, the Firbolgs divided
the island into five provinces, governed by five brothers, the sons of Dela Mac Loich:--"Slane,
the eldest brother, had the province of Leynster for his part, which containeth from Inver
Colpe, that is to say, where the river Boyne entereth into the sea, now called in Irish Drogheda,
to the meeting of the three waters, by Waterford, where the three rivers, Suyre, Ffeoir, and
Barrow, do meet and run together into the sea. Gann, the second brother's part, was South Munster,
which is a province extending from that place to Bealagh-Conglaissey. Seangann, the third brother's
part, was from Bealagh-Conglaissey to Rossedahaileagh, now called Limbriche, which is in the
province of North Munster. Geanaun, the fourth brother, had the province of Connacht, containing
from Limerick to Easroe. Rorye, the fifth brother, and youngest, had from Easroe aforesaid
to Inver Colpe, which is in the province of Ulster."[35]

The Firbolg chiefs had landed in different parts of the island, but they soon met at the once
famous Tara, where they united their forces. To this place they gave the name of Druim Cain,
or the Beautiful Eminence.

The fifth, or Tuatha Dé Danann "taking" of Ireland, occurred in the reign of Eochaidh, son
of Erc, A.M. 3303. The Firbolgian dynasty was terminated at the battle of Magh Tuireadh. Eochaidh
fled from the battle, and was killed on the strand of Traigh Eothailé, near Ballysadare, co.
Sligo. The cave where he was interred still exists, and there is a curious tradition that the
tide can never cover it.

The Tuatha Dé Danann king, Nuada, lost his hand in this battle, and obtained the name of Nuada
of the Silver Hand,[36] his artificer, Credne Cert, having made a silver hand for him with
joints. It is probable the latter acquisition was the work of Mioch, the son of Diancecht,
Nuada's physician, as there is a tradition that he "took off the hand and infused feeling and
motion into every joint and finger of it, as if it were a natural hand." We may doubt the "feeling,"
but it was probably suggested by the "motion," and the fact that, in those ages, every act
of more than ordinary skill was attributed to supernatural causes, though effected through
human agents. Perhaps even, in the enlightened nineteenth century, we might not be much the
worse for the pious belief, less the pagan cause to which it was attributed. It should be observed
here, that the Brehon Laws were probably then in force; for the "blemish" of the monarch appears
to have deprived him of his dignity, at least until the silver hand could satisfy for the defective
limb. The Four Masters tell us briefly that the Tuatha Dé Dananns gave the sovereignty to Breas,
son of Ealathan, "while the hand of Nuada was under cure," and mentions that Breas resigned
the kingdom to him in the seventh year after the cure of his hand.

A more detailed account of this affair may be found in one of our ancient historic tales, of
the class called Catha or Battles, which Professor O'Curry pronounces to be "almost the earliest
event upon the record of which we may place sure reliance."[37] It would appear that there
were two battles between the Firbolgs and Tuatha Dé Dananns, and that, in the last of these,
Nuada was slain. According to this ancient tract, when the Firbolg king heard of the arrival
of the invaders, he sent a warrior named Sreng to reconnoitre their camp. The Tuatha Dé Dananns
were as skilled in war as in magic; they had sentinels carefully posted, and their videttes
were as much on the alert as a Wellington or a Napier could desire. The champion Breas was
sent forward to meet the stranger. As they approached, each raised his shield, and cautiously
surveyed his opponent from above the protecting aegis. Breas was the first to speak. The mother-tongue
was as dear then as now, and Sreng was charmed to hear himself addressed in his own language,
which, equally dear to the exiled Nemedian chiefs, had been preserved by them in their long
wanderings through northern Europe. An examination of each others armour next took place. Sreng
was armed with "two heavy, thick, pointless, but sharply rounded spears;" while Breas carried
"two beautifully shaped, thin, slender, long, sharp-pointed spears."[38] Perhaps the one bore
a spear of the same class of heavy flint weapons of which we give an illustration, and the
other the lighter and more graceful sword, of which many specimens may be seen in the collection
of the Royal Irish Academy. Breas then proposed that they should divide the island between
the two parties; and after exchanging spears and promises of mutual friendship, each returned
to his own camp.

 The
Firbolg king, however, objected to this arrangement; and it was decided,
in a council of war, to give battle to the invaders. The Tuatha Dé
Dananns were prepared for this from the account which Breas gave of the
Firbolg warriors: they, therefore, abandoned their camp, and took up a
strong position on Mount Belgadan, at the west end of Magh Nia, a site
near the present village of Cong, co. Mayo.

The Firbolgs marched from Tara to meet them; but Nuada, anxious for pacific arrangements, opened
new negociations with King Eochaidh through the medium of his bards. The battle which has been
mentioned before then followed. The warrior Breas, who ruled during the disability of Nuada,
was by no means popular. He was not hospitable, a sine qua non for king or chief from the earliest
ages of Celtic being; he did not love the bards, for the same race ever cherished and honoured
learning; and he attempted to enslave the nobles. Discontent came to a climax when the bard
Cairbré, son of the poetess Etan, visited the royal court, and was sent to a dark chamber,
without fire or bed, and, for all royal fare, served with three small cakes of bread. If we
wish to know the true history of a people, to understand the causes of its sorrows and its
joys, to estimate its worth, and to know how to rule it wisely and well, let us read such old-world
tales carefully, and ponder them well. Even if prejudice or ignorance should induce us to undervalue
their worth as authentic records of its ancient history, let us remember the undeniable fact,
that they are authentic records of its deepest national feelings, and let them, at least, have
their weight as such in our schemes of social economy, for the present and the future.

The poet left the court next morning, but not until he pronounced a bitter and withering satire
on the king--the first satire that had ever been pronounced in Erinn. It was enough. Strange
effects are attributed to the satire of a poet in those olden times; but probably they could,
in all cases, bear the simple and obvious interpretation, that he on whom the satire was pronounced
was thereby disgraced eternally before his people. For how slight a punishment would bodily
suffering or deformity be, in comparison to the mental suffering of which a quick-souled people
are eminently capable!

Breas was called on to resign. He did so with the worst possible grace, as might be expected
from such a character. His father, Elatha, was a Fomorian sea-king or pirate, and he repaired
to his court. His reception was not such as he had expected; he therefore went to Balor of
the Evil Eye,[39] a Fomorian chief. The two warriors collected a vast army and navy, and formed
a bridge of ships and boats from the Hebrides to the north-west coast of Erinn. Having landed
their forces, they marched to a plain in the barony of Tirerrill (co. Sligo), where they waited
an attack or surrender of the Tuatha Dé Danann army. But the magical skill, or, more correctly,
the superior abilities of this people, proved them more than equal to the occasion. The chronicler
gives a quaint and most interesting account of the Tuatha Dé Danann arrangements. Probably
the Crimean campaign, despite our nineteenth century advancements in the art of war, was not
prepared for more carefully, or carried out more efficiently.

Nuada called a "privy council," if we may use the modern term for the ancient act, and obtained
the advice of the great Daghda; of Lug, the son of Cian, son of Diancecht, the famous physician;
and of Ogma Grian-Aineach (of the sun-like face). But Daghda and Lug were evidently secretaries
of state for the home and war departments, and arranged these intricate affairs with perhaps
more honour to their master, and more credit to the nation, than many a modern and "civilized"
statesman. They summoned to their presence the heads of each department necessary for carrying
on the war. Each department was therefore carefully pre-organized, in such a manner as to make
success almost certain, and to obtain every possible succour and help from those engaged in
the combat, or those who had suffered from it. The "smiths" were prepared to make and to mend
the swords, the surgeons to heal or staunch the wounds, the bards and druids to praise or blame;
and each knew his work, and what was expected from the department which he headed before the
battle, for the questions put to each, and their replies, are on record.

Pardon me. You will say I have written a romance, a legend, for the benefit of my country[40]--a
history of what might have been, of what should be, at least in modern warfare, and, alas!
often is not. Pardon me. The copy of the tracts from which I have compiled this meagre narrative,
is in existence, and in the British Museum. It was written on vellum, about the year 1460,
by Gilla-Riabhach O'Clery; but there is unquestionable authority for its having existed at
a much earlier period. It is quoted by Cormac Mac Cullinan in his Glossary, in illustration
of the word Nes, and Cormac was King of Munster in the year of grace 885, while his Glossary
was compiled to explain words which had then become obsolete. This narrative must, therefore,
be of great antiquity. If we cannot accept it as a picture of the period, in the main authentic,
let us give up all ancient history as a myth; if we do accept it, let us acknowledge that a
people who possessed such officials had attained a high state of intellectual culture, and
that their memory demands at least the homage of our respect.

The plain on which this battle was fought, retains the name of the Plain of the Towers (or
Pillars) of the Fomorians, and some very curious sepulchral monuments may still be seen on
the ancient field.

In those days, as in the so-called middle ages, ladies exercised their skill in the healing
art; and we find honorable mention made of the Lady Ochtriuil, who assisted the chief physician
(her father) and his sons in healing the wounds of the Tuatha Dé Danann heroes. These warriors
have also left many evidences of their existence in raths and monumental pillars.[41] It is
probable, also, that much that has been attributed to the Danes, of right belongs to the Dananns,
and that a confusion of names has promoted a confusion of appropriation. Before we turn to
the Milesian immigration, the last colonization of the old country, let us inquire what was
known and said of it, and of its people, by foreign writers.

FOOTNOTES:

[24] Hibernia.--Chronicum Scotorum, p. 3.

[25] Tradition.--O'Curry, p. 13.

[26] Names.--Four Masters, O'Donovan, p. 3.

[27] Abraham.--Chronicum Scotorum, p. 5.

[28] Years.--Four Masters, p. 5.

[29] Inver.--Inver and A[=b] er have been used as test words in discriminating between the
Gaedhilic and Cymric Celts. The etymology and meaning is the same--a meeting of waters. Inver,
the Erse and Gaedhilic form, is common in Ireland, and in those parts of Scotland where the
Gael encroached on the Cymry. See Words and Places, p. 259, for interesting observations on
this subject.

[30] Year.--Annals, p. 7.

[31] Ireland.--Ib. p. 9.

[32] Annals.--Ib. I. p. 9.

[33] World.--See Conell MacGeoghegan's Translation of the Annals of Clonmacnois, quoted by
O'Donovan, p. 11.

[34] Maol.--The Teutonic languages afford no explanation of the name of Britain, though it
is inhabited by a Teutonic race. It is probable, therefore, that they adopted an ethnic appellation
of the former inhabitants. This may have been patronymic, or, perhaps, a Celtic prefix with
the Euskarian suffix etan, a district or country. See Words and Places, p. 60.

[35] Ulster.--Neither the Annals nor the Chronicum give these divisions; the above is from
the Annals of Clonmacnois. There is a poem in the Book of Lecain, at folio 277, b., by MacLiag,
on the Firbolg colonies, which is quoted as having been taken from their own account of themselves;
and another on the same subject at 278, a.

[36] Hand.--Four Masters, p. 17.

[37] Reliance.--O'Curry, p. 243.

[38] Spears.--O'Curry, p. 245.

[39] Eye.--There is a curious note by Dr. O'Donovan (Annals, p. 18) about this Balor. The tradition
of his deeds and enchantments is still preserved in Tory Island, one of the many evidences
of the value of tradition, and of the many proofs that it usually overlies a strata of facts.

[40] Country.--We find the following passages in a work purporting to be a history of Ireland,
recently published: "It would be throwing away time to examine critically fables like those
contained in the present and following chapter." The subjects of those chapters are the colonization
of Partholan, of the Nemedians, Fomorians, Tuatha Dé Dananns, and Milesians, the building of
the palace of Emania, the reign of Cairbré, Tuathal, and last, not least, the death of Dathi.
And these are "fables"! The writer then calmly informs us that the period at which they were
"invented, extended probably from the tenth to the twelfth century." Certainly, the "inventors"
were men of no ordinary talent, and deserve some commendation for their inventive faculties.
But on this subject we shall say more hereafter. At last the writer arrives at the "first ages
of Christianity." We hoped that here at least he might have granted us a history; but he writes:
"The history of early Christianity in Ireland is obscure and doubtful, precisely in proportion
as it is unusually copious. If legends enter largely into the civil history of the country,
they found their way tenfold into the history of the Church, because there the tendency to
believe in them was much greater, as well as the inducement to invent and adopt them." The
"inventors" of the pre-Christian history of Ireland, who accomplished their task "from the
tenth to the twelfth century," are certainly complimented at the expense of the saints who
Christianized Ireland. This writer seems to doubt the existence of St. Patrick, and has "many
doubts" as to the authenticity of the life of St. Columba. We should not have noticed this
work had we not reason to know that it has circulated largely amongst the middle and lower
classes, who may be grievously misled by its very insidious statements. It is obviously written
for the sake of making a book to sell; and the writer has the honesty to say plainly, that
he merely gives the early history of Ireland, pagan and Christian, because he could not well
write a history of Ireland and omit this portion of it!

[41] Pillars.--The monuments ascribed to the Tuatha Dé Dananns are principally situated in
Meath, at Drogheda, Dowlet, Knowth, and New Grange. There are others at Cnoc-Ainè and Cnoc-Gréinè,
co. Limerick, and on the Pap Mountains, co. Kerry.

CHAPTER IV.

The Scythians Colonists--Testimony of Josephus--Magog and his Colony--Statements of our Annals
confirmed by a Jewish Writer--By Herodotus--Nennius relates what is told by the "Most Learned
of the Scoti"--Phoenician Circumnavigation of Africa--Phoenician Colonization of Spain--Iberus
and Himerus--Traditions of Partholan--Early Geographical Accounts of Ireland--Early Social
Accounts of Ireland.

The writer of the article on Ireland, in Rees' Cyclopædia, says: "It does not appear improbable,
much less absurd, to suppose that the Phoenicians might have colonized Ireland at an early
period, and introduced their laws, customs, and knowledge, with a comparatively high state
of civilization; and that these might have been gradually lost amidst the disturbances of the
country, and, at last, completely destroyed by the irruptions of the Ostmen." Of this assertion,
which is now scarcely doubted, there is abundant proof; and it is remarkable that Josephus[42]
attributes to the Phoenicians a special care in preserving their annals above that of other
civilized nations, and that this feeling has existed, and still exists, more vividly in the
Celtic race than in any other European people.

The Irish annalists claim a descent from the Scythians, who, they say, are descended from Magog,
the son of Japhet, the son of Noah. In the Scripture genealogy, the sons of Magog are not enumerated;
but an historian, who cannot be suspected of any design of assisting the Celts to build up
a pedigree, has happily supplied the deficiency. Josephus writes:[45] "Magog led out a colony,
which from him were named Magoges, but by the Greeks called Scythians." But Keating specifies
the precise title of Scythians, from which the Irish Celts are descended. He says they had
established themselves in remote ages on the borders of the Red Sea, at the town of Chiroth;
that they were expelled by the grandson of that Pharaoh who had been drowned in the Red Sea;
and that he persecuted them because they had supplied the Israelites with provisions.

This statement is singularly and most conclusively confirmed by Rabbi Simon, who wrote two
hundred years before the birth of Christ. He says that certain Canaanites near the Red Sea
gave provisions to the Israelites; "and because these Canaan ships gave Israel of their provisions,
God would not destroy their ships, but with an east wind carried them down the Red Sea."[46]
This colony settled in what was subsequently called Phoenicia; and here again our traditions
are confirmed ab extra, for Herodotus says: "The Phoenicians anciently dwelt, as they allege,
on the borders of the Red Sea."[47]

It is not known at what time this ancient nation obtained the specific appellation of Phoenician.
The word is not found in Hebrew brew copies of the Scriptures, but is used in the Machabees,
the original of which is in Greek, and in the New Testament. According to Grecian historians,
it was derived from Phoenix, one of their kings and brother of Cadmus, the inventor of letters.
It is remarkable that our annals mention a king named Phenius, who devoted himself especially
to the study of languages, and composed an alphabet and the elements of grammar. Our historians
describe the wanderings of the Phoenicians, whom they still designate Scythians, much as they
are described by other writers. The account of their route may differ in detail, but the main
incidents coincide. Nennius, an English chronicler, who wrote in the seventh century, from
the oral testimony of trustworthy Irish Celts, gives corroborative testimony. He writes thus:
"If any one would be anxious to learn how long Ireland was uninhabited and deserted, he shall
hear it, as the most learned of the Scots have related it to me.[48] When the children of Israel
came to the Red Sea, the Egyptians pursued them and were drowned, as the Scripture records.
In the time of Moses there was a Scythian noble who had been banished from his kingdom, and
dwelt in Egypt with a large family. He was there when the Egyptians were drowned, but he did
not join in the persecution of the Lord's people. Those who survived laid plans to banish him,
lest he should assume the government, because their brethren were drowned in the Red Sea; so
he was expelled.

Herodotus gives an account of the circumnavigation of Africa by the Phoenicians, which may
have some coincidence with this narrative. His only reason for rejecting the tradition, which
he relates at length, is that he could not conceive how these navigators could have seen the
sun in a position contrary to that in which it is seen in Europe. The expression of his doubt
is a strong confirmation of the truth of his narrative, which, however, is generally believed
by modern writers.[49]

This navigation was performed about seven centuries before the Christian era, and is, at least,
a proof that the maritime power of the Phoenicians was established at an early period, and
that it was not impossible for them to have extended their enterprises to Ireland. The traditions
of our people may also be confirmed from other sources. Solinus writes thus: "In the gulf of
Boatica there is an island, distant some hundred paces from the mainland, which the Tyrians,
who came from the Red Sea, called Erythroea, and the Carthaginians, in their language, denominate
Gadir, i.e., the enclosure."

Spanish historians add their testimony, and claim the Phoenicians as their principal colonizers.
The Hispania Illustrata, a rare and valuable work, on which no less than sixty writers were
engaged, fixes the date of the colonization of Spain by the Phoenicians at 764 A.C. De Bellegarde
says: "The first of whom mention is made in history is Hercules, the Phoenician, by some called
Melchant." It is alleged that he lived in the time of Moses, and that he retired into Spain
when the Israelites entered the land of promise. This will be consistent with old accounts,
if faith can be placed in the inscription of two columns, which were found in the province
of Tingitane, at the time of the historian Procopius.[50] A Portuguese historian, Emanuel de
Faria y Sousa, mentions the sailing of Gatelus from Egypt, with his whole family, and names
his two sons, Iberus and Himerus, the first of whom, he says, "some will have to have sailed
into Ireland, and given the name Hibernia to it."

Indeed, so strong has been the concurrent testimony of a Phoenician colonization of Ireland
from Spain, and this by independent authorities, who could not have had access to our bardic
histories, and who had no motive, even had they known of their existence, to write in confirmation
of them, that those who have maintained the theory of a Gaulish colonization of Ireland, have
been obliged to make Spain the point of embarkation.

There is a curious treatise on the antiquities and origin of Cambridge, in which it is stated,
that, in the year of the world 4321, a British prince, the son of Gulguntius, or Gurmund, having
crossed over to Denmark, to enforce tribute from a Danish king, was returning victorious off
the Orcades, when he encountered thirty ships, full of men and women. On his inquiring into
the object of their voyage, their leader, Partholyan, made an appeal to his good-nature, and
entreated from the prince some small portion of land in Britain, as his crew were weary of
sailing over the ocean. Being informed that he came from Spain, the British prince received
him under his protection, and assigned faithful guides to attend him into Ireland, which was
then wholly uninhabited; and he granted it to them, subject to an annual tribute, and confirmed
the appointment of Partholyan as their chief.[51]

This account was so firmly believed in England, that it is specially set forth in an Irish
act (11th of Queen Elizabeth) among the "auncient and sundry strong authentique tytles for
the kings of England to this land of Ireland." The tradition may have been obtained from Irish
sources, and was probably "improved" and accommodated to fortify the Saxon claim, by the addition
of the pretended grant; but it is certainly evidence of the early belief in the Milesian colonization
of Ireland, and the name of their leader.

The earliest references to Ireland by foreign writers are, as might be expected, of a contradictory
character. Plutarch affirms that Calypso was "an island five days' sail to the west of Britain,"
which, at least, indicates his knowledge of the existence of Erinn. Orpheus is the first writer
who definitely names Ireland. In the imaginary route which he prescribes for Jason and the
Argonauts, he names Ireland (Iernis), and describes its woody surface and its misty atmosphere.
All authorities are agreed that this poem[52] was written five hundred years before Christ;
and all doubt as to whether Iernis meant the present island of Ireland must be removed, at
least to an unprejudiced inquirer, by a careful examination of the route which is described,
and the position of the island in that route.

The early history of a country which has been so long and so cruelly oppressed, both civilly
and morally, has naturally fallen into disrepute. We do not like to display the qualifications
of one whom we have deeply injured. It is, at least, less disgraceful to have forbidden a literature
to a people who had none, than to have banned and barred the use of a most ancient language,--to
have destroyed the annals of a most ancient people. In self-defence, the conqueror who knows
not how to triumph nobly will triumph basely, and the victims may, in time, almost forget what
it has been the policy of centuries to conceal from them. But ours is, in many respects, an
age of historical justice, and truth will triumph in the end. It is no longer necessary to
England's present greatness to deny the facts of history; and it is one of its most patent
facts that Albion was unknown, or, at least, that her existence was unrecorded, at a time when
Ireland is mentioned with respect as the Sacred Isle, and the Ogygia[53] of the Greeks.

As might be expected, descriptions of the social state of ancient Erinn are of the most contradictory
character; but there is a remarkable coincidence in all accounts of the physical geography
of the island. The moist climate, the fertile soil, the richly-wooded plains, the navigable
rivers, and the abundance of its fish,[54] are each and all mentioned by the early geographers.
The description given by Diodorus Siculus of a "certain large island a considerable distance
out at sea, and in the direction of the west, many days' sail from Lybia," if it applies to
Ireland, would make us suppose that the Erinn of pagan times was incomparably more prosperous
than Erinn under Christian rule. He also specially mentions the fish, and adds: "The Phoenicians,
from the very remotest times, made repeated voyages thither for purposes of commerce."[55]

The descriptions of our social state are by no means so flattering; but it is remarkable, and,
perhaps, explanatory, that the most unfavourable accounts are the more modern ones. All without
the pale of Roman civilization were considered "barbarians," and the epithet was freely applied.
Indeed, it is well known that, when Cicero had a special object in view, he could describe
the Celtae of Gaul as the vilest monsters, and the hereditary enemies of the gods, for whose
wickedness extermination was the only remedy. As to the "gods" there is no doubt that the Druidic
worship was opposed to the more sensual paganism of Greece and Rome, and, therefore, would
be considered eminently irreligious by the votaries of the latter.

The most serious social charge against the Irish Celts, is that of being anthropophagi; and
the statement of St. Jerome, that he had seen two Scoti in Gaul feeding on a human carcass,
has been claimed as strong corroboration of the assertions of pagan writers. As the good father
was often vehement in his statements and impulsive in his opinions, he may possibly have been
mistaken, or, perhaps, purposely misled by those who wished to give him an unfavourable impression
of the Irish. It is scarcely possible that they could have been cannibal as a nation, since
St. Patrick never even alludes to such a custom in his Confessio,[56] where it would, undoubtedly,
have been mentioned and reproved, had it existence.

FOOTNOTES:

[42] Josephus.--Con. Apionem, lib. i.

[43] Snechta.--O'Curry, p. 14.

[44] Work--See ante, p. 43.

[45] Writes.--Josephus, lib. i. c. 6. Most of the authorities in this chapter are taken from
the Essay on the ancient history, religion, learning, arts, and government of Ireland, by the
late W. D'Alton. The Essay obtained a prize of £80 and the Cunningham Gold Medal from the Royal
Irish Academy. It is published in volume xvi. of the Transactions, and is a repertory of learning
of immense value to the student of Irish history.

[46] Sea.--Lib. Zoar, p. 87, as cited by Vallancey, and Parson's Defence, &c., p. 205.

[47] Sea.--Herodotus, l. vii. c. 89.

[48] Me.--"Sic mihi peritissimi Scotorum nunciaverunt." The reader will remember that the Irish
were called Scots, although the appellative of Ierins or Ierne continued to be given to the
country from the days of Orpheus to those of Claudius. By Roman writers Ireland was more usually
termed Hibernia. Juvenal calls it Juverna.

[49] Writers.--The circumnavigation of Africa by a Phoenician ship, in the reign of Neco, about
610 B.C., is credited by Humboldt, Rennell, Heeren, Grote, and Rawlinson. Of their voyages
to Cornwall for tin there is no question, and it is more than probable they sailed to the Baltic
for amber. It has been even supposed that they anticipated Columbus in the discovery of America.
Niebuhr connects the primitive astronomy of Europe with that of America, and, therefore, must
suppose the latter country to have been discovered.--Hist. of Rome, vol. i. p. 281. This, however,
is very vague ground of conjecture; the tide of knowledge, as well as emigration, was more
probably eastward.

[50] Procopius.--Hist. Gen. d'Espagne, vol. i.c.l. p.4.

[51] Chief.--De Antiq. et Orig. Cantab. See D'Alton's Essay, p. 24, for other authorities.

[52] Poem.--There has been question of the author, but none as to the authenticity and the
probable date of compilation.

[54] Fish.--And it still continues to be a national article of consumption and export. In a
recent debate on the "Irish question," an honorable member observes, that he regrets to say
"fish" is the only thing which appears to be flourishing in Ireland. We fear, however, from
the report of the Select Committee of the House of Commons on the question of Irish sea-coast
fisheries, that the poor fishermen are not prospering as well as the fish. Mr. Hart stated:
"Fish was as plenty as ever; but numbers of the fishermen had died during the famine, others
emigrated, and many of those who remained were unable, from want of means, to follow the pursuit."
And yet these men are honest; for it has been declared before the same committee, that they
have scrupulously repaid the loans which were given them formerly; and they are willing to
work, for when they can get boats and nets, they do work. These are facts. Shakspeare has said
that facts are "stubborn things;" they are, certainly, sometimes very unpleasant things. Yet,
we are told, the Irish have no real grievances. Of course, starvation from want of work is
not a grievance!

Within the few months which have elapsed since the publication of the first edition of this
History and the present moment, when I am engaged in preparing a second edition, a fact has
occurred within my own personal knowledge relative to this very subject, and of too great importance
to the history of Ireland in the present day to be omitted. A shoal of sprats arrived in the
bay of ---- and the poor people crowded to the shore to witness the arrival and, alas! the
departure of the finny tribe. All their nets had been broken or sold in the famine year; they
had, therefore, no means of securing what would have been a valuable addition to their poor
fare. The wealthy, whose tables are furnished daily with every luxury, can have but little
idea how bitter such privations are to the poor. Had there been a resident landlord in the
place, to interest himself in the welfare of his tenants, a few pounds would have procured
all that was necessary, and the people, always grateful for kindness, would long have remembered
the boon and the bestower of it.

[55] Commerce.--"Phoenices a vetustissimis inde temporibus frequenter crebras mercaturæ gratiâ
navigationes instituerunt."--Diod. Sic. vers. Wesseling, t.i.

[56] Confessio.--Dr. O'Donovan states, in an article in the Ulster Archæological Journal, vol.
viii. p. 249, that he had a letter from the late Dr. Prichard, who stated that it was his belief
the ancient Irish were not anthropophagi. He adds: "Whatever they may have been when their
island was called Insula Sacra, there are no people in Europe who are more squeamish in the
use of meats than the modern Irish peasantry, for they have a horror of every kind of carrion;"
albeit he is obliged to confess that, though they abuse the French for eating frogs, and the
English for eating rooks, there is evidence to prove that horseflesh was eaten in Ireland,
even in the reign of Queen Elizabeth.

CHAPTER V.

Landing of the Milesians--Traditions of the Tuatha Dé Dananns in St. Patrick's time--The Lia
Fail, or Stone of Destiny--The Milesians go back to sea "nine waves"--They conquer ultimately--Reign
of Eremon--Landing of the Picts--Bede's Account of Ireland--Fame of its Fish and Goats--Difficulties
of Irish Chronology--Importance and Authenticity of Irish Pedigrees--Qualifications of an Ollamh--Milesian
Genealogies--Historical Value of Pedigrees--National Feelings should be respected--Historic
Tales--Poems.

[A.M. 3500.]

The last colonization of Ireland is thus related in the Annals of the Four Masters: "The age
of the world 3500. The fleet of the sons of Milidh came to Ireland at the end of this year,
to take it from the Tuatha Dé Dananns, and they fought the battle of Sliabh Mis with them on
the third day after landing. In this battle fell Scota, the daughter of Pharaoh, wife of Milidh;
and the grave of Scota[57] is [to be seen] between Sliabh Mis and the sea. Therein also fell
Fas, the wife of Un, son of Uige, from whom is [named] Gleann Faisi. After this the sons of
Milidh fought a battle at Taillten[58] against the three kings of the Tuatha Dé Dananns, MacCuill,
MacCeacht, and MacGriéné. The battle lasted for a long time, until MacCeacht fell by Eiremhon,
MacCuill by Eimheur, and Mac Griéné by Amhergen."[59] Thus the Tuatha Dé Danann dynasty passed
away, but not without leaving many a quaint legend of magic and mystery, and many an impress
of its more than ordinary skill in such arts as were then indications of national superiority.
The real names of the last chiefs of this line, are said to have been respectively Ethur, Cethur,
and Fethur. The first was called MacCuill, because he worshipped the hazel-tree, and, more
probably, because he was devoted to some branch of literature which it symbolized; the second
MacCeacht, because he worshipped the plough, i.e., was devoted to agriculture; and the third
obtained his appellation of MacGriéné because he worshipped the sun.

It appears from a very curious and ancient tract, written in the shape of a dialogue between
St. Patrick and Caoilte MacRonain, that there were many places in Ireland where the Tuatha
Dé Dananns were then supposed to live as sprites and fairies, with corporeal and material forms,
but endued with immortality. The inference naturally to be drawn from these stories is, that
the Tuatha Dé Dananns lingered in the country for many centuries after their subjugation by
the Gaedhils, and that they lived in retired situations, where they practised abstruse arts,
from which they obtained the reputation of being magicians.

The Tuatha Dé Dananns are also said to have brought the famous. Lia Fail, or Stone of Destiny,
to Ireland. It is said by some authorities that this stone was carried to Scotland when an
Irish colony invaded North Britain, and that it was eventually brought to England by Edward
I., in the year 1300, and deposited in Westminster Abbey. It is supposed to be identical with
the large block of stone which may be seen there under the coronation chair. Dr. Petrie, however,
controverts this statement, and believes it to be the present pillar stone over the Croppies'
Grave in one of the raths of Tara.

A Danann prince, called Oghma, is said to have invented the occult form of writing called the
Ogham Craove, which, like the round towers has proved so fertile a source of doubt and discussion
to our antiquaries.

The Milesians, however, did not obtain a colonization in Ireland without some difficulty. According
to the ancient accounts, they landed at the mouth of the river Sláingé, or Slaney, in the present
county of Wexford, unperceived by the Tuatha Dé Dananns. From thence they marched to Tara,
the seat of government, and summoned the three kings to surrender. A curious legend is told
of this summons and its results, which is probably true in the more important details. The
Tuatha Dé Danann princes complained that they had been taken by surprise, and proposed to the
invaders to re-embark, and to go out upon the sea "the distance of nine waves" stating that
the country should be surrendered to them if they could then effect a landing by force. The
Milesian chiefs assented; but when the original inhabitants found them fairly launched at sea,
they raised a tempest by magical incantations, which entirely dispersed the fleet. One part
of it was driven along the east coast of Erinn, to the north, under the command of Eremon,
the youngest of the Milesian brothers; the remainder, under the command of Donn, the elder
brother, was driven to the south-west of the island.

But the Milesians had druids also.[60] As soon as they suspected the agency which had caused
the storm, they sent a man to the topmast of the ship to know "if the wind was blowing at that
height over the surface of the sea." The man reported that it was not. The druids then commence
practising counter arts of magic, in which they soon succeeded, but not until five of the eight
brothers were lost. Four, including Donn, were drowned in the wild Atlantic, off the coast
of Kerry. Colpa met his fate at the mouth of the river Boyne, called from him Inbhear Colpa.
Eber Finn and Amergin, the survivors of the southern party, landed in Kerry, and here the battle
of Sliabh Mis was fought, which has been already mentioned.

The battle of Taillten followed; and the Milesians having become masters of the country, the
brothers Eber Finn and Eremon divided it between them; the former taking all the southern part,
from the Boyne and the Shannon to Cape Clear, the latter taking all the part lying to the north
of these rivers.

This arrangement, however, was not of long continuance. Each was desirous of unlimited sovereignty;
and they met to decide their claims by an appeal to arms at Géisill,[61] a place near the present
Tullamore, in the King's county. Eber and his chief leaders fell in this engagement, and Eremon
assumed the sole government of the island.[62]

He took up his residence in Leinster, and after a reign of fifteen years died, and was buried
at Ráith Beóthaigh, in Argat Ross. This ancient rath still exists, and is now called Rath Beagh.
It is situated on the right bank of the river Nore, near the present village of Ballyragget,
county Kilkenny. This is not narrated by the Four Masters, neither do they mention the coming
of the Cruithneans or Picts into Ireland. These occurrences, however, are recorded in all the
ancient copies of the Book of Invasions, and in the Dinnseanchus. The Cruithneans or Picts
are said to have fled from the oppression of their king in Thrace, and to have passed into
Gaul. There they founded the city of Poictiers. From thence they were again driven by an act
of tyranny, and they proceeded first to Britain, and then to Ireland. Crimhthann Sciath-bél,
one of King Bremen's leaders, was at Wexford when the new colony landed. He was occupied in
extirpating a tribe of Britons who had settled in Fotharta,[63] and were unpleasantly distinguished
for fighting with poisoned weapons. The Irish chieftain asked the assistance of the new comers.
A battle was fought, and the Britons were defeated principally by the skill of the Pictish
druid, who found an antidote for the poison of their weapons. According to the quaint account
of Bede,[64] the Celtic chiefs gave good advice to their foreign allies in return for their
good deeds, and recommended them to settle in North Britain, adding that they would come to
their assistance should they find any difficulty or opposition from the inhabitants. The Picts
took the advice, but soon found themselves in want of helpmates. They applied again to their
neighbours, and were obligingly supplied with wives on the condition "that, when any difficulty
should arise, they should choose a king from the female royal race rather than from the male."
The Picts accepted the terms and the ladies; "and the custom," says Bede, "as is well known,
is observed among the Picts to this day."

Bede then continues to give a description of Ireland. His account, although of some length,
and not in all points reliable, is too interesting to be omitted, being the opinion of an Englishman,
and an author of reputation, as to the state of Ireland, socially and physically, in the seventh
century: "Ireland, in breadth and for wholesomeness and serenity of climate, far surpasses
Britain; for the snow scarcely ever lies there above three days; no man makes hay in summer
for winter's provision, or builds stables for his beasts of burden. No reptiles are found there;
for, though often carried thither out of Britain, as soon as the ship comes near the shore,
and the scent of the air reaches them, they die. On the contrary, almost all things in the
island are good against poison. In short, we have known that when some persons have been bitten
by serpents, the scrapings of leaves of books that were brought out of Ireland, being put into
water and given them to drink, have immediately expelled the spreading poison, and assuaged
the swelling. The island abounds in milk and honey;[65] nor is there any want of vines, fish,[66]
and fowl; and it is remarkable for deer and goats."

The chronology of Irish pagan history is unquestionably one of its greatest difficulties. But
the chronology of all ancient peoples is equally unmanageable. When Bunsen has settled Egyptian
chronology to the satisfaction of other literati as well as to his own, and when Hindoo and
Chinese accounts of their postdiluvian or antediluvian ancestors have been reconciled and synchronized,
we may hear some objections to "Irish pedigrees," and listen to a new "Irish question."

Pre-Christian Irish chronology has been arranged, like most ancient national chronologies,
on the basis of the length of reign of certain kings. As we do not trace our descent from the
"sun and moon" we are not necessitated to give our kings "a gross of centuries apiece," or
to divide the assumed period of a reign between half-a-dozen monarchs;[67] and the difficulties
are merely such as might be expected before chronology had become a science. The Four Masters
have adopted the chronology of the Septuagint; but O'Flaherty took the system of Scaliger,
and thus reduced the dates by many hundred years. The objection of hostile critics has been
to the history rather than to the chronology of the history; but these objections are a mere
petitio principii. They cannot understand how Ireland could have had a succession of kings
and comparative civilization,--in fact, a national existence,--from 260 years before the building
of Rome, when the Milesian colony arrived, according to the author of the Ogygia, at least
a thousand years before the arrival of Cæsar in Britain, and his discovery that its inhabitants
were half-naked savages. The real question is not what Cæsar said of the Britons, nor whether
they had an ancient history before their subjugation by the victorious cohorts of Rome; but
whether the annals which contained the pre-Christian history of Ireland may be accepted as,
in the main, authentic.

We have already given some account of the principal works from which our annals may be compiled.
Before we proceed to that portion of our history the authenticity of which cannot be questioned,
it may, perhaps, be useful to give an idea of the authorities for the minor details of social
life, the individual incidents of a nation's being, which, in fact, make up the harmonious
whole. We shall find a remarkable coincidence between the materials for early Roman history,
and those for the early history of that portion of the Celtic race which colonized Ireland.

We have no trace of any historical account of Roman history by a contemporary writer, native
or foreign, before the war with Pyrrhus; yet we have a history of Rome for more than four hundred
years previous offered to us by classical writers[68], as a trustworthy narrative of events.
From whence did they derive their reliable information? Unquestionably from works such as the
Origines of Cato the Censor, and other writers, which were then extant, but which have since
perished. And these writers, whence did they obtain their historical narratives? If we may
credit the theory of Niebuhr,[69] they were transmitted simply by bardic legends, composed
in verse. Even Sir G.C. Lewis admits that "commemorative festivals and other periodical observances,
may, in certain cases, have served to perpetuate a true tradition of some national event."[70]
And how much more surely would the memory of such events be perpetuated by a people, to whom
they had brought important political revolutions, who are eminently tenacious of their traditions,
and who have preserved the memory of them intact for centuries in local names and monumental
sites! The sources from whence the first annalists, or writers of Irish history, may have compiled
their narratives, would, therefore, be--1. The Books of Genealogies and Pedigrees. 2. The Historic
Tales. 3. The Books of Laws. 4. The Imaginative Tales and Poems. 5. National Monuments, such
as cromlechs and pillar stones, &c., which supplied the place of the brazen tablets of Roman
history, the libri lintei,[71] or the chronological nail.[72]

The Books of Genealogies and Pedigrees form a most important element in Irish pagan history.
For social and political reasons, the Irish Celt preserved his genealogical tree with scrupulous
precision. The rights of property and the governing power were transmitted with patriarchal
exactitude on strict claims of primogeniture, which claims could only be refused under certain
conditions defined by law. Thus, pedigrees and genealogies became a family necessity; but since
private claims might be doubted, and the question of authenticity involved such important results,
a responsible public officer was appointed to keep the records by which all claims were decided.
Each king had his own recorder, who was obliged to keep a true account of his pedigree, and
also of the pedigrees of the provincial kings and of their principal chieftains. The provincial
kings had also their recorders (Ollamhs or Seanchaidhé[73]); and in obedience to an ancient
law established long before the introduction of Christianity, all the provincial records, as
well as those of the various chieftains, were required to be furnished every third year to
the convocation at Tara, where they were compared and corrected.

The compilers of these genealogies were persons who had been educated as Ollamhs--none others
were admissible; and their "diplomas" were obtained after a collegiate course, which might
well deter many a modern aspirant to professorial chairs. The education of the Ollamh lasted
for twelve years; and in the course of these twelve years of "hard work," as the early books
say, certain regular courses were completed, each of which gave the student an additional degree,
with corresponding title, rank, and privileges.[74]

"In the Book of Lecain (fol. 168) there is an ancient tract, describing the laws upon this
subject, and referring, with quotations, to the body of the Brethibh Nimhedh, or 'Brehon Laws.'
According to this authority, the perfect Poet or Ollamh should know and practise the Teinim
Laegha, the Imas Forosnadh, and the Dichedal do chennaibh. The first appears to have been a
peculiar druidical verse, or incantation, believed to confer upon the druid or poet the power
of understanding everything that it was proper for him to say or speak. The second is explained
or translated, 'the illumination of much knowledge, as from the teacher to the pupil,' that
is, that he should be able to explain and teach the four divisions of poetry or philosophy,
'and each division of them,' continues the authority quoted, 'is the chief teaching of three
years of hard work.' The third qualification, or Dichedal, is explained, 'that he begins at
once the head of his poem,' in short, to improvise extempore in correct verse. 'To the Ollamh,'
says the ancient authority quoted in this passage in the Book of Lecain,' belong synchronisms,
together with the laegha laidhibh, or illuminating poems [incantations], and to him belong
the pedigrees and etymologies of names, that is, he has the pedigrees of the men of Erinn with
certainty, and the branching off of their various relationships.' Lastly, 'here are the four
divisions of the knowledge of poetry (or philosophy),' says the tract I have referred to; 'genealogies,
synchronisms, and the reciting of (historic) tales form the first division; knowledge of the
seven kinds of verse, and how to measure them by letters and syllables, form another of them;
judgment of the seven kinds of poetry, another of them; lastly, Dichedal [or improvisation],
that is, to contemplate and recite the verses without ever thinking of them before.'"[75]

The pedigrees were collected and written into a single book, called the Cin or Book of Drom
Snechta, by the son of Duach Galach, King of Connacht, an Ollamh in history and genealogies,
&c., shortly before[76] the arrival of St. Patrick in Ireland, which happened about A.D. 432.
It is obvious, therefore, that these genealogies must have existed for centuries prior to this
period. Even if they were then committed to writing for the first time, they could have been
handed down for many centuries orally by the Ollamhs; for no amount of literary effort could
be supposed too great for a class of men so exclusively and laboriously devoted to learning.

As the Milesians were the last of the ancient colonists, and had subdued the races previously
existing in Ireland, only their genealogies, with a few exceptions, have been preserved. The
genealogical tree begins, therefore, with the brothers Eber and Eremon, the two surviving leaders
of the expedition, whose ancestors are traced back to Magog, the son of Japhet. The great southern
chieftains, such as the MacCarthys and O'Briens, claim descent from Eber; the northern families
of O'Connor, O'Donnell, and O'Neill, claim Eremon as their head. There are also other families
claiming descent from Emer, the son of Ir, brother to Eber and Eremon; as also from their cousin
Lugaidh, the son of Ith. From four sources the principal Celtic families of Ireland have sprung;
and though they do not quite trace up the line to

    "The grand old gardener and his wife,"

they have a pedigree which cannot be gainsaid, and which might be claimed with pride by many
a monarch. MacFirbis' Book of Genealogies,[77] compiled in the year 1650, from lost records,
is the most perfect work of this kind extant. But there are tracts in the Book of Leinster
(compiled A.D. 1130), and in the Book of Ballymote (compiled A.D. 1391), which are of the highest
authority. O'Curry is of opinion, that those in the Book of Leinster were copied from the Saltair
of Cashel and other contemporaneous works.

The historical use of these genealogies is very great, not only because they give an authentic
pedigree and approximate data for chronological calculation, but from the immense amount of
correlative information which they contain. Every free-born man of the tribe was entitled by
blood, should it come to his turn, to succeed to the chieftaincy: hence the exactitude with
which each pedigree was kept; hence their importance in the estimation of each individual;
hence the incidental matter they contain, by the mention of such historical events[78] as may
have acted on different tribes and families, by which they lost their inheritance or independence,
and consequently their claim, however remote, to the chieftaincy.

The ancient history of a people should always be studied with care and candour by those who,
as a matter of interest or duty, wish to understand their social state, and the government
best suited to that state. Many of the poorest families in Ireland are descendants of its ancient
chiefs. The old habit--the habit which deepened and intensified itself during centuries--cannot
be eradicated, though it may be ridiculed, and the peasant will still boast of his "blood;"
it is all that he has left to him of the proud inheritance of his ancestors.

The second source of historical information may be found in the HISTORIC TALES. The reciting
of historic tales was one of the principal duties of the Ollamh, and he was bound to preserve
the truth of history "pure and unbroken to succeeding generations."

"According to several of the most ancient authorities, the Ollamh, or perfect Doctor, was bound
to have (for recital at the public feasts and assemblies) at least Seven Fifties of these Historic
narratives; and there appear to have been various degrees in the ranks of the poets, as they
progressed in education towards the final degree, each of which was bound to be supplied with
at least a certain number. Thus the Anroth, next in rank to an Ollamh should have half the
number of an Ollamh; the Cli, one-third the number, according to some authorities, and eighty
according to others; and so on down to the Fochlog, who should have thirty; and the Driseg
(the lowest of all), who should have twenty of these tales."[79]

The Ollamhs, like the druids or learned men of other nations, were in the habit of teaching
the facts of history to their pupils in verse,[80] probably that they might be more easily
remembered. A few of these tales have been published lately, such as the Battle of Magh Rath,
the Battle of Muighé Leana, and the Tochmarc Moméra. Besides the tales of Battles (Catha),
there are the tales of Longasa, or Voyages; the tales of Tóghla, or Destructions; of Slaughters,
of Sieges, of Tragedies, of Voyages, and, not least memorable, of the Tána, or Cattle Spoils,
and the Tochmarca, or Courtships. It should be remembered that numbers of these tales are in
existence, offering historical materials of the highest value. The Books of Laws demand a special
and more detailed notice, as well as the Historical Monuments. With a brief mention of the
Imaginative Tales and Poems, we must conclude this portion of our subject.

Ancient writings, even of pure fiction, must always form an important historical element to
the nation by which they have been produced. Unless they are founded on fact, so far as customs,
localities, and mode of life are concerned, they would possess no interest; and their principal
object is to interest. Without some degree of poetic improbabilities as to events, they could
scarcely amuse; and their object is also to amuse. Hence, the element of truth is easily separated
from the element of fiction, and each is available in its measure for historic research. The
most ancient of this class of writings are the Fenian Poems and Tales, ascribed to Finn Mac
Cumhaill, to his sons, Oisín and Fergus Finnbheoill (the Eloquent), and to his kinsman, Caeilité.
There are also many tales and poems of more recent date. Mr. O'Curry estimates, that if all
MSS. known to be in existence, and composed before the year 1000, were published, they would
form at least 8,000 printed pages of the same size as O'Donovan's Annals of the Four Masters.

FOOTNOTES:

[57] Scota.--The grave is still pointed out in the valley of Gleann Scoithin, county Kerry.

[58] Taillten.--Now Telltown, county Meath.

[59] Amhergen.--Annals of the Four Masters, vol. i. p. 25.

[60] Also.--This tale bears a simple and obvious interpretation. The druids were the most learned
and experienced in physical science of their respective nations; hence the advice they gave
appeared magical to those who were less instructed.

[61] Géisill.--The scene of the battle was at a place called Tochar eter dhá mhagh, or "the
causeway between two plains," and on the bank of the river Bri Damh, which runs through the
town of Tullamore. The name of the battle-field is still preserved in the name of the townland
of Ballintogher, in the parish and barony of Géisill. At the time of the composition of the
ancient topographical tract called the Dinnseanchus, the mounds and graves of the slain were
still to be seen.--See O'Curry, page 449. The author of this tract, Amergin Mac Amalgaidh,
wrote about the sixth century. A copy of his work is preserved in the Book of Ballymote, which
was compiled in the year 1391. There is certainly evidence enough to prove the fact of the
mélee, and that this was not a "legend invented from the tenth to the twelfth centuries." It
is almost amusing to hear the criticisms of persons utterly ignorant of our literature, however
well-educated in other respects. If the treasures of ancient history which exist in Irish MSS.
existed in Sanscrit, or even in Greek or Latin, we should find scholars devoting their lives
and best intellectual energies to understand and proclaim their value and importance, and warmly
defending them against all impugners of their authenticity.

[62] Island.--The axe figured above is a remarkable weapon. The copy is taken, by permission,
from the collection of the Royal Irish Academy. Sir W. Wilde describes the original thus in
the Catalogue: "It is 3-1/8 inches in its longest diameter, and at its thickest part measures
about half-an-inch. It has been chipped all over with great care, and has a sharp edge all
round. This peculiar style of tool or weapon reached perfection in this specimen, which, whether
used as a knife, arrow, spike, or axe, was an implement of singular beauty of design, and exhibits
great skill in the manufacture."

[63] Fotharta.--Now the barony of Forth, in Wexford.

[64] Bede.--Ecclesiastical History, Bohn's edition, p. 6.

[65] Honey.--Honey was an important edible to the ancients, and, therefore, likely to obtain
special mention. Keating impugns the veracity of Solinus, who stated that there were no bees
in Ireland, on the authority of Camden, who says: "Such is the quantity of bees, that they
are found not only in hives, but even in the trunks of trees, and in holes in the ground."
There is a curious legend anent the same useful insect, that may interest apiarians as well
as hagiologists. It is said in the life of St. David, that when Modomnoc (or Dominic) was with
St. David at Menevia, in Wales, he was charged with the care of the beehives, and that the
bees became so attached to him that they followed him to Ireland. However, the Rule of St.
Albans, who lived in the time of St. Patrick (in the early part of the fifth century), may
be quoted to prove that bees existed in Ireland at an earlier period, although the saint may
have been so devoted to his favourites as to have brought a special colony by miracle or otherwise
to Ireland. The Rule of St. Alban says: "When they [the monks] sit down at table, let them
be brought [served] beets or roots, washed with water, in clean baskets, also apples, beer,
and honey from the hive." Certainly, habits of regularity and cleanliness are here plainly
indicated as well as the existence of the bee.

[66] Fish.--It is to be presumed that fish are destined to prosper in Hibernia: of the ancient
deer, more hereafter. The goats still nourish also, as visitors to Killarney can testify; though
they will probably soon be relics of the past, as the goatherds are emigrating to more prosperous
regions at a rapid rate.

[67] Monarchs.--See Bunsen's Egypt, passim.

[68] Writers.--The first ten books of Livy are extant, and bring Roman history to the consulship
of Julius Maximus Gurges and Junius Brutus Scoene, in 292 B.C. Dionysius published his history
seven years before Christ. Five of Plutarch's Lives fall within the period before the war with
Pyrrhus. There are many sources besides those of the works of historians from which general
information is obtained.

[69] Niebuhr.--"Genuine or oral tradition has kept the story of Tarpeia for five-and-twenty
hundred years in the mouths of the common people, who for many centuries have been total strangers
to the names of Cloelia and Cornelia."--Hist. vol. i. p. 230.

[70] Event.--Credibility of Early Roman History, vol. i. p. 101.

[71] Libri lintei.--Registers written on linen, mentioned by Livy, under the year 444 B.C.

[72] Nail.--Livy quotes Cincius for the fact that a series of nails were extant in the temple
of Hostia, at Volsinii, as a register of successive years. Quite as primitive an arrangement
as the North American quipus.

[73] Seanchaidhé (pronounced "shanachy").--It means, in this case, strictly a historian; but
the ancient historian was also a bard or poet.

[74] Privileges.--We can scarcely help requesting the special attention of the reader to these
well-authenticated facts. A nation which had so high an appreciation of its annals, must have
been many degrees removed from barbarism for centuries.

[75] Before.--O'Curry, p. 240.

[76] Before.--This, of course, opens up the question as to whether the Irish Celts had a written
literature before the arrival of St. Patrick. The subject will be fully entertained later on.

[77] Genealogies.-There is a "distinction and a difference" between a genealogy and a pedigree.
A genealogy embraces the descent of a family, and its relation to all the other families that
descended from the same remote parent stock, and took a distinct tribe-name, as the Dalcassians.
A pedigree traces up the line of descent to the individual from whom the name was derived.

[78] Events.--Arnold mentions "the family traditions and funeral orations out of which the
oldest annalists [of Roman history] compiled their narratives." vol. i. p. 371. Sir G.C. Lewis,
however, thinks that the composition of national annals would precede the composition of any
private history; but he adds that he judges from the "example of modern times." With all respect
to such an authority, it seems rather an unphilosophical conclusion. Family pedigrees would
depend on family pride, in which the Romans were by no means deficient; and on political considerations,
which were all-important to the Irish Celt.

[79] Tales.--O'Curry, p. 241.

[80] Verse.--See Niebuhr, Hist. vol i. pp. 254-261. Arnold has adopted his theory, and Macaulay
has acted on it. But the Roman poems were merely recited at public entertainments, and were
by no means a national arrangement for the preservation of history, such as existed anciently
in Ireland. These verses were sung by boys more patrum (Od. iv. 15), for the entertainment
of guests. Ennius, who composed his Annales in hexameter verse, introducing, for the first
time, the Greek metre into Roman literature, mentions the verses which the Fauns, or religious
poets, used to chant. Scaliger thinks that the Fauns were a class of men who exercised in Latium,
at a very remote period, the same functions as the Magians in Persia and the Bards in Gaul.
Niebuhr supposes that the entire history of the Roman, kings was formed from poems into a prose
narrative.

CHAPTER VI.

Tighearnmas--His Death--Introduces Colours as a Distinction of Rank--Silver Shields and Chariots
first used--Reign of Ugainé Môr--The Treachery of Cobhthach--Romantic Tales--Queen Mab--Dispute
which led to the celebrated Cattle Spoil--The Story of the Táin bó Chuailgné--The Romans feared
to invade Ireland--Tacitus--Revolt of the Attacotti--Reign of Tuathal--Origin of the Boromean
Tribute.

[B.C. 1700.]

Our annals afford but brief details from the time of Eremon to that of Ugainé Môr. One hundred
and eighteen sovereigns are enumerated from the Milesian conquest of Ireland (according to
the Four Masters, B.C. 1700) to the time of St. Patrick, A.D. 432. The principal events recorded
are international deeds of arms, the clearing of woods, the enactment of laws, and the erection
of palaces.

Tighearnmas, one of these monarchs, is said to have introduced the worship of idols into Ireland.
From this it would appear, that the more refined Magian, or Sun-worship, had prevailed previously.
He died, with "three-fourths" of the men of Ireland about him, on the night of Samhain,[81]
while worshipping the idol called Crom Cruach, at Magh Slacht, in Breifné.[82] Tighearnmas
reigned seventy-five years. He is said to have been the first who attempted the smelting of
gold in Ireland; and the use of different colours,[83] as an indication of rank, is also attributed
to him.

Silver shields were now made (B.C. 1383) at Airget-Ros, by Enna Airgtheach, and four-horse
chariots were first used in the time of Roitheachtaigh, who was killed by lightning near the
Giant's Causeway. Ollamh Fodhla (the wise or learned man) distinguished himself still more
by instituting triennial assemblies at Tara. Even should the date given by the Four Masters
(1317 B.C.) be called in question, there is no doubt of the fact, which must have occurred
some centuries before the Christian era; and this would appear to be the earliest instance
of a national convocation or parliament in any country. Ollamh Fodhla also appointed chieftains
over every cantred or hundred, he constructed a rath at Tara, and died there in the fortieth
year of his reign.

At the reign of Cimbaoth (B.C. 716) we come to that period which Tighernach considers the commencement
of indisputably authentic history. It is strange that he should have selected a provincial
chief, and a period in no way remarkable except for the building of the palace of Emania.[84]
But the student of Irish pre-Christian annals may be content to commence with solid foundation
as early as seven centuries before Christ. The era was an important one in universal history.
The Greeks had then counted sixteen Olympiads, and crowned Pythagoras the victor. Hippomenes
was archon at Athens. Romulus had been succeeded by Numa Pompilius, and the foundations of
imperial Rome were laid in blood by barbarian hordes. The Chaldeans had just taken the palm
in astronomical observations, and recorded for the first time a lunar eclipse; while the baffled
Assyrian hosts relinquished the siege of Tyre, unhappily reserved for the cruel destruction
accomplished by Alexander, a few centuries later. The prophecies of Isaiah were still resounding
in the ears of an ungrateful people. He had spoken of the coming Christ and His all-peaceful
mission in mystic imagery, and had given miraculous evidences of his predictions. But suffering
should be the precursor of that marvellous advent. The Assyrian dashed in resistless torrent
upon the fold. Israel was led captive. Hosea was in chains. Samaria and the kingdom of Israel
were added to the conquests of Sennacherib; and the kingdom of Judah, harassed but not destroyed,
waited the accomplishment of prophecy, and the measure of her crimes, ere the most ancient
of peoples should for ever cease to be a nation.

Ugainé Môr is the next monarch who demands notice. His obituary record is thus given by the
Four Masters:--"At the end of this year, A.M. 4606, Ugainé Môr, after he had been full forty
years King of Ireland, and of the whole of the west of Europe, as far as Muir-Toirrian, was
slain by Badhbhchad at Tealach-an-Choisgair, in Bregia. This Ugainé was he who exacted oaths
by all the elements, visible and invisible, from the men of Ireland in general, that they would
never contend for the sovereignty of Ireland with his children or his race."

Ugainé was succeeded by his son, Laeghairé Lorc, who was cruelly and treacherously killed by
his brother, Cobhthach Cael. Indeed, few monarchs lived out their time in peace during this
and the succeeding centuries. The day is darkest before the dawn, in the social and political
as well as in the physical world. The Eternal Light was already at hand; the powers of darkness
were aroused for the coming conflict; and deeds of evil were being accomplished, which make
men shudder as they read. The assassination of Laeghairé was another manifestation of the old-world
story of envy. The treacherous Cobhthach feigned sickness, which he knew would obtain a visit
from his brother. When the monarch stooped to embrace him, he plunged a dagger into his heart.
His next act was to kill his nephew, Ailill Ainé; and his ill-treatment of Ainé's son, Maen,
was the consummation of his cruelty. The fratricide was at last slain by this very youth, who
had now obtained the appellation of Labhraidh-Loingseach, or Lowry of the Ships. We have special
evidence here of the importance of our Historic Tales, and also that the blending of fiction
and fact by no means deteriorates from their value.

Love affairs form a staple ground for fiction, with a very substantial under-strata of facts,
even in the nineteenth century; and the annals of pre-Christian Erinn are by no means deficient
in the same fertile source of human interest. The History of the Exile is still preserved in
the Leabhar Buidhé Lecain, now in the Library of Trinity College, Dublin. It is a highly romantic
story, but evidently founded on fact, and full of interest as descriptive of public and private
life in the fifth century before Christ. It tells how Maen, though supposed to be deaf and
dumb, was, nevertheless, given in charge of two officers of the court to be educated; that
he recovered or rather obtained speech suddenly, in a quarrel with another youth; and that
he was as symmetrical of form and noble of bearing as all heroes of romance are bound to be.
His uncle expelled him from the kingdom, and he took refuge at the court of King Scoriath.
King Scoriath had a daughter, who was beautiful; and Maen, of course, acted as a knight was
bound to do under such circumstances, and fell desperately in love with the princess. The Lady
Moriath's beauty had bewildered more heads than that of the knight-errant; but the Lady Moriath's
father and mother were determined their daughter should not marry.

The harper Craftiné came to the rescue, and at last, by his all-entrancing skill, so ravished
the whole party of knights and nobles, that the lovers were able to enjoy a tête-a-tête, and
pledged mutual vows. As usual, the parents yielded when they found it was useless to resist;
and, no doubt, the poet Craftiné, who, poet and all as he was, nearly lost his head in the
adventure, was the most welcome of all welcome guests at the nuptial feast. Indeed, he appears
to have been retained as comptroller of the house and confidential adviser long after; for
when Labhraidh Maen was obliged to fly the country, he confided his wife to the care of Craftiné.
On his return from France,[85] he obtained possession of the kingdom, to which he was the rightful
heir, and reigned over the men of Erinn for eighteen years.

Another Historic Tale gives an account of the destruction of the court of Dá Derga, but we
have not space for details. The Four Masters merely relate the fact in the following entry:--

"Conairé, the son of Ederscél, after having been seventy years in the sovereignty of Erinn,
was slain at Bruighean Dá Dhearga by insurgents." Another prince, Eochaidh Feidhlech, was famous
for sighing. He rescinded the division of Ireland into twenty-five parts, which had been made
by Ugainé Môr, and divided the island into five provinces, over each of which he appointed
a provincial king, under his obedience. The famous Meadhbh, or Mab, was his daughter; and though
unquestionably a lady of rather strong physical and mental capabilities, the lapse of ages
has thrown an obscuring halo of romance round her belligerent qualifications, and metamorphosed
her into the gentle "Faery Queen" of the poet Spenser. One of Méav's exploits is recorded in
the famous Táin bó Chuailgné, which is to Celtic history what the Argonautic Expedition, or
the Seven against Thebes, is to Grecian. Méav was married first to Conor, the celebrated provincial
king of Ulster; but the marriage was not a happy one, and was dissolved, in modern parlance,
on the ground of incompatibility. In the meanwhile, Méav's three brothers had rebelled against
their father; and though his arms were victorious, the victory did not secure peace. The men
of Connacht revolted against him, and to retain their allegiance he made his daughter Queen
of Connacht, and gave her in marriage to Ailill, a powerful chief of that province. This prince,
however, died soon after; and Méav, determined for once, at least, to choose a husband for
herself, made a royal progress to Leinster, where Ross Ruadb held his court at Naas. She selected
the younger son of this monarch, who bore the same name as her former husband, and they lived
together happily as queen and king consort for many years. On one occasion, however, a dispute
arose about their respective treasures, and this dispute led to a comparison of their property.
The account of this, and the subsequent comparison, is given at length in the Táin, and is
a valuable repertory of archæological information. They counted their vessels, metal and wooden;
they counted their finger rings, their clasps, their thumb rings, their diadems, and their
gorgets of gold. They examined their many-coloured garments of crimson and blue, of black and
green, yellow and mottled, white and streaked. All were equal. They then inspected their flocks
and herds, swine from the forests, sheep from the pasture lands, and cows--here the first difference
arose. It was one to excite Méav's haughty temper. There was a young bull found among Ailill's
bovine wealth: it had been calved by one of Méav's cows; but "not deeming it honorable to be
under a woman's control," it had attached itself to Ailill's herds. Méav was not a lady who
could remain quiet under such provocation. She summoned her chief courier, and asked him could
he a match for Finnbheannach (the white-horned). The courier declared that he could find even
a superior animal; and at once set forth on his mission, suitably attended. Méav had offered
the most liberal rewards for the prize she so much coveted; and the courier soon arranged with
Daré, a noble of large estates, who possessed one of the valuable breed. A drunken quarrel,
however, disarranged his plans. One of the men boasted that if Daré had not given the bull
for payment, he should have been compelled to give it by force. Daré's steward heard the ill-timed
and uncourteous boast. He flung down the meat and drink which he had brought for their entertainment,
and went to tell his master the contemptuous speech. The result may be anticipated. Daré refused
the much-coveted animal, and Méav proceeded to make good her claim by force of arms. But this
is only the prologue of the drama; the details would fill a volume. It must suffice to say,
that the bulls had a battle of their own. Finnbheannach and Donn Chuailgné (the Leinster bull)
engaged in deadly combat, which is described with the wildest flights of poetic diction.[86]
The poor "white horn" was killed, and Donn Chuailgné, who had lashed himself to madness, dashed
out his brains.[87]

Méav lived to the venerable age of a hundred. According to Tighernach, she died A.D. 70, but
the chronology of the Four Masters places her demise a hundred years earlier. This difference
of calculation also makes it questionable what monarch reigned in Ireland at the birth of Christ.
The following passage is from the Book of Ballymote, and is supposed to be taken from the synchronisms
of Flann of Monasterboice: "In the fourteenth year of the reign of Conairé and of Conchobar,
Mary was born; and in the fourth year after the birth of Mary, the expedition of the Táin bó
Chuailgné took place. Eight years after the expedition of the Táin, Christ was born."

The Four Masters have the following entry after the age of the world 5194:--

THE AGE OF CHRIST.

"The first year of the age of Christ, and the eighth year of the reign of Crimhthann Niadhnair."
Under the heading of the age of Christ 9, there is an account of a wonderful expedition of
this monarch, and of all the treasures he acquired thereby. His "adventures" is among the list
of Historic Tales in the Book of Leinster, but unfortunately there is no copy of this tract
in existence. It was probably about this time that a recreant Irish chieftain tried to induce
Agricola to invade Ireland. But the Irish Celts had extended the fame of their military prowess
even to distant lands,[88] and the Roman general thought it better policy to keep what he had
than to risk its loss, and, perhaps, obtain no compensation. Previous to Cæsar's conquest of
Britain, the Irish had fitted out several expeditions for the plunder of that country, and
they do not appear to have suffered from retaliation until the reign of Egbert. It is evident,
however, that the Britons did not consider them their worst enemies, for we find mention of
several colonies flying to the Irish shores to escape Roman tyranny, and these colonies were
hospitably received.[89] The passage in Tacitus which refers to the proposed invasion of Ireland
by the Roman forces, is too full of interest to be omitted:--"In the fifth year of these expeditions,
Agricola, passing over in the first ship, subdued in frequent victories nations hitherto unknown.
He stationed troops along that part of Britain which looks to Ireland, more on account of hope
than fear,[90] since Ireland, from its situation between Britain and Spain, and opening to
the Gallic Sea, might well connect the most powerful parts of the empire with reciprocal advantage.
Its extent, compared with Britain, is narrower, but exceeds that of any islands of our sea.
The genius and habits of the people, and the soil and climate, do not differ much from those
of Britain. Its channels and ports are better known to commerce and to merchants.[91] Agricola
gave his protection to one of its petty kings, who had been expelled by faction; and with a
show of friendship, he retained him for his own purposes. I often heard him say, that Ireland
could he conquered and taken with one legion and a small reserve; and such a measure would
have its advantages even as regards Britain, if Roman power were extended on every side, and
liberty taken away as it were from the view of the latter island."[92]

We request special attention to the observation, that the Irish ports were better known to
commerce and merchants. Such a statement by such an authority must go far to remove any doubt
as to the accounts given on this subject by our own annalists. The proper name of the recreant
"regulus" has not been discovered, so that his infamy is transmitted anonymously to posterity.
Sir John Davies has well observed, with regard to the boast of subduing Ireland so easily,
"that if Agricola had attempted the conquest thereof with a far greater army, he would have
found himself deceived in his conjecture." William of Neuburg has also remarked, that though
the Romans harassed the Britons for three centuries after this event, Ireland never was invaded
by them, even when they held dominion of the Orkney Islands, and that it yielded to no foreign
power until the year[93] 1171. Indeed, the Scots and Picts gave their legions quite sufficient
occupation defending the ramparts of Adrian and Antoninus, to deter them from attempting to
obtain more, when they could so hardly hold what they already possessed.

The insurrection of the Aitheach Tuatha,[94] or Attacotti, is the next event of importance
in Irish history. Their plans were deeply and wisely laid, and promised the success they obtained.
It is one of the lessons of history which rulers in all ages would do well to study. There
is a degree of oppression which even the most degraded will refuse to endure; there is a time
when the injured will seek revenge, even should they know that this revenge may bring on themselves
yet deeper wrongs. The leaders of the revolt were surely men of some judgment; and both they
and those who acted under them possessed the two great qualities needed for such an enterprise.
They were silent, for their plans were not even suspected until they were accomplished; they
were patient, for these plans were three years in preparation. During three years the helots
saved their scanty earnings to prepare a sumptuous death-feast for their unsuspecting victims.
This feast was held at a place since called Magh Cru, in Connaught. The monarch, Fiacha Finnolaidh,
the provincial kings and chiefs, were all invited, and accepted the invitation. But while the
enjoyment was at its height, when men had drank deeply, and were soothed by the sweet strains
of the harp, the insurgents did their bloody work. Three ladies alone escaped. They fled to
Britain, and there each gave birth to a son--heirs to their respective husbands who had been slain.

After the massacre, the Attacotti elected their leader, Cairbré Cinn-Cait (or the Cat-head),
to the royal dignity, for they still desired to live under a "limited monarchy." But revolutions,
even when successful, and we had almost said necessary, are eminently productive of evil. The
social state of a people when once disorganized, does not admit of a speedy or safe return
to its former condition. The mass of mankind, who think more of present evils, however trifling,
than of past grievances, however oppressive, begin to connect present evils with present rule,
and having lost, in some degree, the memory of their ancient wrongs, desire to recall a dynasty
which, thus viewed, bears a not unfavourable comparison with their present state.[95]

Cairbré died after five years of most unprosperous royalty, and his son, the wise and prudent
Morann,[96] showed his wisdom and prudence by refusing to succeed him. He advised that the
rightful heirs should be recalled. His advice was accepted. Fearadhach Finnfeachteach was invited
to assume the reins of government. "Good was Ireland during this his time. The seasons were
right tranquil; the earth brought forth its fruit; fishful its river-mouths; milkful the kine;
heavy-headed the woods."[97]

Another revolt of the Attacotti took place in the reign of Fiacha of the White Cattle. He was
killed by the provincial kings, at the slaughter of Magh Bolg.[98] Elim, one of the perpetrators
of this outrage, obtained the crown, but his reign was singularly unprosperous; and Ireland
was without corn, without milk, without fruit, without fish, and without any other great advantage,
since the Aitheach Tuatha had killed Fiacha Finnolaidh in the slaughter of Magh Bolg, till
the time of Tuathal Teachtmar.[99]

Tuathal was the son of a former legitimate monarch, and had been invited to Ireland by a powerful
party. He was perpetually at war with the Attacotti, but at last established himself firmly
on the throne, by exacting an oath from the people, "by the sun, moon, and elements," that
his posterity should not be deprived of the sovereignty. This oath was taken at Tara, where
he had convened a general assembly, as had been customary with his predecessors at the commencement
of each reign; but it was held by him with more than usual state. His next act was to take
a small portion of land from each of the four provinces, forming what is now the present county
of Meath, and retaining it as the mensal portion of the Ard-Righ, or supreme monarch. On each
of these portions he erected a palace for the king of every province, details of which will
be given when we come to that period of our history which refers to the destruction of Tara.
Tuathal had at this time two beautiful and marriageable daughters, named Fithir and Dairiné.
Eochaidh Aincheann, King of Leinster, sought and obtained the hand of the younger daughter,
Dairiné, and after her nuptials carried her to his palace at Naas, in Leinster. Some time after,
his people pursuaded him that he had made a bad selection, and that the elder was the better
of the two sisters; upon which Eochaidh determined by stratagem to obtain the other daughter
also. For this purpose he shut the young queen up in a secret apartment of his palace, and
gave out a report that she was dead. He then repaired, apparently in great grief to Tara, informed
the monarch that his daughter was dead, and demanded her sister in marriage. Tuathal gave his
consent, and the false king returned home with his new bride. Soon after her arrival at Naas,
her sister escaped from her confinement, and suddenly and unexpectedly encountered the prince
and Fithir. In a moment she divined the truth, and had the additional anguish of seeing her
sister, who was struck with horror and shame, fall dead before her face. The death of the unhappy
princess, and the treachery of her husband, was too much for the young queen; she returned
to her solitary chamber, and in a very short time died of a broken heart.

The insult offered to his daughters, and their untimely death, roused the indignation of the
pagan monarch, and was soon bitterly avenged. At the head of a powerful force, he burned and
ravaged Leinster to its utmost boundary, and then compelled its humbled and terror-stricken
people to bind themselves and their descendants for ever to the payment of a triennial tribute
to the monarch of Erinn, which, from the great number of cows exacted by it, obtained the name
of the "Boromean Tribute"--bo being the Gaedhilic for a cow.

The tribute is thus described in the old annals:

    "The men of Leinster were obliged to pay
    To Tuathal, and all the monarchs after him,
    Three-score hundred of the fairest cows,
    And three-score hundred ounces of pure silver,
    And three-score hundred mantles richly woven,
    And three-score hundred of the fattest hogs,
    And three-score hundred of the largest sheep,
    And three-score hundred cauldrons strong and polished[100]."

It is elsewhere described as consisting of five thousand ounces of silver, five thousand mantles,
five thousand fat cows, five thousand fat hogs, five thousand wethers, and five thousand vessels
of brass or bronze for the king's laving, with men and maidens for his service.

The levying of the tribute was the cause of periodical and sanguinary wars, from the time of
Tuathal until the reign of Finnachta the Festive. About the year 680 it was abolished by him,
at the entreaty of St. Moling, of Tigh Moling (now St. Mullen's, in the county Carlow). It
is said by Keating, that he a ailed himself of a pious ruse for this purpose,--asking the king
to pledge himself not to exact the tribute until after Monday, and then, when his request was
complied with, declaring that the Monday he intended was the Monday after Doomsday. The tribute
was again revived and levied by Brian, the son of Cinneidigh, at the beginning of the eleventh
century, as a punishment on the Leinster men for their adherence to the Danish cause. It was
from this circumstance that Brian obtained the surname of Boroimhé.

FOOTNOTES:

[81] Samhain.--Now All Hallows Eve. The peasantry still use the pagan name. It is a compound
word, signifying "summer" and "end."

[82] Breifné.--In the present county Cavan. We shall refer again to this subject, when mentioning
St. Patrick's destruction of the idols.

[83] Colours.--Keating says that a slave was permitted only one colour, a peasant two, a soldier
three, a public victualler five. The Ollamh ranked, with royalty, and was permitted six--another
of the many proofs of extraordinary veneration for learning in pre-Christian Erinn. The Four
Masters, however, ascribe the origin of this distinction to Eochaidh Eadghadhach. It is supposed
that this is the origin of the Scotch plaid. The ancient Britons dyed their bodies blue. The
Cymric Celts were famous for their colours.

[84] Emania.--The legend of the building of this palace will be given in a future chapter.

[85] France.--It is said that foreigners who came with him from Gaul were armed with broad-headed
lances (called in Irish laighne), whence the province of Leinster has derived its name. Another
derivation of the name, from coige, a fifth part, is attributed to the Firbolgs.

[86] Diction.-This tract contains a description of arms and ornaments which might well pass
for a poetic flight of fancy, had we not articles of such exquisite workmanship in the Royal
Irish Academy, which prove incontrovertibly the skill of the ancient artists of Erinn. This
is the description of a champion's attire:--"A red and white cloak flutters about him; a golden
brooch in that cloak, at his breast; a shirt of white, kingly linen, with gold embroidery at
his skin; a white shield, with gold fastenings at his shoulder; a gold-hilted long sword at
his left side; a long, sharp, dark green spear, together with a short, sharp spear, with a
rich band and carved silver rivets in his hand."--O'Curry, p. 38. We give an illustration on
previous page of a flint weapon of a ruder kind.

[87] Brains.--My friend, Denis Florence MacCarthy, Esq., M.R.I.A., our poet par excellence,
is occupied at this moment in versifying some portions of this romantic story. I believe he
has some intention of publishing the work in America, as American publishers are urgent in
their applications to him for a complete and uniform edition of his poems, including his exquisite
translations from the dramatic and ballad literature of Spain. We hope Irish publishers and
the Irish people will not disgrace their country by allowing such a work to be published abroad.
We are too often and too justly accused of deficiency in cultivated taste, which unfortunately
makes trashy poems, and verbose and weakly-written prose, more acceptable to the majority than
works produced by highly-educated minds. Irishmen are by no means inferior to Englishmen in
natural gifts, yet, in many instances, unquestionably they have not or do not cultivate the
same taste for reading, and have not the same appreciation of works of a higher class than
the lightest literature. Much of the fault, no doubt, lies in the present system of education:
however, as some of the professors in our schools and colleges appear to be aware of the deficiency,
we may hope for better things.

[88] Lands.--Lhuid asserts that the names of the principal commanders in Gaul and Britain who
opposed Cæsar, are Irish Latinized.

[89] Received.--"They are said to have fled into Ireland, some for the sake of ease and quietness,
others to keep their eyes untainted by Roman insolence."--See Harris' Ware. The Brigantes of
Waterford, Tipperary, and Kilkenny, are supposed to have been emigrants, and to have come from
the colony of that name in Yorkshire.

[90] Fear.--"In spem magis quam ob formidinem."

[91] Merchants.--"Melius aditus portusque per commercia et negotiatores cognitis."

[92] Island.--Vita Julii Agric. c. 24.

[93] Year.--Hist. Rer. Angl. lib. ii. c. 26.

[94] Aitheach Tuatha.--The word means rentpayers, or rentpaying tribes or people. It is probably
used as a term of reproach, and in contradiction to the free men. It has been said that this
people were the remnants of the inhabitants of Ireland before the Milesians colonized it. Mr.
O'Curry denies this statement, and maintains that they were Milesians, but of the lower classes,
who had been cruelly oppressed by the magnates of the land.

[96] Morann.--Morann was the inventor of the famous "collar of gold." The new monarch appointed
him his chief Brehon or judge, and it is said that this collar closed round the necks of those
who were guilty, but expanded to the ground when the wearer was innocent. This collar or chain
is mentioned in several of the commentaries on the Brehon Laws, as one of the ordeals of the
ancient Irish. The Four Masters style him "the very intelligent Morann."

[97] Woods.--Four Masters, p. 97.

[98] Magh Bolg.--Now Moybolgue, a parish in the county Cavan.

[99] Teachtmar, i.e., the legitimate, Four Masters, p. 99.--The history of the revolt of the
Attacotti is contained in one of the ancient tracts called Histories. It is termed "The Origin
of the Boromean Tribute." There is a copy of this most valuable work in the Book of Leinster,
which, it will be remembered, was compiled in the twelfth century. The details which follow
above concerning the Boromean Tribute, are taken from the same source.

[100] Polished.--Keating, p. 264.

CHAPTER VII.

Tuathal-Conn "of the Hundred Battles"--The Five Great Roads of Ancient Erinn--Conn's Half--Conairé
II.--The Three Cairbrés--Cormac Mac Airt--His Wise Decision--Collects Laws--His Personal Appearance-The
Saltair of Tara written in Cormac's Reign--Finn Mac Cumhaill--His Courtship with the Princess
Ailbhé--The Pursuit of Diarmaid and Grainné--Nial "of the Nine Hostages"--Dathi.

Tuathal reigned for thirty years, and is said to have fought no less than 133 battles with
the Attacotti. He was at last slain himself by his successor, Nial, who, in his turn, was killed
by Tuathal's son. Conn "of the Hundred Battles" is the next Irish monarch who claims more than
a passing notice. His exploits are a famous theme with the bards, and a poem on his "Birth"
forms part of the Liber Flavus Fergusorum, a MS. volume of the fifteenth century. His reign
is also remarkable for the mention of five great roads[101] which were then discovered or completed.
One of these highways, the Eiscir Riada, extended from the declivity on which Dublin Castle
now stands, to the peninsula of Marey, at the head of Galway Bay. It divided Conn's half of
Ireland from the half possessed by Eóghan Môr, with whom he lived in the usual state of internecine
feud which characterized the reigns of this early period. One of the principal quarrels between
these monarchs, was caused by a complaint which Eóghan made of the shipping arrangements in
Dublin. Conn's half (the northern side) was preferred, and Eóghan demanded a fair division.
They had to decide their claims at the battle of Magh Lena.[102] Eóghan was assisted by a Spanish
chief, whose sister he had married. But the Iberian and his Celtic brother-in-law were both
slain, and the mounds are still shown which cover their remains.

Conn was succeeded by Conairé II., the father of the three Cairbrés, who were progenitors of
important tribes. Cairbré Muse gave his name to six districts in Munster; the territory of
Corcabaiscinn, in Clare, was named after Cairbré Bascain; and the Dalriada of Antrim were descended
from Cairbré Riada. He is also mentioned by Bede under the name of Reuda,[103] as the leader
of the Scots who came from Hibernia to Alba. Three centuries later, a fresh colony of Dalriadans
laid the foundation of the Scottish monarchy under Fergus, the son of Erc. Mac Con was the
next Ard-Righ or chief monarch of Ireland. He obtained the royal power after a battle at Magh
Mucruimhé, near Athenry, where Art the Melancholy, son of Con of the Hundred Battles, and the
seven sons of Oilioll Oluim, were slain.

The reign of Cormac Mac Airt is unquestionably the most celebrated of all our pagan monarchs.
During his early years he had been compelled to conceal himself among his mother's friends
in Connaught; but the severe rule of the usurper Mac Con excited a desire for his removal,
and the friends of the young prince were not slow to avail themselves of the popular feeling.
He, therefore, appeared unexpectedly at Tara, and happened to arrive when the monarch was giving
judgment in an important case, which is thus related: Some sheep, the property of a widow,
residing at Tara, had strayed into the queen's private lawn, and eaten the grass. They were
captured, and the case was brought before the king. He decided that the trespassers should
be forfeited; but Cormac exclaimed that his sentence was unjust, and declared that as the sheep
had only eaten the fleece of the land, they should only forfeit their own fleece. The vox populi
applauded the decision. Mac Con started from his seat, and exclaimed: "That is the judgment
of a king." At the same moment he recognized the prince, and commanded that he should be seized;
but he had already escaped. The people now recognized their rightful king, and revolted against
the usurper, who was driven into Munster. Cormac assumed the reins of government at Tara, and
thus entered upon his brilliant and important career, A.D. 227.

Cormac commenced his government with acts of severity, which were, perhaps, necessary to consolidate
his power. This being once firmly established, he devoted himself ardently to literary pursuits,
and to regulate and civilize his dominions. He collected the national laws, and formed a code
which remained in force until the English invasion, and was observed for many centuries after
outside the Pale. The bards dwell with manifest unction on the "fruit and fatness" of the land
in his time, and describe him as the noblest and most bountiful of all princes. Indeed, we
can scarcely omit their account, since it cannot be denied that it pictures the costume of
royalty in Ireland at that period, however poetically the details may be given. This, then,
is the bardic photograph:--

"His hair was slightly curled, and of golden colour: a scarlet shield with engraved devices,
and golden hooks, and clasps of silver: a wide-folding purple cloak on him, with a gem-set
gold brooch over his breast; a gold torque around his neck; a white-collared shirt, embroidered
with gold, upon him; a girdle with golden buckles, and studded with precious stones, around
him; two golden net-work sandals with golden buckles upon him; two spears with golden sockets,
and many red bronze rivets in his hand; while he stood in the full glow of beauty, without
defect or blemish. You would think it was a shower of pearls that were set in his mouth; his
lips were rubies; his symmetrical body was as white as snow; his cheek was like the mountain
ash-berry; his eyes were like the sloe; his brows and eye-lashes were like the sheen of a blue-black
lance."[104]

The compilation of the Saltair of Tara, as we mentioned previously, is attributed to this monarch.
Even in Christian times his praises are loudly proclaimed. The poet Maelmura, who lived in
the eighth century, styles him Ceolach, or the Musical, and Kenneth O'Hartigan, who died A.D.
973, gives a glowing account of his magnificence and of his royal palace at Tara. O'Flaherty
quotes a poem, which he says contains an account of three schools, instituted by Cormac at
Tara; one for military discipline, one for history, and the third for jurisprudence. The Four
Masters say: "It was this Cormac, son of Art, also, that collected the chronicles of Ireland
to Teamhair [Tara], and ordered them to write[105] the chronicles of Ireland in one book, which
was named the Saltair of Teamhair. In that book were [entered] the coeval exploits and synchronisms
of the kings of Ireland with the kings and emperors of the world, and of the kings of the provinces
with the monarchs of Ireland. In it was also written what the monarchs of Ireland were entitled
to [receive] from the provincial kings, and the rents and dues of the provincial kings from
their subjects, from the noble to the subaltern. In it, also, were [described] the boundaries
and mears of Ireland from shore to shore, from the provinces to the cantred, from the cantred
to the townland, from the townland to the traighedh of land."[106] Although the Saltair of
Tara has disappeared from our national records, a law tract, called the Book of Acaill, is
still in existence, which is attributed to this king. It is always found annexed to a Law Treatise
by Cennfaelad the Learned, who died A.D. 677. In an ancient MS. in Trinity College, Dublin
(Class H.L. 15, p. 149), it is stated that it was the custom, at the inauguration of Irish
chiefs, to read the Instructions of the Kings (a work ascribed to Cormac) and his Laws.

There is a tradition that Cormac became a Christian before his death. In the thirty-ninth year
of his reign, one of his eyes was thrust out by a spear, and he retired in consequence to one
of those peaceful abodes of learning which were so carefully fostered in ancient Erinn. The
high-minded nobility of this people is manifest notably in the law which required that the
king should have no personal blemish; and in obedience to this law, Cormac vacated the throne.
He died A.D. 266, at Cleiteach, near Stackallen Bridge, on the south bank of the Boyne. It
is said that he was choked by a salmon bone, and that this happened through the contrivances
of the druids, who wished to avenge themselves on him for his rejection of their superstitions.

This reign was made more remarkable by the exploits of his son-in-law, the famous Finn Mac
Cumhaill (pronounced "coole"). Finn was famous both as a poet and warrior. Indeed, poetical
qualifications were considered essential to obtain a place in the select militia of which he
was the last commander. The courtship of the poet-warrior with the Princess Ailbhé, Cormac's
daughter, is related in one of the ancient historic tales called Tochmarca, or Courtships.
The lady is said to have been the wisest woman of her time, and the wooing is described in
the form of conversations, which savour more of a trial of skill in ability and knowledge,
than of the soft utterances which distinguish such narratives in modern days. It is supposed
that the Fenian corps which he commanded was modelled after the fashion of the Roman legions;
but its loyalty is more questionable, for it was eventually disbanded for insubordination,
although the exploits of its heroes are a favourite topic with the bards. The Fenian poems,
on which Macpherson founded his celebrated forgery, are ascribed to Finn's sons, Oísin and
Fergus the Eloquent, and to his kinsman Caeilté, as well as to himself. Five poems only are
ascribed to him, but these are found in MSS. of considerable antiquity. The poems of Oísin
were selected by the Scotch writer for his grand experiment. He gave a highly poetical translation
of what purported to be some ancient and genuine composition, but, unfortunately for his veracity,
he could not produce the original. Some of the real compositions of the Fenian hero are, however,
still extant in the Book of Leinster, as well as other valuable Fenian poems. There are also
some Fenian tales in prose, of which the most remarkable is that of the Pursuit of Diarmaid
and Grainné--a legend which has left its impress in every portion of the island to the present
day. Finn, in his old age, asked the hand of Grainné, the daughter of Cormac Mac Airt; but
the lady being young, preferred a younger lover. To effect her purpose, she drugged the guest-cup
so effectually, that Finn, and all the guests invited with him, were plunged into a profound
slumber after they had partaken of it. Oísin and Diarmaid alone escaped, and to them the Lady
Grainné confided her grief. As true knights they were bound to rescue her from the dilemma.
Oísin could scarcely dare to brave his father's vengeance, but Diarmaid at once fled with the
lady. A pursuit followed, which extended all over Ireland, during which the young couple always
escaped. So deeply is the tradition engraven in the popular mind, that the cromlechs are still
called the "Beds of Diarmaid and Grainné," and shown as the resting-places of the fugitive lovers.

There are many other tales of a purely imaginative character, which, for interest, might well
rival the world-famous Arabian Nights' Entertainments; and, for importance of details, illustrative
of manners, customs, dress, weapons, and localities, are, perhaps, unequalled.

Nial of the Nine Hostages and Dathi are the last pagan monarchs who demand special notice.
In the year 322, Fiacha Sraibhtine was slain by the three Collas,[107] and a few short-lived
monarchs succeeded. In 378, Crimhthann was poisoned by his sister, who hoped that her eldest
son, Brian, might obtain the royal power. Her attempt failed, although she sacrificed herself
for its accomplishment, by taking the poisoned cup to remove her brother's suspicions; and
Nial of the Nine Hostages, the son of her husband by a former wife, succeeded to the coveted
dignity. This monarch distinguished himself by predatory warfare against Albion and Gaul. The
"groans"[108] of the Britons testify to his success in that quarter, which eventually obliged
them to become an Anglo-Saxon nation; and the Latin poet, Claudian, gives evidence that troops
were sent by Stilicho, the general of Theodosius the Great, to repel his successful forays.
His successor, Dathi, was killed by lightning at the foot of the Alps, and the possibility
of this occurrence is also strangely verified from extrinsic sources.[109]

FOOTNOTES:

[101] Roads.--Those roads were Slighe Asail, Slighe Midhluachra, Slighe Cualann, Slighe Dala,
and Slighe Môr. Slighe Môr was the Eiscir Riada, and division line of Erinn into two parts,
between Conn and Eóghan Môr. These five roads led to the fort of Teamair (Tara), and it is
said that they were "discovered" on the birthnight of the former monarch. We shall refer to
the subject again in a chapter on the civilization of the early Irish. There is no doubt of
the existence of these roads, and this fact, combined with the care with which they were kept,
is significant.

[102] Magh Lena.--The present parish of Moylana, or Kilbride, Tullamore, King's county.

[103] Reuda.--Bede, Eccl. Hist. p. 7.

[104] Lance.--O'Curry, p. 45. This quotation is translated by Mr. O'Curry, and is taken from
the Book of Ballymote. This book, however, quotes it from the Uachongbhail, a much older authority.

[105] Write.--Professor O'Curry well observes, that "such a man could scarcely have carried
out the numerous provisions of his comprehensive enactments without some written medium. And
it is no unwarrantable presumption to suppose, that, either by his own hand, or, at least,
in his own time, by his command, his laws were committed to writing; and when we possess very
ancient testimony to this effect, I can see no reason for rejecting it, or for casting a doubt
upon the statement."--MS. Materials, p. 47. Mr. Petrie writes, if possible, more strongly.
He says: "It is difficult, if not impossible, to conceive how the minute and apparently accurate
accounts found in the various MSS. of the names and localities of the Attacottic tribes of
Ireland in the first century, could have been preserved, without coming to the conclusion that
they had been preserved in writing in some work."--Essay on Tara Hill, p. 46. Elsewhere, however,
he speaks more doubtfully.

[106] Land.--Four Masters, p. 117.

[107] Collas.--They were sons of Eochaidh Domlen, who made themselves famous by their warlike
exploits, and infamous by their destruction of the palace of Emania.

[108] Groans.--Bede, Eccl. Hist. c. 12.

[109] Sources.--The Abbé M'Geoghegan says that there is a very ancient registry in the archives
of the house of Sales, which mentions that the King of Ireland remained some time in the Castle
of Sales. See his History, p. 94.

CHAPTER VIII.

St. Patrick--How Ireland was first Christianized--Pagan Rome used providentially to promote
the Faith--The Mission of St. Palladius--Innocent I. claims authority to found Churches and
condemn Heresy--Disputes concerning St. Patrick's Birthplace--Ireland receives the Faith generously--Victoricus--St.
Patrick's Vision--His Roman Mission clearly proved--Subterfuges of those who deny it--Ancient
Lives of the Saint--St. Patrick's Canons--His Devotion and Submission to the Holy See.

[A.D. 378-432.]

It has been conjectured that the great Apostle of Ireland, St. Patrick, was carried captive
to the land of his adoption, in one of the plundering expeditions of the monarch Nial--an eminent
instance of the overruling power of Providence, and of the mighty effects produced by causes
the most insignificant and unconscious. As we are not writing an ecclesiastical history of
Ireland, and as we have a work of that nature in contemplation, we shall only make brief mention
of the events connected with the life and mission of the saint at present; but the Christianizing
of any country must always form an important epoch, politically and socially, and, as such,
demands the careful consideration of the historian. How and when the seed of faith was sown
in ancient Erinn before the time of the great Apostle, cannot now be ascertained. We know the
silent rapidity with which that faith spread, from its first promulgation by the shores of
the Galilean lake, until it became the recognized religion of earth's mightiest empire. We
know, also, that, by a noticeable providence, Rome was chosen from the beginning as the source
from whence the light should emanate. We know how pagan Rome, which had subdued and crushed
material empires, and scattered nations and national customs as chaff before the wind, failed
utterly to subdue or crush this religion, though promulgated by the feeblest of its plebeians.
We know how the material prosperity of that mighty people was overruled for the furtherance
of eternal designs; and as the invincible legions continually added to the geographical extent
of the empire they also added to the number of those to whom the gospel of peace should be
proclaimed.

The first Christian mission to Ireland, for which we have definite and reliable data, was that
of St. Palladius. St. Prosper, who held a high position in the Roman Church, published a chronicle
in the year 433, in which we find the following register: "Palladius was consecrated by Pope
Celestine, and sent as the first Bishop to the Irish believing in Christ."[110] This mission
was unsuccessful. Palladius was repulsed by the inhabitants of Wicklow,[111] where he landed.
He then sailed northward, and was at last driven by stress of weather towards the Orkneys,
finding harbour, eventually, on the shores of Kincardineshire. Several ancient tracts give
the details of his mission, its failure, and his subsequent career. The first of those authorities
is the Life of St. Patrick in the Book of Armagh; and in this it is stated that he died in
the "land of the Britons." The second Life of St. Patrick, in Colgan's collection, has changed
Britons into "Picts." In the "Annotations of Tierchan," also preserved in the Book of Armagh,[112]
it is said that Palladius was also called Patricius,[113] and that he suffered martyrdom among
the Scots, "as ancient saints relate."

Prosper also informs us, that Palladius was a deacon[114] of the Roman Church, and that he
received a commission from the Holy See to send Germanus, Bishop of Auxerre, to root out heresy,[115]
and convert the Britons to the Catholic faith. Thus we find the Church, even in the earliest
ages, occupied in her twofold mission of converting the heathen, and preserving the faithful
from error. St. Innocent I., writing to Decentius, in the year 402, refers thus to this important
fact: "Is it not known to all that the things which have been delivered to the Roman Church
by Peter, the Prince of the Apostles, and preserved ever since, should be observed by all;
and that nothing is to be introduced devoid of authority, or borrowed elsewhere? Especially,
as it is manifest that no one has founded churches for all Italy, the Gauls, Spain, Africa,
and the interjacent islands, except such as were appointed priests by the venerable Peter and
his successors."

Palladius was accompanied by four companions: Sylvester and Solinus, who remained after him
in Ireland; and Augustinus and Benedictus, who followed him[116] to Britain, but returned to
their own country after his death. The Vita Secunda mentions that he brought relics of the
blessed Peter and Paul, and other saints, to Ireland, as well as copies of the Old and New
Testament, all of which were given to him by Pope Celestine.

The birthplace of the great Apostle of Ireland has long been, and still continues, a subject
of controversy. St. Fiacc states that he was born at Nemthur,[117] and the Scholiast on St.
Fiacc's Hymn identifies this with Alcuith, now Dumbarton, on the Firth of Clyde. The most reliable
authority unquestionably is St. Patrick's own statements, in his Confessio. He there says (1)
that his father had a farm or villa at Bonavem Taberniæ, from whence he was taken captive.
It does not follow necessarily from this, that St. Patrick was born there; but it would appear
probable that this was a paternal estate. (2)The saint speaks of Britanniæ as his country.
The difficulty lies in the identification of these places. In the Vita Secunda, Nemthur and
Campus Taberniæ are identified. Probus writes, that he had ascertained as a matter of certainty,
that the Vicus Bannave Taburniæ regionis was situated in Neustria. The Life supposed to be
by St. Eleran, states that the parents of the saint were of Strats-Cludi (Strath-Clyde), but
that he was born in Nemthur--"Quod oppidum in Campo Taburniæ est;" thus indicating an early
belief that France was the land of his nativity. St. Patrick's mention of Britanniæ, however,
appears to be conclusive. There was a tribe called Brittani in northern France, mentioned by
Pliny, and the Welsh Triads distinctly declare that the Britons of Great Britain came from thence.

There can be no doubt, however, that St. Patrick was intimately connected with Gaul. His mother,
Conchessa, was either a sister or niece of the great St. Martin of Tours; and it was undoubtedly
from Gaul that the saint was carried captive to Ireland.

Patrick was not the baptismal name of the saint; it was given him by St. Celestine[118] as
indicative of rank, or it may be with some prophetic intimation of his future greatness. He
was baptized by the no less significant appellation of Succat--"brave in battle." But his warfare
was not with a material foe. Erinn received the faith at his hands, with noble and unexampled
generosity; and one martyr, and only one, was sacrificed in preference of ancient pagan rites;
while we know that thousands have shed their blood, and it maybe hundreds even in our own times
have sacrificed their lives, to preserve the treasure so gladly accepted, so faithfully preserved.[119]

Moore, in his History of Ireland, exclaims, with the force of truth, and the eloquence of poetry:
"While in all other countries the introduction of Christianity has been the slow work of time,
has been resisted by either government or people, and seldom effected without lavish effusion
of blood, in Ireland, on the contrary, by the influence of one zealous missionary, and with
but little previous preparation of the soil by other hands, Christianity burst forth at the
first ray of apostolic light, and, with the sudden ripeness of a northern summer, at once covered
the whole land. Kings and princes, when not themselves amongst the ranks of the converted,
saw their sons and daughters joining in the train without a murmur. Chiefs, at variance in
all else, agreed in meeting beneath the Christian banner; and the proud druid and bard laid
their superstitions meekly at the foot of the cross; nor, by a singular blessing of Providence--unexampled,
indeed, in the whole history of the Church--was there a single drop of blood shed on account
of religion through the entire course of this mild Christian revolution, by which, in the space
of a few years, all Ireland was brought tranquilly under the dominion of the Gospel."

It is probable that St. Patrick was born in 387, and that in 403 he was made captive and carried
into Ireland. Those who believe Alcuith or Dumbarton to have been his birthplace, are obliged
to account for his capture in Gaul--which has never been questioned--by supposing that he and
his family had gone thither to visit the friends of his mother, Conchessa. He was sold as a
slave, in that part of Dalriada comprised in the county of Antrim, to four men, one of whom,
Milcho, bought up their right from the other three, and employed him in feeding sheep or swine.
Exposed to the severity of the weather day and night, a lonely slave in a strange land, and
probably as ignorant of the language as of the customs of his master, his captivity, would,
indeed, have been a bitter one, had he not brought with him, from a holy home, the elements
of most fervent piety. A hundred times in the day, and a hundred times in the night, he lifted
up the voice of prayer and supplication to the Lord of the bondman and the free, and faithfully
served the harsh, and at times cruel, master to whom Providence had assigned him. Perhaps he
may have offered his sufferings for those who were serving a master even more harsh and cruel.

After six years he was miraculously delivered. A voice, that was not of earth, addressed him
in the stillness of the night, and commanded him to hasten to a certain port, where he would
find a ship ready to take him to his own country. "And I came," says the saint, "in the power
of the Lord, who directed my course towards a good end; and I was under no apprehension until
I arrived where the ship was. It was then clearing out, and I called for a passage. But the
master of the vessel got angry, and said to me, 'Do not attempt to come with us.' On hearing
this I retired, for the purpose of going to the cabin where I had been received as a guest.
And, on my way thither, I began to pray; but before I had finished my prayer, I heard one of
the men crying out with a loud voice after me, 'Come, quickly; for they are calling you,' and
immediately I returned. And they said to me, 'Come, we receive thee on trust. Be our friend,
just as it may be agreeable to you.' We then set sail, and after three days reached land."
The two Breviaries of Rheims and Fiacc's Hymn agree in stating that the men with whom Patrick
embarked were merchants from Gaul, and that they landed in a place called Treguir, in Brittany,
some distance from his native place. Their charity, however, was amply repaid. Travelling through
a desert country, they had surely perished with hunger, had not the prayers of the saint obtained
them a miraculous supply of food.

It is said that St. Patrick suffered a second captivity, which, however, only lasted sixty
days; but of this little is known. Neither is the precise time certain, with respect to these
captivities, at which the events occurred which we are about to relate. After a short residence
at the famous monastery of St. Martin, near Tours, founded by his saintly relative, he placed
himself (probably in his thirtieth year) under the direction of St. Germain of Auxerre.

It was about this period that he was favoured with the remarkable vision or dream relating
to his Irish apostolate. He thus describes it in his Confessio:--

"I saw, in a nocturnal vision, a man named Victoricus[120] coming as if from Ireland, with
a large parcel of letters, one of which he handed to me. On reading the beginning of it, I
found it contained these words: 'The voice of the Irish;' and while reading it I thought I
heard, at the same moment, the voice of a multitude of persons near the Wood of Foclut, which
is near the western sea; and they cried out, as if with one voice, 'We entreat thee, holy youth,
to come and henceforth walk amongst us.' And I was greatly affected in my heart, and could
read no longer; and then I awoke."

St. Patrick retired to Italy after this vision, and there spent many years. During this period
he visited Lerins,[121] and other islands in the Mediterranean. Lerins was distinguished for
its religious and learned establishments; and probably St. Germain,[122] under whose direction
the saint still continued, had recommended him to study there. It was at this time that he
received the celebrated staff, called the Bachall Isu, or Staff of Jesus.

St. Bernard mentions this Bachall Isu, in his life of St. Malachy, as one of those insignia
of the see of Armagh, which were popularly believed to confer upon the possessor a title to
be regarded and obeyed as the successor of St. Patrick. Indeed, the great antiquity of this
long-treasured relic has never been questioned; nor is there any reason to suppose that it
was not in some way a miraculous gift.

Frequent notices of this pastoral staff are found in ancient Irish history. St. Fiacc speaks
of it as having been richly adorned by an ecclesiastic contemporary with the saint.

A curious MS. is still preserved in the Chapter House of Westminster Abbey, containing an examination
of "Sir Gerald Machshayne, knight, sworn 19th March, 1529, upon the Holie Mase-booke and the
great relicke of Erlonde, called Baculum Christi, the presence of the Kynge's Deputie, Chancellour,
Tresoror, and Justice."

Perhaps it may be well to conclude the account of this interesting relic by a notice of its
wanton destruction, as translated from the Annals of Loch Cè by Professor O'Curry:--

"The most miraculous image of Mary, which was at Bailé Atha Truim (Trim), and which the Irish
people had all honoured for a long time before that, which used to heal the blind, the deaf,
the lame, and every disease in like manner, was burned by the Saxons. And the Staff of Jesus,
which was in Dublin, and which wrought many wonders and miracles in Erinn since the time of
Patrick down to that time, and which was in the hand of Christ Himself, was burned by the Saxons
in like manner. And not only that, but there was not a holy cross, nor an image of Mary, nor
other celebrated image in Erinn over which their power reached, that they did not burn. Nor
was there one of the seven Orders which came under their power that they did not ruin. And
the Pope and the Church in the East and at home were excommunicating the Saxons on that account,
and they did not pay any attention or heed unto that, &c. And I am not certain whether it was
not in the year preceding the above [A.D. 1537] that these relics were burned."

St. Patrick visited Rome about the year 431, accompanied by a priest named Segetius, who was
sent with him by St. Germanus to vouch for the sanctity of his character, and his fitness for
the Irish mission. Celestine received him favourably, and dismissed him with his benediction
and approbation. St. Patrick then returned once more to his master, who was residing at Auxerre.
From thence he went into the north of Gaul, and there receiving intelligence of the death of
St. Palladius, and the failure of his mission, he was immediately consecrated bishop by the
venerable Amato, a prelate of great sanctity, then residing in the neighbourhood of Ebovia.
Auxilius, Isserninus, and other disciples of the saint, received holy orders at the same time.
They were subsequently promoted to the episcopacy in the land of their adoption.

In the year 432 St. Patrick landed in Ireland. It was the first year of the pontificate of
St. Sixtus III., the successor of Celestine; the fourth year of the reign of Laeghairé, son
of Nial of the Nine Hostages, King of Ireland. It is generally supposed that the saint landed
first at a place called Inbher De, believed to be the mouth of the Bray river, in Wicklow.
Here he was repulsed by the in habitants,--a circumstance which can be easily accounted for
from its proximity to the territory of King Nathi, who had so lately driven away his predecessor,
Palladius.

St. Patrick returned to his ship, and sailing towards the north landed at the little island
of Holm Patrick, near Skerries, off the north coast of Dublin. After a brief stay he proceeded
still farther northward, and finally entering Strangford Lough, landed with his companions
in the district of Magh-Inis, in the present barony of Lecale. Having penetrated some distance
into the interior, they were encountered by Dicho, the lord of the soil, who, hearing of their
embarkation, and supposing them to be pirates, had assembled a formidable body of retainers
to expel them from his shores. But it is said that the moment he perceived, Patrick, his apprehensions
vanished. After some brief converse, Dicho invited the saint and his companions to his house,
and soon after received himself the grace of holy baptism. Dicho was St. Patrick's first convert,
and the first who erected a Christian church under his direction. The memory of this event
is still preserved in the name Saull, the modern contraction of Sabhall Padruic, or Patrick's
Barn. The saint was especially attached to the scene of his first missionary success, and frequently
retired to the monastery which was established there later.

After a brief residence with the new converts, Patrick set out for the habitation of his old
master, Milcho, who lived near Slieve Mis, in the present county of Antrim, then part of the
territory called Dalriada. It is said that when Milcho heard of the approach of his former
slave, he became so indignant, that, in a violent fit of passion, he set fire to his house,
and perished himself in the flames. The saint returned to Saull, and from thence journeyed
by water to the mouth of the Boyne, where he landed at a small port called Colp. Tara was his
destination; but on his way thither he stayed a night at the house of a man of property named
Seschnan. This man and his whole family were baptized, and one of his sons received the name
of Benignus from St. Patrick, on account of the gentleness of his manner. The holy youth attached
himself from this moment to his master, and was his successor in the primatial see of Armagh.

Those who are anxious, for obvious reasons, to deny the fact of St. Patrick's mission from
Rome, do so on two grounds: first, the absence of a distinct statement of this mission in one
or two of the earliest lives of the saints; and his not having mentioned it himself in his
genuine writings. Second, by underrating the value of those documents which do mention this
Roman mission. With regard to the first objection, it is obvious that a hymn which was written
merely as a panegyric (the Hymn of St. Fiacc) was not the place for such details. But St. Fiacc
does mention that Germanus was the saint's instructor, and that "he read his canons," i.e.,
studied theology under him.

St. Patrick's Canons,[123] which even Usher admits to be genuine, contain the following passage.
We give Usher's own translation, as beyond all controversy for correctness:--"Whenever any
cause that is very difficult, and unknown unto all the judges of the Scottish nation, shall
arise, it is rightly to be referred to the See of the Archbishop of the Irish (that is, of
Patrick), and to the examination of the prelate thereof. But if there, by him and his wise
men, a cause of this nature cannot easily be made up, we have decreed it shall be sent to the
See Apostolic, that is to say, to the chair of the Apostle Peter, which hath the authority
of the city of Rome." Usher's translation of St. Patrick's Canon is sufficiently plain, and
evidently he found it inconveniently explicit, for he gives a "gloss" thereon, in which he
apologizes for St. Patrick's Roman predilections, by suggesting that the saint was influenced
by a "special regard for the Church of Rome." No doubt this was true; it is the feeling of
all good Catholics; but it requires something more than a "special regard" to inculcate such
absolute submission; and we can scarcely think even Usher himself could have gravely supposed,
that a canon written to bind the whole Irish Church, should have inculcated a practice of such
importance, merely because St. Patrick had a regard for the Holy See. This Canon was acted
upon in the Synod of Magh-Lene, in 630, and St. Cummian attests the fact thus:--"In accordance
with the canonical, decree, that if questions of grave moment arise, they shall be referred
to the head of cities, we sent such as we knew were wise and humble men to Rome." But there
is yet another authority for St. Patrick's Roman mission. There is an important tract by Macutenius,
in the Book of Armagh. The authenticity of the tract has not, and indeed could not, be questioned;
but a leaf is missing: happily, however, the titles of the chapters are preserved, so there
can be no doubt as to what they contained. In these headings we find the following:--

"5. De ætate ejus quando iens videre Sedem Apostolicam voluit discere sapientiam."

"6. De inventione Sancti Germani in Galiis et ideo non exivit ultra."

Dr. Todd, by joining these two separate titles, with more ingenuity than fairness, has made
it appear that "St. Patrick desired to visit the Apostolic See, and there to learn wisdom,
but that meeting with St. Germanus in Gaul he went no further."[124] Even could the headings
of two separate chapters be thus joined together, the real meaning of et ideo non exivit ultra
would be, that St. Patrick never again left Germanus,--a meaning too obviously inadmissible
to require further comment. But it is well known that the life of St. Patrick which bears the
name of Probus, is founded almost verbally on the text of Macutenius, and this work supplies
the missing chapters. They clearly relate not only the Roman mission of the saint, but also
the saint's love of Rome, and his desire to obtain from thence "due authority" that he might
"preach with confidence."

FOOTNOTES:

[110] Christ.--"Ad Scotos in Christum credentes ordinatur a papa Cælestino Palladius et primus
episcopus mittitur."--Vet. Lat. Scrip. Chron. Roncallius, Padua, 1787.

[111] Wicklow.--Probably on the spot where the town of Wicklow now stands. It was then called
the region of Hy-Garchon. It is also designated Fortreatha Laighen by the Scholiast on Fiacc's
Hymn. The district, probably, received this name from the family of Eoichaidh Finn Fothart,
a brother of Conn of the Hundred Battles.

[112] Armagh--Fol. 16, a.a.

[113] Patricius.--This name was but an indication of rank. In the later years of the Roman
Empire, Gibbon says, "the meanest subjects of the Roman Empire [5th century] assumed the illustrious
name of Patricius."--Decline and Fall, vol. viii. p. 300. Hence the confusion that arose amongst
Celtic hagiographers, and the interchanging of the acts of several saints who bore the same name.

[114] Deacon.--This was an important office in the early Roman Church.

[115] Heresy.--The Pelagian.

[116] Followed him.--The Four Masters imply, however, that they remained in Ireland. They also
name the three wooden churches which he erected. Celafine, which has not been identified; Teach-na-Romhan,
House of the Romans, probably Tigroni; and Domhnach-Arta, probably the present Dunard.--Annals,
p. 129.

[117] Nemthur.--The n is merely a prefix; it should read Em-tur.

[118] Celestine.--See the Scholiast on Fiacc's Hymn.

[119] Preserved.--It is much to be regretted that almost every circumstance in the life of
St. Patrick has been made a field for polemics. Dr. Todd, of whom one might have hoped better
things, has almost destroyed the interest of his otherwise valuable work by this fault. He
cannot allow that St. Patrick's mother was a relative of St. Martin of Tours, obviously because
St. Martin's Catholicity is incontrovertible. He wastes pages in a vain attempt to disprove
St. Patrick's Roman mission, for similar reasons; and he cannot even admit that the Irish received
the faith as a nation, all despite the clearest evidence; yet so strong is the power of prejudice,
that he accepts far less proof for other questions.

[120] Victoricus.--There were two saints, either of whom might have been the mysterious visitant
who invited St. Patrick to Ireland. St. Victoricus was the great missionary of the Morini,
at the end of the fourth century. There was also a St. Victoricus who suffered martyrdom at
Amiens, A.D. 286. Those do not believe that the saints were and are favoured with supernatural
communications, and whose honesty compels them to admit the genuineness of such documents as
the Confession of St. Patrick, are put to sad straits to explain away what he writes.

[121] Lerins.--See Monks of the West, v. i. p. 463. It was then styled insula beata.

[122] St. Germain.--St. Fiacc, who, it will be remembered, was contemporary with St. Patrick,
write thus in his Hymn:

"The angel, Victor, sent Patrick over the Alps; Admirable was his journey-- Until he took his
abode with Germanus, Far away in the south of Letha. In the isles of the Tyrrhene sea he remained;
In them he meditated; He read the canon with Germanus-- This, histories make known."

[123] Canons--This Canon is found in the Book of Armagh, and in that part of that Book which
was copied from St. Patrick's own manuscript. Even could it be proved that St. Patrick never
wrote these Canons, the fact that they are in the Book of Armagh, which was compiled, according
to O'Curry, before the year 727, and even at the latest before the year 807, is sufficient
to prove the practice of the early Irish Church on this important subject.

[124] Further.--Life of St. Patrick, p. 315.

CHAPTER IX.

St. Patrick visits Tara--Easter Sunday--St. Patrick's Hymn--Dubtach salute him--He overthrows
the Idols at Magh Slecht--The Princesses Ethnea and Fethlimia--Their Conversion--Baptism of
Aengus--St. Patrick travels through Ireland--His Success in Munster--He blesses the whole country
from Cnoc Patrick--The First Irish Martyr--St. Patrick's Death--Pagan Prophecies--Conor Mac
Nessa--Death of King Laeghairé--The Church did not and does not countenance Pagan Superstition--Oilioll
Molt--Death of King Aengus--Foundation of the Kingdom of Scotland--St. Brigid--Shrines of the
Three Saints--St Patrick's Prayer for Ireland, and its Fulfilment.

[A.D. 432--543.]

On Holy Saturday St. Patrick arrived at Slane, where he caused a tent to be erected, and lighted
the paschal fire at nightfall, preparatory to the celebration of the Easter festival. The princes
and chieftains of Meath were, at the same time, assembled at Tara, where King Laeghairé was
holding a great pagan festival. The object of this meeting has been disputed, some authorities
saying that it was convoked to celebrate the Beltinne, or fire of Bal or Baal; others, that
the king was commemorating his own birthday. On the festival of Beltinne it was forbidden to
light any fire until a flame was visible from the top of Tara Hill. Laeghairé was indignant
that this regulation should have been infringed; and probably the representation of his druids
regarding the mission of the great apostle, did not tend to allay his wrath. Determined to
examine himself into the intention of these bold strangers, he set forth, accompanied, by his
bards and attendants, to the place where the sacred fire had been kindled, and ordered the
apostle to be brought before him strictly commanding, at the same time, that no respect should
be shown to him.

Notwithstanding the king's command, Erc, the son of Dego, rose up to salute him, obtained the
grace of conversion, and was subsequently promoted to the episcopate. The result of this interview
was the appointment of a public discussion, to take place the next day at Tara, between St.
Patrick and the pagan bards.

It was Easter Sunday--a day ever memorable for this event in the annals of Erinn. Laeghairé
and his court sat in state to receive the ambassador of the Eternal King. Treacherous preparations
had been made, and it was anticipated that Patrick and his companions would scarcely reach
Tara alive. The saint was aware of the machinations of his enemies; but life was of no value
to him, save as a means of performing the great work assigned him, and the success of that
work was in the safe keeping of Another. The old writers love to dwell on the meek dignity
of the apostle during this day of trial and triumph. He set forth with his companions, from
where he had encamped, in solemn procession, singing a hymn of invocation which he had composed,
in the Irish tongue, for the occasion, and which is still preserved, and well authenticated.[125]
He was clothed as usual, in white robes; but he wore his mitre, and carried in his hand the
Staff of Jesus. Eight priests attended him, robed also in white, and his youthful convert,
Benignus, the son of Seschnan.

Thus, great in the arms of meekness and prayer, did the Christian hosts calmly face the array
of pagan pomp and pride. Again the monarch had commanded that no honour should be paid to the
saint, and again he was disobeyed. His own chief poet and druid, Dubtach, rose up instantly
on the entrance of the strangers, and saluted the venerable apostle with affection and respect.
The Christian doctrine was then explained by St. Patrick to his wondering audience, and such
impression made, that although Laeghairé lived and died an obstinate pagan, he nevertheless
permitted the saint to preach where and when he would, and to receive all who might come to
him for instruction or holy baptism.

On the following day St. Patrick repaired to Taillten, where the public games were commencing;
and there he remained for a week, preaching to an immense concourse of people. Here his life
was threatened by Cairbré, a brother of King Laeghairé; but the saint was defended by another
of the royal brothers, named Conall Creevan, who was shortly after converted. The church of
Donough Patrick, in Meath, was founded by his desire. It is said that all the Irish churches
which begin with the name Donough were founded by the saint, the foundation being always marked
out by him on a Sunday, for which Domhnach is the Gaedhilic term.

Having preached for some time in the western part of the territory of Meath, the saint proceeded
as far as Magh Slecht, where the great idol of the nation, Ceann [or Crom] Cruach was solemnly
worshipped. The legend of its destruction, as given in the oldest annals, is singularly interesting.
We give a brief extract from Professor O'Curry's translation: "When Patrick saw the idol from
the water, which is named Guthard [loud voice] (i.e., he elevated his voice); and when he approached
near the idol, he raised his arm to lay the Staff of Jesus on him, and it did not reach him;
he bent back from the attempt upon his right side, for it was to the south his face was; and
the mark of the staff lies in his left side still although the staff did not leave Patrick's
hand; and the earth swallowed the other twelve idols to their heads; and they are in that condition
in commemoration of the miracle. And he called upon all the people cum rege Laeghuire; they
it was that adored the idol. And all the people saw him (i.e., the demon), and they dreaded
their dying if Patrick had not sent him to hell."[126]

After this glorious termination of Easter week, the saint made two other important converts.
He set out for Connaught; and when near Rath Cruaghan, met the daughters of King Laeghairé,
the princesses Ethnea and Fethlimia, who were coming, in patriarchal fashion, to bathe in a
neighbouring well. These ladies were under the tuition of certain druids, or magi; but they
willingly listened to the instruction of the saint, and were converted and baptized.

The interview took place at daybreak. The royal sisters heard the distant chant of the priests,
who were reciting matins as they walked along; and when they approached and beheld them in
their white garments, singing, with books in their hands, it was naturally supposed that they
were not beings of earth.

"Who are ye?" they inquired of the saint and his companions. "Are ye of the sea, the heavens,
or the earth?"

St. Patrick explained to them such of the Christian mysteries as were most necessary at the
moment, and spoke of the one only true God.

"But where," they asked, "does your God dwell? Is it in the sun or on earth, in mountains or
in valleys, in the sea or in rivers?"

Then the apostle told them of his God,--the Eternal, the Invisible,--and how He had indeed
dwelt on earth as man, but only to suffer and die for their salvation. And as the maidens listened
to his words, their hearts were kindled with heavenly love, and they inquired further what
they could do to show their gratitude to this great King. In that same hour they were baptized;
and in a short time they consecrated themselves to Him, the story of whose surpassing charity
had so moved their young hearts.

Their brother also obtained the grace of conversion; and an old Irish custom of killing a sheep
on St. Michael's Day, and distributing it amongst the poor, is said to date from a miracle
performed by St. Patrick for this royal convert.

Nor is the story of Aengus, another royal convert, less interesting. About the year 445, the
saint, after passing through Ossory, and converting a great number of people, entered the kingdom
of Munster. His destination was Cashel, from whence King Aengus, the son of Natfraech, came
forth to meet him with the utmost reverence.

This prince had already obtained some knowledge of Christianity, and demanded the grace of
holy baptism.

The saint willingly complied with his request. His courtiers assembled with royal state to
assist at the ceremony. St. Patrick carried in his hand, as usual, the Bachall Isu; at the
end of this crozier there was a sharp iron spike, by which he could plant it firmly in the
ground beside him while preaching, or exercising his episcopal functions. On this occasion,
however, he stuck it down into the king's foot, and did not perceive his mistake until--

    "The royal foot transfixed, the gushing blood
    Enrich'd the pavement with a noble flood."

The ceremony had concluded, and the prince had neither moved nor complained of the severe suffering
he had endured. When the saint expressed his deep regret for such an occurrence, Aengus merely
replied that he believed it to be a part of the ceremony, and did not appear to consider any
suffering of consequence at such a moment.[127]

When such was the spirit of the old kings of Erinn who received the faith of Christ from Patrick,
we can scarcely marvel that their descendants have adhered to it with such unexampled fidelity.

After the conversion of the princesses Ethnea and Fethlimia, the daughters of King Laeghairé,
St. Patrick traversed almost every part of Connaught, and, as our divine Lord promised to those
whom He commissioned to teach all nations, proved his mission by the exercise of miraculous
powers. Some of his early biographers have been charged with an excess of credulity on this
point. But were this the place or time for such a discussion, it might easily be shown that
miracles were to be expected when a nation was first evangelized, and that their absence should
be rather a matter of surprise than their frequency or marvellousness. He who alone could give
the commission to preach, had promised that "greater things" than He Himself did should be
done by those thus commissioned. And after all, what greater miracle could there be than that
one who had been enslaved, and harshly, if not cruelly treated, should become the deliverer
of his enslavers from spiritual bondage, and should sacrifice all earthly pleasures for their
eternal gain? Nor is the conversion of the vast multitude who listened to the preaching of
the saint, less marvellous than those events which we usually term the most supernatural.

The saint's greatest success was in the land[128] of Tirawley, near the town of Foclut, from
whence he had heard the voice of the Irish even in his native land. As he approached this district,
he learned that the seven sons of King Amalgaidh were celebrating a great festival. Their father
had but lately died, and it was said these youths exceeded all the princes of the land in martial
courage and skill in combat. St. Patrick advanced in solemn procession even into the very midst
of the assembly, and for his reward obtained the conversion of the seven princes and twelve
thousand of their followers. It is said that his life was at this period in some danger, but
that Endeus, one of the converted princes, and his son Conall, protected him.[129] After seven
years spent in Connaught, he passed into Ulster; there many received the grace of holy baptism,
especially in that district now comprised in the county Monaghan.

It was probably about this time that the saint returned to Meath, and appointed his nephew,
St. Secundinus or Sechnal, who was bishop of the place already mentioned as Domhnach Sechnail,
to preside over the northern churches during his own absence in the southern part of Ireland.

The saint then visited those parts of Leinster which had been already evangelized by Palladius,
and laid the foundation of many new churches. He placed one of his companions, Bishop Auxilius,
at Killossy, near Naas, and another, Isserninus, at Kilcullen, both in the present county of
Kildare. At Leix, in the Queen's county, he obtained a great many disciples, and from thence
he proceeded to visit his friend, the poet Dubtach, who, it will be remembered, paid him special
honour at Tara, despite the royal prohibition to the contrary. Dubtach lived in that part of
the country called Hy-Kinsallagh, now the county Carlow. It was here the poet Fiacc was first
introduced to the saint, whom he afterwards so faithfully followed. Fiacc had been a disciple
of Dubtach, and was by profession a bard, and a member of an illustrious house. He was the
first Leinster man raised to episcopal dignity. It was probably at this period that St. Patrick
visited Munster, and the touching incident already related occurred at the baptism of Aengus.
This prince was singularly devoted to religion, as indeed his conduct during the administration
of the sacrament of regeneration could not fail to indicate.

The saint's mission in Munster was eminently successful. Lonan, the chief of the district of
Ormonde, entertained him with great hospitality, and thousands embraced the faith. Many of
the inhabitants of Corca Baiscin crossed the Shannon in their hidecovered boats (curaghs) when
the saint was on the southern side, in Hy-Figeinte, and were baptized by him in the waters
of their magnificent river. At their earnest entreaty, St. Patrick ascended a hill which commanded
a view of the country of the Dalcassians, and gave his benediction to the whole territory.
This hill is called Findine in the ancient lives of the saint; but this name is now obsolete.
Local tradition and antiquarian investigation make it probable that the favoured spot is that
now called Cnoc Patrick, near Foynes Island.

The saint's next journey was in the direction of Kerry, where he prophesied that "St. Brendan,
of the race of Hua Alta, the great patriarch of monks and star of the western world, would
be born, and that his birth would take place some years after his own death."[130]

We have now to record the obituary of the only Irish martyr who suffered for the faith while
Ireland was being evangelized. While the saint was visiting Ui-Failghe, a territory now comprised
in the King's county, a pagan chieftain, named Berraidhe, formed a plan for murdering the apostle.
His wicked design came in some way to the knowledge of Odran, the saint's charioteer, who so
arranged matters as to take his master's place, and thus received the fatal blow intended for him.

The See of Armagh was founded about the year 455, towards the close of the great apostle's
life. The royal palace of Emania, in the immediate neighbourhood, was then the residence of
the kings of Ulster. A wealthy chief, by name Daire,[131] gave the saint a portion of land
for the erection of his cathedral, on an eminence called Druim-Sailech, the Hill of Sallows.
This high ground is now occupied by the city of Armagh (Ard-Macha). Religious houses for both
sexes were established near the church, and soon were filled with ardent and devoted subjects.

The saint's labours were now drawing to a close, and the time of eternal rest was at hand.
He retired to his favourite retreat at Saull, and there probably wrote his Confessio.[132]
It is said that he wished to die in the ecclesiastical metropolis of Ireland, and for this
purpose, when he felt his end approaching, desired to be conveyed thither; but even as he was
on his journey an angel appeared to him, and desired him to return to Saull. Here he breathed
his last, on Wednesday, the 17th of March, in the year of our Lord 492. The holy viaticum and
last anointing were administered to him by St. Tussach.[133]

The saint's age at the time of his death, as also the length of his mission in Ireland, has
been put at a much longer period by some authors, but modern research and correction of chronology
have all but verified the statement given above.

The intelligence of the death of St. Patrick spread rapidly through the country; prelates and
priests flocked from all parts to honour the mortal remains of their glorious father. As each
arrived at Saull, he proceeded to offer the adorable sacrifice according to his rank. At night
the plain resounded with the chanting of psalms; and the darkness was banished by the light
of such innumerable torches, that it seemed even as if day had hastened to dawn brightly on
the beloved remains. St. Fiacc, in his often-quoted Hymn, compares it to the long day caused
by the standing of the sun at the command of Joshua, when he fought against the Gabaonites.

It is said that the pagan Irish were not without some intimation of the coming of their great
apostle. Whether these prophecies were true or false is a question we cannot pretend to determine;
but their existence and undoubted antiquity demand that they should have at least a passing
notice. Might not the Gaedhilic druid, as well as the Pythian priestess, have received even
from the powers of darkness, though despite their will, an oracle[134] which prophesied truth?

There is a strange, wild old legend preserved in the Book of Leinster, which indicates that
even in ancient Erinn the awful throes of nature were felt which were manifested in so many
places, and in such various ways, during those dark hours when the Son of God hung upon the
accursed tree for the redemption of His guilty creatures.

This tale or legend is called the Aideadh Chonchobair. It is one of that class of narratives
known under the generic title of Historical Tragedies, or Deaths. The hero, Conor Mac Nessa,
was King of Ulster at the period of the Incarnation of our Lord. His succession to the throne
was rather a fortuity than the result of hereditary claim. Fergus Mac Nessa was rightfully
king at the time; but Conor's father having died while he was yet an infant, Fergus, then the
reigning monarch, proposed marriage to his mother when the youth was about fifteen, and only
obtained the consent of the celebrated beauty on the strange condition that he should hand
over the sovereignty of Ulster to her son for a year. The monarch complied, glad to secure
the object of his affections on any terms. Conor, young as he was, governed with such wisdom
and discretion as to win all hearts; and when the assigned period had arrived, the Ulster men
positively refused to permit Fergus to resume his rightful dignity. After much contention the
matter was settled definitely in favour of the young monarch, and Fergus satisfied himself
with still retaining the wife for whose sake he had willingly made such sacrifices. Conor continued
to give ample proofs of the wisdom of his people's decision. Under his government the noble
Knights of the Royal Branch sprang up in Ulster, and made themselves famous both in field and
court.

It was usual in those barbarous times, whenever a distinguished enemy was killed in battle,
to cleave open his head, and to make a ball of the brains by mixing them with lime, which was
then dried, and preserved as a trophy of the warrior's valour. Some of these balls were preserved
in the royal palace at Emania. One, that was specially prized, passed accidentally into the
hands of a famous Connaught champion, who found a treacherous opportunity of throwing it at
Conor, while he was displaying himself, according to the custom of the times, to the ladies
of an opposing army, who had followed their lords to the scene of action. The ball lodged in
the king's skull, and his physicians declared that an attempt to extract it would prove fatal.
Conor was carried home; he soon recovered, but he was strictly forbidden to use any violent
exercise, and required to avoid all excitement or anger. The king enjoyed his usual health
by observing those directions, until the very day of the Crucifixion. But the fearful phenomena
which then occurred diverted his attention, and he inquired if Bacrach, his druid, could divine
the cause.

The druid consulted his oracles, and informed the king that Jesus Christ, the Son of the living
God, was, even at that moment, suffering death at the hands of the Jews. "What crime has He
committed?" said Conor. "None," replied the druid. "Then are they slaying Him innocently?"
said Conor. "They are," replied the druid.

It was too great a sorrow for the noble prince; he could not bear that his God should die unmourned;
and rushing wildly from where he sat to a neighbouring forest, he began to hew the young trees
down, exclaiming: "Thus would I destroy those who were around my King at putting Him to death."
The excitement proved fatal; and the brave and good King Conor Mac Nessa died[135] avenging,
in his own wild pagan fashion, the death of his Creator.

The secular history of Ireland, during the mission of St. Patrick, affords but few events of
interest or importance. King Laeghairé died, according to the Four Masters, A.D. 458. The popular
opinion attributed his demise to the violation of his oath to the Leinster men. It is doubtful
whether he died a Christian, but the account of his burial[136] has been taken to prove the
contrary. It is much to be regretted that persons entirely ignorant of the Catholic faith,
whether that ignorance be wilful or invincible, should attempt to write lives of Catholic saints,
or histories of Catholic countries. Such persons, no doubt unintentionally, make the most serious
mistakes, which a well-educated Catholic child could easily rectify. We find a remarkable instance
of this in the following passage, taken from a work already mentioned: "Perhaps this [King
Laeghairé's oath] may not be considered an absolute proof of the king's paganism. To swear
by the sun and moon was apparently, no doubt, paganism. But is it not also paganism to represent
the rain and wind as taking vengeance? ... for this is the language copied by all the monastic
annalists, and even by the Four Masters, Franciscan friars, writing in the seventeenth century."
The passage is improved by a "note," in which the author mentions this as a proof that such
superstitions would not have been necessarily regarded two centuries ago as inconsistent with
orthodoxy. Now, in the first place, the Catholic Church has always[137] condemned superstition
of every kind. It is true that as there are good as well as bad Christians in her fold, there
are also superstitious as well as believing Christians; but the Church is not answerable for
the sins of her children. She is answerable for the doctrine which she teaches; and no one
can point to any place or time in which the Church taught such superstitions. Secondly, the
writers of history are obliged to relate facts as they are. The Franciscan fathers do this,
and had they not done it carefully, and with an amount of labour which few indeed have equalled,
their admirable Annals would have been utterly useless. They do mention the pagan opinion that
it was "the sun and wind that killed him [Laeghairé], because he had violated them;" but they
do not say that they believed this pagan superstition, and no one could infer it who read the
passage with ordinary candour.

It is probable that Oilioll Molt, who succeeded King Laeghairé, A.D. 459, lived and died a
pagan. He was slain, after a reign of twenty years, by Laeghairé's son, Lughaidh, who reigned
next. The good king Aengus[138] died about this time. He was the first Christian King of Munster,
and is the common ancestor of the MacCarthys, O'Sullivans, O'Keeffes, and O'Callahans. The
foundation of the kingdom of Scotland by an Irish colony, is generally referred to the year
503.[139] It has already been mentioned that Cairbré Riada was the leader of an expedition
thither in the reign of Conairé II. The Irish held their ground without assistance from the
mother country until this period, when the Picts obtained a decisive victory, and drove them
from the country. A new colony of the Dalriada now went out under the leadership of Loarn,
Aengus, and Fergus, the sons of Erc. They were encouraged and assisted in their undertaking
by their relative Mortagh, the then King of Ireland. It is said they took the celebrated Lia
Fail to Scotland, that Fergus might be crowned thereon. The present royal family of England
have their claim to the crown through the Stuarts, who were descendants of the Irish Dalriada.
Scotland now obtained the name of Scotia, from the colony of Scots. Hence, for some time, Ireland
was designated Scotia Magna, to distinguish it from the country which so obtained, and has
since preserved, the name of the old race.

Muircheartach, A.D. 504, was the first Christian King of Ireland; but he was constantly engaged
in war with the Leinster men about the most unjust Boromean tribute. He belonged to the northern
race of Hy-Nial, being descended from Nial of the Nine Hostages. On his death, the crown reverted
to the southern Hy-Nials in the person of their representative, Tuathal Maelgarbh.

It would appear from a stanza in the Four Masters, that St. Brigid had some prophetic intimation
or knowledge of one of the battles fought by Muircheartach. Her name is scarcely less famous
for miracles than that of the great apostle. Broccan's Hymn[140] contains allusions to a very
great number of these supernatural favours. Many of these marvels are of a similar nature to
those which the saints have been permitted to perform in all ages of the Church's history.

Brigid belonged to an illustrious family, who were lineally descended from Eochad, a brother
of Conn of the Hundred Battles. She was born at Fochard, near Dundalk, about the year 453,
where her parents happened to be staying at the time; but Kildare was their usual place of
residence, and there the holy virgin began her saintly career. In her sixteenth year she received
the white cloak and religious veil, which was then the distinctive garment of those who were
specially dedicated to Christ, from the hands of St. Macaille, the Bishop of Usneach, in Westmeath.
Eight young maidens of noble birth took the veil with her. Their first residence was at a place
in the King's county, still called Brigidstown. The fame of her sanctity now extended far and
wide, and she was earnestly solicited from various parts of the country to found similar establishments.
Her first mission was to Munster, at the request of Erc, the holy Bishop of Slane, who had
a singular respect for her virtue. Soon after, she founded a house of her order in the plain
of Cliach, near Limerick; but the people of Leinster at last became fearful of losing their
treasure, and sent a deputation requesting her return, and offering land for the foundation
of a large nunnery. Thus was established, in 483, the famous Monastery of Kildare, or the Church
of the Oak.

At the request of the saint, a bishop was appointed to take charge of this important work;
and under the guidance of Conlaeth, who heretofore had been a humble anchorite, it soon became
distinguished for its sanctity and usefulness. The concourse of strangers and pilgrims was
immense; and in the once solitary plain one of the largest cities of the time soon made its
appearance. It is singular and interesting to remark, how the call to a life of virginity was
felt and corresponded with in the newly Christianized country, even as it had been in the Roman
Empire, when it also received the faith. Nor is it less noticeable how the same safeguards
and episcopal rule preserved the foundations of each land in purity and peace, and have transmitted
even to our own days, in the same Church, and in it only, that privileged life.

The Four Masters give her obituary under the year 525. According to Cogitosus, one of her biographers,
her remains were interred in her own church. Some authorities assert that her relics were removed
to Down, when Kildare was ravaged by the Danes, about the year 824.

It has been doubted whether Downpatrick could lay claim to the honour of being the burial-place
of Ireland's three great saints,[141] but there are good arguments in its favour. An old prophecy
of St. Columba regarding his interment runs thus:--

    "My prosperity in guiltless Hy,
    And my soul in Derry,
    And my body under the flag
    Beneath which are Patrick and Brigid."

The relics of the three saints escaped the fury of the Danes, who burned the town and pillaged
the cathedral six or seven times, between the years 940 and 1111. In 1177, John de Courcy took
possession of the town, and founded a church attached to a house of Secular Canons, under the
invocation of the Blessed Trinity. In 1183 they were replaced by a community of Benedictine
monks, from St. Wirburgh's Abbey, at Chester. Malachy, who was then bishop, granted the church
to the English monks and prior, and changed the name to that of the Church of St. Patrick.
This prelate was extremely anxious to discover the relics of the saints, which a constant tradition
averred were there concealed. It is said, that one day, as he prayed in the church, his attention
was directed miraculously to an obscure part of it; or, according to another and more probable
account, to a particular spot in the abbey-yard, where, when the earth was removed, their remains
were found in a triple cave,--Patrick in the middle, Columba and Brigid on either side.

At the request of De Courcy, delegates were despatched to Rome by the bishop to acquaint Urban
III. of the discovery of the bodies. His Holiness immediately sent Cardinal Vivian to preside
at the translation of the relics. The ceremony took place on the 9th of June, 1186, that day
being the feast of St. Columba. The relics of the three saints were deposited in the same monument
at the right side of the high altar. The right hand of St. Patrick was enshrined and placed
on the high altar. In 1315, Edward Bruce invaded Ulster, marched to Downpatrick, destroyed
the abbey, and carried off the enshrined hand. In 1538, Lord Grey, who marched into Lecale
to establish the supremacy of his master, Henry VIII., by fire and sword, "effaced the statues
of the three patron saints, and burned the cathedral, for which act, along with many others
equally laudable, he was beheaded three years afterwards." The restoration of the old abbey-church
was undertaken of late years, and preceded by an act of desecration, which is still remembered
with horror. The church had been surrounded by a burying-ground, where many had wished to repose,
that they might, even in death, be near the relics of the three great patron saints of Erinn.
But the graves were exhumed without mercy, and many were obliged to carry away the bones of
their relatives, and deposit them where they could. The "great tomb," in which it was believed
that "Patrick, Brigid, and Columkille" had slept for more than six centuries, was not spared;
the remains were flung out into the churchyard, and only saved from further desecration by
the piety of a faithful people.

The shrine of St. Patrick's hand was in possession of the late Catholic Bishop of Belfast.
The relic itself has long disappeared; but the shrine, after it was carried off by Bruce, passed
from one trustworthy guardian to another, until it came into his hands. One of these was a
Protestant, who, with noble generosity, handed it over to a Catholic as a more fitting custodian.
One Catholic family, into whose care it passed at a later period, refused the most tempting
offers for it, though pressed by poverty, lest it should fall into the hands of those who might
value it rather as a curiosity than as an object of devotion.

This beautiful reliquary consists of a silver case in the shape of the hand and arm, cut off
a little below the elbow. It is considerably thicker than the hand and arm of an ordinary man,
as if it were intended to enclose these members without pressing upon them too closely. The
fingers are bent, so as to represent the hand in the attitude of benediction.

But there is another relic of St. Patrick and his times of scarcely less interest. The Domhnach
Airgid[142] contains a copy of the Four Gospels, which, there is every reason to believe, were
used by the great apostle of Ireland. The relic consists of two parts--the shrine or case and
the manuscript. The shrine is an oblong box, nine inches by seven, and five inches in height.
It is composed of three distinct covers, in the ages of which there is obviously a great difference.
The inner or first cover is of wood, apparently yew, and may be coeval with the manuscript
it is intended to preserve. The second, which is of copper plated with silver, is assigned
to a period between the sixth and twelfth centuries, from the style of its scroll or interlaced
ornaments. The figures in relief, and letters on the third cover, which is of silver plated
with gold, leave no doubt of its being the work of the fourteenth century.

The last or external cover is of great interest as a specimen of the skill and taste in art
of its time in Ireland, and also for the highly finished representations of ancient costume
which it preserves. The ornaments on the top consist principally of a large figure of the Saviour
in alto-relievo in the centre, and eleven figures of saints in basso-relievo on each side in
four oblong compartments. There is a small square reliquary over the head of our divine Lord,
covered with a crystal, which probably contained a piece of the holy cross. The smaller figures
in relief are, Columba, Brigid, and Patrick; those in the second compartment, the Apostles
James, Peter, and Paul; in the third, the Archangel Michael, and the Virgin and Child; in the
fourth compartment a bishop presents a cumdach, or cover, to an ecclesiastic. This, probably,
has a historical relation to the reliquary itself.

One prayer uttered by St. Patrick has been singularly fulfilled. "May my Lord grant," he exclaims,
"that I may never lose His people, which He has acquired in the ends of the earth!" From hill
and dale, from camp and cottage, from plebeian and noble, there rang out a grand "Amen." The
strain was caught by Secundinus and Benignus, by Columba and Columbanus, by Brigid and Brendan.
It floated away from Lindisfarne and Iona, to Iceland and Tarentum. It was heard on the sunny
banks of the Rhine, at Antwerp and Cologne, in Oxford, in Pavia, and in Paris. And still the
old echo is breathing its holy prayer. By the priest, who toils in cold and storm to the "station"
on the mountain side, far from his humble home. By the confessor, who spends hour after hour,
in the heat of summer and the cold of winter, absolving the penitent children of Patrick. By
the monk in his cloister. By noble and true-hearted men, faithful through centuries of persecution.
And loudly and nobly, though it be but faint to human ears, is that echo uttered also by the
aged woman who lies down by the wayside to die in the famine years,[143] because she prefers
the bread of heaven to the bread of earth, and the faith taught by Patrick to the tempter's
gold. By the emigrant, who, with broken heart bids a long farewell to the dear island home,
to the old father, to the grey-haired mother, because his adherence to his faith tends not
to further his temporal interest, and he must starve or go beyond the sea for bread. Thus ever
and ever that echo is gushing up into the ear of God, and never will it cease until it shall
have merged into the eternal alleluia which the often-martyred and ever-faithful children of
the saint shall shout with him in rapturous voice before the Eternal Throne.

FOOTNOTES:

[125] Authenticated.--A copy of this ancient hymn, with a Latin and English translation, may
be found in Petrie's Essay on Tara, p. 57, in Dr. Todd's Life of St. Patrick, and in Mr. Whitley
Stokes' Goidilica. We regret exceedingly that our limited space will not permit us to give
this and other most valuable and interesting documents. There is a remarkable coincidence of
thought and expression between some portions of this hymn and the well-known prayer of St.
Ignatius of Loyola, Corpus Christi, salve me. Such coincidences are remarkable and beautiful
evidences of the oneness of faith, which manifests itself so frequently in similarity of language
as well as in unity of belief. The Hymn of St. Patrick, written in the fifth century, is as
purely Catholic as the Prayer of St. Ignatius, written in the sixteenth. St. Patrick places
the virtue or power of the saints between him and evil, and declares his hope of merit for
his good work with the same simple trust which all the saints have manifested from the earliest
ages. This hymn is written in the Bearla Feine, or most ancient Gaedhilic dialect. Dr. O'Donovan
well observes, that it bears internal evidence of its authenticity in its allusion to pagan
customs. Tirechan, who wrote in the seventh century, says that there were four honours paid
to St. Patrick in all monasteries and churches throughout the whole of Ireland. First, the
festival of St. Patrick was honoured for three days and nights with all good cheer, except
flesh meat [which the Church did not allow then to be used in Lent]. Second, there was a proper
preface for him in the Mass. Third, his hymn was sung for the whole time. Fourth, his Scotic
hymn was sung always. As we intend publishing a metrical translation of his hymn suitable for
general use, we hope it will be "said and sung" by thousands of his own people on his festival
for all time to come.

[126] Hell.--O'Curry, p. 539. This is translated from the Tripartite Life of St. Patrick.

[127] Moment.--Keating, Vol ii. p. 15.

[128] Land.--Near the present town of Killala, co. Mayo.

[129] Protected him.--Book of Armagh and Vit. Trip.

[130] Death.--Vit. Trip. It was probably at this time St. Patrick wrote his celebrated letter
to Caroticus.

[131] Daire.--Book of Armagh, fol. 6, b.a.

[132] Confessio.--This most remarkable and interesting document will be translated and noticed
at length in the Life of St. Patrick, which we are now preparing for the press.

[133] St. Tussach.--All this Dr. Todd omits. The Four Masters enter the obituary of St. Patrick
under the year 457. It is obvious that some uncertainty must exist in the chronology of this
early period.

[134] Oracle.--It is said that, three years before St. Patrick's apostolic visit to Ireland,
the druids of King Laeghairé predicted the event to their master as an impending calamity.
The names of the druids were Lochra and Luchat Mael; their prophecy runs thus:--

"A Tailcenn will come over the raging sea, With his perforated garment, his crook-headed staff,
With his table at the east end of his house, And all his people will answer 'Amen, Amen.'"

The allusions to the priestly vestments, the altar at the east end of the church, and the pastoral
staff, are sufficiently obvious, and easily explained. The prophecy is quoted by Macutenius,
and quoted again from him by Probus; but the original is in one of the most ancient and authentic
Irish MSS., the Book of Armagh.

[135] Died.--O'Curry, p. 273.

[136] Burial.--"The body of Laeghairé was brought afterwards from the south, and interred with
his armour of championship in the south-east of the outer rampart of the royal rath of Laeghairé,
at Tara, with his face turned southwards upon the men of Leinster, as fighting with them, for
he was the enemy of the Leinster men in his lifetime."--Translated from the Leabhar na Nuidhre.
Petrie's Tara, p. 170.

[137] Always.--National customs and prejudices have always been respected by the Church: hence
she has frequently been supposed to sanction what she was obliged to tolerate. A long residence
in Devonshire, and an intimate acquaintance with its peasantry, has convinced us that there
is incalculably more superstitions believed and practised there of the grossest kind, than
in any county in Ireland. Yet we should be sorry to charge the Established Church or its clergy,
some of whom are most earnest and hard-working men, with the sins of their parishioners. The
following extract from St. Columba's magnificent Hymn, will show what the early Irish saints
thought of pagan superstitions:

"I adore not the voice of birds, Nor sneezing, nor lots in this world, Nor a boy, nor chance,
nor woman: My Druid is Christ, the Son of God; Christ, Son of Mary, the great Abbot, The Father,
the Son, and the Holy Ghost."

[138] Aengus.--

"Died the branch, the spreading tree of gold, Aenghus the laudable."

--Four Masters, p. 153. The branches of this tree have indeed spread far and wide, and the
four great families mentioned above have increased and multiplied in all parts of the world.

[139] Year 503.--The Four Masters give the date 498, which O'Donovan corrects both in the text
and in a note.

[140] Broccan's Hymn.--This Hymn was written about A.D. 510. See the translation in Mr. Whitley
Stokes' Goidilica, Calcutta, 1866. Privately printed.

[141] Saints.--St. Patrick, St. Columba, and St. Brigid. See Reeves' Ecc. Anti. of Down and
Connor, p. 225, and Giraldus Cambrensis, d. 3, cap. 18.

[142] Domhnach Airgid.--See O'Curry, MS. Materials, p. 321, for a complete verification of
the authenticity of this relic. The Tripartite Life of St. Patrick mentions the gift of this
relic by the saint to St. MacCarthainn. Dr. Petrie concludes that the copy of the Gospels contained
therein, was undoubtedly the one which was used by our apostle. We give a fac-simile of the
first page, which cannot fail to interest the antiquarian.

[143] Famine years.--During the famous, or rather infamous, Partry evictions, an old man of
eighty and a woman of seventy-four were amongst the number of those who suffered for their
ancient faith. They were driven from the home which their parents and grandfathers had occupied,
in a pitiless storm of sleet and snow. The aged woman utters some slight complaint; but her
noble-hearted aged husband consoles her with this answer: "The sufferings and death of Jesus
Christ were bitterer still." Sixty-nine souls were cast out of doors that day. Well might the
Times say: "These evictions are a hideous scandal; and the bishop should rather die than be
guilty of such a crime." Yet, who can count up all the evictions, massacres, tortures, and
punishments which this people has endured?

CHAPTER X.

[Gothic: The Religion of Ancient Erinn]--The Druids and their Teaching--The Irish were probably
Fire-worshippers--[Gothic: The Customs of Ancient Erinn]--Similarity between Eastern and Irish
Customs--Beal Fires--Hunting the Wren--"Jacks," a Grecian game--"Keen," an Eastern Custom--Superstitions--The
Meaning of the Word--What Customs are Superstitious and what are not--Holy Wells--[Gothic:
The Laws of Ancient Erinn]--Different kinds of Laws--The Lex non Scripta and the Lex Scripta--Christianity
necessitated the Revision of Ancient Codes--The Compilation of the Brehon Laws--Proofs that
St. Patrick assisted thereat--Law of Distress--Law of Succession--[Gothic: The Language of
Ancient Erinn]--Writing in pre-Christian Erinn--Ogham Writing--[Gothic: Antiquities of pre-Christian
Erinn]--Round Towers--Cromlechs--Raths--Crannoges.

Eastern customs and eastern superstitions, which undoubtedly are a strong confirmatory proof
of our eastern origin, abounded in ancient Erinn. Druidism was the religion of the Celts, and
druidism was probably one of the least corrupt forms of paganism. The purity of the divinely-taught
patriarchal worship, became more and more corrupted as it passed through defiled channels.
Yet, in all pagan mythologies, we find traces of the eternal verity in an obvious prominence
of cultus offered to one god above the rest; and obvious, though grossly misapplied, glimpses
of divine attributes, in the many deified objects which seemed to symbolize his power and his
omnipotence.

The Celtic druids probably taught the same doctrine as the Greek philosophers. The metempsychosis,
a prominent article of this creed, may have been derived from the Pythagoreans, but more probably
it was one of the many relics of patriarchal belief which were engrafted on all pagan religions.
They also taught that the universe would never be entirely destroyed, supposing that it would
be purified by fire and water from time to time. This opinion may have been derived from the
same source. The druids had a pontifex maximus, to whom they yielded entire obedience,--an
obvious imitation of the Jewish custom. The nation was entirely governed by its priests, though
after a time, when the kingly power developed itself, the priestly power gave place to the
regal. Gaul was the head-quarters of druidism; and thither we find the Britons, and even the
Romans, sending their children for instruction. Eventually, Mona became a chief centre for
Britain. The Gaedhilic druids, though probably quite as learned as their continental brethren,
were more isolated; and hence we cannot learn so much of their customs from external sources.
There is no doubt that the druids of Gaul and Britain offered human sacrifices; it appears
almost certain the Irish druids did not.

Our principal and most reliable information about this religion, is derived from Cæsar. His
account of the learning of its druids, of their knowledge of astronomy, physical science, mechanics,
arithmetic, and medicine, however highly coloured, is amply corroborated by the casual statements
of other authors.[144] He expressly states that they used the Greek character in their writings,
and mentions tables found in the camp of the Helvetii written in these characters, containing
an account of all the men capable of bearing arms.

It is probable that Irish druidical rites manifested themselves principally in Sun-worship.
The name of Bel, still retained in the Celtic Beltinne, indicates its Phoenician origin; Baal
being the name under which they adored that luminary. It is also remarkable that Grian, which
signifies the sun in Irish, resembles an epithet of Apollo given by Virgil,[145] who sometimes
styles him Grynæus. St. Patrick also confirms this conjecture, by condemning Sun-worship in
his Confession, when he says: "All those who adore it shall descend into misery and punishment."
If the well-known passage of Diodorus Siculus may be referred to Ireland, it affords another
confirmation.

Toland and Carte assume that this passage refers to the Hebrides, Rowlands applies it to the
island of Anglesea; but these conjectures are not worth regarding. We can scarcely imagine
an unprejudiced person deciding against Ireland; but where prejudice exists, no amount of proof
will satisfy. It has been suggested that the Irish pagan priests were not druids properly so
called, but magi;[147] and that the Irish word which is taken to mean druid, is only used to
denote persons specially gifted with wisdom. Druidism probably sprung from magism, which was
a purer kind of worship, though it would be difficult now to define the precise limits which
separated these forms of paganism. If the original pagan religion of ancient Erinn was magism,
introduced by its Phoenician colonizers, it is probable that it had gradually degenerated to
the comparatively grosser rites of the druid before the advent of St. Patrick. His destruction
of the idols at Magh Slecht is unquestionable evidence that idol worship[148] was then practised,
though probably in a very limited degree.

The folklore of a people is perhaps, next to their language, the best guide to their origin.
The editor of Bohn's edition of the Chronicle of Richard of Cirencester remarks, that "many
points of coincidence have been remarked in comparing the religion of the Hindoos with that
of the ancient Britons; and in the language of these two people some striking similarities
occur in those proverbs and modes of expression which are derived from national and religious
ceremonies."[149] We are not aware of any British customs or proverbs which bear upon this
subject, nor does the writer mention any in proof of his assertion: if, however, for Britons
we read Irish, his observations may be amply verified.

The kindly "God save you!" and "God bless all here!" of the Irish peasant, finds its counterpart
in the eastern "God be gracious to thee, my son!" The partiality, if not reverence, for the
number seven, is indicated in our churches. The warm-hearted hospitality of the very poorest
peasant, is a practical and never-failing illustration of the Hindoo proverb, "The tree does
not withdraw its shade even from the woodcutter."

The celebration of St. John's Eve by watchfires, is undoubtedly a remnant of paganism, still
practised in many parts of Ireland, as we can aver from personal knowledge; but the custom
of passing cattle through the fire has been long discontinued, and those who kindle the fires
have little idea of its origin, and merely continue it as an amusement. Kelly mentions, in
his Folklore, that a calf was sacrificed in Northamptonshire during the present century, in
one of these fires, to "stop the murrain." The superstitious use of fire still continues in
England and Scotland, though we believe the Beltinne on St. John's Eve is peculiar to Ireland.
The hunting of the wren[150] on St. Stephen's Day, in this country, is said, by Vallancey,
to have been originated by the first Christian missionaries, to counteract the superstitious
reverence with which this bird was regarded by the druids. Classic readers will remember the
origin of the respect paid to this bird in pagan times. The peasantry in Ireland, who have
never read either Pliny or Aristotle, are equally conversant with the legend.

The common and undignified game of "jacks" also lays claim to a noble ancestry. In Mr. St.
John's work on The Manners and Customs of Ancient Greece, he informs us that the game was a
classical one, and called pentalitha. It was played with five astragals--knuckle-bones, pebbles,
or little balls--which were thrown up into the air, and then attempted to be caught when falling
on the back of the hand. Another Irish game, "pricking the loop," in Greece is called himantiliginos,
pricking the garter. Hemestertius supposes the Gordian Knot to have been nothing but a variety
of the himantiliginos. The game consists in winding a thong in such an intricate manner, that
when a peg is inserted in the right ring, it is caught, and the game is won; if the mark is
missed, the thong unwinds without entangling the peg.

The Irish keen [caoine] may still be heard in Algeria and Upper Egypt, even as Herodotus heard
it chanted by Lybian women. This wailing for the deceased is a most ancient custom; and if
antiquity imparts dignity, it can hardly be termed barbarous. The Romans employed keeners at
their funerals, an idea which they probably borrowed from the Etruscans,[151] with many others
incomparably more valuable, but carefully self-appropriated. Our wakes also may have had an
identity of origin with the funeral feasts of the Greeks, Etruscans, and Romans, whose customs
were all probably derived from a common source.

The fasting of the creditor on the debtor is still practised in India, and will be noticed
in connexion with the Brehon Laws. There is, however, a class of customs which have obtained
the generic term of superstitions, which may not quite be omitted, and which are, for many
reasons, difficult to estimate rightly. In treating of this subject, we encounter, primâ facie,
the difficulty of giving a definition of superstition. The Irish are supposed to be pre-eminently
a superstitious people. Those who make this an accusation, understand by superstition the belief
in anything supernatural; and they consider as equally superstitious, veneration of a relic,
belief in a miracle, a story of a banshee, or a legend of Finn Mac Cumhaill. Probably, if the
Celts did not venerate relics, and believe in the possibility of miracles, we should hear far
less of their superstitions. Superstition of the grossest kind is prevalent among the lower
orders in every part of England, and yet the nation prides itself on its rejection of this
weakness. But according to another acceptation of the term, only such heathen customs as refer
to the worship of false gods, are superstitions. These customs remain, unfortunately, in many
countries, but in some they have been Christianized. Those who use the term superstition generically,
still call the custom superstitious, from a latent and, perhaps, in some cases, unconscious
impression that there is no supernatural. Such persons commence with denying all miraculous
interventions except those which are recorded in holy Scripture; and unhappily, in some cases,
end by denying the miracles of Scripture.

To salute a person who sneezed with some form of benediction, was a pagan custom. It is said
to have originated through an opinion of the danger attending it; and the exclamation used
was: "Jupiter help me!" In Ireland, the pagan custom still remains, but it has been Christianized,
and "God bless you!" is substituted for the pagan form. Yet we have known persons who considered
the use of this aspiration superstitious, and are pleased to assert that the Irish use the
exclamation as a protection against evil spirits, meaning thereby fairies. When a motive is
persistently attributed which does not exist, argument is useless.

Devotion to certain places, pilgrimages, even fasting and other bodily macerations, were pagan
customs. These, also, have been Christianized. Buildings once consecrated to the worship of
pagan gods, are now used as Christian temples: what should we think of the person who should
assert that because pagan gods were once adored in these churches, therefore the worship now
offered in them was offered to pagan deities? The temples, lite the customs, are Christianized.

The author of a very interesting article in the Ulster Archæological Journal (vol. ix. p. 256),
brings forward a number of Irish customs for which he finds counterparts in India. But he forgets
that in Ireland the customs are Christianized, while in India, they remain pagan; and like
most persons who consider the Irish pre-eminently superstitious, he appears ignorant of the
teaching of that Church which Christianized the world. The special "superstition" of this article
is the devotion to holy wells. The custom still exists in Hindostan; people flock to them for
cure of their diseases, and leave "rags" on the bushes as "scapegoats," ex votos, so to say,
of cures, or prayers for cures. In India, the prayer is made to a heathen deity; in Ireland,
the people happen to believe that God hears the prayers of saints more readily than their own;
and acting on the principle which induced persons, in apostolic times, to use "handkerchiefs
and aprons" which had touched the person of St. Paul as mediums of cure, because of his virgin
sanctity, in preference to "handkerchiefs and aprons" of their own, they apply to the saints
and obtain cures. But they do not believe the saints can give what God refuses, or that the
saints are more merciful than God. They know that the saints are His special friends, and we
give to a friend what we might refuse to one less dear. Lege totum, si vis scire totum, is
a motto which writers on national customs should not forget.

Customs were probably the origin of laws. Law, in its most comprehensive sense, signifies a
rule of action laid down[152] by a superior. Divine law is manifested (1) by the law of nature,
and (2) by revelation. The law of nations is an arbitrary arrangement, founded on the law of
nature and the law of revelation: its perfection depends obviously on its correspondence with
the divine law. Hence, by common consent, the greatest praise is given to those laws of ancient
nations which approximate most closely to the law of nature, though when such laws came to
be revised by those who had received the law of revelation, they were necessarily amended or
altered in conformity therewith. No government can exist without law; but as hereditary succession
preceded the law of hereditary succession, which was at first established by custom, so the
lex non scripta, or national custom, preceded the lex scripta, or statute law. The intellectual
condition of a nation may be well and safely estimated by its laws. A code of laws that were
observed for centuries before the Christian era, and for centuries after the Christian era,
and which can bear the most critical tests of forensic acumen in the nineteenth century, evidence
that the framers of the code were possessed of no slight degree of mental culture. Such are
the Brehon laws, by which pagan and Christian Erinn was governed for centuries.

The sixth century was a marked period of legal reform. The Emperor Justinian, by closing the
schools of Athens, gave a deathblow to Grecian philosophy and jurisprudence. But Grecian influence
had already acted on the formation of Roman law, and probably much of the Athenian code was
embodied therein. The origin of Roman law is involved in the same obscurity as the origin of
the Brehon code. In both cases, the mist of ages lies like a light, but impenetrable veil,
over all that could give certainty to conjecture. Before the era of the Twelve Tables, mention
is made of laws enacted by Romulus respecting what we should now call civil liabilities. Laws
concerning religion are ascribed to Numa, and laws of contract to Servius Tullius, who is supposed
to have collected the regulations made by his predecessors. The Twelve Tables were notably
formed on the legal enactments of Greece. The cruel severity of the law for insolvent debtors,
forms a marked contrast to the milder and more equitable arrangements of the Brehon code. By
the Roman enactments, the person of the debtor was at the mercy of his creditor, who might
sell him for a slave beyond the Tiber. The Celt allowed only the seizure of goods, and even
this was under regulations most favourable to the debtor. The legal establishment of Christianity
by Constantine, or we should rather say the existence of Christianity, necessitated a complete
revision of all ancient laws: hence we find the compilation of the Theodosian code almost synchronizing
with the revision of the Brehon laws. The spread of Christianity, and the new modes of thought
and action which obtained thereby, necessitated the reconstruction of ancient jurisprudence
in lands as widely distant geographically, and as entirely separated politically, as Italy
and Ireland.

Those who have studied the subject most carefully, and who are therefore most competent to
give an opinion, accept the popular account of the revision of our laws.

The Four Masters thus record this important event:--"The age of Christ 438. The tenth year
of Laeghairé. The Feinchus of Ireland were purified and written, the writings and old works
of Ireland having been collected [and brought] to one place at the request of St. Patrick.
Those were the nine supporting props by whom this was done: Laeghairé, i.e., King of Ireland,
Corc, and Daire, the three kings; Patrick, Benen, and Cairneach, the three saints; Ross, Dubhthach,
and Fearghus, the three antiquaries." Dr. O'Donovan, in his note, shelters himself under an
extract from Petrie's Tara; but it is to be supposed that he coincides in the opinion of that
gentleman. Dr. Petrie thinks that "little doubt can be entertained that such a work was compiled
within a short period after the introduction of Christianity in the country, and that St. Patrick
may have laid the foundations of it;"[153] though he gives no satisfactory reason why that
saint should not have assisted at the compilation, and why the statements of our annalists
should be refused on this subject, when they are accepted on others. A list of the "family"
[household] of Patrick is given immediately after, which Dr. O'Donovan has taken great pains
to verify, and with which he appears satisfied. If the one statement is true, why should the
other be false? Mr. O'Curry, whose opinion on such subjects is admittedly worthy of the highest
consideration, expresses himself strongly in favour of receiving the statements of our annalists,
and thinks that both Dr. Petrie and Dr. Lanigan are mistaken in supposing that the compilation
was not effected by those to whom it has been attributed. As to the antiquity of these laws,
he observes that Cormac Mac Cullinan quotes passages from them in his Glossary, which was written
not later than the ninth century, and then the language of the Seanchus[154] Mor was so ancient
that it had become obsolete. To these laws, he well observes, the language of Moore, on the
MSS. in the Royal Irish Academy, may be applied: "They were not written by a foolish people,
nor for any foolish purpose;" and these were the "laws and institutions which regulated the
political and social system of a people the most remarkable in Europe, from a period almost
lost in the dark mazes of antiquity, down to about within two hundred years of our own time,
and whose spirit and traditions influence the feelings and actions of the native Irish even
to this day."[155]

But we can adduce further testimony. The able editor and translator of the Seanchus Mor, which
forms so important a portion of our ancient code, has, in his admirable Preface, fully removed
all doubt on this question. He shows the groundlessness of the objections (principally chronological)
which had been made regarding those who are asserted to have been its compilers. He also makes
it evident that it was a work in which St. Patrick should have been expected to engage: (1)
because, being a Roman citizen, and one who had travelled much, he was probably well aware
of the Christian modifications which had already been introduced into the Roman code. (2) That
he was eminently a judicious missionary, and such a revision of national laws would obviously
be no slight support to the advancement of national Christianity. It is also remarked, that
St. Patrick may not necessarily have assisted personally in writing the MS.; his confirmation
of what was compiled by others would be sufficient. St. Benignus, who is known to be the author
of other works,[156] probably acted as his amanuensis.

The subject-matter of the portions of the Seanchus Mor which have been translated, is the law
of distress. Two points are noticeable in this: First, the careful and accurate administration
of justice which is indicated by the details of these legal enactments; second, the custom
therein sanctioned of the creditor fasting upon the debtor, a custom which still exists in
Hindostan. Hence, in some cases, the creditor fasts on the debtor until he is compelled to
pay his debt, lest his creditor should die at the door; in other cases, the creditor not only
fasts himself, but also compels his debtor to fast, by stopping his supplies. Elphinstone describes
this as used even against princes, and especially by troops to procure payment of arrears.[157]

One of the most noticeable peculiarities of the Brehon law is the compensation for murder,
called eric. This, however, was common to other nations. Its origin is ascribed to the Germans,
but the institution was probably far more ancient. We find it forbidden[158] in the oldest
code of laws in existence; and hence the eric must have been in being at an early period of
the world's civil history.

The law of succession, called tanaisteacht, or tanistry, is one of the most peculiar of the
Brehon laws. The eldest son succeeded the father to the exclusion of all collateral claimants,
unless he was disqualified by deformity, imbecility, or crime. In after ages, by a compact
between parents or mutual agreement, the succession was sometimes made alternate in two or
more families. The eldest son, being recognized as presumptive heir, was denominated tanaiste,
that is, minor or second; while the other sons, or persons eligible in case of failure, were
termed righdhamhua, which literally means king-material, or king-makings. The tanaiste had
a separate establishment and distinct privileges. The primitive intention was, that the "best
man" should reign; but practically it ended in might being taken for right, and often for less
important qualifications.

The possession and inheritance of landed property was regulated by the law called gavelkind
(gavail-kinne), an ancient Celtic institution, but common to Britons, Anglo-Saxons, and others.
By this law, inherited or other property was divided equally between the sons, to the exclusion
of the daughters (unless, indeed, in default of heirs male, when females were permitted a life
interest). The tanaiste, however, was allotted the dwelling-house and other privileges.

The tenure of land was a tribe or family right; and, indeed, the whole system of government
and legislation was far more patriarchal than Teutonic--another indication of an eastern origin.
All the members of a tribe or family had an equal right to their proportionate share of the
land occupied by the whole. This system created a mutual independence and self-consciousness
of personal right and importance, strongly at variance with the subjugation of the Germanic
and Anglo-Norman vassal.

The compilation of the Brehon laws originated in a question that arose as to how the murderer
of Odran, Patrick's charioteer, should be punished. The saint was allowed to select whatever
Brehon he pleased to give judgment. He chose Dubhthach; and the result of his decision was
the compilation of these laws, as it was at once seen that a purely pagan code would not suit
Christian teaching.

The Celtic language is now admittedly one of the most ancient in existence. Its affinity with
Sanscrit, the eldest daughter of the undiscoverable mother-tongue, has been amply proved,[159]
and the study of the once utterly despised Irish promises to be one which will abundantly repay
the philologist. It is to be regretted that we are indebted to German students for the verification
of these statements; but the Germans are manifestly born philologists, and they have opportunities
of leisure, and encouragement for the prosecution of such studies, denied to the poorer Celt.
It is probable that Celtic will yet be found to have been one of the most important of the
Indo-European tongues. Its influence on the formation of the Romance languages has yet to be
studied in the light of our continually increasing knowledge of its more ancient forms; and
perhaps the conjectures of Betham will, by the close of this century, receive as much respect
as the once equally ridiculed history of Keating.

It is almost impossible to doubt that the Irish nation had letters and some form of writing
before the arrival of St. Patrick. There are so many references to the existence of writings
in the most ancient MSS., that it appears more rash to deny their statements than to accept them.

The three principal arguments against a pre-Christian alphabet appears to be: (1) The absence
of any MS. of such writing. (2) The use of the Roman character in all MSS. extant. (3) The
universal opinion, scarcely yet exploded, that the Irish Celts were barbarians. In reply to
the first objection, we may observe that St. Patrick is said to have destroyed all the remnants
of pagan writing.[160] Cæsar mentions that the druids of Gaul used Greek characters. It appears
impossible that the Irish druids, who were at least their equals in culture, should have been
destitute of any kind of written character. The ancient form of Welsh letters were somewhat
similar to the runes of which we give a specimen, and this alphabet was called the "alphabet
of the bards," in contradistinction to which is placed the "alphabet of the monks," or Roman
alphabet. The alphabet of the Irish bard may have been the Beith-luis-nion, represented by
the Ogham character, of which more hereafter.

The difficulty arising from the fact of St. Patrick's having given abgitorium, or alphabets,
to his converts, appears to us purely chimerical. Latin was from the first the language of
the Church, and being such, whether the Irish converts had or had not a form of writing, one
of the earliest duties of a Christian missionary was to teach those preparing for the priesthood
the language in which they were to administer the sacraments. The alphabet given by the saint
was simply the common Roman letter then in use. The Celtic characteristic veneration for antiquity
and religion, has still preserved it; and strange to say, the Irish of the nineteenth century
alone use the letters which were common to the entire Roman Empire in the fifth. The early
influence of ecclesiastical authority, and the circumstance that the priests of the Catholic
Church were at once the instructors in and the preservers of letters, will account for the
immediate disuse of whatever alphabet the druids may have had. The third objection is a mere
argumentum ad ignorantiam.

It is to be regretted that the subject of Ogham writing has not been taken up by a careful
and competent hand.[161] There are few people who have not found out some method of recording
their history, and there are few subjects of deeper interest than the study of the efforts
of the human mind to perpetuate itself in written characters. The Easterns had their cuneiform
or arrow-headed symbols, and the Western world has even yet its quipus, and tells its history
by the number of its knots.

The peasant girl still knots her handkerchief as her memoria technica, and the lady changes
her ring from its accustomed finger. Each practice is quite as primitive an effort of nature
as the Ogham of the Celtic bard. He used a stone pillar or a wooden stick for his notches,--a
more permanent record than the knot or the Indian quipus.[162] The use of a stick as a vehicle
for recording ideas by conventional marks, appears very ancient; and this in itself forms a
good argument for the antiquity of Ogham writing. Mr. O'Curry has given it expressly as his
opinion, "that the pre-Christian Gaedhils possessed and practised a system of writing and keeping
records quite different from and independent of the Greek and Roman form and characters, which
gained currency in the country after the introduction of Christianity." He then gives in evidence
passages from our ancient writings which are preserved, in which the use of the Ogham character
is distinctly mentioned. One instance is the relation in the Táin bó Chuailgné of directions
having been left on wands or hoops written in Ogham by Cuchulainn for Méav. When these were
found, they were read for her by Fergus, who understood the character. We have not space for
further details, but Professor O'Curry devotes some pages to the subject, where fuller information
may be found. In conclusion, he expresses an opinion that the original copies of the ancient
books, such as the Cuilmenn and the Saltair of Tara, were not written in Ogham. He supposes
that the druids or poets, who, it is well known, constantly travelled for educational purposes,
brought home an alphabet, probably the Roman then in use. "It is, at all events, quite certain
that the Irish druids had written books before the coming of St. Patrick, in 432; since we
find the statement in the Tripartite Life of the saint, as well as in the Annotations of Tirechan,
preserved in the Book of Armagh, which were taken by him from the lips and books of his tutor,
St. Mochta, who was the pupil and disciple of St. Patrick himself."

We give two illustrations of Ogham writing. The pillar-stone is from the collection of the
Royal Irish Academy. It is about four and a-half feet high, and averages eleven inches across.
It was found, with three others similarly inscribed, built into the walls of a dwelling-house
in the county Kerry, to which it is believed they had been removed from the interior of a neighbouring
rath. The bilingual Ogham was found at St. Dogmael's, near Cardiganshire. The Ogham alphabet
is called beithluisnion, from the name of its two first letters, beith, which signifies a birch-tree,
and luis, the mountain-ash. If this kind of writing had been introduced in Christian times,
it is quite unlikely that such names would have been chosen. They are manifestly referable
to a time when a tree had some significance beyond the useful or the ornamental. It has been
supposed that the names of the letters were given to the trees, and not the names of the trees
to the letters. It is at least certain that the names of the trees and the letters coincide,
and that the trees are all indigenous to Ireland. The names of the letters in the Hebrew alphabet
are also significant, but appear to be chosen indiscriminately, while there is a manifest and
evidently arbitrary selection in the Celtic appellations. The number of letters also indicate
antiquity. The ancient Irish alphabet had but sixteen characters, thus numerically corresponding
with the alphabet brought into Greece by Cadmus. This number was gradually increased with the
introduction of the Roman form, and the arrangement was also altered to harmonize with it.
The Ogham alphabet consists of lines, which represent letters. They are arranged in an arbitrary
manner to the right or left of a stemline, or on the edge of the material on which they are
traced. Even the names of those letters, fleasg (a tree), seem an indication of their origin.
A cross has been found, sculptured more or less rudely, upon many of these ancient monuments;
and this has been supposed by some antiquarians to indicate their Christian origin. Doubtless
the practice of erecting pillar-stones, and writing Oghams thereon, was continued after the
introduction of Christianity; but this by no means indicates their origin. Like many other
pagan monuments, they may have been consecrated by having the sign of the cross engraven on
them hundreds of years after their erection.

During the few months which have elapsed between the appearance of the first edition and the
preparation of the second edition, my attention has been called to this portion of the history
by four or five eminent members of the Royal Irish Academy, who express their regret that I
should appear to have adopted, or at least favoured, Mr. D'Alton's view of the Christian origin
of the round towers. I cannot but feel gratified at the interest which they manifested, and
not less so at their kind anxiety that my own views should accord with those of the majority.
I am quite aware that my opinion on such a subject could have little weight. To form a decided
opinion on this subject, would require many years' study; but when one of these gentlemen,
the Earl of Dunraven, distinguished for his devotion to archæology, writes to me that both
Irish, English, and Continental scholars are all but unanimous in ascribing a Christian origin
to these remarkable buildings, I cannot but feel that I am bound to accept this opinion, thus
supported by an overwhelming weight of authority. It may, however, be interesting to some persons
to retain an account of the opposing theories, and for this reason I still insert page 115
of the original edition, only making such modifications as my change of opinion make necessary.

The theories which have been advanced on this subject may be classified under seven heads--

(1) That the Phoenicians erected them for fire temples.

(2) That the Christians built them for bell towers.

(3) That the Magians used them for astronomical purposes.

(4) That they were for Christian anchorites to shut themselves up in.

(5) That they were penitentiaries.

(6) That the Druids used them to proclaim their festivals.

(7) That the Christians used them to keep their church plate and treasures.

Contradictory as these statements appear, they may easily be ranged into two separate theories
of pagan or Christian origin. Dr. Petrie has been the great supporter of the latter opinion,
now almost generally received. He founds his opinion: (1) On the assumption that the Irish
did not know the use of lime mortar before the time of St. Patrick. For this assumption, however,
he gives no evidence. (2) On the presence of certain Christian emblems on some of these towers,
notably at Donaghmore and Antrim. But the presence of Christian emblems, like the cross on
the Ogham stones, may merely indicate that Christians wished to consecrate them to Christian
use. (3) On the assumption that they were used as keeps or monastic castles, in which church
plate was concealed, or wherein the clergy could shelter themselves from the fury of Danes,
or other invaders. But it is obvious that towers would have been built in a different fashion
had such been the object of those who erected them. The late Mr. D'Alton has been the most
moderate and judicious advocate of their pagan origin. He rests his theory (1) on certain statements
in our annals, which, if true, must at once decide the dispute. The Annals of Ulster mention
the destruction of fifty-seven of them in consequence of a severe earthquake, A.D. 448. He
adduces the testimony of Giraldus Cambrensis, who confirms the account of the origin of Lough
Neagh by an inundation, A.D. 65, and adds: "It is no improbable testimony to this event, that
the fishermen beheld the religious towers (turres ecclesiasticas), which, according to the
custom of the country, are narrow, lofty, and round, immersed under the waters; and they frequently
show them to strangers passing over them, and wondering at their purposes" (reique causas admirantibus).
This is all the better evidence of their then acknowledged antiquity, because the subject of
the writer was the formation of the lough, and not the origin of the towers. Mr. D'Alton's
(2) second argument is, that it was improbable the Christians would have erected churches of
wood and bell towers of stone, or have bestowed incomparably more care and skill on the erection
of these towers, no matter for what use they may have been intended, than on the churches,
which should surely be their first care.[163]

The cromlechs next claim our notice. There has been no question of their pagan origin; and,
indeed, this method of honouring or interring the dead, seems an almost universal custom of
ancient peoples.[164] Cremation does not appear to have been the rule as to the mode of interment
in ancient Erinn, as many remains of skeletons have been found; and even those antiquarians
who are pleased entirely to deny the truth of the historical accounts of our early annalists,
accept their statements as to customs of the most ancient date. When the dead were interred
without cremation, the body was placed either in a horizontal, sitting, or recumbent posture.
When the remains were burned, a fictile vessel was used to contain the ashes. These urns are
of various forms and sizes. The style of decoration also differs widely, some being but rudely
ornamented, while others bear indications of artistic skill which could not have been exercised
by a rude or uncultivated people.

We give a full-page illustration of an urn and its contents, at present in the collection of
the Royal Irish Academy. This urn was found in a tumulus, which was opened in the Phoenix Park,
near Dublin, in the year 1838. The tumulus was about 120 feet in diameter at the base, and
fifteen feet high. Four sepulchral vases, containing burnt ashes, were found within the tomb.
It also enclosed two perfect male skeletons, the tops of the femora of another, and a bone
of some animal. A number of shells[165] were found under the head of each skeleton, of the
kind known to conchologists as the Nerita littoralis. The urn which we have figured is the
largest and most perfect, and manifestly the earliest of the set. It is six inches high, rudely
carved, yet not without some attempt at ornament. The bone pin was probably used for the hair,
and the shells are obviously strung for a necklace. We give above a specimen of the highest
class of cinerary urns. It stands unrivalled, both in design and execution, among all the specimens
found in the British isles. This valuable remain was discovered in the cutting of a railway,
in a small stone chamber, at Knockneconra, near Bagnalstown, county Carlow. Burned bones of
an infant, or very young child, were found in it, and it was inclosed in a much larger and
ruder urn, containing the bones of an adult.

Possibly, suggests Sir W. Wilde, they may have been the remains of mother and child.[166]

The collection of antiquities in the Royal Irish Academy, furnishes abundant evidence that
the pagan Irish were well skilled in the higher arts of working in metals. If the arbitrary
division of the ages of stone, bronze, and iron, can be made to hold good, we must either suppose
that the Irish Celt was possessed of extraordinary mental powers, by which he developed the
mechanical arts gradually, or that, with successive immigrations, he obtained an increase of
knowledge from exterior sources. The bardic annals indicate the latter theory. We have already
given several illustrations of the ruder weapons. The illustration appended here may give some
idea of the skill obtained by our pagan ancestors in working gold. This ornament, which is
quite complete, though fractured in two places, stands 11-1/2 inches high. It weighs 16 oz.
10 dwts. 13 grs. The gold of which it is formed is very red. It was procured with the Sirr
Collection, and is said to have been found in the county Clare.[167] Our readers are indebted
to the kindness of the Council of the Royal Irish Academy, for the permission to depict these
and the other rare articles from the collection which are inserted in our pages.

The amount of gold ornaments which have been found in Ireland at various times, has occasioned
much conjecture as to whether the material was found in Ireland or imported. It is probable
that auriferous veins existed, which were worked out, or that some may even now exist which
are at present unknown. The discovery of gold ornaments is one of the many remarkable confirmations
of the glowing accounts given by our bardic annalists of Erinn's ancient glories. O'Hartigan
thus describes the wealth and splendour of the plate possessed by the ancient monarchs who
held court at Tara:--

    "Three hundred cupbearers distributed
    Three times fifty choice goblets
    Before each party of great numbers,
    Which were of pure strong carbuncle,[168]
    Or gold or of silver all."

Dr. Petrie observes that this statement is amply verified by the magnificent gold ornaments,
found within a few yards of this very spot, now in the possession of the Royal Irish Academy.
We shall see, at a later period, when the cursing of Tara will demand a special notice of its
ancient glories, how amply the same writer has vindicated the veracity of Celtic annalists
on this ground also.

A remarkable resemblance has been noticed between the pagan military architecture of Ireland,
and the early Pelasgian monuments in Greece. They consist of enclosures, generally circular,
of massive clay walls, built of small loose stones, from six to sixteen feet thick. These forts
or fortresses are usually entered by a narrow doorway, wider at the bottom than at the top,
and are of Cyclopean architecture. Indeed, some of the remains in Ireland can only be compared
to the pyramids of Egypt, so massive are the blocks of stone used in their construction. As
this stone is frequently of a kind not to be found in the immediate neighbourhood, the means
used for their transportation are as much a matter of surprise and conjecture, as those by
which they were placed in the position in which they are found. The most remarkable of these
forts may still be seen in the Isles of Arran, on the west coast of Galway; there are others
in Donegal, Mayo, and in Kerry. Some of these erections have chambers in their massive walls,
and in others stairs are found round the interior of the wall; these lead to narrow platforms,
varying from eight to forty-three feet in length, on which the warriors or defenders stood.
The fort of Dunmohr, in the middle island of Arran, is supposed to be at least 2,000 years
old. Besides these forts, there was the private house, a stone habitation, called a clochann,
in which an individual or family resided; the large circular dome-roofed buildings, in which
probably a community lived; and the rath, intrenched and stockaded.

But stone was not the only material used for places of defence or domestic dwellings; the most
curious and interesting of ancient Irish habitations is the crannoge, a name whose precise
etymology is uncertain, though there is little doubt that it refers in some way to the peculiar
nature of the structure.

The crannoges were formed on small islets or shallows of clay or marl in the centre of a lake,
which were probably dry in summer, but submerged in winter. These little islands, or mounds,
were used as a foundation for this singular habitation. Piles of wood, or heaps of stone and
bones driven into or heaped on the soil, formed the support of the crannoge. They were used
as places of retreat or concealment, and are usually found near the ruins of such old forts
or castles as are in the vicinity of lakes or marshes. Sometimes they are connected with the
mainland by a causeway, but usually there is no appearance of any; and a small canoe has been,
with but very few exceptions, discovered in or near each crannoge.

Since the investigation of these erections in Ireland, others have been discovered in the Swiss
lakes of a similar kind, and containing, or rather formed on, the same extraordinary amount
of bones heaped up between the wooden piles.

The peculiar objects called celts, and the weapons and domestic utensils of this or an earlier
period, are a subject of scarcely less interest. The use of the celt has fairly perplexed all
antiquarian research. Its name is derived not, as might be supposed, from the nation to whom
this distinctive appellation was given, but from the Latin word celtis, a chisel. It is not
known whether these celts, or the round, flat, sharp-edged chisels, were called Lia Miledh,
"warriors' stones." In the record of the battle of the Ford of Comar, Westmeath, the use of
this instrument is thus described:--

"There came not a man of Lohar's people without a broad green spear, nor without a dazzling
shield, nor without a Liagh-lamha-laich (a champion's hand stone), stowed away in the hollow
cavity of his shield.... And Lohar carried his stone like each of his men; and seeing the monarch
his father standing in the ford with Ceat, son of Magach, at one side, and Connall Cearnach
at the other, to guard him, he grasped his battle-stone quickly and dexterously, and threw
it with all his strength, and with unerring aim, at the king his father; and the massive stone
passed with a swift rotatory motion towards the king, and despite the efforts of his two brave
guardians, it struck him on the breast, and laid him prostrate in the ford. The king, however,
recovered from the shock, arose, and placing his foot upon the formidable stone, pressed it
into the earth, where it remains to this day, with a third part of it over ground, and the
print of the king's foot visible upon it."

Flint proper, or chalk flint, is found but in few places in Ireland; these are principally
in the counties of Antrim, Down, and Derry. In the absence of a knowledge of the harder metals,
flint and such-like substances were invaluable as the only material that could be fashioned
into weapons of defence, and used to shape such rude clothing as was then employed. The scarcity
of flint must have rendered these weapons of great value in other districts. Splitting, chipping,
and polishing, and this with tools as rude as the material worked on, were the only means of
manufacturing such articles; and yet such was the perfection, and, if the expression be applicable,
the amount of artistic skill attained, that it seems probable flint-chipping was a special
trade, and doubtless a profitable one to those engaged in it.

When flints were used as arrows, either in battle or in the chase, a bow was easily manufactured
from the oak and birch trees with which the island was thickly wooded. It was bent by a leathern
thong, or the twisted intestine of some animal. The handles of the lance or javelin--formidable
weapons, if we may judge from the specimens in the Museum of the Royal Irish Academy--were
also formed of wood; but these have perished in the lapse of ages, and left only the strangely
and skilfully formed implement of destruction.

Among primitive nations, the tool and the weapon differed but little. The hatchet which served
to fell the tree, was as readily used to cleave open the head of an enemy. The knife, whether
of stone or hard wood, carved the hunter's prey, or gave a deathstroke to his enemy. Such weapons
or implements have, however, frequently been found with metal articles, under circumstances
which leave little doubt that the use of the former was continued long after the discovery
of the superior value of the latter. Probably, even while the Tuatha De Danann artificers were
framing their more refined weapons for the use of nobles and knights, the rude fashioner of
flint-arrows and spear-heads still continued to exercise the craft he had learned from his
forefathers, for the benefit of poorer or less fastidious warriors.

FOOTNOTES:

[144] Authors.--Strabo, l. iv. p. 197; Suetonius, V. Cla.; Pliny, Hist. Nat. l. xxv. c. 9.
Pliny mentions having seen the serpent's egg, and describes it.

[145] Virgil.--Ec.. 6, v. 73.

[146] Year.--Dio. Sic. tom. i. p. 158.

[147] Magi.--Magi is always used in Latin as the equivalent for the Irish word which signifies
druid. See the Vitæ S. Columbæ, p. 73; see also Reeves' note to this word.

[148] Worship.--In the Chronicle of Richard of Cirencester, ch. 4, certain Roman deities are
mentioned as worshipped by the British druids; but it is probable the account is merely borrowed
from Cæsar's description of the Gauls.

[149] Ceremonies.--Bohn's edition, p. 431.

[150] Wren.--In Scotland the wren is an object of reverence: hence the rhyme--

"Malisons, malisons, more than ten, That harry the Ladye of Heaven's hen."

But it is probable the idea and the verse were originally imported from France, where the bird
is treated with special respect. There is a very interesting paper in the Ulster Archæological
Journal, vol. vii. p. 334, on the remarkable correspondence of Irish, Greek, and Oriental legends,
where the tale of Labhradh Loinseach is compared with that of Midas. Both had asses' ears,
and both were victims to the loquacious propensities of their barbers.

[151] Etruscans.--See Cities and Cemeteries of Etruria, vol i p. 295, where the bas-reliefs
are described which represent the præficæ, or hired mourners, wailing over the corpse.

[152] Laid down.--Law, Saxon, lagu, lah; from lecgan==Goth. lagjan, to lay, to place; Gael.
lagh, a law; leag, to lie down; Latin, lex, from Gr. lego, to lay.

[153] It.--Four Masters, vol. i p. 133. The Seanchus Mor was sometimes called Cain Phadruig,
or Patrick's Law.

[154] Seanchus.--From the old Celtic root sen, old, which has direct cognates, not merely in
the Indo-European, but also in the Semitic; Arabic, sen, old, ancient--sunnah, institution,
regulation; Persian, san, law, right; sanna, Phoenicibus idem fuit quod Arabibus summa, lex,
doctrina jux canonicum.--Bochart, Geo. Sæ. 1. ii. c. 17. See Petrie's Tara, p. 79.

[155] Day.--O'Curry, page 201.

[156] Works.--He appears to have been the author of the original Book of Rights, and "commenced
and composed the Psalter of Caiseal, in which are described the acts, laws," &c.--See Preface
to Seanchus Mor, p. 17.

[157] Arrears.--Elphinstone's India, vol. i. p. 372.

[158] Forbidden.--"You shall not take money of him that is guilty of blood, but he shall die
forthwith."--Numbers, xxxv. 31.

[159] Proved.--See Pictet's Origines Indo-Européennes. He mentions his surprise at finding
a genuine Sanscrit word in Irish, which, like a geological boulder, had been transported from
one extremity of the Aryan world to the other. Pictet considers that the first wave of Aryan
emigration occurred 3,000 years before the Christian Era.

[160] Writing.--"Finally, Dudley Firbisse, hereditary professor of the antiquities of his country,
mentions in a letter [to me] a fact collected from the monuments of his ancestors, that one
hundred and eighty tracts [tractatus] of the doctrine of the druids or magi, were condemned
to the flames in the time of St. Patrick."--Ogygia, iii. 30, p. 219. A writer in the Ulster
Arch. Journal mentions a "Cosmography," printed at "Lipsiæ, 1854." It appears to be a Latin
version or epitome of a Greek work. The writer of this Cosmography was born in 103. He mentions
having "examined the volumes" of the Irish, whom he visited. If this authority is reliable,
it would at once settle the question.--See Ulster Arch. Journal, vol. ii. p. 281.

[161] Hand.--A work on this subject has long been promised by Dr. Graves, and is anxiously
expected by paleographists. We regret to learn that there is no immediate prospect of its publication.

[162] Quipus.--Quipus signifies a knot. The cords were of different colours. Yellow denoted
gold and all the allied ideas; white, silver, or peace; red, war, or soldiers. Each quipus
was in the care of a quiper-carnayoe, or keeper. Acorta mentions that he saw a woman with a
handful of these strings, which she said contained a confession of her life. See Wilson's Pre-Historic
Man for most interesting details on the subject of symbolic characters and early writing.

[163] Care.--Annals of Boyle, vol. ii. p. 22. Essay, p. 82.

[164] Peoples.--See Cities and Cemeteries of Etruria, vol. ii. p. 314, where the writer describes
tombs sunk beneath a tumulus, about twenty-five or thirty feet in diameter, and also tombs
exactly resembling the Irish cromlech, the covering slab of enormous size, being inclined "apparently
to carry off the rain." In his account of the geographical sites of these remains, he precisely,
though most unconsciously, marks out the line of route which has been assigned by Irish annalists
as that which led our early colonizers to Ireland. He says they are found in the presidency
of Madras, among the mountains of the Caucasus, on the steppes of Tartary, in northern Africa,
"on the shores of the Mediterranean they are particularly abundant," and in Spain.

[165] Shells.--Cat. Ant. R.I.A.; Stone Mat. p. 180. The ethnographic phases of conchology might
form a study in itself. Shells appear to be the earliest form of ornament in use. The North
American Indians have their shell necklaces buried with them also. See Wilson's Pre-Historic Man.

[166] Child.--Mr. Wilson gives a most interesting description of an interment of a mother and
child in an ancient Peruvian grave. The mother had an unfinished piece of weaving beside her,
with its colours still bright. The infant was tenderly wrapped in soft black woollen cloth,
to which was fastened a pair of little sandals, 2-1/2 inches long; around its neck was a green
cord, attached to a small shell.--Pre-Historic Man, vol. i. p. 234.

[167] Clare.--In 1855, in digging for a railway-cutting in the county Clare, gold ornaments
were found worth £2,000 as bullion.

[168] Carbuncle.--This word was used to denote any shining stone of a red colour, such as garnet,
a production of the country.

CHAPTER XI.

Pestilence of the Blefed--The Cursing of Tara by St. Rodanus--Extent and Importance of Ancient
Tara--The First Mill in Ireland--The Lia Fail--Cormac's House--The Rath of the Synods--The
Banqueting Hall--Chariots and Swords--St. Columba--St. Brendan and his Voyages--Pre-Columbian
Discovery of America--The Plague again--St. Columba and St. Columbanus--Irish Saints and Irish
Schools--Aengus the Culdee.

[A.D. 543-693.]

From time to time, in the world's history, terrible and mysterious pestilences appear, which
defy all calculation as to their cause or probable reappearance. Such was the Blefed,[169]
or Crom Chonaill, which desolated Ireland in the year 543.

The plague, whatever its nature may have been, appears to have been general throughout Europe.
It originated in the East; and in Ireland was preceded by famine, and followed by leprosy.
St. Berchan of Glasnevin and St. Finnen of Clonard were amongst its first victims.

Diarmaid, son of Fergus Keval, of the southern Hy-Nial race, was Ard-Righ during this period.
In his reign Tara was cursed by St. Rodanus of Lothra, in Tipperary, in punishment for violation
of sanctuary;[170] and so complete was its subsequent desertion, that in 975 it was described
as a desert overgrown with grass and weeds.

But enough still remains to give ample evidence of its former magnificence. An inspection of
the site must convince the beholder of the vast extent of its ancient palaces; nor can we,
for a moment, coincide with those who are pleased to consider that these palaces consisted
merely of a few planks of wood, rudely plastered over, or of hollow mounds of earth. It is
true that, from an association of ideas, the cause of so many fallacies, we naturally connect
"halls" with marble pavements, magnificently carved pillars, and tesselated floors; but the
harp that once resounded through Tara's halls, may have had as appreciating, if not as critical,
an audience as any which now exists, and the "halls" may have been none the less stately, because
their floor was strewn with sand, or the trophies which adorned them fastened to walls of oak.[171]

According to Celtic tradition, as embodied in our annals, Tara became the chief residence of
the Irish kings on the first establishment of a monarchical government under Slainge:--

"Slaine of the Firbolgs was he by whom Temair was first raised."

One hundred and fifty monarchs reigned there from this period until its destruction, in 563.
The Fes, or triennial assembly, was instituted by Ollamh Fodhla. The nature of these meetings
is explained in a poem, which Keating ascribes to O'Flynn, who died A.D. 984. It is clear that
what was then considered crime was punished in a very peremptory manner; for--

    "Gold was not received as retribution from him,
    But his soul in one hour."[172]

In the reign of Tuathal a portion of land was separated from each of the four provinces, which
met together at a certain place: this portion was considered a distinct part of the country
from the provinces. It was situated in the present county of Meath.

In the tract separated from Munster, Tuathal[173] built the royal seat of Tlachtga, where the
fire of Tlachtga was ordained to be kindled. On the night of All Saints, the druids assembled
here to offer sacrifices, and it was established, under heavy penalties that no fire should
be kindled on that night throughout the kingdom, so that the fire which was used afterwards
might be procured from it. To obtain this privilege, the people were obliged to pay a scraball,
or about three-pence, yearly, to the King of Munster.

On the 1st of May a convocation was held in the royal palace of the King of Connaught. He obtained
subsidies in horses and arms from those who came to this assembly. On this occasion two fires
were lit, between which cattle were driven as a preventative or charm against the murrain and
other pestilential distempers. From this custom the feast of St. Philip and St. James was anciently
called Beltinne, or the Day of Bel's Fire.

The third palace, erected by Tuathal, was on the portion of land taken from the province of
Ulster. Here the celebrated fair of Tailtean was held, and contracts of marriage were frequently
made. The royal tribute was raised by exacting an ounce of silver from every couple who were
contracted and married at that time. The fair of Tailtean had been instituted some years before,
in honour of Tailte, who was buried here. This fair, says Keating, was then kept upon the day
known in the Irish language as La Lughnasa, or the day ordained by Lughaidh, and is called
in English Lammas-day.

The fourth and the most important of the royal seats was the palace of Temair, or Tara: here,
with the greatest state and ceremony, the affairs of the nation were discussed and decided.
On these occasions, in order to preserve the deliberations from the public, the most strict
secrecy was observed, and women were entirely excluded.

The Dinnseanchus, a topographical work, compiled in the twelfth century from ancient MSS.,
is the principal source of information on this subject. Dr. Petrie, in his famous Essay, has
given both the original and translation of this tract, and of other documents on the same subject;
and he remarks how exactly the accounts given by the poet historians coincide with the remains
which even now exist. In fact, each site has been ascertained with precise accuracy--an accuracy
which should very much enhance our appreciation of the value of our ancient histories.

The well Neamhnach was first identified. Tradition asserts that the first mill[174] erected
in Ireland was turned by the stream which flowed from it, and even at the present day a mill
is still worked there. The situation of the Rath-na-Riogh was then easily ascertained. This
is the most important of these ancient sites, but it is now, unfortunately, nearly levelled
to the ground. This rath is oval and measures about 853 feet from north to south; it contains
the ruins of the Forradh and of Teach Cormac (the House of Cormac). A pillar-stone was removed
in 1798 to the centre of the mound of the Forradh. It formerly stood by the side of a small
mound lying within the enclosure of Rath-Riogh. This stone Dr. Petrie considers identical[175]
with the famous Lia Fail, or Stone of Destiny, which other authorities suppose to have been
removed to Scotland, and subsequently to Westminster. The Rath-na-Riogh is identical with Teamur,
and is, in fact, the ancient Tara, or royal residence, around which other scarcely less important
buildings were gradually erected. It was also called Cathair Crofinn. The name of Cathair was
exclusively applied to circular stone fortifications built without cement; and stones still
remain which probably formed a portion of the original building. In ancient Irish poems this
fortification is sometimes called the Strong Tower of Teamur, an appellation never applied
to a rath, but constantly to a Cathair, or circular stone fort.

The Rath of the Synods obtained its name at a comparatively recent period. The situation is
distinctly pointed out both in the prose and verse accounts. Here was held the Synod of Patrick,
the Synod of Ruadhan and Brendan, and lastly, the Synod of Adamnan. The next existing monument
which has been identified with certainty, is the Teach-Miodhchuarta, or Banqueting Hall, so
famous in Irish history and bardic tradition. This was also the great house of the thousand
soldiers, and the place where the Fes or triennial assemblies were held. It had fourteen doors--seven
to the east and seven to the west. Its length, taken from the road, is 759 feet, and its breadth
was probably about 90 feet. Kenneth O'Hartigan is the great, and indeed almost the only authority
for the magnificence and state with which the royal banquets were held herein. As his descriptions
are written in a strain of eloquent and imaginative verse, his account has been too readily
supposed to be purely fictitious. But we have already shown that his description of the gold
vessels which were used, is amply corroborated by the discovery of similar articles. His account
of the extent, if not of the exterior magnificence, of the building, has also been fully verified;
and there remains no reason to doubt that a "thousand soldiers" may have attended their lord
at his feasts, or that "three times fifty stout cooks" may have supplied the viands. There
was also the "House of the Women," a term savouring strangely of eastern customs and ideas;
and the "House of the Fians," or commons soldiers.

Two poems are still preserved which contain ground-plans of the different compartments of the
house, showing the position allotted to different ranks and occupations, and the special portion
which was to be assigned to each. The numerous distinctions of rank, and the special honours
paid to the learned, are subjects worthy of particular notice. The "saoi of literature" and
the "royal chief" are classed in the same category, and were entitled to a primchrochait, or
steak; nor was the Irish method of cooking barbarous, for we find express mention of a spit
for roasting meat, and of the skill of an artificer who contrived a machine by which thirty
spits could be turned at once.[176] The five great Celtic roads[177] have already been mentioned.
Indistinct traces of them are still found at Tara. The Slighe Môr struck off from the Slope
of the Chariots,[178] at the northern head of the hill, and joined the Eiscir Riada, or great
Connaught road, from Dublin via Trim. Dr. Petrie concludes his Essay on Tara thus: "But though
the houses were unquestionably of these materials [wood and clay, with the exception of the
Tuatha Dé Danann Cathair], it must not be inferred that they were altogether of a barbarous
structure. It is not probable that they were unlike or inferior to those of the ancient Germans,
of which Tacitus speaks in terms of praise, and which he describes as being overlaid with an
earth so pure and splendid, that they resembled painting." And the historian Moore, writing
on the same subject, observes: "That these structures were in wood is by no means conclusive
either against the elegance of their structure, or the civilization, to a certain extent, of
those who erected them. It was in wood that the graceful forms of Grecian architecture first
unfolded their beauties; and there is reason to believe that, at the time when Xerxes invaded
Greece, most of her temples were still of this perishable material."

But the cursing of Tara was by no means the only misfortune of Diarmaid's reign. His unaccountable
hostility to St. Columba involved him in many troubles; and, in addition to these, despite
famine and pestilence, the country was afflicted with domestic wars. It is said that his war
with Guaire, King of Connaught, was undertaken as a chastisement for an injustice committed
by that monarch, who, according to an old chronicle, had deprived a woman, who had vowed herself
to a religious life, of a cow, which was her only means of support. It is more probable, however,
that the motive was not quite so chivalric, and that extortion of a tribute to which he had
no right was the real cause. The high character for probity unanimously attributed to Guaire,
makes it extremely unlikely that he should have committed any deliberate act of injustice.

The first great convention of the Irish states, after the abandonment of Tara, was held in
Drumceat, in 573, in the reign of Hugh, son of Ainmire. St. Columba and the leading members
of the Irish clergy attended. Precedence was given to the saint by the prelates of North Britain,
to honour his capacity of apostle or founder of the Church in that country.

Two important subjects were discussed on this occasion, and on each the opinion of St. Columba
was accepted as definitive. The first referred to the long-vexed question whether the Scottish
colony of Alba should still be considered dependent on the mother country. The saint, foreseeing
the annoyances to which a continuance of this dependence must give rise, advised that it should
be henceforth respected as an independent state. The second question was one of less importance
in the abstract, but far more difficult to settle satisfactorily. The bards, or more probably
persons who wished to enjoy their immunities and privileges without submitting to the ancient
laws which obliged them to undergo a long and severe course of study before becoming licentiates,
if we may use the expression, of that honorable calling, had become so numerous and troublesome,
that loud demands were made for their entire suppression. The king, who probably suffered from
their insolence as much as any of his subjects, was inclined to comply with the popular wish,
but yielded so far to the representations of St. Columba, as merely to diminish their numbers,
and place them under stricter rules.

Hugh Ainmire was killed while endeavouring to exact the Boromean Tribute. The place of his
death was called Dunbolg, or the Fort of the Bags. The Leinster king, Bran Dubh, had recourse
to a stratagem, from whence the name was derived. Finding himself unable to cope with the powerful
army of his opponent, he entered his camp disguised as a leper, and spread a report that the
Leinster men were preparing to submit.

In the evening a number of bullocks, laden with leathern bags, were seen approaching the royal
camp. The drivers, when challenged by the sentinels, said that they were bringing provisions;
and this so tallied with the leper's tale, that they were permitted to deposit their burdens
without further inquiry. In the night, however, an armed man sprang from each bag, and headed
by their king, whose disguise was no longer needed, slaughtered the royal army without mercy,
Hugh himself falling a victim to the personal bravery of Bran Dubh.

The deaths of several Irish saints, whose lives are of more than ordinary interest, are recorded
about this period. Amongst them, St. Brendan of Clonfert demands more than a passing notice.
By divine command she established the Convent of Cluain Credhuil, in the present county of
Limerick, and there, it would appear, she devoted herself specially to the care of youth. When
Brendan had attained his fifth year, he was placed under the protection of Bishop Ercus, from
whom he received such instruction as befitted his advancing years. But Brendan's tenderest
affection clung to the gentle nurse of his infancy; and to her, in after years, he frequently
returned, to give or receive counsel and sympathy.

The legend of his western voyage, if not the most important, is at least the most interesting
part of his history. Kerry was the native home of the enterprising saint; and as he stood on
its bold and beautiful shores, his naturally contemplative mind was led to inquire what boundaries
chained that vast ocean, whose grand waters rolled in mighty waves beneath his feet. His thoughtful
piety suggested that where there might be a country there might be life--human life and human
souls dying day by day, and hour by hour, and knowing of no other existence than that which
at best is full of sadness and decay.

Traditions of a far-away land had long existed on the western coast of ancient Erinn. The brave
Tuatha Dé Dananns were singularly expert in naval affairs, and their descendants were by no
means unwilling to impart information to the saint.

The venerable St. Enda, the first Abbot of Arran, was then living, and thither St. Brendan
journeyed for counsel. It is probable that he had entered the great Gulf Stream, which brought
his vessel ashore somewhere on the Virginian coasts. He landed with his companions, and penetrated
into the interior, until he came to a large river flowing from east to west, supposed to be
that now known as the Ohio. Here, according to the legend, he was accosted by a man of venerable
bearing, who told him that he had gone far enough; that further discoveries were reserved for
other men, who would in due time come and christianize that pleasant land. This voyage took
place in the year 545, according to Colgan; but as St. Brendan must have been at that time
at least sixty years old, an earlier date has been suggested as more probable.[179]

The northern and southern Hy-Nials had long held rule in Ireland; but while the northern tribe
were ever distinguished, not only for their valour, but for their chivalry in field or court,
the southern race fell daily lower in the estimation of their countrymen. Their disgrace was
completed when two kings, who ruled Erinn jointly, were treacherously slain by Conall Guthvin.
For this crime the family were excluded from regal honours for several generations.

Home dissensions led to fatal appeals for foreign aid, and this frequently from the oppressing
party. Thus, Congal Caech, who killed the reigning sovereign in 623, fled to Britain, and after
remaining there nine years, returned with foreign troops, by whose assistance he hoped to attain
the honours unlawfully coveted. The famous battle of Magh-Rath,[180] in which the auxiliaries
were utterly routed and the false Congal slain, unfortunately did not deter his countrymen
from again and again attempting the same suicidal course.

In 656 the country was once more visited by the fatal Crom Chonaill, and again holy prelates
and sainted religious were foremost amongst its victims. Many orphans were of necessity thrown
on the mercy of those to whom charity was their only claim. Nor was the call unheeded. The
venerable Bishop of Ardbraccan, St. Ultan, whom we may perhaps term the St. Vincent of Ireland,
gathered these hapless little ones into a safe asylum, and there, with a thoughtfulness which
in such an age could scarcely have been expected, sought to supply by artificial means for
the natural nourishment of which they had been deprived.

Venerable Bede mentions this pestilence, and gives honorable testimony to the charity of the
Irish, not only to their own people, but even to strangers. He says: "This pestilence did no
less harm, in the island of Ireland. Many of the nobility and of the lower ranks of the English
nation were there at that time, who, in the days of Bishop Finan and Colman, forsaking their
native land, retired thither, either for the sake of divine studies, or for a more continent
life. The Scots willingly received them all, and took care to supply them with food, as also
to furnish them with books to read and their teaching gratis."[181]

In 673 Finnachta Fleadhach, or the Hospitable, began his reign. He yielded to the entreaties
of St. Moling, and remitted the Boromean Tribute, after he had forced it from the Leinster
men in a bloody battle. In 687 he abdicated, and showed his respect for religion still further
by embracing the monastic state himself. In 684 the Irish coasts were devastated, and even
the churches pillaged, by the soldiers of Egfrid, the Saxon King of Northumbria. Venerable
Bede attributes his subsequent defeat and death, when fighting against the Picts, to the judgment
of God, justly merited by these unprovoked outrages on a nation which had always been most
friendly to the English (nationi Anglorum semper amicissimam).

It has been supposed that revenge may have influenced Egfrid's conduct: this, however, does
not make it more justifiable in a Christian king. Ireland was not merely the refuge of men
of learning in that age; it afforded shelter to more than one prince driven unjustly from his
paternal home. Alfred, the brother of the Northumbrian monarch, had fled thither from his treachery,
and found a generous welcome on its ever-hospitable shores. He succeeded his brother in the
royal dignity; and when St. Adamnan visited his court to obtain the release of the Irish captives
whom Egfrid's troops had torn from their native land, he received him with the utmost kindness,
and at once acceded to his request.

St. Adamnan, whose fame as the biographer of St. Columba has added even more to the lustre
of his name than his long and saintly rule over the Monastery of Iona, was of the race of the
northern Hy-Nials. He was born in the territory of Tir-Connell, about the year 627. Little
is known of his early history; it is generally supposed that he was educated at Iona, and that,
having embraced the monastic rule, he returned to his own country to extend its observance
there. He presided over the great Abbey of Raphoe, of which he was the founder, until the year
679, when he was raised to the government of his order, and from that period he usually resided
at Iona. The fact of his having been chosen to such an important office, is a sufficient testimony
to his virtues, and of the veneration and respect in which he was held by his contemporaries.

St. Adamnan paid more than one visit to his friend the Northumbrian monarch (regem Alfridem
amicum). On the second occasion he went with the Abbot Ceolfrid, and after some conversation
with him and other learned ecclesiastics, he adopted the Roman paschal computation. Yet, with
all his influence and eloquence, he was unable to induce his monks to accept it; and it was
not until the year 716 that they yielded to the persuasions of Egbert, a Northumbrian monk.
Adamnan was more successful in his own country. In 697 he visited Ireland, and took an important
part in a legislative council held at Tara. On this occasion he procured the enactment of a
law, which was called the Canon of Adamnan, or the Law of the Innocents, and sometimes "the
law not to kill women." We have already referred to the martial tendencies of the ladies of
ancient Erinn--a tendency, however, which was by no means peculiar at that period of the world's
history. The propensity for military engagements was not confined to queens and princesses--women
of all ranks usually followed their lords to the field of battle; but as the former are generally
represented as having fallen victims to each other's prowess in the fight, it appears probable
that they had their own separate line of battle, or perhaps fought out the field in a common
mêlée of feminine forces.

Had we not the abundant testimony of foreign writers to prove the influence and importance
of the missions undertaken by Irish saints at this period of her history, it might be supposed
that the statements of her annalists were tinged with that poetic fancy in which she has ever
been so singularly prolific, and that they rather wrote of what might have been than of what
was. But the testimony of Venerable Bede (to go no further) is most ample on this subject.

Irish missionary zeal was inaugurated in the person of St. Columba, although its extension
to continental Europe was commenced by another, who, from similarity of name, has been frequently
confounded with the national apostle.

St. Columbanus was born about the year 539. The care of his education was confided to the venerable
Senile, who was eminent for his sanctity and knowledge of the Holy Scriptures. It was probably
through his influence that the young man resolved to devote himself to the monastic life. For
this purpose he placed himself under the direction of St. Comgall, who then governed the great
Monastery of Bangor (Banchorr).

It was not until he entered his fiftieth year that he decided on quitting his native land,
so that there can be no reason to doubt that his high intellectual attainments were acquired
and perfected in Ireland.

With the blessing of his superior, and the companionship of twelve faithful monks, he set forth
on his arduous mission; and arduous truly it proved to be. The half-barbarous Franks, then
ruled by Thierry or Theodoric, lived more a pagan than a Christian life, and could ill brook
the stern lessons of morality which they heard from, and saw practised by, their new teacher.
The saint did not spare the demoralized court, and the Queen-Dowager Brunehalt became his bitterest
foe. He had already established two monasteries: one at Luxovium, or Luxeuil, in a forest at
the foot of the Vosges; the other, on account of its numerous springs, was called Ad-fontanas
(Fontaines). Here the strict discipline of the Irish monks was rigidly observed, and the coarsest
fare the only refection permitted to the religious.

For a time they were allowed to continue their daily routine of prayer and penance without
molestation; but the relentless Brunehalt, who, from the basest motives, had encouraged the
young king in every vice, could no longer brave either the silent preaching of the cloister
or the bold denunciations of the saint. As Columbanus found that his distant remonstrances
had no effect on the misguided monarch, for whose eternal welfare he felt the deep interest
of true sanctity, he determined to try a personal interview. For a brief space his admonitions
were heard with respect, and even the haughty queen seemed less bent on her career of impiety
and deceit; but the apparent conversion passed away as a summer breeze, and once more the saint
denounced and threatened in vain.

Strict enclosure had been established in the monasteries professing the Columbanian rule[182]
and this afforded a pretext for the royal vengeance. Theodoric attempted to violate the sanctuary
in person; but though he was surrounded by soldiers, he had to encounter one whose powers were
of another and more invincible character. The saint remained in the sanctuary, and when the
king approached addressed him sternly:

"If thou, sire," he exclaimed, "art come hither to violate the discipline already established,
or to destroy the dwellings of the servants of God, know that in heaven there is a just and
avenging power; thy kingdom shall be taken from thee, and both thou and thy royal race shall
be cut off and destroyed on the earth."

The undaunted bearing of Columbanus, and, perhaps, some lingering light of conscience, not
yet altogether extinguished, had its effect upon the angry monarch. He withdrew; but he left
to others the task he dared not attempt in person. The saint was compelled by armed men to
leave his monastery, and only his Irish and British subjects were permitted to bear him company.
They departed in deep grief, not for the cruel treatment they suffered, but for their brethren
from whom they were thus rudely torn. As the monks who were left behind clung weeping to their
father, he consoled them with these memorable words: "God will be to you a Father, and reward
you with mansions where the workers of sacrilege can never enter."

Nantes was the destination of the exiled religious. Here they were put on board a vessel bound
for Ireland; but scarcely had they reached the open sea, when a violent storm arose, by which
the vessel was driven back and stranded on the shore, where it lay all night. The captain attributed
the misfortune to his travelling companions, and refused to carry them any farther. Columbanus,
perceiving in this accident an indication of the will of heaven in their regard, determined
to seek a settlement in some other part of the Continent. In the third year after his expulsion
from Luxeuil, he arrived at Milan, where he was hospitably received by the Lombard king, A.D.
612. On his journey thither he had evangelised Austrasia, then governed by Theodebert. This
prince, though a brother of the monarch by whom he had been expelled, entertained him with
the utmost courtesy. At Mentz, the bishop vainly endeavoured to detain him. Zeal for the conversion
of souls led the saint to desire a less cultivated field of labour. As he passed along the
Lake of Zurich, and in the Canton of Zug, he reaped a rich harvest; from, thence he directed
his course to Bregentz, then inhabited by an idolatrous people.

Here he was repulsed by those who most needed his apostolic labours; but, undaunted, he retired
to the neighbouring county, where he secured a band of zealous converts. Surrounded by these,
and attended by his faithful monks, he once more entered the idolatrous city, and proceeded
boldly to the temple where their false gods were enshrined. Here he invoked the Holy Name,
and by its power the idols were miraculously overthrown, and a multitude of the people were
converted, including in their number some of the principal inhabitants of Bregentz.

The theological controversy, known as that of the "Three Chapters," was now prevalent in northern
Italy. A letter is still extant which St. Columbanus addressed to Pope Boniface on this subject,
in which, while he uses the privilege of free discussion on questions not defined by the Church,
he is remarkably, and perhaps for some inconveniently, explicit as to his belief in papal supremacy.
A brief extract from this important document will show that the faith for which Ireland has
suffered, and still suffers so much, was the same in the "early ages" as it is now. He writes
thus to the Holy Father:--

"For we Irish [Scoti] are disciples of St. Peter and St. Paul, and of all the divinely inspired
canonical writers, adhering constantly to the evangelical and apostolical doctrine. Amongst
us neither Jew, heretic, nor schismatic can be found; but the Catholic faith, entire and unshaken,
precisely as we have received it from you, who are the successors of the holy Apostles. For,
as I have already said, we are attached to the chair of St. Peter; and although Rome is great
and renowned, yet with us it is great and distinguished only on account of that apostolic chair.
Through the two Apostles of Christ you are almost celestial, and Rome is the head of the churches
of the world."[183]

In the year 613 St. Columbanus founded the world-famed Monastery of Bovium, or Bobbio,[184]
in a magnificently romantic site on the Apennines. Near his church was an oratory dedicated
to the Mother of God, who, as we shall presently see, was as devoutly worshipped in ancient
as in modern Erinn.

Agilulph, the Lombardian monarch, was ever a warm patron of the monks. Clothaire had now ascended
the French throne. He earnestly pressed the saint to return to Luxeuil, but Columbanus excused
himself on the plea of age and infirmities. He did not fail, however, to send advice for the
government of the monasteries which he had founded, where his rule had continued to be observed
with the utmost fervour.

St. Columbanus died at Bobbio, on the 21st of November, 615, at the age of seventy-two years.
His name is still preserved in the town of St. Columbano. His memory has been ever venerated
in France and Italy.

While the saint was evangelizing in Switzerland, one of his disciples became seriously ill,
and was unable to travel farther. It was a providential sickness for the Helvetians. The monk
was an eloquent preacher, and well acquainted with their language, which was a dialect of that
of the Franks. He evangelized the country, and the town of St. Gall still bears the name of
the holy Irishman, while his abbey contains many precious relics of the literature and piety
of his native land. St. Gall died on the 16th October, 645, at a very advanced age. The monastery
was not erected until after his decease, and it was not till the year 1798 that the abbey lands
were aggregated to the Swiss Confederation as one of the cantons.

Another Irish saint, who evangelized in France, was St. Fiacre. He erected a monastery to the
Blessed Virgin in a forest near Meaux. The fame of his sanctity became so great, and the pilgrimage
to his tomb so popular, that the French hackney coaches (fiacre) obtained their name from their
constant employment in journeys to his shrine.

About the same period, St. Fursey founded a monastery near Burgh Castle, in Suffolk, where
he was kindly received by Sigbert, King of the East Angles. From thence he proceeded to Lagny,
in France, where his missionary zeal was long remembered. His brothers, St. Foillan and St.
Altan, were his constant companions. St. Fursey died on the 16th January, 650, at Macerius.
His remains were subsequently translated to Peronne, in Picardy. The evangelic labours of many
of his Irish disciples, are matter of history in the Gallic Church. It is said that the fame
of the Irish for their skill in music, was so well known on the Continent at this period, that
St. Gertrude, daughter of King Pepin, and Abbess of Nivelle, in Brabant, invited the brothers
of St. Fursey to instruct her community in sacred music. They complied with her request, and
soon after erected a monastery at Fosse, near Nivelle. Nor were the Scoti without their missionary
martyrs, amongst whom the great St. Kilian holds a distinguished place. The spirit of devotion
to the Holy See seems almost to be an heirloom in the little island of the western sea. True
to the instincts of his native land, the martyr-saint would not undertake his mission in Franconia,
great as was its necessity, until he knelt at the feet of the Vicar of Christ to obtain his
permission and blessing. Thus fortified, he commenced his glorious race, so happily crowned
with the martyr's palm. His bold rebuke of the open scandal given by the conduct of the ruling
prince, was the immediate cause of his obtaining this favour. St. Kilian was assassinated at
midnight, while singing the Divine Office, with two of his faithful companions. Their remains
were interred in the church of Wurtzberg, where St. Kilian is still revered as its patron and
apostle.

We can but name St. Mailduf, from whom Malmsbury has been named; St. Livin, who converted the
inhabitants of Flanders and Brabant; St. Cataldus and his brother, St. Donatus, the former
patron of the metropolitan see of Tarentum, and whose name is still preserved in the little
town of San Cataldo, the latter Bishop of Lecce, in the kingdom of Naples, and both famous
for miracles and sanctity of life; St. Virgilius, called in the ancient annals "Ferghil the
Geometer," and by Latin writers Solivagus,[185] or the "solitary wanderer," who died Bishop
of Saltzburg, distinguished for literary fame; St. Fridolin, "the traveller," son of an Irish
king, who evangelized Thuringia, and was appointed by the Pope Bishop of Buraburgh, near Fritzlar,
in the year 741; St. Sedulius the younger, who wrote commentaries on Holy Scripture, and assisted
at a council held in Rome, in the year 721, under Gregory II. It is noticeable that this saint
was consecrated Bishop of Oreto, in Spain, while in Rome. When he entered on the mission thus
confided to him, he wrote a treatise to prove that, being Irish, he was of Spanish descent;
thus showing that at this period the idea of a Milesian origin was common to men of learning
in Ireland.[186]

But if Ireland gave saints and martyrs to foreign lands, her charity was in some measure repaid
in kind. True, she needed not the evangelic labours of other missionaries, for the gospel-seed
had taken deep root, and borne a rich harvest on her happy shores; still, as the prayers of
saints are the very life and joy of the Church, she could not choose but rejoice in the hundreds
of pure and saintly souls who gathered round her altars at home, who crowded her monasteries,
or listened devoutly to the teachers of her distinguished schools. In the Litany of Aengus
the Culdee[187] we find hundreds of foreign saints invoked, each grouped according to their
nation. "The oldest tract, or collection of the pedigrees of the saints of Erinn," says Professor
O'Curry, "of which we have now any recognizable copy remaining, is that which is ascribed to
Aengus Ceilé Dé, commonly called Aengus the Culdee. The genuineness of this composition is
admitted by all writers of modern times, Protestant and Catholic, by Usher and Ware as well
as by Colgan."

Aengus wrote about the year 798. He was descended from the illustrious chieftains of Dalriada,
and completed his education in the Monastery of Cluain Eidhneach, in the present Queen's county.
The remains of a church he founded at Disert Aengusa, near Ballingarry, in the county of Limerick,
may still be seen.

The Monastery of Tamhlacht (Tallaght), near Dublin, was founded in the year 769, by St. Maelruain,
on a site offered "to God, to Michael the Archangel, and to Maelruain," by Donnach, the pious
and illustrious King of Leinster. St. Aengus presented himself at this monastery as a poor
man seeking for service, and was employed for some time in charge of the mill or kiln, the
ruins of which have but lately yielded to "the improving hand of modern progress." Here he
remained hidden for many years, until, by some happy accident, his humility and his learning
were at once discovered.

Aengus composed his "Festology" in the reign of Hugh Oirdnidhe (the Legislator), who was Monarch
of Ireland from the year 793 to the year 817. Hugh commenced his reign by attaching the province
of Leinster, and then marched to the confines of Meath. The Archbishop of Armagh and all his
clergy were commanded to attend this expedition, for such had hitherto been the custom. The
ecclesiastics, however, protested against the summons, and complained to the king of the injustice
and inconsistency of demanding their presence on such occasions. Hugh referred the matter to
Fothadh, his poet and adviser. The learning and piety of the bard were well known; and a decision
favourable to the clergy was the result. This decision was given in a short poem of four quatrains
which is preserved in the preface to the "Martyrology" of Aengus. The following is a literal
translation:--

    "The Church of the living God,
    Touch her not, nor waste;
    Let her rights be reserved,
    As best ever they were.

    "Every true monk who is
    Possessed of a pious conscience,
    To the church to which it is due
    Let him act as any servant.

    "Every faithful servant from that out,
    Who is not bound by vows of obedience,
    Has liberty to join in the battles
    Of Aedh (Hugh) the Great, son of Nial.

    "This is the proper rule,
    Certain it is not more, not less:
    Let every one serve his lot,
    Without defect, and without refusal."

This decision obtained the name of a canon, and henceforth its author was distinguished as
Fothadh na Canoiné, or Fothadh of the Canons.

At the time of the promulgation of this canon, Aengus was residing at his church of Disert
Bethech, near the present town of Monasterevan, not far from where the Irish monarch had pitched
his camp.

The poet visited Aengus, and showed him the canon before presenting it to the king. An intimacy
was thus commenced, which must have proved one of singular pleasure to both parties. Aengus
had just finished his "Festology," and showed it for the first time to his brother poet, who
expressed the warmest approbation of the work.

This composition consists of three parts. The first part is a poem of five quatrains, invoking
the grace and sanctification of Christ for the poet and his undertaking:--

    "Sanctify, O Christ! my words:
    O Lord of the seven heavens!
    Grant me the gift of wisdom,
    O Sovereign of the bright sun!

    "O bright Sun, who dost illuminate
    The heavens with all Thy holiness!
    O King, who governest the angels!
    O Lord of all the people!

    "O Lord of the people!
    O King, all righteous and good!
    May I receive the full benefit
    Of praising Thy royal hosts.

    "Thy royal hosts I praise,
    Because Thou art my sovereign;
    I have disposed my mind
    To be constantly beseeching Thee.

    "I beseech a favour from Thee,
    That I be purified from my sins,
    Through the peaceful bright-shining flock,
    The royal host whom I celebrate."

Then follows a metrical preface, consisting of eighty stanzas. These verses are in the same
measure[188] as the invocation, Englished by modern Gaedhilic scholars as "chain-verse;" that
is, an arrangement of metre by which the first words of every succeeding quatrain are identical
with the last words of the preceding one.

After the invocation follows a preface, the second part of this remarkable poem. In this there
is a glowing account of the tortures and sufferings of the early Christian martyrs; it tells
"how the names of the persecutors are forgotten, while the names of their victims are remembered
with honour, veneration, and affection; how Pilate's wife is forgotten, while the Blessed Virgin
Mary is remembered and honoured from the uttermost bounds of the earth to its centre." The
martyrology proper, or festology, comes next, and consists of 365 quatrains, or a stanza for
each day in the year.

It commences with the feast of the Circumcision:--

    "At the head of the congregated saints
    Let the King take the front place;
    Unto the noble dispensation did submit
    Christ--on the kalends of January."

St. Patrick is commemorated thus, on the 17th of March:--

    "The blaze of a splendid sun,
    The apostle of stainless Erinn,
    Patrick, with his countless thousands,
    May he shelter our wretchedness."

On the 13th of April, Bishop Tussach, one of the favourite companions of the great saint, is
also mentioned as--

    "The kingly bishop Tussach,
    Who administered, on his arrival,
    The Body of Christ, the truly powerful King,
    And the Communion to Patrick."

It will be remembered it was from this saint that the great apostle received the holy viaticum.
In the third division of his great work, Aengus explains its use, and directs the people how
to read it.

It will be manifest from these poems that the religious principles of the Culdees and of the
Irish ecclesiastics generally, were those of the Universal Church at this period. We find the
rights of the Church respected and advocated; the monarchs submitting to the decision of the
clergy; invocation of the saints; the practice of administering the holy viaticum; and the
commemoration of the saints on the days devoted to their honour.

Usher observes, that the saints of this period might be grouped into a fourth order.[189] Bede
says: "That many of the Scots [Irish] came daily into Britain, and with great devotion preached
the word and administered baptism.... The English, great and small, were by their Scottish
[Irish] masters instructed in the rules and observances of regular discipline."[190] Eric of
Auxerre writes thus to Charles the Bald: "What shall I say of Ireland, which, despising the
dangers of the deep, is migrating with her whole train of philosophers to our coast?" Rency,
after describing the poetry and literature of ancient Erinn as perhaps the most cultivated
of all Western Europe, adds, that Ireland "counted a host of saints and learned men, venerated
in England[191] and Gaul; for no country had furnished more Christian missionaries." It is
said that three thousand students, collected from all parts of Europe, attended the schools
of Armagh; and, indeed, the regulations which were made for preserving scholastic discipline,
are almost sufficient evidence on this subject.

The discussions of the Irish and English ecclesiastics on the time of keeping of Easter, with
their subsequent decision, and all details concerning domestic regulations as to succession
to office and church lands, are more properly matters for elucidation in a Church History,
for which we reserve their consideration.

FOOTNOTES:

[169] Blefed.--The name Crom Chonaill indicates a sickness which produced a yellow colour in
the skin.

[170] Sanctuary.--This may appear a severe punishment, but the right of sanctuary was in these
ages the great means of protection against lawless force, and its violation was regarded as
one of the worst of sacrileges.

[171] Oak.--Dr. Petrie mentions that there were stones still at Tara which probably formed
a portion of one of the original buildings. It was probably of the Pelasgian or Cyclopean kind.

[172] Hour.--Petrie's Tara, p. 31.

[173] Tuathal.--Very ancient authorities are found for this in the Leabhar Gabhala, or Book
of Conquests.

[174] Mill.--"Cormac, the grandson of Con, brought a millwright over the great sea." It is
clear from the Brehon laws that mills were common in Ireland at an early period. It is probable
that Cormac brought the "miller and his men" from Scotland. Whittaker shows that a water-mill
was erected by the Romans at every stationary city in Roman Britain. The origin of mills is
attributed to Mithridates, King of Cappadocia, about seventy years B.C. The present miller
claims to be a descendant of the original miller.

[175] Identical.--First, "because the Lia Fail is spoken of by all ancient Irish writers in
such a manner as to leave no doubt that it remained in its original situation at the time they
wrote." Second, "because no Irish account of its removal to Scotland is found earlier than
Keating, and he quotes Boetius, who obviously wished to sustain the claims of the Stuarts."
The pillar-stone is composed of granular limestone, but no stone of this description is found
in the vicinity. As may be supposed, there are all kinds of curious traditions about this stone.
One of these asserts that it was the pillar on which Jacob reposed when he saw the vision of
angels. Josephus states that the descendants of Seth invented astronomy, and that they engraved
their discoveries on a pillar of brick and a pillar of stone. These pillars remained, in the
historian's time, in the land of Siris.--Ant. Jud. l. 2, § 3.

[176] At once.--See Petrie's Tara, p. 213.

[177] Roads.--See Napoleon's Julius Cæsar, vol. ii. p. 22, for mention of the Celtic roads in Gaul.

[178] Chariots.--St. Patrick visited most parts of Ireland in a chariot, according to the Tripartite
Life. Carbad or chariots are mentioned in the oldest Celtic tales and romances, and it is distinctly
stated in the life of St. Patrick preserved in the Book of Armagh, that the pagan Irish had
chariots. Different kinds of roads are expressly mentioned, and also the duty of road-mending,
and those upon whom this duty devolved. See Introduction to the Book of Rights, p. 56.

[179] Probable.--The legend of St. Brendan was widely diffused in the Middle Ages. In the Bibliothéque
Impériale, at Paris, there are no less than eleven MSS. of the original Latin legend, the dates
of which vary from the eleventh to the fourteenth century. In the old French and Romance dialects
there are abundant copies in most public libraries in France; while versions in Irish, Dutch,
German, Italian, Spanish, and Portuguese, abound in all parts of the Continent. Traces of ante-Columbian
voyages to America are continually cropping up. But the appearance, in 1837, of the Antiquitates
Americanæ sive ita Scriptores Septentrionales rerum ante-Columbiarum, in America, edited by
Professor Rafu, at Copenhagen, has given final and conclusive evidence on this interesting
subject. America owes its name to an accidental landing. Nor is it at all improbable that the
Phoenicians, in their voyage across the stormy Bay of Biscay, or the wild Gulf of Guinea, may
have been driven far out of their course to western lands. Even in 1833 a Japanese junk was
wrecked upon the coast of Oregon. Humboldt believes that the Canary Isles were known, not only
to the Phoenicians, but "perhaps even to the Etruscans." There is a map in the Library of St.
Mark, at Venice, made in the year 1436, where an island is delineated and named Antillia. See
Trans. R.I.A. vol. xiv. A distinguished modern poet of Ireland has made the voyage of St. Brendan
the subject of one of the most beautiful of his poems.

[180] Magh-Rath.--Now Moira, in the county Down. The Chronicum Scotorum gives the date 636,
and the Annals of Tighernach at 637, which Dr. O'Donovan considers to be the true date.

[181] Gratis.--Ven. Bede, cap. xxviii.

[182] Rule.--"The light which St. Columbanus disseminated, by his knowledge and doctrine, wherever
he presented himself, caused a contemporary writer to compare him to the sun in his course
from east to west; and he continued after his death to shine forth in numerous disciples whom
he had trained in learning and piety."--Benedictine Hist. Litt. de la France.

[183] World.--See Herring's Collectanea and the Bibliotheca Patrum, tom. xii.

[184] Bobbio.--My learned friend, the Rev. J.P. Gaffney, of Clontarf, has in his possession
a printed copy of the celebrated Bobbio Missal. It is contained in a work entitled "MUSEUM
ITALICUM, seu collectio Veterum Scriptorum ex Bibliothesis Italicis," eruta a D.J. Mabillon
et D.M. Germain, presbyteris et monachis, Benedictinæ, Cong. S. Mauré. This work was published
at Paris in 1687. The original Missal was discovered by Mabillon two hundred years ago, and
is at present preserved in the Ambrosian Library at Milan. It dates from the seventh century,
and is no doubt the identical Missal or Mass-book used by the saint. As my friend has allowed
me to retain the treasure for a time, I intend to give full details on the subject in my Ecclesiastical
History. For further information at present, I refer the reader to the Rev. J.P. Gaffney's
Religion of the Ancient Irish Church p. 43, and to Dr. Moran's learned Essays, p. 287. I especially
request the superiors of religious orders to afford me any information in their possession
concerning the history of their respective orders in Ireland, and also of their several houses.
Details of re-erections of religious houses on old sites are particularly desired. All books
or documents which may be forwarded to me shall be carefully returned.

[185] Solivagus.--Four Masters, p. 391.

[186] Ireland.--The elder Sedulius, whose hymns are even now used by the Church, lived in the
fifth century. The hymn, A solis ortis cardine, and many others, are attributed to him.

[187] Culdee.--There was much dispute at one time as to the origin and true character of the
Culdees. The question, however, has been quite set at rest by the researches of recent Irish
scholars. Professor O'Curry traces them up to the time of St. Patrick. He thinks they were
originally mendicant monks, and that they had no communities until the end of the eighth century,
when St. Maelruain of Tallaght drew up a rule for them. This rule is still extant. Mr. Haverty
(Irish History, p. 110) has well observed, they probably resembled the Tertiaries, or Third
Orders, which belong to the Orders of St. Dominic and St. Francis at the present day. See also
Dr. Reeves' Life of St. Columba, for some clear and valuable remarks on this subject.

[188] Measure.--The subject of Irish poetical composition would demand a considerable space
if thoroughly entertained. Zeuss has done admirable justice to the subject in his Grammatica
Celtica, where he shows that the word rhyme [rimum] is of Irish origin. The Very Rev. U. Burke
has also devoted some pages to this interesting investigation, in his College Irish Grammar.
He observes that the phonetic framework in which the poetry of a people is usually fashioned,
differs in each of the great national families, even as their language and genius differ. He
also shows that the earliest Latin ecclesiastical poets were Irish, and formed their hymns
upon the rules of Irish versification; thus quite controverting the theory that rhyme was introduced
by the Saracens in the ninth century.

[189] Order.--This refers to the vision in which St. Patrick is said to have seen three orders
of saints, who should succeed each other in Ireland.

[190] Discipline.--Bede, lib. iii. cap. 3. We have used Bohn's translation, as above all suspicion.

[191] England.--Camden says: "At that age the Anglo-Saxons repaired on all sides to Ireland
as to a general mart of learning, whence we read, in our writers, of holy men, that they went
to study in Ireland"--Amandatus est ad disciplinam in Hiberniam.

CHAPTER XII.

Christianity improves the Social State of Ireland--A Saxon Invasion of Ireland--Domestic Wars--The
English come to Ireland for Instruction--A Famine and Tempests--The First Danish Invasion--Cruelty
of the Danes--The Black and White Gentiles--King Cormac Mac Cullinan--Cashel--Amlaff the Dane--Plunder
of the Towns--Arrival of Sitric--Death of Nial Glundubh--The Circuit of Ireland--Malachy the
Second--Entries in the Annals.

[A.D. 693-926.]

Very few events of any special interest occur between the commencement of the seventh century
and the Danish invasion. The obituaries of ecclesiastics and details of foreign missions, which
we have already recorded, are its salient points. The wars of the Saxon Heptarchy and the Celtic
Pentarchy almost synchronize, though we find several Irish kings influenced by the examples
of sanctity with which they were surrounded, and distinguished for piety, while Charlemagne
pronounces their neighbours a perfidious and perverse race, worse than pagans. There can be
no doubt that Charlemagne's high opinion of the Irish was caused by the fact, that so many
of the heads of his schools were of that nation, which was then in the vanguard of civilization
and progress. The cloister, always the nursery of art, the religious, always the promoters
of learning, were pre-eminent in this age for their devotion to literary pursuits. In the present
work it is impossible to give details of their MSS. still preserved, of their wonderful skill
in caligraphy, still the admiration of the most gifted, and of the perfection to which they
brought the science of music; but I turn from this attractive subject with less regret, from
the hope of being soon able to produce an Ecclesiastical History of Ireland, in which such
details will find their proper place, and will be amply expanded.[192] The revolution of social
feeling which was effected in Ireland by the introduction of Christianity, is strongly marked.
Before the advent of St. Patrick, few Irish monarchs died a natural death--ambition or treachery
proved a sufficient motive for murder and assassination; while of six kings who reigned during
the eighth and ninth centuries, only one died a violent death, and that death was an exception,
which evidently proved the rule, for Nial was drowned in a generous effort to save the life
of one of his own servants.

The fatal pestilence, already recorded, did not appear again after its severe visitation, which
terminated in 667. In 693 Finnachta Fleadhach (the Hospitable) commenced his reign. He remitted
the Boromean Tribute at the request of St. Moling, and eventually abdicated, and embraced a
religious life. In the year 684, Egfrid, the Saxon King of Northumberland, sent an army to
Ireland, which spared neither churches nor monasteries, and carried off a great number of the
inhabitants as slaves. Bede denounces and laments this barbarous invasion, attributing the
defeat and death of King Egfrid, which took place in the following year, to the vengeance of
heaven.[193] St. Adamnan was sent to Northumbria, after the death of this prince, to obtain
the release of the captives. His mission was successful, and he was honoured there as the worker
of many miracles.

The generosity of Finnachta failed in settling the vexed question of tribute. Comgal, who died
in 708, ravaged Leinster as fiercely as his predecessors, and Fearghal, his successor, invaded
it "five times in one year." Three wonderful showers are said to have fallen in the eighth
year of his reign (A.D. 716 according to the Four Masters)--a shower of silver, a shower of
honey, and a shower of blood. These were, of course, considered portents of the awful Danish
invasions. Fearghal was killed at the battle of Almhain (Allen, near Kildare), in 718. In this
engagement, the Leinster men only numbered nine thousand, while their opponents numbered twenty-one
thousand. The Leinster men, however, made up for numbers by their valour; and it is said that
the intervention of a hermit, who reproached Fearghal with breaking the pacific promise of
his predecessor, contributed to the defeat of the northern forces. Another battle took place
in 733, when Hugh Allan, King of Ireland, and Hugh, son of Colgan, King of Leinster, engaged
in single combat. The latter was slain, and the Leinster men "were killed, slaughtered, cut
off, and dreadfully exterminated." In fact, the Leinster men endured so many "dreadful exterminations,"
that one almost marvels how any of their brave fellows were left for future feats of arms.
The "northerns were joyous after this victory, for they had wreaked their vengeance and their
animosity upon the Leinster men," nine thousand of whom were slain. St. Samhthann, a holy nun,
who died in the following year, is said to have predicted the fate of Aedh, Comgal's son, if
the two Aedhs (Hughs) met. Aedh Allan commemorated her virtues in verse, and concludes thus:--

    "In the bosom of the Lord, with a pure death, Samhthann passed
          from her sufferings."

Indeed, the Irish kings of this period manifested their admiration of peaceful living, and
their desire for holy deaths, in a more practical way than by poetic encomiums on others. In
704 Beg Boirche "took a pilgrim's staff, and died on his pilgrimage." In 729 Flahertach renounced
his regal honours, and retired to Armagh, where he died. In 758 Donal died on a pilgrimage
at Iona, after a reign of twenty years; and in 765 his successor, Nial Frassagh, abdicated
the throne, and became a monk at Iona. Here he died in 778, and was buried in the tomb of the
Irish kings in that island.

An Irish poet, who died in 742, is said to have played a clever trick on the "foreigners" of
Dublin. He composed a poem for them, and then requested payment for his literary labours. The
Galls,[194] who were probably Saxons, refused to meet his demand, but Rumrann said he would
be content with two pinguins (pennies) from every good man, and one from each bad one. The
result may be anticipated. Rumrann is described as "an adept in wisdom, chronology, and poetry;"
we might perhaps add, and in knowledge of human nature. In the Book of Ballymote he is called
the Virgil of Ireland. A considerable number of Saxons were now in the country; and it is said
that a British king, named Constantine, who had become a monk, was at that time Abbot of Rahen,
in the King's county, and that at Cell-Belaigh there were seven streets[195] of those foreigners.
Gallen, in the King's county, was called Galin of the Britons, and Mayo was called Mayo of
the Saxons, from the number of monasteries therein, founded by members of these nations.

The entries during the long reign of Domhnall contain little save obituaries of abbots and
saints. The first year of the reign of Nial Frassagh is distinguished by a shower of silver,
a shower of wheat, and a shower of honey. The Annals of Clonmacnois say that there was a most
severe famine throughout the whole kingdom during the early part of his reign, so much that
the king himself had very little to live upon. Then the king prayed very fervently to God,
being in company with seven holy bishops; and he asked that he might die rather than see so
many of his faithful subjects perishing, while he was helpless to relieve them. At the conclusion
of his prayer, the "three showers" fell from heaven; and then the king and the seven bishops
gave great thanks to the Lord.

But a more terrible calamity than famine was even then impending, and, if we may believe the
old chroniclers, not without marvellous prognostications of its approach. In the year 767 there
occurred a most fearful storm of thunder and lightning, with "terrific and horrible signs."
It would appear that the storm took place while a fair was going on, which obtained the name
of the "Fair of the clapping of hands." Fear and horror seized the men of Ireland, so that
their religious seniors ordered them to make two fasts, together with fervent prayer, and one
meal between them, to protect and save them from a pestilence, precisely at Michaelmas.[196]

The first raid of the Danish pirates is recorded thus: "The age of Christ 790 [recte 795].
The twenty-fifth year of Donnchadh. The burning of Reachrainn[197] by plunderers; and its shrines
were broken and plundered." They had already attacked the English coasts, "whilst the pious
King Bertric was reigning over its western division." Their arrival was sudden and so unexpected,
that the king's officer took them for merchants, paying with his life for the mistake.[198]
A Welsh chronicle, known by the name of Brut y Tywysogion, or the Chronicle of the Chieftains,
has a corresponding record under the year 790: "Ten years with fourscore and seven hundred
was the age of Christ when the pagans went to Ireland." Three MSS. add, "and destroyed Rechren."
Another chronicle mentions, that the black pagans, who were the first of their nation to land
in Ireland, had previously been defeated in Glamorganshire, and after their defeat they had
invaded Ireland, and devastated Rechru.

If by bravery we understand utter recklessness of life, and utter recklessness in inflicting
cruelties on others, then the Vikings may be termed brave. The heroism of patient endurance
was a bravery but little understood at that period. If the heathen Viking was brave when he
plundered and burned monastic shrines--when he massacred the defenceless with wanton cruelty--when
he flung little children on the points of spears, and gloated over their dying agonies; perhaps
we may also admit those who endured such torments, either in their own persons, or in the persons
of those who were dear to them, and yet returned again and again to restore the shrine so rudely
destroyed, have also their claim to be termed brave, and may demand some commendation for that
virtue from posterity.

As plunder was the sole object of these barbarians, they naturally sought it first where it
could be obtained most easily and surely. The islands on the Irish coast were studded with
monasteries. Their position was chosen as one which seemed peculiarly suitable for a life of
retreat from worldly turmoil, and contemplation of heavenly things. They were richly endowed,
for ancient piety deemed it could never give enough to God. The shrines were adorned with jewels,
purchased with the wealth which the monks had renounced for their own use; the sacred vessels
were costly, the gifts of generous hearts. The Danes commenced their work of plunder and devastation
in the year 795. Three years after, A.D. 798, they ravaged Inis-patrick of Man and the Hebrides.
In 802 they burned "Hi-Coluim-Cille." In 806 they attacked the island again, and killed sixty-eight
of the laity and clergy. In 807 they became emboldened by success, and for the first time marched
inland; and after burning Inishmurray, they attacked Roscommon. During the years 812 and 813
they made raids in Connaught and Munster, but not without encountering stout resistance from
the native forces. After this predatory and internecine warfare had continued for about thirty
years, Turgesius, a Norwegian prince, established himself as sovereign of the Vikings, and
made Armagh his head-quarters, A.D. 830. If the Irish chieftains had united their forces, and
acted in concert, the result would have been the expulsion of the intruders; but, unhappily,
this unity of purpose in matters political has never existed. The Danes made and broke alliances
with the provincial kings at their own convenience, while these princes gladly availed themselves
of even temporary assistance from their cruel foes, while engaged in domestic wars, which should
never have been undertaken. Still the Northmen were more than once driven from the country
by the bravery of the native commanders, and they often paid dearly for the cruel wrongs they
inflicted on their hapless victims. Sometimes the Danish chiefs mustered all their forces,
and left the island for a brief period, to ravage the shores of England or Scotland; but they
soon returned to inflict new barbarities on the unfortunate Irish.[199]

Burning churches or destroying monasteries was a favourite pastime of these pirates, wherever
they could obtain a landing on Christian shores; and the number of religious houses in Ireland
afforded them abundant means of gratifying their barbarous inclinations. But when they became
so far masters as to have obtained some permanent settlement, this mode of proceeding was considered
either more troublesome or less profitable than that of appropriating to themselves the abbeys
and churches. Turgesius, it is said, placed an abbot of his own in every monastery; and as
he had already conferred ecclesiastical offices on himself and on his lady, we may presume
he was not very particular in his selections. The villages, too, were placed under the rule
of a Danish captain; and each family was obliged to maintain a soldier of that nation, who
made himself master of the house, using and wasting the food for lack of which the starving
children of the lawful owner were often dying of hunger.

All education was strictly forbidden; books and manuscripts were burned and drowned; and the
poets, historians, and musicians imprisoned and driven to the woods and mountains. Martial
sports were interdicted, from the lowest to the highest rank. Even nobles and princes were
forbidden to wear their usual habiliments, the cast-off clothes of the Danes being considered
sufficiently good for slaves.

The clergy, who had been driven from their monasteries, concealed themselves as best they could,
continuing still their prayers and fasts, and the fervent recital of the Divine Office. The
Irish, true to their faith in every trial, were not slow to attribute their deliverance to
the prayers of these holy men.

In 831 Nial Caille led an army against them, and defeated them at Derry; but in the meanwhile,
Felim, King of Cashel, with contemptible selfishness, marched into Leinster to claim tribute,
and plundered every one, except the Danes, who should have been alone considered as enemies
at such a time. Even the churches were not spared by him, for he laid waste the termon-lands
of Clonmacnois, "up to the church door." After his death,[200] A.D. 843, a brave and good king
came to the rescue of his unfortunate country. While still King of Meath, Meloughlin had freed
the nation from Turgesius, one of its worst tyrants, by drowning him in Lough Owel. His death
was a signal for a general onslaught on the Danes. The people rose simultaneously, and either
massacred their enemies, or drove them to their ships. In 846 Meloughlin met their forces at
Skreen, where they were defeated; they also suffered a reverse at Kildare.

The Danes themselves were now divided into two parties--the Dubh Galls, or Black Gentiles;
and the Finn Galls, or White Gentiles. A fierce conflict took place between them in the year
850, in which the Dubh Galls conquered.[201] In the following year, however, both parties submitted
to Amlaff, son of the Norwegian king; and thus their power was once more consolidated. Amlaff
remained in Dublin; his brothers, Sitric and Ivar, stationed themselves in Waterford and Limerick.
A great meeting was now convened by the ecclesiastics of Ireland at Rathugh, for the purpose
of establishing peace and concord amongst the native princes. The northern Hy-Nials alone remained
belligerent; and to defend themselves, pursued the usual suicidal course of entering into an
alliance with the Danes. Upon the death of the Irish monarch, the northern chief, Hugh Finnlaith,
succeeded to the royal power; broke his treaty with Amlaff, which had been only one of convenience;
and turned his arms vigorously against the foreigners. This prince was married to a daughter
of Kenneth M'Alpine, the first sole Monarch of Scotland. After the death of the Irish prince,
his wife married his successor, Flann, who, according to the alternate plan of succession,
came of the southern Hy-Nial family, and was a son of Meloughlin, once the formidable opponent
of the lady's former husband. During the reign of Flann, Cormac Mac Cullinan, a prelate distinguished
for his learning and sanctity, was obliged to unite the office of priest and king. This unusual
combination, however, was not altogether without precedent. The archbishopric of Cashel owes
its origin remotely to this great man; as from the circumstance of the city of Cashel having
been the seat of royalty in the south, and the residence of the kings of Munster, it was exalted,
in the twelfth century, to the dignity of an archiepiscopal see.

Of Cormac, however interesting his history, we can only give a passing word. His reign commenced
peaceably; and so wise--perhaps we should rather say, so holy--was his rule, that his kingdom
once more enjoyed comparative tranquillity, and religion and learning flourished again as it
had done in happier times.

But the kingdom which he had been compelled to rule, was threatened by the very person who
should have protected it most carefully; and Cormac, after every effort to procure peace, was
obliged to defend his people against the attacks of Flann. Even then a treaty might have been
made with the belligerent monarch; but Cormac, unfortunately for his people and himself, was
guided by an abbot, named Flahertach, who was by no means so peaceably disposed as his good
master. This unruly ecclesiastic urged war on those who were already too willing to undertake
it; and then made such representations to the bishop-king, as to induce him to yield a reluctant
consent. It is said that Cormac had an intimation of his approaching end. It is at least certain,
that he made preparations for death, as if he believed it to be imminent.

On the eve of the fatal engagement he made his confession, and added some articles to his will,
in which he left large bounties to many of the religious houses throughout the kingdom. To
Lismore he bequeathed a golden chalice and some rich vestments; to Armagh, twenty-four ounces
of gold and silver; to his own church of Cashel, a golden and a silver chalice, with the famous
Saltair. Then he retired to a private place for prayer, desiring the few persons whom he had
informed of his approaching fate to keep their information secret, as he knew well the effect
such intelligence would have on his army, were it generally known.

Though the king had no doubt that he would perish on the field, he still showed the utmost
bravery, and made every effort to cheer and encourage his troops; but the men lost spirit in
the very onset of the battle, and probably were terrified at the numerical strength of their
opponents. Six thousand Munster men were slain, with many of their princes and chieftains.
Cormac was killed by falling under his horse, which missed its footing on a bank slippery with
the blood of the slain. A common soldier, who recognized the body, cut off his head, and brought
it as a trophy to Flann; but the monarch bewailed the death of the good and great prince, and
reproved the indignity with which his remains had been treated. This battle was fought at a
place called Bealagh Mughna, now Ballaghmoon, in the county of Kildare, a few miles from the
town of Carlow.[202]

Flahertach survived the battle, and, after some years spent in penance, became once more minister,
and ultimately King of Munster. As he advanced in years, he learned to love peace, and his
once irascible temper became calm and equable.

The Rock of Cashel, and the ruins of a small but once beautiful chapel, still preserve the
memory of the bishop-king. His literary fame also has its memorials. His Rule is contained
in a poem of fourteen stanzas, written in the most pure and ancient style of Gaedhilic, of
which, as well as of many other languages, the illustrious Cormac was so profound a master.
This Rule is general in several of its inculcations; but it appears to have been written particularly
as an instruction to a priest, for the moral and spiritual direction of himself and his flock.
He was also skilled in the Ogham writings, as may be gathered from a poem written by a contemporary,
who, in paying compliments to many of the Irish kings and chiefs, addresses the following stanza
to Cormac:--

    "Cormac of Cashel, with his champions,
    Munster is his,--may he long enjoy it!
    Around the King of Raith-Bicli are cultivated
    The letters and the trees."

The death of Cormac is thus pathetically deplored by Dallan, son of Môr:--

    "The bishop, the soul's director, the renowned, illustrious doctor,
    King of Caiseal, King of Farnumha: O God! alas for Cormac!"

Flann's last years were disturbed by domestic dissensions. His sons, Donough and Conor, both
rebelled against him; but Nial Glundubh (of the black knee), a northern Hy-Nial chief, led
an army against them, and compelled them to give hostages to their father. Flann died the following
year, A.D. 914, and was succeeded by the prince who had so ably defended him. Meanwhile, the
Danes were not idle. Amlaff[203] has signalized his advent by drowning Conchobhar, "heir apparent
of Tara;" by slaying all the chieftains of the Deisi at Cluain-Daimh; by killing the son of
Clennfaeladh, King of Muscraighe Breoghain; by smothering Machdaighren in a cave, and by the
destruction of Caitill Find (Ketill the White) and his whole garrison. Oisill is the next chief
of importance; and he "succeeded in plundering the greatest part of Ireland." It is not recorded
how long he was occupied in performing this exploit, but he was eventually slain, and his army
cut off, by the men of Erinn. The deaths of several Danish chieftains occured about this period,
and are referred to the vengeance of certain saints, whose shrines they had desecrated. In
A.D. 864 according to the Four Masters, 867 according to O'Flaherty, the Danes were defeated
at Lough Foyle, by Hugh Finnliath, King of Ireland. Soon after, Leinster and Munster were plundered
by a Scandinavian chief, named Baraid, who advanced as far as Ciarraighe (Kerry): "And they
left not a cave under ground that they did not explore; and they left nothing, from Limerick
to Cork, that they did not ravish." What treasures the antiquarian of the nineteenth century
must have lost by this marauder! How great must have been the wealth of the kings and princes
of ancient Erinn, when so much remains after so much was taken! In 877 the Black Gentiles took
refuge in Scotland, after suffering a defeat in an engagement with the White Gentiles. They
were, however, consoled by a victory over the men of Alba, in which Constantine, son of Kenneth,
was slain, and many others with him. Their success proved beneficial to Ireland, for we are
told that a period of "rest to the men of Erinn" ensued. The Danes still held their own in
Dublin and at Limerick, occasionally plundered the churches, and now and then had a skirmish
with the "men of Erinn;" but for forty years the country was free from the foreign fleets,
and, therefore, enjoyed a time of comparative quiet.

In the year 913 new fleets arrived. They landed in the harbour of Waterford, where they had
a settlement formerly; but though they obtained assistance here, they were defeated by the
native Irish, both in Kerry and in Tipperary. Sitric came with another fleet in 915, and settled
at Cenn-Fuait.[204] Here he was attacked by the Irish army, but they were repulsed with great
slaughter. Two years after they received another disastrous defeat at Cill-Mosanhog, near Rathfarnham.
A large cromlech, still in that neighbourhood, probably marks the graves of the heroes slain
in that engagement. Twelve kings fell in this battle. Their names are given in the Wars of
the Gaedhil, and by other authorities, though in some places the number is increased. Nial
Glundubh was amongst the slain. He is celebrated in pathetic verse by the bards. Of the battle
was said:--

    "Fierce and hard was the Wednesday
    On which hosts were strewn under the fall of shields;
    It shall be called, till judgment's day,
    The destructive burning of Ath-cliath."

The lamentation of Nial was, moreover, said:--

    "Sorrowful this day is sacred Ireland,
    Without a valiant chief of hostage reign!
    It is to see the heavens without a sun,
    To view Magh-Neill[205] without a Nial."

    "There is no cheerfulness in the happiness of men;
    There is no peace or joy among the hosts;
    No fair can be celebrated
    Since the sorrow of sorrow died."

Donough, son of Flann Sinna, succeeded, and passed his reign in obscurity, with the exception
of a victory over the Danes at Bregia. Two great chieftains, however, compensated by their
prowess for his indifference; these were Muircheartach, son of the brave Nial Glundubh, the
next heir to the throne, and Callaghan of Cashel, King of Munster. The northern prince was
a true patriot, willing to sacrifice every personal feeling for the good of his country: consequently,
he proved a most formidable foe to the Danish invader. Callaghan of Cashel was, perhaps, as
brave, but his name cannot be held up to the admiration of posterity. The personal advancement
of the southern Hy-Nials was more to him than the political advancement of his country; and
he disgraced his name and his nation by leaguing with the invaders. In the year 934 he pillaged
Clonmacnois. Three years later he invaded Meath and Ossory, in conjunction with the Danes.
Muircheartach was several times on the eve of engagements with the feeble monarch who nominally
ruled the country, but he yielded for the sake of peace, or, as the chroniclers quaintly say,
"God pacified them." After one of these pacifications, they joined forces, and laid "siege
to the foreigners of Ath-cliath, so that they spoiled and plundered all that was under the
dominion of the foreigners, from Ath-cliath to Ath-Truisten."[206]

In the twenty-second year of Donough, Muircheartach determined on a grand expedition for the
subjugation of the Danes. He had already conducted a fleet to the Hebrides, from whence he
returned flushed with victory. His first care was to assemble a body of troops of special valour;
and he soon found himself at the head of a thousand heroes, and in a position to commence "his
circuit of Ireland." The Danish chief, Sitric, was first seized as a hostage. He then carried
off Lorcan, King of Leinster. He next went to the Munster men, who were also prepared for battle;
but they too yielded, and gave up their monarch also, "and a fetter was put on him by Muircheartach."
He afterwards proceeded into Connaught, where Conchobhar, son of Tadhg, came to meet him, "but
no gyve or lock was put upon him." He then returned to Oileach, carrying these kings with him
as hostages. Here he feasted them for five months with knightly courtesy, and then sent them
to the Monarch Donough.

After these exploits we cannot be surprised that Muircheartach should be styled the Hector
of the west of Europe. But he soon finds his place in the never-ceasing obituary. In two years
after his justly famous exploit, he was slain by "Blacaire, son of Godfrey, lord of the foreigners."
This event occurred on the 26th of March, A.D. 941, according to the chronology of the Four
Masters. The true year, however, is 943. The chroniclers briefly observe, that "Ard-Macha was
plundered by the same foreigners, on the day after the killing of Muircheartach."[207]

Donough died in 942, after a reign of twenty-five years. He was succeeded by Congallach, who
was killed by the Danes, A.D. 954. Donnell O'Neill, a son of the brave Muircheartach, now obtained
the royal power, such as it was; and at his death the throne reverted to Maelseachlainn, or
Malachy II., the last of his race who ever held the undisputed sovereignty of Ireland. But
it must not be supposed that murders and massacres are the staple commodities of our annals
during this eventful period. Every noteworthy event is briefly and succinctly recorded. We
find, from time to time, mention of strange portents, such as double suns, and other celestial
phenomena of a more or less remarkable character. Fearful storms are also chronicled, which
appear to have occurred at certain intervals, and hard frosts, which proved almost as trying
to the "men of Erinn" as the wars of the Gentiles, black or white. But the obituaries of abbots
or monks, with the quaint remarks appended thereto, and epitomes of a lifetime in a sentence,
are by no means the least interesting portion of those ancient tomes. In one page we may find
record of the Lord of Aileach, who takes a pilgrim's staff; in another, we have mention of
the Abbot Muireadhach and others, who were "destroyed in the refectory" of Druim-Mesclainn
by Congallach; and we read in the lamentation of Muireadhach, that he was "the lamp of every
choir." Then we are told simply how a nobleman "died in religion," as if that were praise enough
for him; though another noble, Domhnall, is said to have "died in religion, after a good life."
Of some abbots and bishops there is nothing more than the death record; but in the age of Christ
926, when Celedabhaill, son of Scannal, went to Rome on his pilgrimage from the abbacy of Beannchair,
we are given in full the four quatrains which he composed at his departure,--a composition
which speaks highly for the poetic powers and the true piety of the author. He commences thus:--

 "Time for me to prepare to pass from the shelter of a habitation,
  To journey as a pilgrim over the surface of the noble lively sea;
  Time to depart from the snares of the flesh, with all its guilt;
  Time now to ruminate how I may find the great Son of Mary;
  Time to seek virtue, to trample upon the will with sorrow;
  Time to reject vices, and to renounce the demon.

         *       *       *       *       *

 "Time to barter the transitory things for the country of the King of heaven;
  Time to defy the ease of the little earthly world of a hundred pleasures;
  Time to work at prayer in adoration of the high King of angels."

The obituary notices, however, were not always complimentary. We find the following entry in
the Annals of Clonmacnois:--"Tomhair Mac Alchi, King of Denmark, is reported to go [to have
gone] to hell with his pains, as he deserved."

FOOTNOTES:

[192] Expanded.--I take this opportunity of requesting from laymen or ecclesiastics who may
read this announcement, the favour of any information they may consider valuable.

[193] Heaven.--Ec. Hist. lib. iv. c. 26. "From that time the hopes and strength of the English
crown began to waver and retrograde, for the Picts recovered their own lands," &c. The Annals
of the Four Masters mention a mortality among cattle throughout the whole world, and a severe
frost, which followed this invasion: "The sea between Ireland and Scotland was frozen, so that
there was a communication between them on the ice."--vol. ii. p. 291. They also mention the
mission of Adamnan to "Saxon land."

[194] Galls.--Gall was a generic name for foreigners. The Danes were Finn Galls, or White Foreigners,
and Dubh Galls, or Black Foreigners. The former were supposed to have been the inhabitants
of Norway; the latter, of Jutland. In Irish, gaill is the nom., and gall, gen.

[195] Streets.--In Armagh the buildings were formed into streets and wards, for the better
preservation of monastic discipline. Armagh was divided into three parts--trian-more, the town
proper; trian-Patrick, the cathedral close; and trian-Sassenagh, the home of the foreign students.

[196] Michaelmas.--Annals, p. 371. Another fearful thunderstorm is recorded in the Annals for
799. This happened on the eve of St. Patrick's Day. It is said that a thousand and ten persons
were killed on the coast of Clare. The island of Fitha (now Mutton Island) was partly submerged,
and divided into three parts. There was also a storm in 783--"thunder, lightning, and wind-storms"--by
which the Monastery of Clonbroney was destroyed.

[197] Reachrainn.-Rechru appears to be the correct form. It has not yet been ascertained whether
this refers to Lambay, near Dublin, or the island 01 Rathlinn. See note, p. 32, to the "Introduction"
to the Wars of the Gaedhil with the Gall.

[198] Mistake.--Ethel. Chron. Pro. book iii.

[199] Irish.--The history of the two hundred years during which these northern pirates desolated
the island, has been preserved in a MS. of venerable age and undoubted authenticity. It is
entitled Cogadh Gaedhil re Gallaibh (the Wars of the Gaedhil with the Gall). It was quoted
by Keating, known to Colgan, and used by the Four Masters; but for many years it was supposed
to have been completely lost, until it was discovered, in 1840, by Mr. O'Curry, among the Seabright
MSS. The work is now edited, with a translation and most valuable notes, by Dr. Todd. Several
other copies have been discovered since, notably one by the Franciscan Brother, Michael O'Clery,
which is at present in the Burgundian Library at Brussels. From internal evidence, it is presumed
that the author was a contemporary of King Brian Boroimhé. Dr. O'Connor refers the authorship
to Mac Liag, who was chief poet to that monarch, and died in 1016, two years after his master.
Dr. Todd evidently inclines to this opinion, though he distinctly states that there is no authority
for it.

[200] Death.--It appears doubtful whether he really died at this time. It is said that he repented
of his sins of sacrilege, and ended his days in penance and religious retirement. See Four
Masters, p. 472.

[201] Conquered.--Duald Mac Firbis gives a curious account of these contests in his fragments
of Annals. The White Galls, or Norwegians, had long been masters of the situation. The Black
Galls fought with them for three days and nights, and were finally victorious. They take the
ships they have captured to Dublin, and deprive the Lochlanns (Black Galls) of all the spoil
they had so cruelly and unjustly acquired from the "shrines and sanctuaries of the saints of
Erinn;" which the annalist naturally considers a judgment on them for their sins. They make
another struggle, and gain the victory. But the Banish general, Horm, advises his men to put
themselves under the protection of St. Patrick, and to promise the saint "honorable alms for
gaining victory and triumph" over enemies who had plundered his churches. They comply with
this advice; and though greatly inferior in numbers, they gain the victory, "on account of
the tutelage of St. Patrick."

[202] Carlow.--The site of the battle is still shown there, and even the stone on which the
soldier decapitated Cormac. Cormac's death is thus described in a MS. in the Burgundian Library:
"The hind feet of his horse slipped on the slippery road in the track of that blood; the horse
fell backwards, and broke his [Cormac's] back and his neck in twain; and he said, when falling,
In manus tuas commendo spiritum meum, and he gives up his spirit; and the impious sons of malediction
come and thrust spears into his body, and sever his head from his body." Keating gives a curious
account of this battle, from an ancient tract not known at present.

[203] Amlaff.--Dr. Todd identifies Amlaff with Olaf Huita (the white), of Scandinavian history,
who was usually styled King of Dublin, and was the leader of the Northmen in Ireland for many
years. See "Introduction" to the Wars of the Gaedhil, p. 69.

[204] Cenn-Fuait.--Fuat Head. The site has not been accurately identified.

[205] Magh-Neill, i.e., the Plain of Nial, a bardic name for Ireland.--Four Masters, vol. ii.
p. 595.

[206] Ath-Truisten.--From Dublin to a ford on the river Green, near Mullaghmast, co. Kildare.

[207] Muircheartach.--This prince obtained the soubriquet of Muircheartach of the Leathern
Cloaks. The origin of this appellation has not been precisely ascertained.

CHAPTER XIII.

The Battle of Dundalk--The Danes supposed to be Christianized--Brian Boroimhé and his Brother
Mahoun--The Dalcassians fight the Danes--Mahoun is assassinated--Brian revenges his Brother's
Murder--Malachy's Exploits against the Danes--Malachy and Brian form a Treaty and fight the
Danes--Malachy wins "the Collar of Gold"--Brian's "Happy Family" at Kincora--He usurps the
Supreme Power, and becomes Monarch of Ireland--Remote Causes of the Battle of Clontarf--Gormflaith
is "grim" with Brian--Blockade of Dublin--The Danes prepare for a Fierce Conflict--Brian prepares
also--The Battle of Clontarf--Disposition of the Forces--Brian's Death--Defeat of the Danes.

[A.D. 926-1022.]

Many of the sea-coast towns were now in possession of the Danes. They had founded Limerick,
and, indeed, Wexford and Waterford almost owe them the debt of parentage. Obviously, the ports
were their grand securities--a ready refuge if driven by native valour to embark in their fleets;
convenient head-quarters when marauding expeditions to England or Scotland were in preparation.
But the Danes never obtained the same power in Ireland as in the sister country. The domestic
dissensions of the men of Erinn, ruinous as they were to the nation, gave it at least the advantage
of having a brave and resolute body of men always in arms, and ready to face the foe at a moment's
notice, when no selfish policy interfered. In 937 Athelstane gained his famous victory over
the Danes at Brunanbriegh in Northumberland, and came triumphantly to reclaim the dagger[208]
which he had left at the shrine of St. John of Beverley. After his death, in 941, Amlaff returned
to Northumberland, and once more restored the Danish sway. From this time, until the accession
of the Danish King Canute, England was more or less under the dominion of these ruthless tyrants.[209]

"The Danes of Ireland, at this period, were ruled by Sitric, son of Turgesius, whose name was
sufficient to inspire the Irish with terror. Through policy he professed willingness to enter
into a treaty of peace with Callaghan, King of Munster; and, as proof of his sincerity, offered
him his sister, the Princess Royal of Denmark, in marriage. The Irish king had fallen in love
with this amiable and beautiful princess, and he readily consented to the fair and liberal
measures proposed. He sent word to Sitric he would visit him; and, attended by a royal retinue,
to be followed in a little time by his guards, as escort for his future queen, proceeded to
meet his royal bride.

"Sitric's project of inveigling the King of Munster into his district, in order to make him
prisoner, under the expectation of being married to the Princess of Denmark, having been disclosed
to his wife, who was of Irish birth, she determined to warn the intended victim of the meditated
treachery, and accordingly she disguised herself, and placed herself in a pass which Callaghan
should traverse, and met him. Here she informed him who she was, the design of Sitric against
him, and warned him to return as fast as possible. This was not practicable. Sitric had barred
the way with armed men; and Callaghan and his escort, little prepared for an encounter, found
themselves hemmed in by an overwhelming Danish force. To submit without a struggle was never
the way with the Momonians. They formed a rampart round the person of their king, and cut through
the Danish ranks. Fresh foes met them on every side; and, after a bloody struggle, the men
of Munster were conquered. Callaghan, the king, and Prince Duncan, son of Kennedy, were brought
captives to Dublin. Then the royal prisoners were removed to Armagh, and their safe keeping
entrusted to nine Danish earls, who had a strong military force at their orders to guard them.

"The news of this insidious act rapidly fanned the ardour of the Munster troops to be revenged
for the imprisonment of their beloved king. Kennedy, the Prince of Munster, father of Duncan,
was appointed regent, with ample powers to govern the country in the king's absence. The first
step was to collect an army to cope with the Danes. To assemble a sufficient body of troops
on land was easy; but the great strength of the northern rovers lay in their swift-sailing
ships. 'It must strike the humblest comprehension with astonishment,' says Marmion, 'that the
Irish, although possessed of an island abounding with forests of the finest oak, and other
suitable materials for ship-building--enjoying also the most splendid rivers, loughs, and harbours,
so admirably adapted to the accommodation of extensive fleets, should, notwithstanding, for
so many centuries, allow the piratical ravages of the Danes, and subsequently the more dangerous
subversion of their independence by the Anglo-Normans, without an effort to build a navy that
could cope with those invaders on that element from which they could alone expect invasion
from a foreign foe.' This neglect has also been noticed by the distinguished Irish writer--Wilde--who,
in his admirably executed Catalogue of the Antiquities in the Royal Irish Academy, observes:--'Little
attention has been paid to the subject of the early naval architecture of this country. So
far as we yet know, two kinds of boats appear to have been in use in very early times in the
British Isles--the canoe and the corragh; the one formed of a single piece of wood, the other
composed of wickerwork, covered with hides.' Larger vessels there must have been; though, from
the length of time which has since elapsed, we have no traces of them now. Kennedy not only
collected a formidable army by land, but 'he fitted out a fleet of ships, and manned it with
able seamen, that he might make sure of his revenge, and attack the enemy by sea and land.'
The command of the fleet was conferred on an admiral perfectly skilled in maritime affairs,
Failbhe Fion, King of Desmond.

"When the army of Munster arrived near Armagh, they learnt the prisoners had been removed thence
by Sitric, and placed on board ship. Enraged at this disappointment, they gave no quarter to
the Danes, and advanced rapidly to Dundalk, where the fleet lay, with the king and young prince
on board. Sitric, unable to withstand the opposing army on shore, ordered his troops to embark,
and resolved to avoid the encounter through means of his ships. While the baffled Irish army
were chafing at this unexpected delay to their hoped for vengeance, they espied, from the shore
of Dundalk, where they encamped, a sail of ships, in regular order, steering with a favourable
gale towards the Danish fleet moored in Dundalk bay. Joy instantly filled their hearts; for
they recognized the fleet of Munster, with the admiral's vessel in the van, and the rest ranged
in line of battle. The Danes were taken by surprise; they beheld an enemy approach from a side
where they rather expected the raven flag of their country floating on the ships. The Munster
admiral gave them no time to form. He steered straight to Sitric's vessel, and, with his hardy
crew, sprang on board. Here a sight met his gaze which filled his heart with rage; he saw his
beloved monarch, Callaghan, and the young prince, tied with cords to the main-mast. Having,
with his men, fought through the Danish troops to the side of the king and prince, he cut the
cords and set them free. He then put a sword into the hands of the rescued king, and they fought
side by side: Meanwhile Sitric, and his brothers, Tor and Magnus, did all they could to retrieve
the fortunes of the day. At the head of a chosen band they attacked the Irish admiral, and
he fell, covered with wounds. His head, exposed by Sitric on a pole, fired the Danes with hope--the
Irish with tenfold rage. Fingal, next in rank to Failbhe Fion, took the command, and determined
to avenge his admiral. Meeting the Danish ruler in the combat, he seized Sitric round the neck,
and flung himself with his foe into the sea, where both perished. Seagdor and Connall, two
captains of Irish ships, imitated this example--threw themselves upon Tor and Magnus, Sitric's
brothers, and jumped with them overboard, when all were drowned. These desperate deeds paralysed
the energy of the Danes, and the Irish gained a complete victory in Dundalk bay.

"The Irish fleet having thus expelled the pirates from their coast, came into harbour, where
they were received with acclamations of joy by all who witnessed their bravery. Such is a summary
of Keating's poetic account of this day's achievements; and there are extant fuller accounts
in various pieces of native poetry, especially one entitled 'The Pursuit after Callaghan of
Cashel, by the Chief of Munster, after he had been entrapped by the Danes.'"

The year 948 has generally been assigned as that of the conversion of the Danes to Christianity;
but, whatever the precise period may have been, the conversion was rather of a doubtful character
as we hear of their burning churches, plundering shrines, and slaughtering ecclesiastics with
apparently as little remorse as ever. In the very year in which the Danes of Dublin are said
to have been converted, they burned the belfry of Slane while filled with religious who had
sought refuge there. Meanwhile the Irish monarchies were daily weakened by divisions and domestic
wars. Connaught was divided between two or three independent princes, and Munster into two
kingdoms.

The ancient division of the country into five provinces no longer held good; and the Ard-Righ,
or chief monarch, was such only in name. Even the great northern Hy-Nials, long the bravest
and most united of the Irish clans, were now divided into two portions, the Cinel-Connaill
and Cinel-Owen; the former of whom had been for some time excluded from the alternate accession
of sovereignty, which was still maintained between the two great families of the race of Nial.
But, though this arrangement was persevered in with tolerable regularity, it tended little
to the promotion of peace, as the northern princes were ever ready to take advantage of the
weakness of the Meath men, who were their inferiors both in numbers and in valour.

The sovereignty of Munster had also been settled on the alternate principle, between the great
tribe of Dalcassians, or north Munster race, and the Eoghanists, or southeners. This plan of
succession, as may be supposed, failed to work peaceably; and, in 942, Kennedy, the father
of the famous Brian Boroimhé, contested the sovereignty with the Eoghanist prince, Callaghan
Cashel, but yielded in a chivalrous spirit, not very common under such circumstances, and joined
his former opponent in his contests with the Danes. The author of the Wars of the Gaedhil with
the Gall gives a glowing account of the genealogy of Brian and his eldest brother, Mathgamhain.
They are described as "two fierce, magnificent heroes, the two stout, able, valiant pillars,"
who then governed the Dalcassian tribes; Mathgamhain (Mahoun) being the actual chieftain, Brian
the heir apparent. A guerilla war was carried on for some time in the woods of Thomond, in
which no quarter was given on either side, and wherein it was "woe to either party to meet
the other." Mahoun at last proposed a truce, but Brian refused to consent to this arrangement.
He continued the war until he found his army reduced to fifteen men. Mahoun then sent for him.
An interview took place, which is described in the form of a poetic dialogue, between the two
brothers. Brian reproached Mahoun with cowardice; Mahoun reproached Brian with imprudence.
Brian hints broadly that Mahoun had interested motives in making this truce, and declares that
neither Kennedy, their father, nor Lorcan, their grandfather, would have been so quiescent
towards the foreigners for the sake of wealth, nor would they have given them even as much
time as would have sufficed to play a game of chess[210] on the green of Magh Adhair. Mahoun
kept his temper, and contented himself with reproaching Brian for his recklessness, in sacrificing
the lives of so many of his faithful followers to no purpose. Brian replied that he would never
abandon his inheritance, without a contest, to "such foreigners as Black Grim Gentiles."

The result was a conference of the tribe, who voted for war, and marched into the country of
the Eoghanists (the present co. Kerry), who at once joined the standard of the Dalcassians.
The Danes suffered severely in Munster. This aroused the Limerick Danes; and their chieftain,
Ivar, attacked the territory of Dal-Cais, an exploit in which he was joined, to their eternal
shame, by several native princes and tribes, amongst whom were Maolmuadh (Molloy), son of Braun,
King of Desmond, and Donabhan (Donovan), son of Cathal, King of Ui Cairbhri. The result was
a fierce battle at Sulcoit, near Tipperary, wherein the Danes were gloriously defeated. The
action was commenced by the Northmen. It continued from sunrise till mid-day, and terminated
in the rout of the foreigners, who fled "to the ditches, and to the valleys, and to the solitudes
of the great sweet flower plain," where they were followed by the conquerors, and massacred
without mercy.

The Dalcassians now obtained possession of Limerick, with immense spoils of jewels, gold and
silver, foreign saddles, "soft, youthful, bright girls, blooming silk-clad women, and active
well-formed boys." The active boys were soon disposed of, for we find that they collected the
prisoners on the hillocks of Saingel, where "every one that was fit for war was put to death,
and every one that was fit for a slave was enslaved." This event is dated A.D. 968.

Mahoun was now firmly established on the throne, but his success procured him many enemies.
A conspiracy was formed against him under the auspices of Ivar of Limerick and his son, Dubhcenn.
The Eoghanist clans basely withdrew their allegiance from their lawful sovereign, allied themselves
with the Danes, and became principals in the plot of assassination. Their motive was as simple
as their conduct was vile. The two Eoghanist families were represented by Donovan and Molloy.
They were descendants of Oilioll Oluim, from whom Mahoun was also descended, but his family
were Dalcassians. Hitherto the Eoghanists had succeeded in depriving the tribes of Dal-Cais
of their fair share of alternate succession to the throne of Munster; they became alarmed at
and jealous of the advancement of the younger tribe, and determined to do by treachery what
they could not do by force. With the usual headlong eagerness of traitors, they seem to have
forgotten Brian, and quite overlooked the retribution they might expect at his hands for their
crime. There are two different accounts of the murder, which do not coincide in detail. The
main facts, however, are reliable: Mahoun was entrapped in some way to the house of Donovan,
and there he was basely murdered, in violation of the rights of hospitality, and in defiance
of the safe-conduct of the bishop, which he secured before his visit.

The traitors gained nothing by their treachery except the contempt of posterity. Brian was
not slow in avenging his brother. "He was not a stone in place of an egg, nor a wisp of hay
in place of a club; but he was a hero in place of a hero, and valour after valour."[211]

Public opinion was not mistaken in its estimate of his character. Two years after the death
of Mahoun, Brian invaded Donovan's territory, drove off his cattle, took the fortress of Cathair
Cuan, and slew Donovan and his Danish ally, Harolt. He next proceeded to settle accounts with
Molloy. Cogarán is sent to the whole tribe of Ui Eachach, to know "the reason why" they killed
Mahoun, and to declare that no cumhal or fine would be received, either in the shape of hostages,
gold, or cattle, but that Molloy must himself be given up. Messages were also sent to Molloy,
both general and particular--the general message challenged him to battle at Belach-Lechta;
the particular message, which in truth he hardly deserved, was a challenge to meet Murrough,
Brian's son, in single combat. The result was the battle of Belach-Lechta,[212] where Molloy
was slain, with twelve hundred of his troops, both native and foreign. Brian remained master
of the field and of the kingdom, A.D. 978.

Brian was now undisputed King of Munster. In 984 he was acknowledged Monarch of Leth Mogha,
the southern half of Ireland. Meanwhile Malachy, who governed Leth Cuinn, or the northern half
of Ireland, had not been idle. He fought a battle with the Danes in 979, near Tara, in which
he defeated their forces, and slew Raguall, son of Amlaibh, King of Dublin. Amlaibh felt the
defeat so severely, that he retired to Iona, where he died of a broken heart. Donough O'Neill,
son of Muircheartach, died this year, and Malachy obtained the regal dignity. Emboldened by
his success at Tara, he resolved to attack the foreigners in Dublin; he therefore laid siege
to that city, and compelled it to surrender after three days, liberated two thousand prisoners,
including the King of Leinster, and took abundant spoils. At the same time he issued a proclamation,
freeing every Irishman then in bondage to the Danes, and stipulating that the race of Nial
should henceforth be free from tribute to the foreigners.

It is probable that Brian had already formed designs for obtaining the royal power. The country
resounded with the fame of his exploits, and Malachy became aware at last that he should either
have him for an ally or an enemy. He prudently chose the former alternative, and in the nineteenth
year of his reign (997 according to the Four Masters) he made arrangements with Brian for a
great campaign against the common enemy. Malachy surrendered all hostages to Brian, and Brian
agreed to recognize Malachy as sole Monarch of northern Erinn, "without war or trespass." This
treaty was absolutely necessary, in order to offer effective resistance to the Danes. The conduct
of the two kings towards each other had not been of a conciliatory nature previously. In 981
Malachy had invaded the territory of the Dalcassians, and uprooted the great oak-tree of Magh
Adair, under which its kings were crowned--an insult which could not fail to excite bitter
feelings both in prince and people. In 989 the monarch occupied himself fighting the Danes
in Dublin, to whom he laid siege for twenty nights, reducing the garrison to such straits that
they were obliged to drink the salt water when the tide rose in the river. Brian then made
reprisals on Malachy, by sending boats up the Shannon burning the royal rath of Dun Sciath.
Malachy, in his turn, recrossed the Shannon, burned Nenagh, plundered Ormonde, and defeated
Brian himself in battle. He then marched again to Dublin, and once more attacked "the proud
invader." It was on this occasion that he obtained the "collar of gold," which Moore has immortalized
in his world-famous "Melodies."

When the kings had united their forces, they obtained another important victory at Glen-Mama.[213]
Harolt, son of Olaf Cuaran, the then Danish king, was slain, and four thousand of his followers
perished with him. The victorious army marched at once to Dublin. Here they obtained spoils
of great value, and made many slaves and captives. According to some accounts, Brian remained
in Dublin until the feast of St. Brigid (February 1st); other annalists say he only remained
from Great Christmas to Little Christmas. Meanwhile there can be but little doubt that Brian
had in view the acquisition of the right to be called sole monarch of Ireland. It is a blot
on an otherwise noble character--an ugly spot in a picture of more than ordinary interest.
Sitric, another son of Olaf's, fled for protection to Aedh and Eochaidh, two northern chieftains;
but they gave him up, from motives of fear or policy to Brian's soldiers, and after due submission
he was restored to his former position. Brian then gave his daughter in marriage to Sitric,
and completed the family alliance by espousing Sitric's mother, Gormflaith, a lady of rather
remarkable character, who had been divorced from her second husband, Malachy. Brian now proceeded
to depose Malachy. The account of this important transaction is given in so varied a manner
by different writers, that it seems almost impossible to ascertain the truth. The southern
annalists are loud in their assertions of the incapacity of the reigning monarch, and would
have it believed that Brian only yielded to the urgent entreaties of his countrymen in accepting
the proffered crown. But the warlike exploits of Malachy have been too faithfully recorded
to leave any doubt as to his prowess in the field; and we may probably class the regret of
his opponent in accepting his position, with similar protestations made under circumstances
in which such regret was as little likely to be real.

The poet Moore, with evident partiality for the subject of his song, declares that the magnanimous
character of Malachy was the real ground of peace under such provocation, and that he submitted
to the encroachments of his rival rather from motives of disinterested desire for his country's
welfare, than from any reluctance or inability to fight his own battle.

But Brian had other chieftains to deal with, of less amiable or more warlike propensities:
the proud Hy-Nials of the north were long in yielding to his claims; but even these he at length
subdued, compelling the Cinel-Eoghain to give him hostages, and carrying off the Lord of Cinel-Connaill
bodily to his fortress at Kincora. Here he had assembled a sort of "happy family," consisting
of refractory princes and knights, who, refusing hostages to keep the peace with each other,
were obliged to submit to the royal will and pleasure, and at least to appear outwardly in harmony.

These precautionary measures, however summary, and the energetic determination of Brian to
have peace kept either by sword or law, have given rise to the romantic ballad of the lady
perambulating Erinn with a gold ring and white wand, and passing unmolested through its once
belligerent kingdoms.

Brian now turned his attention to the state of religion and literature, restoring the churches
and monasteries which had been plundered and burnt by the Danes. He is said also to have founded
the churches of Killaloe and Iniscealtra, and to have built the round tower of Tomgrany, in
the present county Clare. A gift of twenty ounces of gold to the church of Armagh,--a large
donation for that period,--is also recorded amongst his good deeds.[214]

There is some question as to the precise year in which Brian obtained or usurped the authority
and position of Ard-Righ: A.D. 1002, however, is the date most usually accepted. He was probably
about sixty-one years of age, and Malachy was then about fifty-three.[215]

It will be remembered that Brian had married the Lady Gormflaith. Her brother, Maelmordha,
was King of Leinster, and he had obtained his throne through the assistance of the Danes. Brian
was Gormflaith's third husband. In the words of the Annals, she had made three leaps--"jumps
which a woman should never jump"--a hint that her matrimonial arrangements had not the sanction
of canon law. She was remarkable for her beauty, but her temper was proud and vindictive. This
was probably the reason why she was repudiated both by Malachy and Brian. There can be no doubt
that she and her brother, Maelmordha, were the remote causes of the famous battle of Clontarf.
The story is told thus: Maelmordha came to Brian with an offering of three large pine-trees
to make masts for shipping. These were probably a tribute which he was bound to pay to his
liege lord. The trees had been cut in the great forest of Leinster, called Fidh-Gaibhli.[216]
Some other tribes were bringing their tree-tributes at the same time; and as they all journeyed
over the mountains together, there was a dispute for precedency. Maelmordha decided the question
by assisting to carry the tree of the Ui-Faelain. He had on a tunic of silk which Brian had
given[217] him, with a border of gold round it and silver buttons. One of the buttons came
off as he lifted the tree. On his arrival at Kincora, he asked his sister, Gormflaith, to replace
it for him; but she at once flung the garment into the fire, and then bitterly reproached her
brother with having accepted this token of vassalage. The Sagas say she was "grim" against
Brian, which was undoubtedly true. This excited Maelmordha's temper. An opportunity soon offered
for a quarrel. Brian's eldest son, Murrough,[218] was playing a game of chess with his cousin,
Conoing; Maelmordha was looking on, and suggested a move by which Murrough lost the game. The
young prince exclaimed: "That was like the advice you gave the Danes, which lost them Glen-Mama."
"I will give them advice now, and they shall not be defeated," replied the other. "Then you
had better remind them to prepare a yew-tree[219] for your reception," answered Murrough.

Early the next morning Maelmordha left the place, "without permission and without taking leave."
Brian sent a messenger after him to pacify him, but the angry chief, for all reply, "broke
all the bones in his head." He now proceeded to organize a revolt against Brian, and succeeded.
Several of the Irish princes flocked to his standard. An encounter took place in Meath, where
they slew Malachy's grandson, Domhnall, who should have been heir if the usual rule of succession
had been observed. Malachy marched to the rescue, and defeated the assailants with great slaughter,
A.D. 1013. Fierce reprisals now took place on each side. Sanctuary was disregarded, and Malachy
called on Brian to assist him. Brian at once complied. After successfully ravaging Ossory he
marched to Dublin, where he was joined by Murrough, who had devastated Wicklow, burning, destroying,
and carrying off captives, until he reached Cill Maighnenn (Kilmainham). They now blockaded
Dublin, where they remained from St. Ciaran's in harvest (Sept. 9th) until Christmas Day. Brian
was then obliged to raise the siege and return home for want of provisions.

The storm was now gathering in earnest, and the most active preparations were made on both
sides for a mighty and decisive conflict. The Danes had already obtained possession of England,
a country which had always been united in its resistance to their power, a country numerically
superior to Ireland: why should they not hope to conquer, with at least equal facility, a people
who had so many opposing interests, and who rarely sacrificed these interests to the common
good? Still they must have had some fear of the result, if we may judge by the magnitude of
their preparations. They despatched ambassadors in all directions to obtain reinforcements.
Brodir, the earl, and Amlaibh, son of the King of Lochlann, "the two Earls of Cair, and of
all the north of Saxon land,"[220] came at the head of 2,000 men; "and there was not one villain
of that 2,000 who had not polished, strong, triple-plated armour of refined iron, or of cooling,
uncorroding brass, encasing their sides and bodies from head to foot." Moreover, the said villains
"had no reverence, veneration, or respect, or mercy for God or man, for church or for sanctuary;
they were cruel, ferocious, plundering, hard-hearted, wonderful Dannarbrians, selling and hiring
themselves for gold and silver, and other treasure as well." Gormflaith was evidently "head
centre" on the occasion; for we find wonderful accounts of her zeal and efforts in collecting
forces. "Other treasure" may possibly be referred to that lady's heart and hand, of which she
appears to have been very liberal on this occasion. She despatched her son, Sitric, to Siguard,
Earl of the Orkneys, who promised his assistance, but he required the hand of Gormflaith as
payment for his services, and that he should be made King of Ireland. Sitric gave the required
promise, and found, on his return to Dublin, that it met with his mother's entire approbation.
She then despatched him to the Isle of Man, where there were two Vikings, who had thirty ships,
and she desired him to obtain their co-operation "at any price." They were the brothers Ospak
and Brodir. The latter demanded the same conditions as the Earl Siguard, which were promised
quite as readily by Sitric, only he charged the Viking to keep the agreement secret, and above
all not to mention it to Siguard.

Brodir,[221] according to the Saga, was an apostate Christian, who had "thrown off his faith,
and become God's dastard." He was both tall and strong, and had such long black hair that he
tucked it under his belt; he had also the reputation of being a magician. The Viking Ospak
refused to fight against "the good King Brian," and, touched by some prodigies, became a convert
to Christianity, joined the Irish monarch at Kincora, on the Shannon, and received holy baptism.[222]
The author of the Wars of the Gaedhil gives a formidable list of the other auxiliaries who
were invited by the Dublin Danes. The Annals of Loch Cé also give an account of the fleet he
assembled, and its "chosen braves." Maelmordha had mustered a large army also; indeed, he was
too near the restless and revengeful Larmflaith to have taken matters quietly, even had he
been so inclined.

Meanwhile Brian had been scarcely less successful, and probably not less active. He now marched
towards Dublin, "with all that obeyed him of the men of Ireland." These were the provincial
troops of Munster and Connaught and the men of Meath. His march is thus described in the Wars
of the Gaedhil:--"Brian looked out behind him, and beheld the battle phalanx--compact, huge,
disciplined, moving in silence, mutely, bravely, haughtily, unitedly, with one mind, traversing
the plain towards them; threescore and ten banners over them--of red, and of yellow, and of
green, and of all kinds of colours; together with the everlasting, variegated, lucky, fortunate
banner, that had gained the victory in every battle, and in every conflict, and in every combat."[223]
The portion of the narrative containing this account is believed to be an interpolation, but
the description may not be the less accurate. Brian plundered and destroyed as usual on his
way to Dublin. When he had encamped near that city, the Danes came out to give him battle on
the plain of Magh-n-Ealta.[224] The king then held a council of war, and the result, apparently,
was a determination to give battle in the morning. It is said that the Northmen pretended flight
in order to delay the engagement. The Njal Saga says the Viking Brodir had found out by his
sorcery, "that if the fight were on Good Friday, King Brian would fall, but win the day; but
if they fought before, they would all fall who were against him." Some authorities also mention
a traitor in Brian's camp, who had informed the Danes that his forces had been weakened by
the absence of his son Donough, whom he had sent to devastate Leinster. Malachy has the credit
of this piece of treachery, with other imputations scarcely less disreputable.

The site of the battle has been accurately defined. It took place on the plain of Clontarf,[225]
and is called the Battle of the Fishing Weir of Clontarf. The weir was at the mouth of the
river Tolka, where the bridge of Ballybough now stands. The Danish line was extended along
the coast, and protected at sea by their fleets. It was disposed in three divisions, and comprised
about 21,000 men, the Leinster forces being included in the number. The first division or left
wing was the nearest to Dublin. It was composed of the Danes of Dublin, and headed by Sitric,
who was supported by the thousand mail-clad Norwegians, commanded by Carlus and Anrud. In the
centre were the Lagennians, under the command of Maelmordha. The right wing comprised the foreign
auxiliaries, under the command of Brodir and Siguard.[226]

Brian's army was also disposed in three divisions. The first was composed of his brave Dalcassians,
and commanded by his son Murrough, assisted by his four brothers, Teigue, Donough, Connor,
and Flann, and his youthful heir, Turlough, who perished on the field. The second division
or centre was composed of troops from Munster, and was commanded by Mothla, grandson of the
King of the Deisi, of Waterford, assisted by many native princes. The third battalion was commanded
by Maelruanaidh (Mulrooney of the Paternosters) and Teigue O'Kelly, with all the nobles of
Connaught. Brian's army numbered about twenty thousand men. The accounts which relate the position
of Malachy, and his conduct on this occasion, are hopelessly conflicting. It appears quite
impossible to decide whether he was a victim to prejudice, or whether Brian was a victim to
his not unnatural hostility.

On the eve of the battle, one of the Danish chiefs, Plait, son of King Lochlainn, sent a challenge
to Domhnall, son of Emhin, High Steward of Mar. The battle commenced at daybreak. Plait came
forth and exclaimed three times, "Faras Domhnall?" (Where is Domhnall?) Domhnall replied: "Here,
thou reptile." A terrible hand-to-hand combat ensued. They fell dead at the same moment, the
sword of each through the heart of the other, and the hair of each in the clenched hand of
the other. And the combat of those two was the first combat of the battle.

Before the engagement Brian harangued his troops, with the crucifix in one hand and a sword
in the other. He reminded them of all they had suffered from their enemies, of their tyranny,
their sacrilege, their innumerable perfidies; and then, holding the crucifix aloft, he exclaimed:
"The great God has at length looked down upon our sufferings, and endued you with the power
and the courage this day to destroy for ever the tyranny of the Danes, and thus to punish them
for their innumerable crimes and sacrileges by the avenging power of the sword. Was it not
on this day that Christ Himself suffered death for you?"

He was then compelled to retire to the rear, and await the result of the conflict; but Murrough
performed prodigies of valour. Even the Danish historians admit that he fought his way to their
standard, and cut down two successive bearers of it.

The mailed armour of the Danes seems to have been a source of no little dread to their opponents.
But the Irish battle-axe might well have set even more secure protection at defiance. It was
wielded with such skill and force, that frequently a limb was lopped off with a single blow,
despite the mail in which it was encased; while the short lances, darts, and slinging-stones
proved a speedy means of decapitating or stunning a fallen enemy.

The Dalcassians surpassed themselves in feats of arms. They hastened from time to time to refresh
their thirst and cool their hands in a neighbouring brook; but the Danes soon filled it up,
and deprived them of this resource. It was a conflict of heroes--a hand-to-hand fight. Bravery
was not wanting on either side, and for a time the result seemed doubtful. Towards the afternoon,
as many of the Danish leaders were cut down, their followers began to give way, and the Irish
forces prepared for a final effort. At this moment the Norwegian prince, Anrud, encountered
Murrough, whose arms were paralyzed from fatigue; he had still physical strength enough to
seize his enemy, fling him on the ground, and plunge his sword into the body of his prostrate
foe. But even as he inflicted the death-wound, he received a mortal blow from the dagger of
the Dane, and the two chiefs fell together.

The mêlée was too general for an individual incident, however important in itself, to have
much effect. The Northmen and their allies were flying hard and fast, the one towards their
ships, the others towards the city. But as they fled across the Tolka, they forgot that it
was now swollen with the incoming tide, and thousands perished by water who had escaped the
sword. The body of Brian's grandson, the boy Turlough, was found in the river after the battle,
with his hands entangled in the hair of two Danish warriors, whom he had held down until they
were drowned. Sitric and his wife had watched the combat from the battlements of Dublin. It
will be remembered that this lady was the daughter of King Brian, and her interests were naturally
with the Irish troops. Some rough words passed between her and her lord, which ended in his
giving her so rude a blow, that he knocked out one of her teeth. But we have yet to record
the crowning tragedy of the day. Brian had retired to his tent to pray, at the commencement
of the conflict. When the forces met, he began his devotions, and said to his attendant: "Watch
thou the battle and the combats, whilst I say the psalms." After he had recited fifty psalms,
fifty collects, and fifty paternosters, he desired the man to look out and inform him how the
battle went, and the position of Murrough's standard. He replied the strife was close and vigorous,
and the noise was as if seven battalions were cutting down Tomar's wood; but the standard was
safe. Brian then said fifty more psalms, and made the same inquiry. The attendant replied that
all was in confusion, but that Murrough's standard still stood erect, and moved westwards towards
Dublin. "As long as that standard remains erect," replied Brian, "it shall go well with the
men of Erinn." The aged king betook himself to his prayers once more, saying again fifty psalms[227]
and collects; then, for the last time, he asked intelligence of the field. Latean replied:
"They appear as if Tomar's wood was on fire, and its brushwood all burned down;" meaning that
the private soldiers of both armies were nearly all slain, and only a few of the chiefs had
escaped; adding the most grievous intelligence of all, that Murrough's standard had fallen.
"Alas!" replied Brian, "Erinn has fallen with it: why should I survive such losses, even should
I attain the sovereignty of the world?" His attendant then urged him to fly, but Brian replied
that flight was useless, for he had been warned of his fate by Aibinn (the banshee of his family),
and that he knew his death was at hand. He then gave directions about his will and his funeral,
leaving 240 cows to the "successor of Patrick." Even at this moment the danger was impending.
A party of Danes approached, headed by Brodir. The king sprang up from the cushion where he
had been kneeling, and unsheathed his sword. At first Brodir did not know him, and thought
he was a priest from finding him at prayer; but one of his followers informed him that it was
the Monarch of Ireland. In a moment the fierce Dane had opened his head with his battle-axe.
It is said that Brian had time to inflict a wound on the Viking, but the details of this event
are so varied that it is impossible to decide which account is most reliable. The Saga states
that Brodir knew Brian,[228] and, proud of his exploit, held up the monarch's reeking head,
exclaiming, "Let it be told from man to man that Brodir felled Brian." All accounts agree in
stating that the Viking was slain immediately, if not cruelly, by Brian's guards, who thus
revenged their own neglect of their master. Had Brian survived this conflict, and had he been
but a few years younger, how different might have been the political and social state of Ireland
even at the present day! The Danish power was overthrown, and never again obtained an ascendency
in the country. It needed but one strong will, one wise head, one brave arm, to consolidate
the nation, and to establish a regular monarchy; for there was mettle enough in the Celt, if
only united, to resist foreign invasion for all time to come.

On Easter Monday the survivors were employed in burying the dead and attending to the wounded.
The remains of more than thirty chieftains were borne off to their respective territorial churches
for interment. But even on that very night dissension arose in the camp. The chieftains of
Desmond, seeing the broken condition of the Dalcassian force, renewed their claim to the alternate
succession. When they had reached Rath Maisten (Mullaghmast, near Athy) they claimed the sovereignty
of Munster, by demanding hostages. A battle ensued, in which even the wounded Dalcassians joined.
Their leader desired them to be placed in the fort of Maisten, but they insisted on being fastened
to stakes, firmly planted in the ground to support them, and stuffing their wounds with moss,
they awaited the charge of the enemy. The men of Ossory, intimidated by their bravery, feared
to give battle. But many of the wounded men perished from exhaustion--a hundred and fifty swooned
away, and never recovered consciousness again. The majority were buried where they stood; a
few of the more noble were carried to their ancestral resting-places. "And thus far the wars
of the Gall with the Gaedhil, and the battle of Clontarf."

The Annals state that both Brian and his son, Murrough, lived to receive the rites of the Church,
and that their remains were conveyed by the monks to Swords, and from thence, through Duleek
and Louth, to Armagh, by Archbishop Maelmuire, the "successor of St. Patrick." Their obsequies
were celebrated with great splendour, for twelve days and nights, by the clergy; after which
the body of Brian was deposited in a stone coffin, on the north side of the high altar, in
the cathedral. Murrough was buried on the south side. Turlough was interred in the old churchyard
of Kilmainham, where the shaft of an ancient cross still marks the site.

Malachy once more assumed the reins of government by common consent, and proved himself fully
equal to the task. A month before his death he gained an important victory over the Danes at
Athboy, A.D. 1022. An interregnum of twenty years followed his death, during which the country
was governed by two wise men, Cuan O'Lochlann, a poet, and Corcran Cleireach, an anchoret.
The circumstances attending Malachy's death are thus related by the Four Masters:--"The age
of Christ 1022. Maelseachlainn Môr, pillar of the dignity and nobility of the west of the world,
died in Croinis Locha-Aininn, in the seventy-third year of his age, on the 4th of the nones
of September, on Sunday precisely, after intense penance for his sins and transgressions, after
receiving the body of Christ and His blood, after being anointed by the hands of Amhalgaidh,
successor of Patrick, for he and the successor of Colum-Cille, and the successors of Ciaran,
and most of the seniors of Ireland were present [at his death], and they sung masses, hymns,
psalms, and canticles for the welfare of his soul."

FOOTNOTES:

[208] Dagger.--The king visited the shrine on his way to battle, and hanging up his dagger,
the then symbol of knightly valour, vowed to release it with a kingly ransom if God gave him
the victory. He obtained his desire, and nobly fulfilled his vow.

[209] Tyrants.--J. Roderick O'Flanagan, Esq., M.R.I.A., has permitted me to extract the account
of the battle of Dundalk from his valuable and interesting History of Dundalk and its Environs.
Dublin: Hodges and Smith, 1864. This gentleman has devoted himself specially to elucidating
the subject, and with a kindness which I cannot easily forget, permits me to avail myself,
not only of his literary labours, but even to transfer to the pages of this work several complete
pages from his own.

[210] Chess.--Flann Sionna, Monarch of Ireland, had encamped on this plain, and ostentatiously
commenced a game of chess as a mark of contempt for the chieftains whose country he had invaded.
His folly met its just punishment, for he was ignominiously defeated. See Wars of the Gaedhil,
p. 113, note.

[211] Valour.--Wars of the Gaedhil, p. 101.

[212] Belach-Lechta.--The site has not been definitely ascertained. Some authorities place
it near Macroom, co. Cork.

[213] Glen-Mama.--The Glen of the Gap, near Dunlavin. This was the ancient stronghold of the
kings of Leinster in Wicklow. There is a long and very interesting note on the locality, by
the Rev. J.F. Shearman, R.C.C., in the "Introduction" to the Wars of the Gaedhil. He mentions
that pits have been discovered even recently, containing the remains of the slain.

[214] Deeds.--The origin of surnames is also attributed to Brian Boroimhé, from a fragment
in the Library of Trinity College, Dublin, supposed to be a portion of a life of that monarch
written by his poet Mac Liag. Surnames were generally introduced throughout Europe in the tenth
and twelfth centuries. The Irish gave their names to their lands. In other countries patronymics
were usually taken from the names of the hereditary possessions.

[215] Fifty-three.--See Dr. O'Donovan's note to Annals, p. 747.

[216] Fidh-Gaibhli.--Now Feegile, near Portarlington.

[217] Given.--The Book of Rights mentions, that one of the rights to which the King of Leinster
was entitled from the King of Ireland, was "fine textured clothes at Tara," as well as "sevenscore
suits of clothes of good colour, for the use of the sons of the great chieftain."--Book of
Rights, p. 251. From the conduct of Gormflaith, as related above, it is evident that the tunic
was some token of vassalage.

[218] Murrough.--He was eldest son by Brian's first wife, Môr. He had three sons by this lady,
who were all slain at Clontarf.

[219] Yew-tree.--This was a sharp insult. After the battle of Glen-Mama, Maelmordha had hidden
himself in a yew-tree, where he was discovered and taken prisoner by Murrough.

[220] Land.--Wars of the Gaedhil, p. 151.

[221] Brodir.--It has been suggested that this was not his real name. He was Ospak's brother,
and Brodir may have been mistaken for a proper name. There was a Danish Viking named Gutring,
who was an apostate deacon, and who may have been the Brodir of Irish history.

[222] Baptism.--Burnt Njal, ii. 332.

[223] Combat.--Wars of the Gaedhil, p. 157.

[224] Magh-n-Ealta.--The Plain of the Flocks, lying between Howth and Tallaght, so called from
Eder, a chieftain who perished before the Christian era.

[225] Clontarf.--There is curious evidence that the account of the battle of Clontarf must
have been written by an eye-witness, or by one who had obtained his information from an eye-witness.
The author states that "the foreigners came out to fight the battle in the morning at the full
tide," and that the tide came in again in the evening at the same place. The Danes suffered
severely from this, "for the tide had carried away their ships from them." Consequently, hundreds
perished in the waves.--Wars of the Gaedhil, p. 191. Dr. Todd mentions that he asked the Rev.
S. Haughton, of Trinity College, Dublin, to calculate for him "what was the hour of high water
at the shore of Clontarf, in Dublin Bay, on the 23rd of April, 1014." The result was a full
confirmation of the account given by the author of the Wars of the Gaedhil--the Rev. S. Haughton
having calculated that the morning tide was full in at 5.30 a.m., the evening tide being full
at 5.55 p.m.

[226] Siguard.--Various accounts are given of the disposition of forces on each side, so that
it is impossible to speak with accuracy on the subject. We know how difficult it is to obtain
correct particulars on such occasions, even with the assistance of "own correspondents" and
electric telegraphs.

[227] Psalms.--To recite the Psalter in this way was a special devotional practice of the middle
ages.

[228] Brian.--Burnt Njal, ii. 337. If this account be reliable, Brian did not live to receive
the last sacraments, as other authorities state.

CHAPTER XIV.

Distinguished Irish Scholars and Religious--Domestic Feuds--O'Brien's Illness caused by Fright--Pestilence
and Severe Winters--Contentions between the Northerns and Southerns--Murtough's Circuit of
Ireland--The Danes attempt an Invasion--An Irish King sent to the Isle of Man--Destruction
of Kincora--St. Celsus makes Peace--The Synod of Fidh Aengussa--Subjects considered by the
Synod: (1) The Regulation of the Number of Dioceses, (2) the Sacrament of Matrimony, (3) the
Consecration of Bishops, (4) Ceremonies at Baptism--St. Malachy--The Traitor Dermod--Synod
at Mellifont Abbey--St. Laurence O'Toole.

[A.D. 1022-1167.]

Domestic wars were, as usual, productive of the worst consequences, as regards the social state
of the country. The schools and colleges, which had been founded and richly endowed by the
converted Irish, were now, without exception, plundered of their wealth, and, in many cases,
deprived of those who had dispensed that wealth for the common good. It has been already shown
that men lived holy lives, and died peaceful deaths, during the two hundred years of Danish
oppression; we shall now find that schools were revived, monasteries repeopled, and missionaries
sent to convert and instruct in foreign lands. A few monks from Ireland settled in Glastonbury
early in the tenth century, where they devoted themselves to the instruction of youth. St.
Dunstan, who was famous for his skill in music, was one of their most illustrious pupils: he
was a scholar, an artist, and a musician. But English writers, who give him the credit of having
brought "Englishmen to care once more for learning, after they had quite lost the taste for
it, and had sunk back into ignorance and barbarism," forget to mention who were his instructors.

St. Maccallin, another Irishman, was teaching in France at the same period; and Duncan, who
governed the Monastery of St. Remigius, at Rheims, was writing books of instruction for his
students, which are still extant. Marianus Scotus, whose chronicles are considered the most
perfect compositions of their times, was teaching at Cologne. St. Fingen, who succeeded St.
Cadroe as Abbot of the Monastery of St. Felix at Metz, was invested with the government of
the Monastery of St. Symphorian in that city[229]. It was then ordered by the bishop, that
none but Irish monks should be received into his house, unless their supply failed. In 975
the Monastery of St. Martin, near Cologne, was made over to the Irish monks in perpetuity.
Happily, however, Ireland still retained many of her pious and gifted sons. We have mentioned
elsewhere the Annals of Tighernach, and the remarkable erudition they evince. The name of Cormac
Mac Cullinan may also be added to the list of literary men of the period. The poems of Kenneth
O'Hartigan are still extant, as well as those of Eochd O'Flynn. The authorship of the Wars
of the Gaedhil and the Gall, has been attributed to Brian Boroimhé's secretary, Mac Liag; it
is, at least, tolerably certain that it was written by one who witnessed the events described.
The obituaries of several saints also occur at the close of the tenth and commencement of the
eleventh centuries. Amongst these we find St. Duncheadh, Abbot of Clonmacnois, who is said
to have been the last Irish saint who raised the dead. St. Aedh (Hugh) died in the year 1004,
"after a good life, at Ard-Macha, with great honour and veneration." And in the year 1018,
we have the mortuary record of St. Gormgal, of Ardvilean, "the remains of whose humble oratory
and cloghan cell are still to be seen on that rocky island, amid the surges of the Atlantic,
off the coast of Connemara."[230]

Dr. Todd has well observed, in his admirably written "Introduction" to the Wars of the Gaedhil
and the Gall, that from the death of Malachy to the days of Strongbow, the history of Ireland
is little more than a history of the struggles for ascendency between the great clans or families
of O'Neill, O'Connor, O'Brien, and the chieftains of Leinster.

After the death of Brian Boroimhé, his son Donough obtained the undisputed sovereignty of Munster.
He defeated the Desmonians, and instigated the murder of his brother Teigue. His next step
was to claim the title of King of Ireland, but he had a formidable opponent in Dermod Mac Mael-na-mbo,
King of Leinster. Strange to say, though he had the guilt of fratricide on his conscience,
he assembled the clergy and chieftains of Munster at Killaloe, in the year 1050, to pass laws
for the protection of life and property--a famine, which occurred at this time, making such
precautions of the first necessity. In 1033, his nephew, Turlough, avenged the death of Teigue,
in a battle, wherein Donough was defeated. After his reverse he went on a pilgrimage to Rome,
where he died in the following year, after doing penance for his brother's murder. The Annals
say that "he died under the victory of penance, in the Monastery of Stephen the Martyr."[231]
Dermod Mac Mael-na-mbo was killed in battle by the King of Meath, A.D. 1072, and Turlough O'Brien,
consequently, was regarded as his successor to the monarchy of Ireland. Turlough, as usual,
commenced by taking hostages, but he found serious opposition from the northern Hy-Nials. His
principal opponents were the Mac Loughlins of Aileach, and the O'Melaghlins of Meath. In 1079
O'Brien invaded the territory of Roderic O'Connor, King of Connaught, expelled him from his
kingdom, and plundered it as far as Croagh Patrick. Next year he led an army to Dublin, and
received the submission of the men of Meath, appointing his son Murtough lord of the Danes
of Dublin. The Annals of the Four Masters give a curious account of O'Brien's death. They say
that the head of Connor O'Melaghlin, King of Meath, was taken from the church of Clonmacnois,
and brought to Thomond, by his order. When the king took the head in his hand, a mouse ran
out of it, and the shock was so great that "he fell ill of a sore disease by the miracles (intervention)
of St. Ciaran." This happened on the night of Good Friday. The day of the resurrection (Easter
Sunday) the head was restored, with two rings of gold as a peace-offering. But Turlough never
recovered from the effects of his fright, and lingered on in bad health until the year 1086,
when he died. He is called the "modest Turlough" in the Annals, for what special reason does
not appear. It is also recorded that he performed "intense penance for his sins"--a grace which
the kings and princes of Ireland seem often to have needed, and, if we may believe the Annals,
always to have obtained.

A period of anarchy ensued, during which several princes contended for royal honours. This
compliment was finally awarded to Mac Loughlin, King of Aileach, and a temporary peace ensued.
Its continuance was brief. In 1095 there was a pestilence all over Europe, "and some say that
the fourth part of the men of Ireland died of the malady." A long list is given of its victims,
lay and ecclesiastical. Several severe winters are recorded as having preceded this fatal event;
probably they were its remote cause. In the year 1096, the festival of St. John Baptist fell
on Friday. This event caused general consternation, in consequence of some old prophecy. A
resolution "of the clergy of Ireland, with the successor of St. Patrick[232] at their head,"
enjoined a general abstinence from Wednesday to Sunday every month, with other penitential
observances; and "the men of Ireland were saved for that time from the fire of vengeance."[233]

But the most important event of the period was the contention between the northern and southern
Hy-Nials. Murtough was planning, with great military ability, to obtain the supreme rule. The
Archbishop of Armagh and the clergy strove twice to avert hostilities, but their interference
was almost ineffectual. "A year's peace" was all they could obtain. In the year 1100, Murtough
brought a Danish fleet against the northerns, but they were cut off by O'Loughlin, "by killing
or drowning." He also assembled an army at Assaroe, near Ballyshannon, "with the choice part
of the men of Ireland," but the Cinel-Connaill defended their country bravely, and compelled
him to retire "without booty, without hostages, without pledges." In 1101, when the twelvemonths'
truce obtained by the clergy had expired, Murtough collected a powerful army, and devastated
the north, without opposition. He demolished the palace of the Hy-Nials, called the Grianan
of Aileach.[234] This was an act of revenge for a similar raid, committed a few years before,
on the stronghold of the O'Briens, at Kincora, by O'Loughlin. So determined was he on devastation,
that he commanded a stone to be carried away from the building in each of the sacks which had
contained provisions for the army. He then took hostages of Ulidia, and returned to the south,
having completed the circuit of Ireland in six weeks. The expedition was called the "circuitous
hosting." His rather original method of razing a palace, is commemorated in the following quatrain:--

    "I never heard of the billeting of grit stones,
    Though I heard [sic] of the billeting of companies,
    Until the stones of Aileach was billeted
    On the horses of the king of the west."[235]

Murtough appears to have been a not unusual compound of piety and profanity. We read in one
place of his reckless exploits in burning churches and desecrating shrines, and in others of
his liberal endowments of the same.

The Danes had now settled quietly in the mercantile towns which they had mainly contributed
to form, and expended all their energies on commerce instead of war; but the new generation
of Northmen, who had not yet visited Ireland, could not so easily relinquish the old project
of conquering it. About the year 1101, Magnus planned an expedition to effect this purpose.
He arrived in Dublin the following year; a "hosting of the men of Ireland came to oppose him;"[236]
but they made peace with him for one year, and Murtough gave his daughter in marriage to his
son Sitric, "with many jewels and gifts." The year 1103 was distinguished for sanguinary conflicts.
Murdhadh Drun was killed on a predatory excursion in Magh Cobha. Raghnall Ua h-Ocain,[237]
lawgiver of Felach Og, was slain by the men of Magh Itha. There was a "great war" between the
Cinel-Eoghain and the Ulidians; and Murtough O'Brien, with the men of Munster, Leinster, and
Ossory, the chiefs of Connaught, and the men of Meath and their kings, proceeded to Magh Cobha
(Donaghmore, co. Down) to relieve the Ulidians. When the men of Munster "were wearied," Murtough
proceeded to Ard-Macha, and left eight ounces of gold upon the altar, and promised eightscore
cows. The northern Hy-Nials then attacked the camp of the Leinster men, and a spirited battle
was fought. The Cinel-Eoghain and Cinel-Connaill returned victoriously and triumphantly to
their forts, with valuable jewels and much wealth, together with the royal tent, the standard,
and jewels.

Magnus, King of Lochlann and the Isles, was slain by the Ulidians this year.

It is noticeable that, in the Annals of the Four Masters, obituaries of saints or good men
always occupy the first place. The Annals of this year are of unusual length; but they commence
with the obituary of Murchadh O'Flanaghan, Arrchinneach of Ardbo, a paragon of wisdom and instruction,
who died on his pilgrimage at Ard-Macha. A priest of Kildare is also mentioned, and the Tanist-Abbot
of Clonmacnois, a prosperous and affluent man.

It would appear that the Irish were sufficiently occupied with domestic wars to prevent their
offering assistance elsewhere. This, however, was not the case. When Harold returned to England,
his brother-in-law, Donough, lent him nine ships; and we find the Irish affording assistance
in several other feuds of the Anglo-Saxons of this period. A deputation of the nobles of Man
and other islands visited Dublin, and waited on Murtough O'Brien to solicit a king. He sent
his nephew, Donnell; but he was soon expelled on account of his tyranny. Another Donnell O'Brien,
his cousin, was, at the same time, lord of the Danes in Dublin. In 1114 Murtough O'Brien was
obliged to resign the crown in consequence of ill-health; the Annals say that he became a living
skeleton. His brother, Dermod, took advantage of this circumstance to declare himself King
of Munster. This obliged Murtough to resume the reins of government, and put himself at the
head of his army. He succeeded in making Dermod prisoner, but eventually he was obliged to
resign the kingdom to him, and retired into the Monastery of Lismore, where he died in 1119.
The Annals call him the prop of the glory and magnificence of the western world. In the same
year Nial Mac Lochlann, royal heir of Aileach and of Ireland, fell by the Cinel-Moain, in the
twenty-eighth year of his age. He was the "paragon of Ireland, for personal form, sense, hospitality,
and learning." The Chief Ollamh of Ireland, Cucollchoille ua Biagheallain, was killed by the
men of Lug and Tuatha-ratha (Tooragh, co. Fermanagh), with his wife, "two very good sons,"
and five-and-thirty persons in one house, on the Saturday before Little Easter. The cause of
this outrage is not mentioned. The Annals of the Four Masters and the Annals of Ulster record
the same event, and mention that he was distinguished for charity, hospitality, and universal
benevolence.

Donnell O'Loughlin died in 1121, in the Monastery of St. Columba, at Derry. He is styled King
of Ireland, although the power of his southern rival preponderated during the greater part
of his reign. In 1118 Rory O'Connor died in the Monastery of Clonmacnois. He had been blinded
some years previously by the O'Flaherties. This cruel custom was sometimes practised to prevent
the succession of an obnoxious person, as freedom from every blemish was a sine qua non in
Erinn for a candidate to royal honours. Teigue Mac Carthy, King of Desmond, died, "after penance,"
at Cashel, A.D. 1124. From the time of Murtough O'Brien's illness, Turlough O'Connor, son of
the prince who had been blinded, comes prominently forward in Irish history. His object was
to exalt the Eoghanists or Desmonian family, who had been virtually excluded from the succession
since the time of Brian Boroimhé. In 1116 he plundered Thomond as far as Limerick. In 1118
he led an army as far as Glanmire (co. Cork), and divided Munster, giving Desmond to Mac Carthy,
and Thomond to the sons of Dermod O'Brien. He then marched to Dublin, and took hostages from
the Danes, releasing Donnell, son of the King of Meath, whom they had in captivity. The following
year he sailed down the Shannon with a fleet, and destroyed the royal palace of Kincora, hurling
its stones and timber beams into the river. He then devoted himself to wholesale plundering,
and expelled his late ally and father-in-law from Meath, ravaging the country from Traigh Li
(Tralee) to the sanctuary lands of Lismore. In 1126 he bestowed the kingdom of Dublin on his
son Cormac. In 1127 he drove Cormac Mac Carthy from his kingdom, and divided Munster in three
parts. In fact, there was such a storm of war throughout the whole country, that St. Celsus
was obliged to interfere. He spent a month and a year trying to establish peace, and promulgating
rules and good customs in every district, among the laity and clergy. His efforts to teach
"good rules and manners" seem to have been scarcely effectual, for we find an immediate entry
of the decapitation of Ruaidhri, after he had made a "treacherous prey" in Aictheara. In the
year 1128 the good Archbishop succeeded in making a year's truce between the Connaught men
and the men of Munster. The following year the saint died at Ardpatrick, where he was making
a visitation. He was only fifty years of age, but anxiety and care had worn him old. St. Celsus
was buried at Lismore, and interred in the cemetery of the bishops.

We must now give a brief glance at the ecclesiastical history of Ireland, before narrating
the events which immediately preceded the English invasion.

In the year 1111 a synod was convened at Fidh Aengussa, or Aengus Grove, near the Hill of Uisneach,
in Westmeath. It was attended by fifty bishops, 300 priests, and 3,000 religious. Murtough
O'Brien was also permitted to be present, and some of the nobles of his province. The object
of the synod was to institute rules of life and manners for the clergy and people. St. Celsus,
the Archbishop of Armagh, and Maelmuire[238] or Marianus O'Dunain, Archbishop of Cashel, were
present. Attention had already been directed to certain abuses in ecclesiastical discipline.
Such abuses must always arise from time to time in the Church, through the frailty of her members;
but these abuses are always carefully reprehended as they arise, so that she is no longer responsible
for them. It is remarkable that men of more than ordinary sanctity have usually been given
to the Church at such periods. Some have withheld heretical emperors from deeds of evil, and
some have braved the fury of heretical princes. In Ireland, happily, the rulers needed not
such opposition; but when the country had been again and again devastated by war, whether from
foreign or domestic sources, the intervention of saintly men was especially needed to restore
peace, and to repair, as far as might be, the grievous injury which war always inflicts on
the social state of those who have suffered from its devastations.

Lanfranc, the great Archbishop of Canterbury, had already noticed the state of the Irish Church.
He was in constant communication with the Danish bishops, who had received consecration from
him; and their accounts were probably true in the main, however coloured by prejudice. He wrote
an earnest epistle to Turlough O'Brien, whom he addresses respectfully as King of Ireland,
and whose virtues as a Christian prince he highly commends. His principal object appears to
have been to draw the king's attention to an abuse, of which the Danes had informed him, with
regard to the sacrament of matrimony. This subject shall be noticed again. Pope Gregory VII.
also wrote to Turlough, but principally on the temporal authority of the Holy See.

The synod had four special subjects for consideration: (1) First, to regulate the number of
bishops--an excessive and undue multiplication of episcopal dignity having arisen from the
custom of creating chorepiscopi or rural bishops. It was now decided that there should be but
twenty-four dioceses--twelve for the northern and twelve for the southern half of Ireland.
Cashel was also recognized as an archiepiscopal see, and the successor of St. Jarlath was sometimes
called Archbishop of Connaught. The custom of lay appropriations, which had obtained in some
places, was also firmly denounced. This was an intolerable abuse. St. Celsus, the Archbishop
of Armagh, though himself a member of the family who had usurped this office, made a special
provision in his will that he should be succeeded by St. Malachy. This saint obtained a final
victory over the sacrilegious innovators, but not without much personal suffering.[239]

The (2) second abuse which was now noticed, referred to the sacrament of matrimony. The Irish
were accused of abandoning their lawful wives and taking others, of marrying within the degrees
of consanguinity, and it was said that in Dublin wives were even exchanged. Usher, in commenting
on the passage in Lanfranc's letter which refers to these gross abuses, observes that the custom
of discarding wives was prevalent among the Anglo-Saxons and in Scotland. This, however, was
no excuse for the Irish. The custom was a remnant of pagan contempt of the female sex,--a contempt
from which women were never fully released, until Christianity restored the fallen, and the
obedience of the second Eve had atoned for the disobedience of the first. It appears, however,
that these immoralities were almost confined to the half-Christianized Danes, who still retained
many of their heathen customs. The canons of St. Patrick, which were always respected by the
native Irish, forbid such practices; and the synod, therefore, had only to call on the people
to observe the laws of the Church more strictly.

Two other subjects, (3) one regarding the consecration of bishops, the other (4) referring
to the ceremonies of baptism, were merely questions of ecclesiastical discipline, and as such
were easily arranged by competent authority. In St. Anselm's correspondence with the prelates
of the south of Ireland, he passes a high eulogium on their zeal and piety, while he deplores
certain relaxations of discipline, which they were as anxious to reform as he could desire.

We have already mentioned that St. Celsus appointed St. Malachy his successor in the Archiepiscopal
See of Armagh. Malachy had been educated by the Abbot Imar O'Hagan, who presided over the great
schools of that city; and the account given of his early training, sufficiently manifests the
ability of his gifted instructor, and the high state of intellectual culture which existed
in Ireland. While still young, St. Malachy undertook the restoration of the famous Abbey of
Bangor. Here he erected a small oratory of wood, and joined himself to a few devoted men ardent
for the perfection of a religious life. He was soon after elected Bishop of Connor. With the
assistance of some of his faithful monks, he restored what war and rapine had destroyed; and
was proceeding peacefully and successfully in his noble work, when he was driven from his diocese
by a hostile prince. He now fled to Cormac Mac Carthy, King of Desmond;[240] but he was not
permitted to remain here long. The See of Armagh was vacated by the death of St. Celsus, and
Malachy was obliged to commence another arduous mission. It is said that it almost required
threats of excommunication to induce him to undertake the charge. Bishop Gilbert of Limerick,
the Apostolic-Delegate, and Bishop Malchus of Lismore, with other bishops and several chieftains,
visited him in the monastery which he had erected at Ibrach,[241] and at last obtained compliance
by promising him permission to retire when he had restored order in his new diocese.

St. Malachy found his mission as painful as he had anticipated. The lay intruders were making
a last attempt to keep up their evil custom; and, after the death of the usurper who made this
false claim, another person attempted to continue it; but popular feeling was so strong against
the wretched man, that he was obliged to fly. Ecclesiastical discipline was soon restored;
and after Malachy had made a partition of the diocese, he was permitted to resign in favour
of Gelasius, then Abbot of the great Columbian Monastery of Derry.

But peace was not yet established in Ireland. I shall return again to the narrative of domestic
feuds, which made it a "trembling sod," the O'Loughlins of Tyrone being the chief aggressors;
for the present we must follow the course of ecclesiastical history briefly. St. Malachy was
now appointed Bishop of Down, to which his old see of Connor was united. He had long a desire
to visit Rome--a devotional pilgrimage of the men of Erinn from the earliest period. He was
specially anxious to obtain a formal recognition of the archiepiscopal sees in Ireland, by
the granting of palliums. On his way to the Holy City he visited St. Bernard at Clairvaux,
and thus commenced and cemented the friendship which forms so interesting a feature in the
lives of the French and Irish saints. It is probable that his account of the state of the Irish
Church took a tinge of gloom from the heavy trials he had endured in his efforts to remove
its temporary abuses. St. Bernard's ardent and impetuous character, even his very affectionateness,
would lead him also to look darkly on the picture: hence the somewhat over-coloured accounts
he has given of its state at that eventful period. St. Malachy returned to Ireland after an
interview with the reigning Pontiff, Pope Innocent II. His Holiness had received him with open
arms, and appointed him Apostolic Legate; but he declined to give the palliums, until they
were formally demanded by the Irish prelates.

In virtue of his legatine power, the saint assembled local synods in several places. He rebuilt
and restored many churches; and in 1142 he erected the famous Cistercian Abbey of Mellifont,
near Drogheda. This monastery was liberally endowed by O'Carroll, King of Oriel, and was peopled
by Irish monks, whom St. Malachy had sent to Clairvaux, to be trained in the Benedictine rule
and observances. But his great act was the convocation of the Synod of Inis Padraig. It was
held in the year 1148. St. Malachy presided as Legate of the Holy See; fifteen bishops, two
hundred priests, and some religious were present at the deliberations, which lasted for four
days. The members of the synod were unwilling that Malachy should leave Ireland again; but
Eugene III., who had been a Cistercian monk, was visiting Clairvaux, and it was hoped he might
grant the favour there. The Pope had left the abbey when the saint arrived, who, in a few days
after, was seized with mortal sickness, and died on the 2nd November, 1148. His remains were
interred at Clairvaux. His feast was changed from the 2nd of November, All Souls, to the 3rd,
by "the seniors," that he might be the more easily revered and honoured.

In 1151 Cardinal Paparo arrived in Ireland with the palliums which had been solicited by St.
Malachy. The insignia of dignity were conferred the following year, at the Council of Kells.
Tithes were then introduced for the first time in Ireland, but they were not enforced until
after the English invasion.

It will be remembered that we turned to ecclesiastical history, after mentioning the year's
truce (A.D. 1128) which had been made, through the intervention of St. Celsus, between the
men of Munster and Connaught. In 1129 the great Church of Clonmacnois was robbed[242] of some
of its greatest treasures. Amongst these was a model of Solomon's Temple, presented by a prince
of Meath, and a silver chalice burnished with gold, which had been engraved by a sister of
King Turlough O'Connor--an evidence that the ladies of Ireland were by no means behind the
age in taste and refinement.

After the death of Donnell O'Loughlin, Turlough had full scope for the exercise of his ambitious
projects; but in 1131 he found serious opposition from Connor O'Brien, who had succeeded his
father, Dermod, on the throne of Munster. Connor now carried off hostages from Leinster and
Meath, and defeated the cavalry of Connaught. The following year he sent a fleet to the western
coast of Ireland. Eventually Turlough O'Connor was glad to make a truce with his opponents.
In 1184 the consecration of a church at Cashel was celebrated. This is still known as Cormac's
Chapel, and was long supposed to have been erected by the more ancient monarch of that name.
But the good king was soon after treacherously slain in his own house, by Turlough O'Connor
and the two sons of the O'Connor of Kerry. Turlough was unquestionably somewhat Spartan in
his severities, if not Draconian in his administration of justice. In 1106 he put out the eyes
of his own son, Hugh, and in the same year he imprisoned another son, named Roderic. The nature
of their offences is not manifest; but Roderic was liberated through the interference of the
clergy. Seven years after he was again imprisoned, "in violation of the most solemn pledges
and guarantees." The clergy again interfered; from which we may infer that he was a favourite.
They even held a public feast at Rathbrendan on his behalf; but he was not released until the
following year. In the year 1136 we find the obituary of the chief keeper of the calendar of
Ard-Macha, on the night of Good Friday. He is also mentioned as its chief antiquary and librarian,
an evidence that the old custom was kept up to the very eve of the English invasion. The obituary
of Donnell O'Duffy, Archbishop of Connaught, is also given. He died after Mass and celebration;
according to the Annals of Clonmacnois, he had celebrated Mass by himself, at Clonfert, on
St. Patrick's Day, and died immediately after. About the same time the Breinemen behaved "so
exceedingly outrageous," that they irreverently stript O'Daly, arch-poet of Ireland, "of all
his clothes."

In the meantime domestic wars multiplied with extraordinary rapidity. Dermod Mac Murrough,
the infamous King of Leinster, now appears for the first time in the history of that country
which he mainly contributed to bring under the English yoke. He commenced his career of perfidy
by carrying off the Abbess of Kildare from her cloister, killing 170 of the people of Kildare,
who interfered to prevent this wanton and sacrilegious outrage. In 1141 he endeavoured to crush
the opposers of his atrocious tyranny by a barbarous onslaught, in which he killed two nobles,
put out the eyes of another, and blinded[243] seventeen chieftains of inferior rank. A fitting
commencement of his career of treachery towards his unfortunate country! In 1148 a temporary
peace was made by the Primate of Armagh between the northern princes, who had carried on a
deadly feud; but its duration, as usual, was brief. Turlough O'Brien was deposed by Teigue
in 1151. He was assisted by Turlough O'Connor and the infamous Dermod. The united armies plundered
as far as Moin Môr,[244] where they encountered the Dalcassian forces returning from the plunder
of Desmond. A sanguinary combat ensued, and the men of north Munster suffered a dreadful slaughter,
leaving 7,000 dead upon the field of battle. This terrible sacrifice of life is attributed
to the mistaken valour of the Dal-Cais, who would neither fly nor ask quarter.

In 1157 a synod was held in the Abbey of Mellifont, attended by the Bishop of Lismore, Legate
of the Holy See, the Primate, and seventeen other bishops. Murtough O'Loughlin, the Monarch
of Ireland, and several other kings, were also present. The principal object of this meeting
was the consecration of the abbey church and the excommunication of Donough O'Melaghlin, who
had become the common pest of the country. He was, as might be expected, the particular friend
and ally of Dermod Mac Murrough. His last exploit was the murder of a neighbouring chief, despite
the most solemn pledges. In an old translation of the Annals of Ulster, he is termed, with
more force than elegance, "a cursed atheist." After his excommunication, his brother Dermod
was made King of Meath, in his place.

At this synod several rich gifts were made to the abbey. O'Carroll, Prince of Oriel, presented
sixty ounces of gold. O'Loughlin made a grant of lands, gave one hundred and forty cows and
sixty ounces of gold. The Lady Dervorgil gave the same donation in gold, together with a golden
chalice for the altar of Mary, with gifts for each of the other nine altars of the church.
Dervorgil was the wife of Tiernan O'Rourke, Lord of Breffni, who had been dispossessed of his
territories in 1152; at the same time she was carried off by Dermod Mac Murrough. Her abduction
seems to have been effected with her own consent, as she carried off the cattle which had formed
her dowry. Her husband, it would appear, had treated her harshly. Eventually she retired to
the Monastery of Mellifont, where she endeavoured to atone for her past misconduct by a life
of penance.

Another synod was held in the year 1158, at Trim. Derry was then erected into an episcopal
see, and Flahertach O'Brolchain, Abbot of St. Columba's Monastery, was consecrated its first
bishop. The bishops of Connaught were intercepted and plundered by Dermod's soldiers; they
therefore returned and held a provincial synod in Roscommon.

In 1162 St. Laurence O'Toole was chosen to succeed Greine, or Gregory, the Danish Archbishop
of Dublin. He belonged to one of the most noble ancient families of Leinster. His father was
chieftain of the district of Hy-Muirahy, a portion of the present county Kildare. St. Laurence
had chosen the ecclesiastical state early in life; at the age of twenty-five he was chosen
Abbot of St. Kevin's Monastery, at Glendalough. The Danish Bishop of Dublin had been consecrated
by the Archbishop of Canterbury, but the saint received the episcopal office from the successor
of St. Patrick. A synod was held at Clane the year of his consecration; it was attended by
twenty-six prelates and many other ecclesiastics. The college of Armagh was then virtually
raised to the rank of a university, as it was decreed that no one, who had not been an alumnus
of Armagh, should be appointed lector or professor of theology in any of the diocesan schools
in Ireland. Indeed, the clergy at this period were most active in promoting the interests of
religion, and most successful in their efforts, little anticipating the storm which was then
impending over their country.

In 1166 the Irish Monarch, O'Loughlin, committed a fearful outrage on Dunlevy, Prince of Dalriada.
A peace had been ratified between them, but, from some unknown cause, O'Loughlin suddenly became
again the aggressor, and attacked the northern chief, when he was unprepared, put out his eyes,
and killed three of his leading officers. This cruel treachery so provoked the princes who
had guaranteed the treaty, that they mustered an army at once and proceeded northwards. The
result was a sanguinary engagement, in which the Cinel-Eoghan were defeated, and the Monarch,
O'Loughlin, was slain. Roderick O'Connor immediately assumed the reins of government, and was
inaugurated in Dublin with more pomp than had ever been manifested on such an occasion. It
was the last glittering flicker of the expiring lamp. Submission was made to him on every side;
and had he only possessed the ability or the patriotism to unite the forces under his command,
he might well have set all his enemies at defiance. An assembly of the clergy and chieftains
of Ireland was convened in 1167, which is said to have emulated, if it did not rival, the triennial
Fes of ancient Tara. It was but the last gleam of sunlight, which indicates the coming of darkness
and gloom. The traitor already had his plans prepared, and was flying from a country which
scorned his meanness, to another country where that meanness was made the tool of political
purposes, while the unhappy traitor was probably quite as heartily despised.

FOOTNOTES:

[229] City.--Some Irish religious are also said to have lived in amity with Greek monks, who
were established at Tours, in France; and it is said that the Irish joined them in the performance
of the ecclesiastical offices in their own language.

[230] Connemara.--Haverty's History of Ireland, p. 156. See also an interesting note on this
subject in the Chronicum Scotorum.

[231] Martyr.--Page 887. The famine in the preceding year is also recorded, as well as the
cholic and "lumps," which prevailed in Leinster, and also spread throughout Ireland. Donough
was married to an English princess, Driella, the daughter of the English Earl Godwin, and sister
of Harold, afterwards King of England. During the rebellion of Godwin and his sons against
Edward the Confessor, Harold was obliged to take refuge in Ireland, and remained there "all
the winter on the king's security."

[232] St. Patrick.--It is observable all through the Annals, how the name and spiritual authority
of St. Patrick is revered. This expression occurs regularly from the earliest period, wherever
the Primate of Ireland is mentioned.

[233] Vengeance.--See O'Curry, passim, for curious traditions or so-called prophecies about
St. John Baptist's Day.

[234] Aileach.--The remains of this fortress are still visible near Londonderry, and are called
Grianan-Elagh.

[235] West.--Annals, vol. ii. p. 969.

[236] Him.--Ib. p 973.

[237] Ua h-Ocain.--Now anglicised O'Hagan. This family had the special privilege of crowning
the O'Neills, and were their hereditary Brehons. The Right Honorable Judge O'Hagan is, we believe,
the present head of the family.

[238] Maelmuire.--"The servant of Mary." Devotion to the Mother of God, which is still a special
characteristic of the Irish nation, was early manifested by the adoption of this name.

[239] Suffering.--This abuse was not peculiar to the Irish Church. A canon of the Council of
London, A.D. 1125, was framed to prevent similar lay appropriations. In the time of Cambrensis
there were lay (so called) abbots, who took the property of the Church into their own hands,
and made their children receive holy orders that they might enjoy the revenues.

[240] Desmond.--See the commencement of this chapter, for an illustration of the ruins of its
ancient rath and the more modern castle. These remains are among the most interesting in Ireland.

[241] Ibrach.--Supposed to be Ivragh, in Kerry, which was part of Cormac Mac Carthy's kingdom.

[242] Robbed.--In MacGeoghegan's translation of the Annals of Clonmacnois he says:--"The clergy
of Clone made incessant prayer to God and St. Keyran, to be a means for the revelation of the
party that took away the said jewels." The "party" was a Dane. He was discovered, and hung
in 1130. It is said that he entered several ships to leave the country, but they could get
no wind, while other vessels sailed off freely.--Annals of the Four Masters, vol. ii. p. 1035.

[243] Blinded.--In 1165 Henry II. gratified his irritation against the Welsh by laying hands
upon the hostages of their noblest families, and commanding that the eyes of the males should
be rooted out, and the ears and noses of the females cut off; and yet Henry is said to have
been liberal to the poor, and though passionately devoted to the chase, he did not inflict
either death or mutilation on the intruders in the royal forests.

[244] Moin Môr.--Now Moanmore, county Tipperary.

CHAPTER XV.

Social life previous to the English Invasion--Domestic Habitations--Forts--Granard and Staigue--Crannoges
and Log-houses--Interior of the Houses--The Hall--Food and Cooking Utensils--Regulations about
Food--The Kind of Food used--Animal Food--Fish--Game--Drink and Drinking Vessels--Whisky--Heath
Beer--Mead--Animal Produce--Butter and Cheese--Fire--Candles--Occupations and Amusements--Chess--Music--Dress--Silk--Linen--Ancient
Woollen Garments--Gold Ornaments--Trade--General Description of the Fauna and Flora of the Country.

Customs which illustrate the social life of our ancestors, are scarcely the least interesting
or important elements of history. Before we enter upon that portion of our annals which commences
with the English invasion, under the auspices of Henry II., we shall give a brief account of
the habitations, manners, customs, dress, food, and amusements of the people of Ireland. Happily
there is abundant and authentic information on this subject, though we may be obliged to delve
beneath the tertiary deposits of historical strata in order to obtain all that is required.
English society and English social life were more or less influenced by Ireland from the fifth
to the twelfth century. The monks who had emigrated to "Saxon land" were men of considerable
intellectual culture, and, as such, had a preponderating influence, creditable alike to themselves
and to those who bowed to its sway. From the twelfth to the sixteenth century, English manners
and customs were introduced in Ireland within the Pale. The object of the present chapter is
to show the social state of the country before the English invasion--a condition of society
which continued for some centuries later in the western and southern parts of the island.

The pagan architecture of public erections has already been as fully considered as our limits
would permit. Let us turn from pillar-stones, cromlechs, and cairns, to the domestic habitations
which preceded Christianity, and continued in use, with gradual improvements, until the period
when English influence introduced the comparative refinements which it had but lately received
from Norman sources. The raths, mounds, and forts, whose remains still exist throughout the
country, preceded the castellated edifices, many of which were erected in the twelfth and thirteenth
centuries, principally by English settlers. The rath was probably used for the protection and
enclosure of cattle; and as the wealth of the country consisted principally in its herds, it
was an important object. Its form is circular, having an internal diameter averaging from forty
to two hundred feet, encompassed by a mound and outer fosse or ditch. In some localities, where
stone is abundant and the soil shallow, rude walls have been formed: the raths, however, are
principally earthwork alone. Forts were erected for defence, and the surrounding fosse was
filled with water. They were, in fact, the prototypes of the more modern castle and moat. These
forts were sometimes of considerable size, and in such cases were surrounded by several fosses
and outworks. They were approached by a winding inclined plane, which at once facilitated the
entrance of friends, and exposed comers with hostile intentions to the concentrated attacks
of the garrison. The fort at Granard is a good example of this kind of building. It is probably
of considerable antiquity, though it has been improved and rebuilt in some portions at a more
modern period. The interior of it evidences the existence of several different apartments.
An approach internally has been exposed on one side, and exhibits a wide, flat arch of common
masonry, springing from the top of two side walls, the whole well-constructed.

Forts of dry-wall masonry, which are, undoubtedly, the more ancient, are very numerous in the
south-west of Ireland. It is probable that similar erections existed throughout the country
at a former period, and that their preservation is attributable to the remoteness of the district.
The most perfect of these ancient habitations is that of Staigue Fort, near Derryquin Castle,
Kenmare. This fort has an internal diameter of eighty-eight feet. The masonry is composed of
flat-bedded stones of the slate rock of the country, which show every appearance of being quarried,
or carefully broken from larger blocks. There is no appearance of dressed work in the construction;
but the slate would not admit of this, as it splinters away under the slightest blow. Still
the building is an admirable example of constructive masonry; it is almost impossible to dislodge
any fragment from off the filling stones from the face of the wall. A competent authority has
pronounced that these structures cannot be equalled by any dry masonry elsewhere met with in
the country, nor by any masonry of the kind erected in the present day.[245] Some small stone
buildings are also extant in this part of Ireland, but it is doubtful whether they were used
for ecclesiastical or domestic purposes. The crannoge was another kind of habitation, and one
evidently much used, and evincing no ordinary skill in its construction. From the remains found
in these island habitations, we may form a clear idea of the customs and civilization of their
inmates: their food is indicated by the animal remains, which consist of several varieties
of oxen, deer, goats, and sheep; the implements of cookery remain, even to the knife, and the
blocks of stone blackened from long use as fire-places; the arrows, which served for war or
chase, are found in abundance; the personal ornaments evidence the taste of the wearers, and
the skill of the artist; while the canoe, usually of solid oak, and carefully hidden away,
tells its own tale how entrance and exit were effected. One of the earliest crannoges which
was discovered and examined in modern times, was that of Lagere, near Dunshaughlin, county
Meath. It is remarkable that Loch Gabhair is said to have been one of the nine lakes which
burst forth in Ireland, A.M. 3581. The destruction of this crannoge is recorded by the Four
Masters, A.D. 933, giving evidence that it was occupied up to that period. In 1246 there is
a record of the escape of Turlough O'Connor from a crannoge, after he had drowned his keepers;
from which it would appear such structures might be used for prisons, and, probably, would
be specially convenient for the detention of hostages. In 1560 we read that Teigue O'Rourke
was drowned as he was going across a lake to sleep in a crannoge; and even so late as the sixteenth
century, crannoges were declared to be the universal system of defence in the north of Ireland.

Log-houses were also used, and were constructed of beams and planks of timber, something like
the Swiss chalet. One of these ancient structures was discovered in Drumhalin bog, county Donegal,
in 1833. The house consisted of a square structure, twelve feet wide and nine feet high: it
was formed of rough planks and blocks of timber; the mortises were very roughly cut--a stone
celt,[246] which was found lying upon the floor, was, probably, the instrument used to form
them. The logs were most likely formed by a stone axe.[247] The roof was flat, and the house
consisted of two compartments, one over the other, each four feet high. A paved causeway led
from the house to the fire-place, on which was a quantity of ashes, charred wood, half-burnt
turf, and hazle-nuts. So ancient was this habitation, that twenty-six feet of bog had grown
up around and over it. It is supposed that this was only one portion of a collection of houses,
which were used merely as sleeping-places. A slated enclosure was also traced, portions of
the gates of which were discovered. A piece of a leathern sandal, an arrow-headed flint, and
a wooden sword, were also found in the same locality.

It is probable that wattles and clay formed the staple commodity for building material in ancient
Erinn. Planks and beams, with rough blocks of wood or stone, were most likely reserved for
the dwelling-place of chieftains. Such were the material used also for the royal residence
in Thorney Island, a swampy morass in the Thames, secured by its insular position, where the
early English kings administered justice; and such, probably, were the material of the original
Palais de Justice, where the kings of Gaul entrenched themselves in a pal-lis, or impaled fort.

From the description which Wright[248] gives of Anglo-Saxon domestic architecture, it appears
to have differed but little from that which was in use at the same period in Ireland. The hall[249]
was the most important part of the building, and halls of stone are alluded to in a religious
poem at the beginning of the Exeter Book: "Yet, in the earlier period at least, there can be
little doubt that the materials of building were chiefly wood." The hall, both in Erinn and
Saxon land, was the place of general meeting for all domestic purposes. Food was cooked and
eaten in the same apartment; the chief and his followers eat at the same time and in the same
place. On the subject of food we have ample details scattered incidentally through our annals.
Boiling was probably the principal method of preparing meat, and for this purpose the Irish
were amply provided with vessels. A brazen cauldron is lithographed in the Ulster Archæological
Journal, which is a most interesting specimen of its kind. It was found in a turf bog in the
county Down, at a depth of five feet from the surface; and as this bog has been used from time
immemorial for supplying the neighbourhood with fuel, and is remembered to have been forty
feet above its present level by a generation now living, the antiquity of the vessel is unquestionable.
As a specimen of superior workmanship, the cauldron has been greatly admired. It is made of
sheets of gold-coloured bronze, evidently formed by hammering: the rim is of much thicker metal
than the rest, and is rendered stiffer by corrugation--a process which has been patented in
England within the last dozen years, as a new and valuable discovery.[250]

Cauldrons are constantly mentioned in the Book of Rights, in a manner which shows that these
vessels were in constant use. It was one of the tributes to be presented in due form by the
King of Cashel to the King of Tara; and in the will of Cahir Môr, Monarch of Ireland in the
second century, fifty copper cauldrons are amongst the items bequeathed to his family. Probably
the poorer classes, who could not afford such costly vessels, may have contented themselves
with roasting their food exclusively, unless, indeed, they employed the primitive method of
casting red hot stones into water when they wished it boiled.

The exact precision which characterizes every legal enactment in ancient Erinn, and which could
not have existed in a state of barbarism, is manifested even in the regulations about food.
Each member of the chieftain's family had his appointed portion, and there is certainly a quaintness
in the parts selected for each. The saoi of literature and the king were to share alike, as
we observed when briefly alluding to this subject in the chapter on ancient Tara; their portion
was a prime steak. Cooks and trumpeters were specially to be supplied with "cheering mead,"
it is to be supposed because their occupations required more than ordinary libations; the historian
was to have a crooked bone; the hunter, a pig's shoulder: in fact, each person and each office
had its special portion assigned[251] to it, and the distinction of ranks and trades affords
matter of the greatest interest and of the highest importance to the antiquarian. There can
be but little doubt that the custom of Tara was the custom of all the other kings and chieftains,
and that it was observed throughout the country in every family rich enough to have dependents.
This division of food was continued in the Highlands of Scotland until a late period. Dr. Johnson
mentions it, in his Tour in the Hebrides, as then existing. He observes that he had not ascertained
the details, except that the smith[252] had the head.

The allowance for each day is also specified. Two cows, and two tinnés,[253] and two pigs was
the quantity for dinner. This allowance was for a hundred men. The places which the household
were to occupy were also specified; so that while all sat at a common table,[254] there was,
nevertheless, a certain distinction of rank. At Tara there were different apartments, called
imdas, a word now used in the north of Ireland to denote a couch or bed. The name probably
originated in the custom of sleeping in those halls, on the benches which surrounded them,
or on the floor near the fire-place. In the ground plan of the banqueting hall at Tara, the
house is shown as divided into five parts, which are again divided into others. Each of the
two divisions extending along the side wall, is shown as subdivided into twelve imdas, which
here mean seats; the central division is represented as containing three fires at equal distances,
a vat, and a chandelier.

Benches were the seats used, even by persons of rank, until a late period. In the French Carlovingian
romances, even princes and great barons sat on them. Chairs were comparatively rare, and only
used on state occasions, as late as the twelfth century. Wright gives some curious woodcuts
of persons conversing together, who are seated on settles, or on seats formed in the walls
round the room; such as may still be seen in monastic cloisters and the chapter houses of our
old cathedrals. Food which had been roasted was probably handed round to the guests on the
spit on which it had been cooked.[255] Such at least was the Anglo-Saxon fashion; and as the
Irish had spits, and as forks were an unknown luxury for centuries later, we may presume they
were served in a similar manner. The food was varied and abundant, probably none the less wholesome
for being free from the Anglo-Norman refinements of cookery, introduced at a later period.
For animal diet there were fat beeves, dainty venison, pork, fresh and salted, evidently as
favourite a dish with the ancients as with the moderns--except, alas! that in the good old
times it was more procurable. Sheep and goats also varied the fare, with "smaller game," easily
procured by chase, or shot down with arrows or sling stones. The land abounded in "milk and
honey." Wheat was planted at an early period; and after the introduction of Christianity, every
monastic establishment had its mill. There were "good old times" in Ireland unquestionably.
Even an English prince mentions "the honey and wheat, the gold and silver," which he found
in "fair Innis-fail." It is probable that land was cultivated then which now lies arid and
unreclaimed, for a writer in the Ulster Archæological Journal mentions having found traces
of tillage, when laying out drains in remote unproductive districts, several feet beneath the
peaty soil. Dr. O'Donovan also writes in the same journal: "I believe the Irish have had wheat
in the more fertile valleys and plains from a most remote period. It is mentioned constantly
in the Brehon laws and in our most ancient poems."[256] Nor should we omit to mention fish
in the list of edibles. During the summer months, fishing was a favourite and lucrative occupation;
and if we are to believe a legend quoted in the Transactions of the Ossianic Society, the Fenians
enjoyed a monopoly in the trade, for no man dare take a salmon, "dead or alive," excepting
a man in the Fenian ranks; and piscatory squabbles seem to have extended themselves into downright
battles between the Northmen and the natives, when there was question of the possession of
a weir.[257]

Drinking vessels, of various shapes and materials, are constantly mentioned in the Book of
Rights. There were drinking-horns with handsome handles, carved drinking-horns, variegated
drinking-horns, drinking-horns of various colours, and drinking-horns of gold.[258] Even in
pagan times, cups or goblets were placed beside the public wells; and it is related that, in
the reign of Conn of the Hundred Battles, Ireland was so prosperous, so wealthy, and so civilized
(circa A.D. 123) that those cups were made of silver. Brian revived this custom nearly a thousand
years later. The Danes probably carried off most of these valuables, as there are no remains
of them at present. We are able, however, to give an illustration of a stone drinking-cup,
which is considered a very beautiful specimen of its kind. This great rarity was found in the
Shannon excavations. We give a specimen below of a celt, and on page 246 of a celt mould, for
which we have also to acknowledge our grateful obligations to the Council of the Royal Irish
Academy.

Drink was usually served to the guests after meals. Among the seven prerogatives for the King
of Teamhair (Tara) we find:

    "The fruits of Manann, a fine present;
    And the heath fruit of Brigh Leithe;
    The venison of Nas; the fish of the Boinn;
    The cresses of the kindly Brosnach."

Dr. O'Donovan suggests that the "heath fruit" may have been bilberries or whortleberries, and
adds that some of the old Irish suppose that this, and not the heath, was the shrub from which
the Danes brewed their beer.[259] It would appear that the Celts were not in the habit of excessive
drinking until a comparatively recent period. In the year 1405 we read of the death of a chieftain
who died of "a surfeit in drinking;" but previous to this entry we may safely assert that the
Irish were comparatively a sober race. The origin of the drink called whisky in modern parlance,
is involved in considerable obscurity. Some authorities consider that the word is derived from
the first part of the term usquebaugh; others suppose it to be derived from the name of a place,
the Basque provinces, where some such compound was concocted in the fourteenth century. In
Morewood's History of Inebriating Liquors, he gives a list of the ingredients used in the composition
of usquebaugh, and none of these are Irish productions.

There is a nice distinction between aqua vitæ and aqua vini in the Red Book of Ossory, which
was rescued by Dr. Graves from a heap of rubbish, the result of a fire in Kilkenny Castle in
1839. MacGeoghegan, in his annotations on the death of the chieftain above-mentioned, observes
that the drink was not aqua vitæ to him, but rather aqua mortis; and he further remarks, that
this is the first notice of the use of aqua vitæ, usquebaugh, or whisky, in the Irish annals.
Mead was made from honey, and beer from malt; and these were, probably, the principal liquors
at the early period[260] of which we are now writing. As to the heath beer of Scandinavian
fame, it is probable that the heather was merely used as a tonic or aromatic ingredient, although
the author of a work, published in London in 1596, entitled Sundrie Newe and Artificial Remedies
against Famine, does suggest the use of heath tops to make a "pleasing and cheape drink for
Poor Men, when Malt is extream Deare;" much, we suppose, on the same principle that shamrocks
and grass were used as a substitute for potatoes in the famine year, when the starving Irish
had no money to buy Indian corn. But famine years were happily rare in Ireland in the times
of which we write; and it will be remembered that on one such occasion the Irish king prayed
to God that he might die, rather than live to witness the misery he could not relieve.

It would appear that butter was also a plentiful product then as now. Specimens of bog butter
are still preserved, and may be found in the collection of the Royal Irish Academy. The butter
was thus entombed either for safety, or to give it that peculiar flavour which makes it resemble
the old dry Stilton cheese, so much admired by the modern bon vivant. A writer in the Ulster
Archæological Journal mentions that he found a quantity of red cows' hair mixed with this butter,
when boring a hole in it with a gouge. It would appear from this as if the butter had been
made in a cow-skin, a fashion still in use among the Arabs. A visitor to the Museum (Mr. Wilmot
Chetwode) asked to see the butter from Abbeyleix. He remarked that some cows' heads had been
discovered in that neighbourhood, which belonged to the old Irish long-faced breed of cattle;
the skin and hair remained on one head, and that was red. An analysis of the butter proved
that it was probably made in the same way as the celebrated Devonshire cream, from which the
butter in that part of England is generally prepared. The Arabs and Syrians make their butter
now in a similar manner. There is a curious account of Irish butter in the Irish Hudibras,
by William Moffat, London, 1755, from which it appears that bog butter was then well known:--

    "But let his faith be good or bad,
    He in his house great plenty had
    Of burnt oat bread, and butter found,
    With garlick mixt, in boggy ground;
    So strong, a dog, with help of wind,
    By scenting out, with ease might find."

A lump of butter was found, twelve feet deep, in a bog at Gortgole, county Antrim, rolled up
in a coarse cloth. It still retains visibly the marks of the finger and thumb of the ancient
dame who pressed it into its present shape.

Specimens of cheese of great antiquity have also been discovered. It was generally made in
the shape of bricks,[261] probably for greater convenience of carriage and pressure in making.
Wax has also been discovered, which is evidently very ancient. A specimen may be seen in the
collection of the Royal Irish Academy. According to the Book of Rights, the use of wax candles
was a royal prerogative:--

    "A hero who possesses five prerogatives,
    Is the King of Laighlin of the fort of Labhraidh:
    The fruit of Almhain [to be brought to him] to his house;
    And the deer of Gleann Searraigh;
    To drink by [the light of] fair wax candles,
    At Din Riogh, is very customary to the king."[262]

In this matter, at least, the Irish kings and princes were considerably in advance of their
Anglo-Saxon neighbours. Wright informs us[263] that their candle was a mere mass of fat, plastered
round a wick, and stuck upon an upright stick: hence the name candlestick.

It is probable that fire-light was, however, the principal means of assisting the visual organs
after dark in both countries. Until comparatively recent times, fires were generally made on
square, flat stones, and these could be placed, as appears to have been the case at Tara, in
different parts of any large hall or apartment. There was sometimes a "back stone" to support
the pile of wood and turf. The smoke got out how best it might, unless where there was a special
provision made for its exit, in the shape of a round hole in the roof. At a later period a
"brace" was sometimes made for conducting it. The brace was formed of upright stakes, interlaced
with twigs, and plastered over, inside and outside, with prepared clay--the earliest idea of
the modern chimney.

Macaulay[264] gives us a picture of an ancient Roman fire-side, and the occupations of those
who sat round it. We can, perhaps, form a more accurate and reliable idea of the dress, amusements,
and occupations of those who surrounded the hall-fires of ancient Tara, or the humble, domestic
hearths of the crannoges or wattled houses.

The amusements of the pre-Christian Celt were, undeniably, intellectual. Chess has already
been mentioned more than once in this work as a constant occupation of princes and chieftains.
Indeed, they appear to have sat down to a game with all the zest of a modern amateur. A few
specimens of chessmen have been discovered: a king, elaborately carved, is figured in the Introduction
to the Book of Rights. It belonged to Dr. Petrie, and was found, with some others, in a bog
in the county Meath. The chessmen of ancient times appear to have been rather formidable as
weapons. In the Táin bó Chuailgné, Cuchullain is represented as having killed a messenger,
who told him a lie, with a chessman, "which pierced him to the centre of his brain." English
writers speak of the use of chess immediately after the Conquest, and say that the Saxons learned
the game from the Danes. The Irish were certainly acquainted with it at a much earlier period;
if we are to credit the Annals, it was well known long before the introduction of Christianity.
Wright gives an engraving of a Quarrel at Chess, in which Charles, the son of the Emperor Charlemagne,
is represented knocking out the brains of his adversary with a chessboard. The illustration
is ludicrously graphic, and the unfortunate man appears to submit to his doom with a touching
grace of helpless resignation.

We may then suppose that chess was a favourite evening amusement of the Celt. Chessboards at
least were plentiful, for they are frequently mentioned among the rights of our ancient kings.
But music was the Irish amusement par excellence; and it is one of the few arts for which they
are credited. The principal Irish instruments were the harp, the trumpet, and the bagpipe.
The harp in the Museum of Trinity College, Dublin, usually known as Brian Boroimhé's harp,
is supposed, by Dr. Petrie, to be the oldest instrument of the kind now remaining in Europe.
It had but one row of strings, thirty in number; the upright pillar is of oak, and the sound-board
of red sallow. The minute and beautiful carving on all parts of the instrument, attests a high
state of artistic skill at whatever period it was executed. As the harp is only thirty-two
inches high, it is supposed that it was used by ecclesiastics in the church services, Cambrensis[265]
mentions this custom; and there is evidence of its having existed from the first introduction
of Christianity. Harps of this description are figured on the knees of ecclesiastics on several
of our ancient stone crosses.

The subject of Irish music would require a volume, and we cannot but regret that it must be
dismissed so briefly. The form of the harp has been incorrectly represented on our coins. It
was first assumed in the national arms about the year 1540. When figured on the coins of Henry
VIII., the artist seems to have taken the Italian harp of twenty-four strings for his model;
but in the national arms sketched on the map of Ireland in the State Papers, executed in the
year 1567, the form is more correct. That the Irish possessed this musical instrument in pre-Christian
times, cannot be doubted. The ornamental cover of an Irish MS., which Mr. Ferguson considers
to date prior to A.D. 1064, contains five examples of the harp of that period. This, and the
sculptured harp at Nieg, in Rosshire, are believed to be the earliest delineations of the perfect
harp. Dr. Bunting gives a sketch of a harp and harper, taken from one of the compartments of
a sculptured cross at Ullard, county Kilkenny. This is a remarkable example. The cross is supposed
to be older than that of Monasterboice, which was erected A.D. 830, and this is believed to
be the first specimen of a harp without a fore pillar that has been discovered out of Egypt.
If the Irish harp be really a variety of the cithara, derived through an Egyptian channel,
it would form another important link in the chain of evidence, which leads us back to colonization
from Egypt through Scythia. Captain Wilford observes,[266] that there may be a clue to the
Celtic word bard in the Hindoo bárdátri; but the Irish appellation appears to be of comparatively
modern use. It is, however, a noticeable fact, that the farther we extend our inquiries, the
more forcibly we are directed to the East as the cradle of our music. Several recent travellers
have mentioned the remarkable similarity between Celtic airs and those which they heard in
different parts of Asia.[267] Sir W. Ouseley observed, at the close of the last century, that
many Hindoo melodies possessed the plaintive simplicity of the Scotch and Irish.

A German scholar has written a work, to prove that the pentatonic scale was brought over by
the Celts from Asia, and that it was preserved longer in Scotland than elsewhere, on account
of the isolated position of that country.[268] The Phoenicians are supposed to have invented
the kinnor, trigonon, and several other of the most remarkable instruments of antiquity. Their
skill as harpists, and their love of music, are indicated by the prophetic denunciation in
Ezechiel, where the ceasing of songs and the sound of the harp are threatened as a calamity
they were likely specially to feel.

We give at least one evidence that the Irish monks practised the choral performance of rhythmical
hymns. Colgan supplies the proof, which we select from one of the Latin hymns of St. Columba:--

    "Protegat nos altissimus,
    De suis sanctis sedibus,
    Dum ibi hymnos canimus,
    Decem statutis vicibus."

Mr. O'Curry gives the names of all the ancient Irish musical instruments as follows:--Cruit,
a harp; Timpan, a drum, or tambourine; Corn, a trumpet; Stoc, a clarion; Pipai, the pipes;
Fidil, the fiddle. He adds: "All those are mentioned in an ancient poem in the Book of Leinster,
a MS. of about the year 1150, now in the Library of Trinity College. The first four are found
in various old tales and descriptions of battles."

We shall find how powerful was the influence of Irish music on the Irish race at a later period
of our history, when the subject of political ballads will be mentioned.

The dress of the rich and the poor probably varied as much in the century of which we write
as at the present day. We have fortunately remains of almost every description of texture in
which the Irish Celt was clad; so that, as Sir W. Wilde has well observed, we are not left
to conjecture, or forced to draw analogies from the habits of half-civilized man in other countries
at the present day.

In the year 1821 the body of a male adult was found in a bog on the lands of Gallagh, near
Castleblakeney, county Galway, clad in its antique garb of deerskin. A few fragments of the
dress are preserved, and may be seen in the collection of the Royal Irish Academy. Portions
of the seams still remain, and are creditable specimens of early needlework. The material employed
in sewing was fine gut of three strands, and the regularity and closeness of the stitching
cannot fail to excite admiration. It is another of the many proofs that, even in the earliest
ages, the Celt was gifted with more than ordinary skill in the execution of whatever works
he took in hand. After all, the skin of animals is one of the most costly and appreciated adornments
of the human race, even at the present day; and our ancestors differ less from us in the kind
of clothes they wore, than in the refinements by which they are fashioned to modern use. It
is stated in the old bardic tale of the Táin bó Chuailgné, that the charioteer of the hero
was clothed in a tunic of deerskin. This statement, taken in connexion with the fact above-mentioned,
is another evidence that increased knowledge is daily producing increased respect for the veracity
of those who transmitted the accounts of our ancestral life, which, at one time, were supposed
to be purely mythical. Skin or leather garments were in use certainly until the tenth century,
in the form of cloaks. It is supposed that Muircheartach obtained the soubriquet "of the leathern
cloaks," from the care which he took in providing his soldiers with them; and it is said that,
in consequence of this precaution, there was not a single man lost in this campaign.

We give a specimen of an ancient shoe and boot, from the collection of the Royal Irish Academy.
It would appear as if the Celt was rather in advance of the Saxon in the art of shoemaking;
for Mr. Fairholt has been obliged to give an illustration selected from Irish remains, in his
history, although it is exclusively devoted to British costume. In illustrating the subject
of gold ornaments, he has also made a selection from the same source. Some curious specimens
of shoes joined together, and therefore perfectly useless for ordinary wear, have also been
discovered. Sir W. Wilde conjectures they may have been used by chieftains as inauguration
shoes.[269]

Saffron was a favourite colour, though it does not appear evident how the dye was procured.
There is no doubt the Irish possessed the art of dyeing from an early period. Its introduction
is attributed to King Tighearnmas, who reigned from A.M. 3580 to 3664. It is probable the Phoenicians
imparted this knowledge to our ancestors. Although our old illuminations are not as rich in
figures as those from which English historians have obtained such ample information regarding
the early costume of that country, we have still some valuable illustrations of this interesting
subject. These representations also are found to correspond faithfully, even in the details
of colour, with the remains which have been discovered from time to time. Our ancient crosses
give immense scope for antiquarian research, though the costumes are principally ecclesiastical,
and hence are not of so much general interest. But the Book of Rights[270] affords ample information,
as far as mere description, of the clothing of a higher class. While the peasant was covered
with a garment of untanned skin or fur, however artistically sown together, the bards, the
chieftains, and the monarchs had their tunics [imar] of golden borders, their mantles [leanna]
or shirts of white wool or deep purple, their fair beautiful matals, and their cloaks of every
colour. If we add to this costume the magnificent ornaments which still remain to attest the
truth of the bardic accounts of Erinn's ancient greatness, we may form a correct picture of
the Celtic noble as he stood in Tara's ancient palace; and we must coincide in the opinion
of the learned editor of the Catalogue of the Royal Irish Academy, that "the variegated and
glowing colours, as well as the gorgeous decorations of the different articles of dress enumerated
in the Book of Rights, added to the brilliancy of the arms, must have rendered the Irish costume
of the eighth and ninth centuries very attractive."

With a passing glance at our ancient Fauna and Flora, and the physical state of the country
at this period, we must conclude briefly.

It is probable that the province of Ulster, which was styled by statute, in Queen Elizabeth's
time, "the most perilous place in all the isle," was much in the same state as to its physical
characteristics in the century of which we write. It was densely wooded, and strong in fortresses,
mostly placed on lakes, natural or artificial. Two great roads led to this part of Ireland--the
"Gap of the North," by Carrickmacross, and the historically famous pass by Magh-Rath. From
the former place to Belturbet the country was nearly impassable, from its network of bogs,
lakes, and mountains. We shall find at a later period what trouble these natural defences gave
to the English settlers.

Munster so abounded in woods, that it was proposed, in 1579, to employ 4,000 soldiers for the
sole purpose of hewing them down. Indeed, its five great forests were the strongholds of the
Earls of Desmond; and enough evidence still remains at Glengariff and Killarney, to manifest
the value of their sylvan possessions. The cold and withering blasts of the great Atlantic,
appear to have stunted or hindered the growth of trees in Connaught. In 1210 the Four Masters
mention the wilderness of Cinel-Dorfa, its principal forest; but it was amply provided with
other resources for the protection of native princes. In 1529 Chief Baron Finglas gave a list
of dangerous passes, with the recommendation that the "Lord Deputy be eight days in every summer
cutting passes into the woods next adjoining the king's subjects."

In Leinster the forests had been cleared at an earlier period; and the country being less mountainous,
was more easily cultivated. But this portion of Ireland contained the well-known Curragh of
Kildare, which has its history also, and a more ancient one than its modern visitors are likely
to suppose. The Curragh is mentioned for the first time in the Liber Hymnorum, in a hymn in
praise of St. Brigid. The Scholiast in a contemporary gloss says: "Currech, a cursu equorum
dictus est." It is also mentioned in Cormac's Glossary, where the etymology is referred to
running or racing. But the most important notice is contained in the historical tale of the
destruction of the mansion of Dá Derga.[271] In this, Connairé Môr, who was killed A.D. 60,
is represented as having gone to the games at the Curragh with four chariots. From this and
other sources we may conclude, that chariot-races preceded horse-races in ancient Erinn, and
that the Curragh has been used as a place of public amusement for the last 2,000 years. It
would appear that every province in Ireland possessed an Aenach or "fair-green," where the
men assembled to celebrate their games and festivals. In an old list of Irish Triads, the three
great Aenachs of Ireland are said to have been Aenach Crogan, in Connaught; Aenach Taillten,
in Meath; and Aenach Colmain, the Curragh. The last would appear, however, to have been frequented
by persons from all parts of Ireland; and it is not a little strange that it should still be
used in a similar manner as a place of public amusement. Ireland in the tenth century and Ireland
in the nineteenth form a painful contrast, notwithstanding the boasted march of intellect.
The ancient forests have been hewn down with little profit[272] to the spoiler, and to the
injury in many ways of the native. The noble rivers are there still, and the mountains look
as beautiful in the sunsets of this year of grace as they did so many hundred years before;
but the country, which was in "God's keeping" then, has but little improved since it came into
the keeping of man; for the poor tenant, who may be here to-day, and to-morrow cast out on
the wayside, has but substituted ill-fenced and ill-cultivated fields for wide tracts of heather
and moorland, which had at least the recommendation of attractive scenery, and of not suggesting
painful reflections.

The most formidable, if not the largest, of the carnivora in this island, was the brown bear.
The wolf lingered on until the beginning of the last century; and the Irish greyhound has passed
with it also. The gigantic Irish elk, Cervus megaseros, belongs more to the palaeontologist
than to the historian, as it is supposed to have existed only in pre-historic times. A smaller
variety has been found in peat overlaying the clay, from which it is inferred that some species
may have been contemporary with the human race. The horse co-existed with the elephant. The
red deer was the principal object of chase from an early period. The wild boar found abundant
food from our noble oaks; and the hare, the rabbit, the goat, and the sheep supplied the wants
of the Celt in ancient as in modern times. But the great wealth of Ireland consisted in her
cows, which then, as now, formed a staple article of commerce. Indeed, most of the ancient
feuds were simply cattle raids, and the successful party signalized his victory by bearing
off the bovine wealth of the vanquished enemy.

It is impossible exactly to estimate the population of Ireland at this period with any degree
of reliable exactitude. The only method of approximating thereto should be based on a calculation
of the known or asserted number of men in arms at any given time. When Roderic and his allies
invested the Normans in Dublin, he is said to have had 50,000 fighting men. Supposing this
to include one-fourth of all the men of the military age in the country, and to bear the proportion
of one-fifth to the total number of the inhabitants, it would give a population of about a
million, which would probably be rather under than over the correct estimate.

FOOTNOTES:

[245] Day.--Wilkinson's Geology and Architecture of Ireland, p. 59.

[246] Celt.--Catalogue of R.I.A. p. 43. This celt is the largest discovered in Ireland, and
is formed of coarse clay-slate. It is 22 inches long, 1 inch thick, and 3-3/4 broad at the
widest part. It was found in the bed of the river Blackwater, two miles below Charlemont, county
Armagh.

[247] Axe.--Catalogue of R.I.A. p. 80. Sir W. Wilde pronounces this to be one of the most beautiful
specimens of the stone battle-axe which has been found in Ireland, both for design and execution.
It is composed of fine-grained remblendic sylicite, and is highly polished all over. It was
found in the river at Athlone.

[248] Wright.--History of Domestic Manners and Sentiments, p. 11.

[249] Hall.--Hence the term "hall" is still used to denote mansions of more than ordinary importance.
The hall was the principal part of the ancient Saxon house, and the term used for the part
was easily transferred to the whole.

[250] Discovery.--Ulster Arch. Journal, vol. v. p. 83.

[251] Assigned.--Petrie's Tara, p. 200.

[252] Smith.--The animals were brought to the smith, who knocked them down with his big hammer:
hence, probably, the name of Smithfield for a cattle market. He was an important personage
in the olden time. In the Odyssey, as armourer, he ranks with the bard and physician.

[253] Tinnés.--Dr. Petrie does not give the meaning of this word, but Dr. O'Donovan supplies
the deficiency in the Book of Rights, where he explains it to mean a salted pig, or in plain
English, bacon.

[254] Table.--In the earliest ages of Tara's existence, the household may have been served
as they sat on the benches round the hall. The table was at first simply a board: hence we
retain the term a hospitable board; a board-room, a room where a board was placed for writing
on. The board was carried away after dinner, and the trestles on which it stood, so as to leave
room for the evening's amusements.

[255] Cooked.--Wright's Domestic Manners, p. 87. The knights in this engraving are using their
shields as a substitute for a table. At p. 147 there is an illustration of the method of cooking
on a spit; this is turned by a boy. The Irish appear to have had a mechanical arrangement for
this purpose some centuries earlier. Bellows, which are now so commonly used in Ireland, and
so rare in England, appear to have been a Saxon invention.

[256] Poems.--Ulster Arch. Journal, vol. i. p. 108. It would appear as if corn had been eaten
raw, or perhaps partly scorched, at an early period, as was customary in eastern countries.
Teeth have been found in crania taken from our ancient tombs, quite worn down by some such
process of mastication.

[257] Weir.--Salt appears to have been used also at a very ancient period, though it cannot
now be ascertained how it was procured. Perhaps it was obtained from native sources now unknown.

[258] Gold.--Book of Rights, pp. 145, 209, &c. The King of Cashel was entitled to a hundred
drinking horns.--p. 33.

[259] Beer.--Book of Rights, p. 9.

[260] Period.--Accounts will be given later of the use of aqua vitæ, or whisky, after the English
invasion. The English appear to have appreciated this drink, for we find, in 1585, that the
Mayor of Waterford sent Lord Burleigh a "rundell of aqua vitæ;" and in another letter, in the
State Paper Office, dated October 14, 1622, the Lord Justice Coke sends a "runlett of milde
Irish uskebach," from his daughter Peggie (heaven save the mark!) to the "good Lady Coventry,"
because the said Peggie "was so much bound to her ladyship for her great goodness." However,
the said Lord Justice strongly recommends the uskebach to his lordship, assuring him that "if
it please his lordship next his heart in the morning to drinke a little of this Irish uskebach,
it will help to digest all raw humours, expell wynde, and keep his inward parte warm all the
day after." A poor half-starved Irishman in the present century, could scarcely have brought
forward more extenuating circumstances for his use of the favourite beverage; and he might
have added that he had nothing else to "keep him warm."

[261] Bricks.--In an ancient life of St. Kevin of Glendalough, there is mention made of certain
brick-cheeses, which the saint converted into real bricks, in punishment to a woman for telling
a lie.

[262] King.--Book of Rights, p. 15.

[263] Informs us.--Domestic Manners, p. 43.

[264] Macaulay.--Lays of Ancient Rome.--Horatius.

[265] Cambrensis.--"Hinc accidit, ut Episcopi et Abbates, et Sancti in Hiberniâ viri cytharas
circumferre et in eis modulando pié delectari consueverunt."--Cam. Des. p. 739.

[266] Observes.--Asiatic Researches, vol. ix. p. 76.

[267] Asia.--See Carl Eugen's valuable work on the Music of Ancient Nations passim.

[268] Country.--Erste Wanderung der ältesten Tonkunst, von G.W. Fruh, Essen, 1831. In Conran's
National Music of Ireland, he attributes this to the influence of ecclesiastical music. But
an article by Mr. Darmey, in the Journal of the Royal Asiatic Society, takes a much more probable
view. The Ambrosian chant, introduced about A.D. 600, could not have influenced national music
which existed for centuries before that period.

[269] Shoes.--The use of inauguration shoes appears to have been very ancient in Ireland. It
will be remembered how early and how frequently the shoe is mentioned in Scripture in connexion
with legal arrangements. It was obviously an important object in Eastern business transactions.

[270] Book of Rights.--The great antiquity and perfect authenticity of this most valuable work,
should be remembered. It is admitted that the original Book of Rights was compiled by St. Benignus,
the disciple of St. Patrick. Dr. O'Donovan thinks there is every reason to believe that this
work was in existence in the time of Cormac, the bishop-king of Cashel, A.D. 900. It is probable
that the present Book of Rights was compiled about this period, from the more ancient volume
of the same name.

[271] Dá Derga.--See an interesting Essay on the Curragh of Kildare, by Mr. W.M. Hennessy,
read before the R.I.A., February 26, 1866.

[272] Profit.--The trustees of the estates forfeited in 1688 notice this especially. Trees
to the value of £20,000 were cut down and destroyed on the estate of Sir Valentine Brown, near
Killarney, and to the value of £27,000 on the territory of the Earl of Clancarty. Some of these
trees were sold for sixpence a piece.

CHAPTER XVI.

The English Invasion--Dermod's Interview with Henry II.--Henry grants Letters-patent--Dermod
obtains the assistance of Strongbow, Earl de Clare--He returns to Ireland--Arrival of English
Forces under FitzStephen--Fatal Indifference of Roderic, the Irish Monarch--He is at last roused
to action, but acknowledges Dermod's Authority almost without a Struggle--Strongbow's Genealogy--He
obtains a Tacit Permission to invade Ireland--His Arrival in Ireland--Marriage of Strongbow
and Eva--Death of Dermod Mac Murrough--Strongbow proclaims himself King of Leinster--Difficulties
of his Position--Siege of Dublin--Strongbow's Retreat--He returns to England.

[A.D. 1168-1171.]

Until this period (A.D. 1168) the most friendly relations appear to have existed between England
and Ireland. Saxon nobles and princes had fled for shelter, or had come for instruction to
the neighbouring shores. The assistance of Irish troops had been sought and readily obtained
by them. Irish merchants[273] had taken their goods to barter in English markets; but when
the Norman had won the Saxon crown, and crushed the Saxon race under his iron heel, the restless
spirit of the old Viking race looked out for a new quarry, and long before Dermod had betrayed
his country, that country's fate was sealed.

William Rufus is reported to have said, as he stood on the rocks near St. David's, that he
would make a bridge with his ships from that spot to Ireland--a haughty boast, not quite so
easily accomplished. His speech was repeated to the King of Leinster, who inquired "if the
king, in his great threatening, had added, 'if it so please God'?" The reporter answered in
the negative. "Then," said he, "seeing this king putteth his trust only in man, and not in
God, I fear not his coming." When Dermod Mac Murrough was driven in disgrace from Ireland,
he fled at once to Bristol. There he learned that Henry was still in Aquitaine, and thither,
with a perseverance worthy of a better cause, he followed the English king. Henry was only
too happy to listen to his complaints, and forward his views; but he was too much occupied
with his personal affairs to attempt the conquest of a kingdom. Letters-patent were incomparably
more convenient than men-at-arms, and with letters-patent the renegade was fain to be content.
Dermod only asked help to recover the kingdom from which he had been expelled for his crimes;
Henry pretended no more than to give the assistance asked, and for all reward only wished that
Dermod should pay a vassal's homage to the English king. Henry may have known that his client
was a villain, or he may not. Henry may have intended to annex Ireland to the British dominions
(if he could), or he may merely have hoped for some temporary advantage from the new connexion.
Whatever he knew or whatever he hoped, he received Dermod "into the bosom of his grace and
benevolence," and he did but distantly insinuate his desires by proclaiming him his "faithful
and liege subject." The royal letter ran thus:--"Henry, King of England, Duke of Normandy and
Aquitaine, and Earl of Anjou, to all his liegemen, English, Norman, Welsh, and Scotch, and
to all the nation under his dominion, sends greeting. As soon as the present letter shall come
to your hands, know that Dermod, Prince of Leinster, has been received into the bosom of our
grace and benevolence: wherefore, whosoever, within the ample extent of our territories, shall
be willing to lend aid towards this prince as our faithful and liege subject, let such person
know that we do hereby grant to him for said purpose our licence and favour."

In this document there is not even the most remote reference to the Bull of Adrian, conferring
the island of Ireland on Henry, although this Bull had been obtained some time before. In whatever
light we may view this omission, it is certainly inexplicable.

For some time Dermod failed in his efforts to obtain assistance. After some fruitless negotiations
with the needy and lawless adventurers who thronged the port of Bristol, he applied to the
Earl of Pembroke, Richard de Clare. This nobleman had obtained the name of Strongbow, by which
he is more generally known, from his skill in archery. Two other young men of rank joined the
party; they were sons of the beautiful and infamous Nesta,[274] once the mistress of Henry
I., but now the wife of Gerald, Governor of Pembroke and Lord of Carew. The knights were Maurice
FitzGerald and Robert FitzStephen. Dermod had promised them the city of Wexford and two cantreds
of land as their reward. Strongbow was to succeed him on the throne of Leinster, and to receive
the hand of his young and beautiful daughter, Eva, in marriage.

There is considerable uncertainty as to the real date and the precise circumstances of Dermod's
arrival in Ireland. According to one account, he returned at the close of the year 1168, and
concealed himself during the winter in a monastery of Augustinian Canons at Ferns, which he
had founded. The two principal authorities are Giraldus Cambrensis and Maurice Regan; the latter
was Dermod Mac Murrough's secretary. According to his account, Robert FitzStephen landed at
Bannow, near Waterford, in May, 1169, with an army of three hundred archers, thirty knights,
and sixty men-at-arms.[275] A second detachment arrived the next day, headed by Maurice de
Prendergast, a Welsh gentleman, with ten knights and sixty archers. Dermod at once assembled
his men, and joined his allies. He could only muster five hundred followers; but with their
united forces, such as they were, the outlawed king and the needy adventurers laid siege to
the city of Wexford. The brave inhabitants of this mercantile town at once set forth to meet
them; but, fearing the result if attacked in open field by well-disciplined troops, they fired
the suburbs, and entrenched themselves in the town. Next morning the assaulting party prepared
for a renewal of hostilities, but the clergy of Wexford advised an effort for peace: terms
of capitulation were negotiated, and Dermod was obliged to pardon, when he would probably have
preferred to massacre. It is said that FitzStephen burned his little fleet, to show his followers
that they must conquer or die. Two cantreds of land, comprising the present baronies of Forth
and Bargy,[276] were bestowed on him: and thus was established the first English colony in
Ireland. The Irish princes and chieftains appear to have regarded the whole affair with silent
contempt. The Annals say they "set nothing by the Flemings;"[277] practically, they set nothing
by any of the invaders. Could they have foreseen, even for one moment, the consequences of
their indifference, we cannot doubt but that they would have acted in a very different manner.
Roderic, the reigning monarch, was not the man either to foresee danger, or to meet it when
foreseen; though we might pardon even a more sharp-sighted and vigilant warrior, for overlooking
the possible consequence of the invasion of a few mercenary troops, whose only object appeared
to be the reinstatement of a petty king. Probably, the troops and their captains were equally
free from suspecting what would be the real result of their proceedings.

The fair of Telltown was celebrated about this time; and from the accounts given by the Annals
of the concourse of people, and the number of horsemen who attended it, there can be little
doubt that Ireland was seldom in a better position to resist foreign invasion. But unity of
purpose and a competent leader were wanted then, as they have been wanted but too often since.
Finding so little opposition to his plans, Mac Murrough determined to act on the offensive.
He was now at the head of 3,000 men. With this force he marched into the adjoining territory
of Ossory, and made war on its chief, Donough FitzPatrick; and after a brave but unsuccessful
resistance, it submitted to his rule.[278] The Irish monarch was at length aroused to some
degree of apprehension. He summoned a hosting of the men of Ireland at Tara; and with the army
thus collected, assisted by the Lords of Meath, Oriel, Ulidia, Breffni, and some northern chieftains,
he at once proceeded to Dublin. Dermod was alarmed, and retired to Ferns. Roderic pursued him
thither. But dissension had already broken out in the Irish camp: the Ulster chiefs returned
home; the contingent was weakened; and, either through fear, or from the natural indolence
of his pacific disposition, he agreed to acknowledge Mac Murrough's authority. Mac Murrough
gave his son Cormac as hostage for the fulfilment of the treaty. A private agreement was entered
into between the two kings, in which Dermod pledged himself to dismiss his foreign allies as
soon as possible, and to bring no more strangers into the country. It is more than probable
that he had not the remotest idea of fulfilling his promise; it is at least certain that he
broke it the first moment it was his interest to do so. Dermod's object was simply to gain
time, and in this he succeeded.

Maurice FitzGerald arrived at Wexford a few days after, and the recreant king at once proceeded
to meet him; and with this addition to his army, marched to attack Dublin. The Dano-Celts,
who inhabited this city, had been so cruelly treated by him, that they dreaded a repetition
of his former tyrannies. They had elected a governor for themselves; but resistance was useless.
After a brief struggle, they were obliged to sue for peace--a favour which probably would not
have been granted without further massacres and burnings, had not Dermod wished to bring his
arms to bear in another quarter.

Donnell O'Brien, Prince of Thomond, who had married a daughter of Dermod, had just rebelled
against Roderic, and the former was but too willing to assist him in his attempt. Thus encouraged
where he should have been treated with contempt, and hunted down with ignominy, his ambition
became boundless. He played out the favourite game of traitors; and no doubt hoped, when he
had consolidated his own power, that he could easily expel his foreign allies. Strongbow had
not yet arrived, though the winds had been long enough "at east and easterly."[279] His appearance
was still delayed. The fact was, that the Earl was in a critical position. Henry and his barons
were never on the most amiable terms; and there were some very special reasons why Strongbow
should prove no exception to the rule.

The first member of the Earl's family who had settled in England, was Richard, son of the Norman
Earl Brien, a direct descendant of Robert "the Devil," Duke of Normandy, father of William
the Conqueror. In return for services at the battle of Hastings, and general assistance in
conquering the Saxon, this family obtained a large grant of land in England, and took the title
of Earl of Clare from one of their ninety-five lordships in Suffolk.[280] The Strongbow family
appears to have inherited a passion for making raids on neighbouring lands, from their Viking
ancestors. Strongbow's father had obtained his title of Earl of Pembroke, and his property
in the present county of that name, from his successful marauding expedition in Wales, in 1138.
But as he revolted against Stephen, his lands were seized by that king; and after his death,
in 1148, his son succeeded to his very numerous titles, without any property commensurate thereto.
Richard was not in favour with his royal master, who probably was jealous of the Earl, despite
his poverty; but as Strongbow did not wish to lose the little he had in England, or the chance
of obtaining more in Ireland, he proceeded at once to the court, then held in Normandy, and
asked permission for his new enterprise. Henry's reply was so carefully worded, he could declare
afterwards that he either had or had not given the permission, whichever version of the interview
might eventually prove most convenient to the royal interests. Strongbow took the interpretation
which suited his own views, and proceeded to the scene of action with as little delay as possible.
He arrived in Ireland, according to the most generally received account, on the vigil of St.
Bartholomew, A.D. 1170, and landed at Dundonnell, near Waterford. His uncle, Hervey de Montmarisco,
had already arrived, and established himself in a temporary fort, where he had been attacked
by the brave citizens of Wexford. But the besieged maintained their position, killed five hundred
men, and made prisoners of seventy of the principal citizens of Waterford. Large sums of money
were offered for their ransom, but in vain. They were brutally murdered by the English soldiers,
who first broke their limbs, and then hurled them from a precipice into the sea. It was the
first instalment of the utterly futile theory, so often put in practice since that day, of
"striking terror into the Irish;" and the experiment was quite as unsuccessful as all such
experiments have ever been.[281]

While these cruelties were enacting, Strongbow had been collecting forces in South Wales; but,
as he was on the very eve of departure, he received a peremptory order from Henry, forbidding
him to leave the kingdom. After a brief hesitation, he determined to bid defiance to the royal
mandate, and set sail for Ireland. The day after his arrival he laid siege to Waterford. The
citizens behaved like heroes, and twice repulsed their assailants; but their bravery could
not save them in the face of overpowering numbers. A breach was made in the wall; the besiegers
poured in; and a merciless massacre followed. Dermod arrived while the conflict was at its
height, and for once he has the credit of interfering on the side of mercy. Reginald, a Danish
lord, and O'Phelan, Prince of the Deisi, were about to be slain by their captors, but at his
request they were spared, and the general carnage was suspended. For the sake of common humanity,
one could wish to think that this was an act of mercy. But Mac Murrough had his daughter Eva
with him; he wished to have her nuptials with Strongbow celebrated at once; and he could scarcely
accomplish his purpose while men were slaying their fellows in a cold-blooded massacre. The
following day the nuptials were performed. The English Earl, a widower, and long past the prime
of manhood, was wedded to the fair young Celtic maiden; and the marriage procession passed
lightly over the bleeding bodies of the dying and the dead. Thus commenced the union between
Great Britain and Ireland: must those nuptials be for ever celebrated in tears and blood?

Immediately after the ceremony, the army set out for Dublin. Roderic had collected a large
force near Clondalkin, and Hosculf, the Danish governor of the city, encouraged by their presence,
had again revolted against Dermod. The English army having learned that the woods and defiles
between Wexford and Dublin were well guarded, had made forced marches along the mountains,
and succeeded in reaching the capital long before they were expected. Their decision and military
skill alarmed the inhabitants--they might also have heard reports of the massacres at Wexford;
be this as it may, they determined to negotiate for peace, and commissioned their illustrious
Archbishop, St. Laurence O'Toole, to make terms with Dermod. While the discussion was pending,
two of the English leaders, Raymond le Gros and Miles de Cogan, obtained an entrance into the
city, and commenced a merciless butchery of the inhabitants. When the saint returned he heard
cries of misery and groans of agony in all quarters, and it was not without difficulty that
he succeeded in appeasing the fury of the soldiers, and the rage of the people, who had been
so basely treated.

The Four Masters accuse the people of Dublin of having attempted to purchase their own safety
at the expense of the national interests, and say that "a miracle was wrought against them"
as a judgment for their selfishness. Hosculf, the Danish governor, fled to the Orkneys, with
some of the principal citizens, and Roderic withdrew his forces to Meath, to support O'Rourke,
on whom he had bestowed a portion of that territory. Miles de Cogan was invested with the government
of Dublin, and Dermod marched to Meath, to attack Roderic and O'Rourke, against whom he had
an old grudge of the worst and bitterest kind. He had injured him by carrying off his wife,
Dervorgil, and men generally hate most bitterly those whom they have injured most cruelly.

Meanwhile MacCarthy of Desmond had attacked and defeated the English garrison at Waterford,
but without any advantageous results. Roderic's weakness now led him to perpetrate an act of
cruelty, although it could scarcely be called unjust according to the ideas of the times. It
will be remembered that he had received hostages from Dermod for the treaty of Ferns. That
treaty had been openly violated, and the King sent ambassadors to him to demand its fulfilment,
by the withdrawal of the English troops, threatening, in case of refusal, to put the hostages
to death. Dermod laughed at the threat. Under any circumstances, he was not a man who would
hesitate to sacrifice his own flesh and blood to his ambition. Roderic was as good as his word;
and the three royal hostages were put to death at Athlone.

An important synod was held at the close of this year (A.D. 1170), at Armagh. We have already
mentioned one of its principal enactments, which deplored and condemned the practice of buying
English slaves from the Bristol merchants. Other subjects shall be more fully entertained when
we come to the Synod of Cashel, which was held two years later.

In 1171 Dermod MacMurrough, the author of so many miseries, and the object of so much just
reprobation, died at Ferns, on the 4th of May. His miserable end was naturally considered a
judgment for his evil life. His obituary is thus recorded: "Diarmaid Mac Murchadha, King of
Leinster, by whom a trembling soil was made of all Ireland, after having brought over the Saxons,
after having done extensive injuries to the Irish, after plundering and burning many churches,
as Ceanannus, Cluain-Iraired, &c., died before the end of a year [after this plundering], of
an insufferable and unknown disease; for he became putrid while living, through the miracle
of God, Colum-cille, and Finnen, and the other saints of Ireland, whose churches he had profaned
and burned some time before; and he died at Fearnamor, without [making] a will, without penance,
without the body of Christ, without unction, as his evil deeds deserved."[282]

But the death of the traitor could not undo the traitor's work. Men's evil deeds live after
them, however they may repent them on their deathbeds. Strongbow had himself at once proclaimed
King of Leinster--his marriage with Eva was the ground of his claim; but though such a mode
of succession might hold good in Normandy, it was perfectly illegal in Ireland. The question,
however, was not one of right but of might, and it was settled as all such questions invariably
are. But Strongbow had a master at the other side of the Channel, who had his own views of
these complications. His tenure, however, was somewhat precarious. His barons, always turbulent,
had now a new ground for aggression, in the weakness to which he had exposed himself by his
virtual sanction of the murder of St. Thomas of Canterbury, and he was fain to content himself
with a strong injunction commanding all his English subjects then in Ireland to return immediately,
and forbidding any further reinforcements to be sent to that country. Strongbow was alarmed,
and at once despatched Raymond le Gros with apologies and explanations, offering the King all
the lands he had acquired in Ireland. Henry does not appear to have taken the slightest notice
of these communications, and the Earl determined to risk his displeasure, and remain in Ireland.

His prospects, however, were by no means promising. His Irish adherents forsook him on the
death of Dermod; Dublin was besieged by a Scandinavian force, which Hosculf had collected in
the Orkneys, and which was conveyed in sixty vessels, under the command of Johan le Déve (the
Furious). Miles de Cogan repulsed this formidable attack successfully, and captured the leaders.
Hosculf was put to death; but he appears to have brought his fate on himself by a proud and
incautious boast.

At this period the thoughtful and disinterested Archbishop of Dublin saw a crisis in the history
of his country on which much depended. He endeavoured to unite the national chieftains, and
rally the national army. His words appear to have had some effect. Messengers were sent to
ask assistance from Godfred, King of the Isle of Man, and other island warriors. Strongbow
became aware of his danger, and threw himself into Dublin; but he soon found himself landlocked
by an army, and enclosed at sea by a fleet. Roderic O'Connor commanded the national forces,
supported by Tiernan O'Rourke and Murrough O'Carroll. St. Laurence O'Toole remained in the
camp, and strove to animate the men by his exhortations and example. The Irish army contented
themselves with a blockade, and the besieged were soon reduced to extremities from want of
food. Strongbow offered terms of capitulation through the Archbishop, proposing to hold the
kingdom of Leinster as Roderic's vassal; but the Irish monarch demanded the surrender of the
towns of Dublin, Wexford, and Waterford, and required the English invaders to leave the country
by a certain day.

While these negotiations were pending, Donnell Cavanagh, son of the late King of Leinster,
got into the city in disguise, and informed Strongbow that FitzStephen was closely besieged
in Wexford. It was then at once determined to force a passage through the Irish army. Raymond
le Gros led the van, Miles de Cogan followed; Strongbow and Maurice FitzGerald, who had proposed
the sortie, with the remainder of their force, brought up the rere. The Irish army was totally
unprepared for this sudden move; they fled in panic, and Roderic, who was bathing in the Liffey,
escaped with difficulty.[283]

Strongbow again committed the government of Dublin to Miles de Cogan, and set out for Wexford.
On his way thither he was opposed by O'Regan, Prince of Idrone. An action ensued, which might
have terminated fatally for the army, had not the Irish prince received his death-wound from
an English archer. His troops took to flight, and Strongbow proceeded on his journey. But he
arrived too late. Messengers met him on the way, to inform him that the fort of Carrig had
fallen into the hands of the Irish, who are said to have practised an unjustifiable stratagem
to obtain possession of the place. As usual, there are two versions of the story. One of these
versions, which appears not improbable, is that the besieged had heard a false report of the
affair in Dublin; and believing Strongbow and the English army to have been overthrown, they
surrendered on the promise of being sent in safety to Dublin. On their surrender, the conditions
were violated, FitzStephen was imprisoned, and some of his followers killed. The charge against
the besiegers is that they invented the report as a stratagem to obtain their ends, and that
the falsehood was confirmed in a solemn manner by the bishops of Wexford and Kildare.

As soon as the Wexford men had heard of Strongbow's approach, they set fire to the town, and
fled to Beg-Erin, a stockaded island, at the same time sending him a message, that, if he attempted
to approach, they would kill all their prisoners. The Earl withdrew to Waterford in consequence
of this threat, and here he learned that his presence was indispensable in England; he therefore
set off at once to plead his own cause with his royal master. A third attack had been made
on Dublin, in the meantime, by the Lord of Breffni, but it was repulsed by Miles. With this
exception, the Irish made no attempt against the common enemy, and domestic wars were as frequent
as usual.

Henry had returned to England, and was now in Newenham, in Gloucestershire, making active preparations
for his visit to Ireland. The odium into which he had fallen, after his complicity in the murder
of St. Thomas of Canterbury, had rendered his position perilous in the extreme; and probably
his Irish expedition would never have been undertaken, had he not required some such object
to turn his thoughts and the thoughts of his subjects from the consequences of his crime.[284]
He received Strongbow coldly, and at first refused him an interview. After a proper delay,
he graciously accepted the Earl's offer of "all the lands he had won in Ireland"--a very questionable
gift, considering that there was not an inch of ground there which he could securely call his
own. Henry, however, was pleased to restore his English estates; but, with consummate hypocrisy
and villany, he seized the castles of the Welsh lords, whom he hated for their vigorous and
patriotic opposition, and punished them for allowing the expedition, which he had just sanctioned,
to sail from their coasts unmolested.

]

FOOTNOTES:

[273] Merchants.--Wright says that "theft and unfair dealing" were fearfully prevalent among
the Anglo-Normans, and mentions, as an example, how some Irish merchants were robbed who came
to Ely to sell their wares.--Domestic Manners, p. 78. It would appear that there was considerable
slave-trade carried on with the British merchants. The Saxons, who treated their dependents
with savage cruelty (see Wright, p. 56), sold even their children as slaves to the Irish. In
1102 this inhuman traffic was forbidden by the Council of London. Giraldus Cambrensis mentions
that, at a synod held at Armagh, A.D. 1170, the Irish clergy, who had often forbidden this
trade, pronounced the invasion of Ireland by Englishmen to be a just judgment on the Irish
for their share in the sin, and commanded that all who had English slaves should at once set
them free. Mr. Haverty remarks, that it was a curious and characteristic coincidence, that
an Irish deliberative assembly should thus, by an act of humanity to Englishmen, have met the
merciless aggressions which the latter had just then commenced against this country.--Hist.
of Ireland, p. 169.

[274] Nesta.--David Powell, in his notes to the Itinerary of Cambria, states that this lady
was a daughter of Rufus, Prince of Demetia. She was distinguished for her beauty, and infamous
for her gallantries. She had a daughter by Gerald of Windsor, called Augweth, who was mother
to Giraldus Cambrensis. This relationship accounts for the absurd eulogiums which he has lavished
on the Geraldines. Demetia is the district now called Pembrokeshire, where a colony of Normans
established themselves after the Norman Conquest.--See Thierry's Norman Conquest.

[275] Men-at-arms.--Hibernia Expugnata, lib. i. c. 16.

[276] Bargy.--Our illustration gives a view of the remains of this ancient castle. It was formerly
the residence of Bagenal Harvey, a Protestant gentleman, who suffered in the rebellion of 1798,
for his adherence to the cause of Ireland.

[277] Flemings.--Dr. O'Donovan mentions, in a note to the Four Masters, that he was particularly
struck with the difference between the personal appearance of the inhabitants of the baronies
where they settled. The Cavanaghs and Murphys are tall and slight; the Flemings and Codds short
and stout. They still retain some peculiarities of language.

[278] Rule.--What the rule of this ferocious monster may have been we can judge from what is
related of him by Cambrensis. Three hundred heads of the slain were piled up before him; and
as he leaped and danced with joy at the ghastly sight, he recognized a man to whom he had a
more than ordinary hatred. He seized the head by the ears, and gratified his demoniacal rage
by biting off the nose and lips of his dead enemy.

[279] Easterly.--Cambrensis takes to himself the credit of having advised the despatch of a
letter to Strongbow. He also gives us the letter, which probably was his own composition, as
it is written in the same strain of bombast as his praises of his family.--Hib. Expug. lib.
i. c. 12. It commences thus: "We have watched the storks and swallows; the summer birds are
come and gone," &c. We imagine that Dermod's style, if he had taken to epistolary correspondence,
would have been rather a contrast.

[280] Suffolk.--See Gilbert's Viceroys of Dublin, passim. We recommend this work to our readers.
It should be in the hands of every Irishman at least. It combines the attraction of romance
with the accuracy of carefully written history.

[281] Been.--If we are to believe Cambrensis, Raymond argued against this cruelty, and Henry
in favour of it.

[282] Deserved.--The Annals of Clonmacnois give a similar account; but in a paper MS. in Trinity
College, Dublin, it is said that he died "after the victory of penance and unction." The old
account is probably the more reliable, as it is the more consonant with his previous career.

[283] Difficulty.--The army was so well supplied, that the English got sufficient corn, meal,
and pork to victual the city of Dublin for a whole year.--Harris' Hibernæ, p. 25.

[284] Crime.--So fearful was the unfortunate monarch of a public excommunication and interdict,
that he sent courtiers at once to Rome to announce his submission. When he heard of the murder
he shut himself up for three days, and refused all food, except "milk of almonds." See Vita
Quadrip. p. 143. It would appear this was a favourite beverage, from the amount of almonds
which were brought to Ireland for his special benefit. See p. 272.

CHAPTER XVII.

Arrival of Henry II.--Some of the Native Princes pay him Homage--His Character--Dublin in the
time of Henry II.--His Winter Palace--Norman Luxuries--King Henry holds a Court--Adrian's Bull--Temporal
Power of the Popes in the Middle Ages--Conduct of the Clergy--Irish Property given to English
Settlers--Henry II. returns to England--The Account Cambrensis gives of the Injuries done to
Ireland by his Countrymen--Raymond, Montmarisco, and Strongbow--The latter is defeated--He
recalls Raymond from Wales--Treaty between Roderic and Henry--Death of Strongbow.

[A.D. 1171-1176.]

Henry landed in Ireland on the 18th of October, 1171, at Crook, in the county of Waterford.
He was accompanied by Strongbow, William FitzAldelm, Humphrey de Bohun, Hugh de Lacy, Robert
FitzBarnard, and many other lords. His whole force, which, according to the most authentic
English accounts, was distributed in four hundred ships, consisted of 500 knights and 4,000
men-at-arms. It would appear the Irish had not the least idea that he intended to claim the
kingdom as his own, and rather looked upon him as a powerful potentate who had come to assist
the native administration of justice. Even had they suspected his real object, no opposition
might have been made to it. The nation had suffered much from domestic dissension; it had yet
to learn that foreign oppression was an incomparable greater evil.

If a righteous king or a wise statesman had taken the affair in hand, Ireland might have been
made an integral and most valuable portion of the British Empire without a struggle. The nation
would have bowed gratefully to an impartial government; they have not yet ceased to resent
a partial and frequently unjust rule. From the very commencement, the aggrandizement of the
individual, and not the advantage of the people, has been the rule of action. Such government
is equally disgraceful to the rulers, and cruel to the governed.

MacCarthy of Desmond was the first Irish prince who paid homage to the English King. At Cashel,
Donnell O'Brien, King of Thomond, swore fealty, and surrendered the city of Limerick. Other
princes followed their example. The "pomp and circumstance" of the royal court, attracted the
admiration of a people naturally deferential to authority; the condescension and apparent disinterestedness
of the monarch, won the hearts of an impulsive and affectionate race. They had been accustomed
to an Ard-Righ, a chief monarch, who, in name at least, ruled all the lesser potentates: why
should not Henry be such to them? and why should they suppose that he would exercise a tyranny
as yet unknown in the island?

The northern princes still held aloof; but Roderic had received Henry's ambassadors personally,
and paid the usual deference which one king owed to another who was considered more powerful.
Henry determined to spend his Christmas in Dublin, and resolved on a special display of royal
state. It is to be presumed that he wished to make up for deficiency in stateliness of person
by stateliness of presence; for, like most of the descendants of Duke Robert "the Devil" and
the daughter of the Falaise tanner, his appearance was not calculated to inspire respect. His
grey bloodshot eyes and tremulous voice, were neither knightly nor kingly qualifications; his
savage and ungovernable temper, made him appear at times rather like a demon than a man. He
was charged with having violated the most solemn oaths when it suited his convenience. A cardinal
had pronounced him an audacious liar. Count Thiebault of Champagne had warned an archbishop
not to rely on any of his promises, however sacredly made. He and his sons spent their time
quarrelling with each other, when not occupied in quarrelling with their subjects. His eldest
son, Richard, thus graphically sketched the family characteristics:--"The custom in our family
is that the son shall hate the father; our destiny is to detest each other; from the devil
we came, to the devil we shall go." And the head of this family had now come to reform the
Irish, and to improve their condition--social, secular, and ecclesiastical!

A special residence was erected for the court on part of the ground now occupied by the southern
side of Dame-street. The whole extent of Dublin at that time was, in length, from Corn Market
to the Lower Castle Yard; and in breadth, from the Liffey, then covering Essex-street, to Little
Sheep-street, now Ship-street, where a part of the town wall is yet standing.[286] The only
edifices in existence on the southern side of Dame-street, even at the commencement of the
seventeenth century, were the Church of St. Andrew and the King's Mills.[287] College-green
was then quite in the country, and was known as the village of Le Hogges, a name that is apparently
derived from the Teutonic word Hoge, which signifies a small hill or sepulchral mound. Here
there was a nunnery called St. Mary le Hogges, which had been erected or endowed not many years
before Henry's arrival, and a place called Hoggen's Butt, where the citizens exercised themselves
in archery. Here, during the winter of 1171, the Celt, the Saxon, and the Norman, may have
engaged in peaceful contests and pleasant trials of skill.

Henry's "winter palace" was extemporized with some artistic taste. It was formed of polished
osiers. Preparations had been made on an extensive scale for the luxuries of the table--a matter
in which the Normans had greatly the advantage of either Celt or Saxon. The use of crane's
flesh was introduced into Ireland for the first time, as well as that of herons, peacocks,[288]
swans, and wild geese. Almonds had been supplied already by royal order in great abundance;
wine was purchased in Waterford, even now famous for its trade with Spain in that commodity.
Nor had the King's physician forgotten the King's health; for we find a special entry amongst
the royal disbursements of the sum of £10 7s., paid to Josephus Medicus for spices and electuaries.
Yet Henri-curt-mantel[289] was careful of his physical well-being, and partook but sparingly
of these luxuries. Fearing his tendency to corpulency, he threw the short cloak of his native
Anjou round him at an earlier hour in the morning than suited the tastes of his courtiers,
and took exercise either on horseback or on foot, keeping in constant motion all day.

When the Christmas festivities had passed, Henry turned his attention to business, if, indeed,
the same festivities had not also been a part of his diplomatic plans, for he was not deficient
in kingcraft. In a synod at Cashel he attempted to settle ecclesiastical affairs. In a Curia
Regis, held at Lismore, he imagined he had arranged temporal affairs. These are subjects which
demand our best consideration. It is an historical fact, that the Popes claimed and exercised
great temporal power in the middle ages; it is admitted also that they used this power in the
main for the general good;[290] and that, as monks and friars were the preservers of literature,
so popes and bishops were the protectors of the rights of nations, as far as was possible in
such turbulent times. It does not belong to our present subject to theorize on the origin or
the grounds[291] of this power; it is sufficient to say that it had been exercised repeatedly
both before and after Adrian granted the famous Bull, by which he conferred the kingdom of
Ireland on Henry II. The Merovingian dynasty was changed on the decision of Pope Zachary. Pope
Adrian threatened Frederick I., that if he did not renounce all pretensions to ecclesiastical
property in Lombardy, he should forfeit the crown, "received from himself and through his unction."
When Pope Innocent III. pronounced sentence of deposition against Lackland in 1211, and conferred
the kingdom of England on Philip Augustus, the latter instantly prepared to assert his claim,
though he had no manner of title, except the Papal grant.[292] In fact, at the very moment
when Henry was claiming the Irish crown in right of Adrian's Bull, given some years previously,
he was in no small trepidation at the possible prospect of losing his English dominions, as
an excommunication and an interdict were even then hanging over his head. Political and polemical
writers have taken strangely perverted views of the whole transaction. One writer,[293] with
apparently the most genuine impartiality, accuses the Pope, the King, and the Irish prelates
of the most scandalous hypocrisy. A cursory examination of the question might have served to
prove the groundlessness of this assertion. The Irish clergy, he asserts--and his assertion
is all the proof he gives--betrayed their country for the sake of tithes. But tithes had already
been enacted, and the Irish clergy were very far from conceding Henry's claims in the manner
which some historians are pleased to imagine.

It has been already shown that the possession of Ireland was coveted at an early period by
the Norman rulers of Great Britain. When Henry II. ascended the throne in 1154, he probably
intended to take the matter in hands at once. An Englishman, Adrian IV., filled the Papal chair.
The English monarch would naturally find him favourable to his own country. John of Salisbury,
then chaplain to the Archbishop of Canterbury, was commissioned to request the favour. No doubt
he represented his master as very zealous for the interests of religion, and made it appear
that his sole motive was the good, temporal and spiritual, of the barbarous Irish; at least
this is plainly implied in Adrian's Bull.[294] The Pope could have no motive except that which
he expressed in the document itself. He had been led to believe that the state of Ireland was
deplorable; he naturally hoped that a wise and good government would restore what was amiss.
There is no doubt that there was much which required amendment, and no one was more conscious
of this, or strove more earnestly to effect it, than the saintly prelate who governed the archiepiscopal
see of Dublin. The Irish clergy had already made the most zealous efforts to remedy whatever
needed correction; but it was an age of lawless violence. Reform was quite as much wanted both
in England and in the Italian States; but Ireland had the additional disadvantage of having
undergone three centuries of ruthless plunder and desecration of her churches and shrines,
and the result told fearfully on that land which had once been the home of saints.

Henry's great object was to represent himself as one who had come to redress grievances rather
than to claim allegiance; but however he may have deceived princes and chieftains, he certainly
did not succeed in deceiving the clergy. The Synod of Cashel, which he caused to be convened,
was not attended as numerously as he had expected, and the regulations made thereat were simply
a renewal of those which had been made previously. The Primate of Ireland was absent, and the
prelates who assembled there, far from having enslaved the State to Henry, avoided any interference
in politics either by word or act. It has been well observed, that, whether "piping or mourning,"
they are not destined to escape. Their office was to promote peace. So long as the permanent
peace and independence of the nation seemed likely to be forwarded by resistance to foreign
invasion, they counselled resistance; when resistance was hopeless, they recommended acquiescence,
not because they believed the usurpation less unjust, but because they considered submission
the wisest course. But the Bull of Adrian had not yet been produced; and Henry's indifference
about this document, or his reluctance to use it, shows of how little real importance it was
considered at the time. One fearful evil followed from this Anglo-Norman invasion. The Irish
clergy had hitherto been distinguished for the high tone of their moral conduct; the English
clergy, unhappily, were not so rich in this virtue, and their evil communication had a most
injurious effect upon the nation whom it was supposed they should be so eminently capable of
benefiting.

Henry did not succeed much better with his administration of secular affairs. In his Curia
Regis, at Lismore, he modelled Irish administration on Norman precedents, apparently forgetting
that a kingdom and a province should be differently governed. Strongbow was appointed Earl
Marshal; Hugh de Lacy, Lord Constable; Bertram de Verdun, Seneschal; Theobald Walter, Chief
Butler; and De Wellesley, Royal Standard-bearer. It was also arranged that, on the demise of
a Chief Governor, the Norman nobles were to elect a successor, who should have full authority,
until the royal pleasure could be known. Henry did not then attempt to style himself King or
Lord of Ireland; his object seems to have been simply to obtain authority in the country through
his nobles, as Wales had been subdued in a similar manner. English laws and customs were also
introduced for the benefit of English settlers; the native population still adhered to their
own legal observances. Henry again forgot that laws must be suited to the nation for whom they
are made, and that Saxon rules were as little likely to be acceptable to the Celt, as his Norman
tongue to an English-speaking people.

Dublin was now made over to the inhabitants of Bristol. Hugh de Lacy, its governor, has been
generally considered in point of fact the first Viceroy for Ireland. He was installed in the
Norman fashion, and the sword and cap of maintenance were made the insignia of the dignity.
Waterford and Wexford were also bestowed on royal favourites, or on such knights as were supposed
most likely to hold them for the crown. Castles were erected throughout the country, which
was portioned out among Henry's needy followers; and, for the first time in Ireland, a man
was called a rebel if he presumed to consider his house or lands as his own property.

The winter had been so stormy that there was little communication with England; but early in
spring the King received the portentous intelligence of the arrival of Papal Legates in Normandy,
and learned that they threatened to place his dominions under an interdict, if he did not appear
immediately to answer for his crime. Queen Eleanor and his sons were also plotting against
him, and there were many who boldly declared that the murder of the Archbishop of Canterbury
would yet be fearfully avenged. Henry determined at once to submit to the Holy See, and to
avert his doom by a real or pretended penitence. He therefore sailed for England from Wexford
Harbour, on Easter Monday, the 17th of April, 1172, and arrived the same day at Port Finnen,
in Wales. We give the testimony of Cambrensis, no friend to Ireland, to prove that neither
clergy nor laity benefited by the royal visit. He thus describes the inauguration of that selfish
system of plunder and devastation, to which Ireland has been subjected for centuries--a system
which prefers the interests of the few to the rights of the many, and then scoffs bitterly
at the misery it has created: "The clergy are reduced to beggary in the island; the cathedral
churches mourn, having been deprived, by the aforesaid persons [the leading adventurers], and
others along with them, or who came over after them, of the lands and ample estates which had
been formerly granted to them faithfully and devoutly. And thus the exalting of the Church
has been changed into the despoiling or plundering of the Church." Nor is his account of the
temporal state of the kingdom any better. He informs us that Dermod Mac Murrough, the originator
of all those evils, "oppressed his nobles, exalted upstarts, was a calamity to his countrymen,
hated by the strangers, and, in a word, at war with the world." Of the Anglo-Norman nobles,
who, it will be remembered, were his own relatives, and of their work, he writes thus: "This
new and bloody conquest was defiled by an enormous effusion of blood, and the slaughter of
a Christian people." And again: "The lands even of the Irish who stood faithful to our cause,
from the first descent of FitzStephen and the Earl, you have, in violation of a treaty, made
over to your friends."[295] His character of Henry is, that he was more given to "hunting than
to holiness."

The English monarch, however, could assume an appearance of most profound humility and the
deepest piety, when it suited his convenience. He excelled himself in this department by his
submission to the Holy See, when he found that submission alone could save his crown.

The Lord of Breffni had been one of Henry's favourite guests at his Christmas festivities.
He possessed the territory of East Meath, and this territory Henry had coolly bestowed on Hugh
de Lacy.[296] The rightful owner was not quite so dazzled by the sunshine of royal favour,
as to be willing to resign his property without a struggle. The Irish chieftain, whose name
was Tiernan O'Rourke, was persuaded to hold a conference with the English usurper at the Hill
of Tara, near Athboy. Both parties were attended by armed men. A dispute ensued. The interpreter
was killed by a blow aimed at De Lacy, who fled precipitately; O'Rourke was killed by a spear-thrust
as he mounted his horse, and vengeance was wreaked on his dead body, for the crime of wishing
to maintain his rights, by subjecting it to decapitation. His head was impaled over the gate
of Dublin Castle, and afterwards sent as a present to Henry II. His body was gibbeted, with
the feet upwards, on the northern side of the same building.[297] The Four Masters say that
O'Rourke was treacherously slain. From the account given by Cambrensis, it would appear that
there was a plot to destroy the aged chieftain, but for want of clearer evidence we may give
his enemies the benefit of the doubt.

Strongbow was now employing himself by depredating the territories which had been conferred
on him. He took an army of 1,000 horse and foot into Offaly, to lay waste O'Dempsey's territory,
that prince having also committed the crime of wishing to keep his ancestral estates. He met
with no opposition until he was about to return with the spoils; then, as he passed through
a defile, the chieftain set upon him in the rear, and slew several of his knights, carrying
off the Norman standard. Robert de Quincey, who had just married a daughter of Strongbow's
by a former marriage, was amongst the slain. The Earl had bestowed a large territory in Wexford
on him.

Henry was at that time suffering from domestic troubles in Normandy; he therefore summoned
De Clare to attend him there. It would appear that he performed good service for his royal
master, for he received further grants of lands and castles, both in Normandy and in Ireland.
On his return to the latter country, he found that the spoilers had quarrelled over the spoil.
Raymond le Gros contrived to ingratiate himself with the soldiers, and they demanded that the
command should be transferred from Hervey de Montmarisco, Strongbow's uncle, to the object
of their predilection. The Earl was obliged to comply. Their object was simply to plunder.
The new general gratified them; and after a raid on the unfortunate inhabitants of Offaly and
Munster, they collected their booty at Lismore, intending to convey it by water to Waterford.

The Ostmen of Cork attacked them by sea, but failed to conquer. By land the Irish suffered
another defeat. Raymond encountered MacCarthy of Desmond on his way to Cork, and plundered
him, driving off a rich cattle spoil, in addition to his other ill-gotten goods. Raymond now
demanded the appointment of Constable of Leinster, and the hand of Strongbow's sister, Basilia.
But the Earl refused; and the general, notwithstanding his successes, retired to Wales in disgust.

Hervey now resumed the command, A.D. 1174, and undertook an expedition against Donnell O'Brien,
which proved disastrous to the English. Roderic once more appears in the field. The battle
took place at Thurles, and seventeen hundred of the English were slain. In consequence of this
disaster, the Earl proceeded in sorrow to his house in Waterford.[298] This great success was
a signal for revolt amongst the native chieftains. Donald Cavanagh claimed his father's territory,
and Gillamochalmog and other Leinster chieftains rose up against their allies. Roderic O'Connor
at the same time invaded Meath, and drove the Anglo-Normans from their castles at Trim and
Duleek. Strongbow was obliged to despatch messengers at once to invite the return of Raymond
le Gros, and to promise him the office he had demanded, and his sister's hand in marriage.

Raymond came without a moment's delay, accompanied by a considerable force. His arrival was
most opportune for the English cause. The Northmen of Waterford were preparing to massacre
the invaders, and effected their purpose when the Earl left the town to join the new reinforcements
at Wexford. The nuptials were celebrated at Wexford with great pomp; but news was received,
on the following morning, that Roderic had advanced almost to Dublin; and the mantle and tunic
of the nuptial feast were speedily exchanged for helmet and coat-of-mail.[299] Unfortunately
Roderic's army was already disbanded. The English soon repaired the injuries which had been
done to their fortresses; and once more the Irish cause was lost, even in the moment of victory,
for want of combination and a leader.

Henry now considered it time to produce the Papal Bulls, A.D. 1175. He therefore despatched
the Prior of Wallingford and William FitzAldelm to Waterford, where a synod of the clergy was
assembled to hear these important documents. The English monarch had contrived to impress the
Holy See with wonderful ideas of his sanctity, by his penitential expiations of his share in
the murder of St. Thomas à Becket. It was therefore easy for him to procure a confirmation
of Adrian's Bull from the then reigning Pontiff, Alexander III. The Pope also wrote to Christian,
the Legate, to the Irish archbishops, and to the King. Our historians have not informed us
what was the result of this meeting. Had the Papal donation appeared a matter of national importance,
there can be little doubt that it would have excited more attention.

Raymond now led an army to Limerick, to revenge himself on Donnell O'Brien, for his defeat
at Thurles. He succeeded in his enterprise. Several engagements followed, in which the Anglo-Normans
were always victorious. Roderic now sent ambassadors to Henry II. The persons chosen were Catholicus,
Archbishop of Tuam; Concors, Abbot of St. Brendan's, in Clonfert; and St. Laurence O'Toole,
styled quaintly, in the old Saxon manner, "Master Laurence." The King and Council received
them at Windsor. The result of their conference was, that Roderic consented to pay homage to
Henry, by giving him a hide from every tenth head of cattle; Henry, on his part, bound himself
to secure the sovereignty of Ireland to Roderic, excepting only Dublin, Meath, Leinster, Waterford,
and Dungarvan. In fact, the English King managed to have the best share, made a favour of resigning
what he never possessed, and of not keeping what he could never have held. This council took
place on the octave of the feast of St. Michael, A.D. 1175. By this treaty Henry was simply
acknowledged as a superior feudal sovereign; and had Ireland been governed with ordinary justice,
the arrangement might have been advantageous to both countries.

Roderic was still a king, both nominally and ipso facto. He had power to judge and depose the
petty kings, and they were to pay their tribute to him for the English monarch. Any of the
Irish who fled from the territories of the English barons, were to return; but the King of
Connaught might compel his own subjects to remain in his land. Thus the English simply possessed
a colony in Ireland; and this colony, in a few years, became still more limited, while throughout
the rest of the country the Irish language, laws, and usages, prevailed as they had hitherto done.

Henry now appointed Augustin, an Irishman, to the vacant see of Waterford, and sent him, under
the care of St. Laurence, to receive consecration from the Archbishop of Cashel, his metropolitan.
For a century previous to this time, the Bishops of Waterford had been consecrated by the Norman
Archbishops of Canterbury, with whom they claimed kindred.

St. Gelasius died in 1173, and was succeeded in the see of Armagh by Connor MacConcoille. This
prelate proceeded to Rome very soon after his consecration, and was supposed to have died there.
When the Most Rev. Dr. Dixon, the late Archbishop of Armagh, was visiting Rome, in 1854, he
ascertained that Connor had died at the Monastery of St. Peter of Lemene, near Chambery, in
1176, where he fell ill on his homeward journey. His memory is still honoured there by an annual
festival on the 4th of June; another of the many instances that, when the Irish Church was
supposed to be in a state of general disorder, it had still many holy men to stem and subdue
the torrent of evil. We shall find, at a later period, that several Irish bishops assisted
at the Council of Lateran.

Dermod MacCarthy's son, Cormac, had rebelled against him, and he was unwise enough to ask Raymond's
assistance. As usual, the Norman was successful; he reinstated the King of Desmond, and received
for his reward a district in Kerry, where his youngest son, Maurice, became the founder of
the family of FitzMaurice, and where his descendants, the Earls of Lansdowne, still possess
immense property.[300] The Irish princes were again engaging in disgraceful domestic feuds.
Roderic now interfered, and, marching into Munster, expelled Donnell O'Brien from Thomond.

While Raymond was still in Limerick, Strongbow died in Dublin. As it was of the highest political
importance that his death should be concealed until some one was present to hold the reigns
of government, his sister, Basilia, sent an enigmatical letter[301] to her husband, which certainly
does no small credit to her diplomatic skill. The messengers were not acquainted with the Earl's
death; and such of the Anglo-Normans in Dublin as were aware of it, had too much prudence to
betray the secret. Raymond at once set out on his journey. Immediately after his arrival, FitzGislebert,
Earl de Clare, was interred in the Cathedral of the Holy Trinity, now called Christ's Church.

Strongbow has not obtained a flattering character, either from his friends or his enemies.
Even Cambrensis admits that he was obliged to be guided by the plans of others, having neither
originality to suggest, nor talent to carry out any important line of action.

The Irish annalists call him the greatest destroyer of the clergy and laity that came to Ireland
since the times of Turgesius (Annals of Innisfallen). The Four Masters record his demise thus:
"The English Earl [i.e., Richard] died in Dublin, of an ulcer which had broken out in his foot,
through the miracles of SS. Brigid and Colum-cille, and of all the other saints whose churches
had been destroyed by him. He saw, he thought, St. Brigid in the act of killing him." Pembridge
says he died on the 1st of May, and Cambrensis about the 1st of June. His personal appearance
is not described in very flattering terms;[302] and he has the credit of being more of a soldier
than a statesman, and not very knightly in his manner or bearing.

The Earl de Clare left only one child, a daughter, as heir to his vast estates. She was afterwards
married to William Marshal, Earl of Pembroke. Although Strongbow was a "destroyer" of the native
clergy, he appears to have been impregnated with the mediæval devotion for establishing religious
houses. He founded a priory at Kilmainham for the Knights of the Temple, with an alms-house
and hospital He was also a liberal benefactor to the Church of the Holy Trinity, where he was
buried.[303]

An impression on green wax of his seal still exists, pendent from a charter in the possession
of the Earl of Ormonde. The seal bears on the obverse a mounted knight, in a long surcoat,
with a triangular shield, his head covered by a conical helmet, with a nasal. He has a broad,
straight sword in his right hand. A foot soldier, with the legend, "Sigillum Ricardi, Filii
Comitis Gilleberti," is on the reverse. The last word alone is now legible.

FOOTNOTES:

[285] Irish Brooch.--The brooch figured above is of great antiquity. It was found in the Ardkillen
crannoge, near Strokestown, county Roscommon. The original is in the Royal Irish Academy, and
is considered the finest specimen of bronze workmanship in the collection.

[286] Standing.--Four Masters, vol. iii. p. 5, note m.

[287] Mills.--Dame-street derived its name from a dam or mill-stream near it. There was also
the gate of Blessed Mary del Dam. The original name was preserved until quite recently. In
the reign of Charles I. the Master of the Rolls had a residence here, which is described as
being "in a very wholesome air, with a good orchard and garden leading down to the water-side."--Gilbert's
Dublin, vol. ii. p. 264. In fact, the residences here were similar to those pleasant places
on the Thames, once the haunts of the nobility of London.

[288] Peacocks.--To serve a peacock with its feathers was one of the grandest exploits of mediæval
cookery. It was sown up in its skin after it had been roasted, when it was allowed to cool
a little. The bird then appeared at the last course as if alive. Cream of almonds was also
a favourite dainty. Indeed, almonds were used in the composition of many dishes; to use as
many and as various ingredients as possible seeming to be the acme of gastronomy. St. Bernard
had already loudly condemned the bon vivants of the age. His indignation appears to have been
especially excited by the various methods in which eggs were cooked. But even seculars condemned
the excesses of Norman luxuries, and declared that the knights were loaded with wine instead
of steel, and spits instead of lances.

[289] Henri-curt-mantel.--A soubriquet derived from the short mantle he constantly wore.

[290] Good.--Even the infidel Voltaire admitted that the Popes restrained princes, and protected
the people. The Bull In Coena Domini contained an excommunication against those who should
levy new taxes upon their estates, or should increase those already existing beyond the bounds
of right. For further information on this subject, see Balmez, European Civilization, passim.
M. Guizot says: "She [the Church] alone resisted the system of castes; she alone maintained
the principle of equality of competition; she alone called all legitimate superiors to the
possession of power."--Hist. Gen. de la Civilization en Europe, Lect. 5.

[291] Grounds.--De Maistre and Fénélon both agree in grounding this power on constitutional
right; but the former also admitted a divine right.--De Maistre, Du Pape, lib. ii. p. 387.

[292] Grant.--See M. Gosselin's Power of the Popes during the Middle Ages, for further information
on this subject.

[293] Writer.--Ireland, Historical and Statistical.

[294] Bull.--There can be no reasonable doubt of the authenticity of this document. Baronius
published it from the Codex Vaticanus; John XXII. has annexed it to his brief addresed to Edward
II.; and John of Salisbury states distinctly, in his Metalogicus, that he obtained this Bull
from Adrian. He grounds the right of donation on the supposed gift of the island by Constantine.
As the question is one of interest and importance, we subjoin the original: "Ad preces meas
illustri Regi Anglorum Henrico II. concessit (Adrianus) et dedit Hiberniam jure hæreditario
possidendam, sicut literae ipsius testantur in hodiernum diem. Nam omnes insulæ de jure antiquo
ex donatione Constantini, qui eam fundavit et dotavit, dicuntur ad Romanam Ecclesiam pertinere."--Metalogicus,
i. 4.

[295] Friends.--Hib. Expug. lib. ii. c. 38.

[296] Hugh de Lacy.--In a charter executed at Waterford, Henry had styled this nobleman "Bailli,"
a Norman term for a representative of royalty. The territory bestowed on him covered 800,000
acres. This was something like wholesale plunder.

[297] Building.--This was the Danish fortress of Dublin, which occupied the greater part of
the hill on which the present Castle of Dublin stands. See note, Four Masters, vol. iii. p.
5. The Annals say this was a "spectacle of intense pity to the Irish." It certainly could not
have tended to increase their devotion to English rule.

[298] Waterford.--The English and Irish accounts of this affair differ widely. The Annals of
Innisfallen make the number of slain to be only seven hundred. MacGeoghegan agrees with the
Four Masters.

[299] Coat-of-mail.--Costly mantles were then fashionable. Strutt informs us that Henry I.
had a mantle of fine cloth, lined with black sable, which cost £100 of the money of the time--about
£1,500 of our money. Fairholt gives an illustration of the armour of the time (History of Costume,
p. 74). It was either tegulated or formed of chains in rings. The nasal appendage to the helmet
was soon after discarded, probably from the inconvenient hold it afforded the enemy of the
wearer in battle. Face-guards were invented soon after.

[300] Property.--Maurice FitzGerald died at Wexford in 1179. He is the common ancestor of the
Earls of Desmond and Kildare, the Knights of Glynn, of Kerry, and of all the Irish Geraldines.

[301] Letter.--"To Raymond, her most loving lord and husband, his own Basilia wishes health
as to herself. Know you, my dear lord, that the great tooth in my jaw, which was wont to ache
so much, is now fallen out; wherefore, if you have any love or regard for me, or of yourself,
you will delay not to hasten hither with all speed."--Gilbert's Viceroys, p. 40. It is said
that this letter was read for Raymond by a cleric of his train, so it is presumable that reading
and writing were not made a part of his education.

[302] Terms.--Hib. Expug. lib. i. cap. 27.

[303] Buried.--The early history of this church is involved in much obscurity. It probably
owes its origin to the Danes. Cambrensis gives some interesting details about it, and mentions
several miraculous occurrences which caused it to be held in great veneration in his days.
He specially mentions the case of a young man in the train of Raymond le Gros, who had robbed
him of his greaves, and who had taken a false oath before the cross of that church to clear
himself. After a short absence in England he was compelled to return and confess his guilt,
"as he felt the weight of the cross continually oppressing him." Strongbow's effigy was broken
in 1562, but it was repaired in 1570, by Sir Henry Sidney. Until the middle of the last century,
the Earl's tomb was a regularly appointed place for the payment of bonds, rents, and bills
of exchange. A recumbent statue by his side is supposed to represent his son, whom he is said
to have cut in two with his sword, for cowardice in flying from an engagement. A writer of
the seventeenth century, however, corrects this error, and says that "Strongbow did no more
than run his son through the belly, as appears by the monument and the chronicle."--Gilbert's
Dublin, vol. i. p. 113.

CHAPTER XVIII.

FitzAldelm appointed Viceroy--De Courcy in Ulster--Arrival of Cardinal Vivian--Henry II. confers
the Title of King of Ireland on his son John--Irish Bishops at the Council of Lateran--Death
of St. Laurence O'Toole--Henry's Rapacity--John Comyn appointed Archbishop of Dublin--John's
Visit to Ireland--Insolence of his Courtiers--De Lacy's Death--Death of Henry II.--Accession
of Richard I.--An English Archbishop tries to obtain Justice for Ireland--John succeeds to
the Crown--Cathal Crovderg--Massacres in Connaught--De Courcy's Disgrace and Downfall--His Death.

[A.D. 1176-1201.]

News of the Earl's death soon reached Henry II., who was then holding his court at Valognes,
in Normandy. He at once nominated his Seneschal, FitzAldelm de Burgo, Viceroy of Ireland, A.D.
1176. The new governor was accompanied by John de Courcy, Robert FitzEstevene, and Miles de
Cogan. Raymond had assumed the reins of government after the death of Strongbow, but Henry
appears always to have regarded him with jealousy, and gladly availed himself of every opportunity
of lessening the power of one who stood so high in favour with the army. The Viceroy was received
at Wexford by Raymond, who prudently made a merit of necessity, and resigned his charge. It
is said that FitzAldelm was much struck by his retinue and numerous attendants, all of whom
belonged to the same family; and that he then and there vowed to effect their ruin. From this
moment is dated the distrust so frequently manifested by the English Government towards the
powerful and popular Geraldines.

The new Viceroy was not a favourite with the Anglo-Norman colonists. He was openly accused
of partiality to the Irish, because he attempted to demand justice for them. It is not known
whether this policy was the result of his own judgment, or a compliance with the wishes of
his royal master. His conciliatory conduct, whatever may have been its motive, was unhappily
counteracted by the violence of De Courcy. This nobleman asserted that he had obtained a grant
of Ulster from Henry II., on what grounds it would be indeed difficult to ascertain. He proceeded
to make good his claim; and, in defiance of the Viceroy's prohibition, set out for the north,
with a small army of chosen knights and soldiers. His friend, Sir Almaric Tristram de Saint
Lawrence, was of the number. He was De Courcy's brother-in-law, and they had made vows of eternal
friendship in the famous Cathedral of Rouen. De Courcy is described as a man of extraordinary
physical strength, of large proportions, shamefully penurious, rashly impetuous, and, despite
a fair share in the vices of the age, full of reverence for the clergy, at least if they belonged
to his own race. Cambrensis gives a glowing description of his valour, and says that "any one
who had seen Jean de Courci wield his sword, lopping off heads and arms, might well have commended
the might of this warrior."[304]

De Courcy arrived in Downpatrick in four days. The inhabitants were taken by surprise; and
the sound of his bugles at daybreak was the first intimation they received of their danger.
Cardinal Vivian, who had come as Legate from Alexander III., had but just arrived at the spot.
He did his best to promote peace. But neither party would yield; and as the demands of the
Norman knights were perfectly unreasonable, Vivian advised Dunlevy, the chieftain of Ulidia,
to have recourse to arms. A sharp conflict ensued, in which the English gained the victory,
principally through the personal bravery of their leader. This battle was fought about the
beginning of February; another engagement took place on the 24th of June, in which the northerns
were again defeated.[305]

Cardinal Vivian now proceeded to Dublin, where he held a synod. The principal enactment referred
to the right of sanctuary. During the Anglo-Norman wars, the Irish had secured their provisions
in the churches; and it is said that, in order to starve out the enemy, they even refused to
sell at any price. It was now decreed that sanctuary might be violated to obtain food; but
a fair price was to be paid for whatever was taken. It is to be feared these conditions were
seldom complied with. The Abbey of St. Thomas the Martyr was founded in Dublin about this time,
by FitzAldelm, at the command of Henry II., one of his many acts of reparation. The site was
the place now called Thomas Court. The Viceroy endowed it with a carnucate of land, in the
presence of the Legate and St. Laurence O'Toole. After the settlement of these affairs, Cardinal
Vivian passed over to Chester, on his way to Scotland.

One of Roderic O'Connor's sons, Murrough, having rebelled against him, Miles de Cogan went
to his assistance,--a direct and flagrant violation of the treaty of Windsor. At Roscommon
the English were joined by the unnatural rebel, who guided them through the province. The King
was in Iar-Connaught, and the allies burned and plundered without mercy, as they passed along
to Trim. Here they remained three nights; but as the people had fled with their cattle and
other moveable property into the fastnesses, they had not been able to procure any spoil on
their march. Roderic soon appeared to give them battle; but they were defeated without considerable
loss. Murrough was taken prisoner by his father, and his eyes were put out as a punishment
for his rebellion, and to prevent a repetition of his treachery.

Another violation of the treaty of Windsor was also perpetrated this year, A.D. 1177. Henry
II. summoned a council of his prelates and barons at Oxford, and solemnly conferred the title
of King of Ireland on his youngest son, John, then a mere child. A new grant of Meath to Hugh
de Lacy was made immediately after, in the joint names of Henry II. and John. Desmond was also
granted to Miles de Cogan, with the exception of the city of Cork, which the King reserved
to himself. Thomond was offered to two English nobles, who declined the tempting but dangerous
favour. It was then presented to Philip de Bresosa; but though the knight was no coward, he
fled precipitately, when he discovered, on coming in sight of Limerick, that the inhabitants
had set it on fire, so determined was their resistance to foreign rule. The territory of Waterford
was granted to Roger le Poer; but, as usual, the city was reserved for the royal benefit. In
fact, Sir John Davies well observed, that "all Ireland was by Henry II. cantonized among ten
of the English nation; and though they did not gain possession of one-third of the kingdom,
yet in title they were owners and lords of all, as nothing was left to be granted to the natives."
He might have said with greater truth, that the natives were deprived of everything, as far
as it was possible to do so, by those who had not the slightest right or title to their lands.

Meanwhile De Courcy was plundering the northern provinces. His wife, Affreca, was a daughter
of Godfrey, King of Man, so that he could secure assistance by sea as well as by land. But
the tide of fortune was not always in his favour. After he had plundered in Louth, he was attacked,
in the vale of Newry[306] river, by O'Carroll of Oriel and Dunlevy of Ulidia. On this occasion
he lost four hundred men, many of whom were drowned. Soon after he suffered another defeat
in Antrim, from O'Flynn. The Four Masters say he fled to Dublin; Dr. O'Donovan thinks that
we should read Downpatrick. The latter part of the name cannot be correctly ascertained, as
the paper is worn away.

The Irish were, as usual, engaged in domestic dissensions, and the English acted as allies
on whichever side promised to be most advantageous to themselves. The Annals record a great
"windstorm" during this year, which prostrated oaks, especially at Derry-Columcille, which
was famous for its forest. They also record the drying up of the river Galliv (Galway), "for
a period of a natural day. All the articles that had been lost in it from the remotest times,
as well as its fish, were collected by the inhabitants of the fortress, and by the people of
the country in general."[307]

In 1179 Henry gave the office of Viceroy to De Lacy, and recalled FitzAldelm. The new governor
employed himself actively in erecting castles and oppressing the unfortunate Irish. Cambrensis
observes, that he "amply enriched himself and his followers by oppressing others with a strong
hand." Yet he seems to have had some degree of popularity, even with the native Irish, for
he married a daughter of Roderic O'Connor as his second wife. This alliance, for which he had
not asked permission, and his popularity, excited the jealousy of the English King, who deprived
him of his office. But he was soon reinstated, although the Bishop of Shrewsbury, with the
name of counsellor, was set as a spy on his actions. These events occurred A.D. 1181. De Lacy's
old companion, Hervey de Montmarisco, became a monk at Canterbury, after founding the Cistercian
Monastery of Dunbrody, in the county of Wexford. He died in this house, in his seventy-fifth year.

In 1179 several Irish bishops were summoned by Alexander III. to attend the third General Council
of Lateran. These prelates were, St. Laurence of Dublin, O'Duffy of Tuam, O'Brien of Killaloe,
Felix of Lismore, Augustine of Waterford, and Brictius of Limerick. Usher says[308] several
other bishops were summoned; it is probable they were unable to leave the country, and hence
their names have not been given. The real state of the Irish Church was then made known to
the Holy See; no living man could have described it more accurately and truthfully than the
sainted prelate who had sacrificed himself for so many years for its good. Even as the bishops
passed through England, the royal jealousy sought to fetter them with new restrictions; and
they were obliged to take an oath that they would not sanction any infringements on Henry's
prerogatives. St. Malachy was now appointed Legate by the Pope, with jurisdiction over the
five suffragans, and the possessions attached to his see were confirmed to him. As the Bull
was directed to Ireland, it would appear that he returned there; but his stay was brief, and
the interval was occupied in endeavouring to repress the vices of the Anglo-Norman and Welsh
clergy, many of whom were doing serious injury to the Irish Church by their immoral and dissolute
lives.[309]

Henry now became jealous of the Archbishop, and perhaps was not overpleased at his efforts
to reform these ecclesiastics. Roderic O'Connor had asked St. Laurence to undertake a mission
on his behalf to the English court; but the King refused to listen to him, and forbid him to
return to Ireland. After a few weeks' residence at the Monastery of Abingdon, in Berkshire,
the saint set out for France. He fell ill on his journey, in a religious house at Eu, where
his remains are still preserved. When on his deathbed, the monks asked him to make his will;
but he exclaimed, "God knows that out of all my revenues I have not a single coin to bequeath."
With the humility of true sanctity, he was heard frequently calling on God for mercy, and using
the words of the Psalmist, so familiar to ecclesiastics, from their constant perusal of the
Holy Scriptures. As he was near his end, he was heard exclaiming, in his own beautiful mother-tongue:
"Foolish people, what will become of you? Who will relieve you? Who will heal you?" And well
might his paternal heart ache for those who were soon to be left doubly orphans, and for the
beloved nation whose sorrows he had so often striven to alleviate.

St. Laurence went to his eternal reward on the 14th of November, 1180. He died on the feria
sexta at midnight.[310] His obsequies were celebrated with great pomp and solemnity, and attended
by the Scotch Legate, Alexis, an immense concourse of clergy, and many knights and nobles.
His remains were exposed for some days in the Church of Notre Dame, at Eu.

Henry immediately despatched his chaplain, Geoffrey de la Haye, to Ireland, not with a royal
message of consolation for the national calamity, but to sequester the revenues of the archiepiscopal
see of Dublin. He took care to possess himself of them for a year before he would consent to
name a successor to the deceased prelate. St. Laurence had happily left no funds in store for
the royal rapacity; the orphan and the destitute had been his bankers. During a year of famine
he is said to have relieved five hundred persons daily; he also established an orphanage, where
a number of poor children were clothed and educated. The Annals of the Four Masters say he
suffered martyrdom in England. The mistake arose in consequence of an attempt having been made
on his life there by a fanatic, which happily did not prove fatal.[311]

The Archbishop of Dublin became an important functionary from this period. Henry obtained the
election of John Comyn to this dignity, at the Monastery of Evesham, in Worcester, and the
King granted the archiepiscopal estates to him "in barony," by which tenure he and his successors
in the see were constituted parliamentary barons, and entitled to sit in the councils, and
hold court in their lordships and manors. Comyn, after his election by the clergy of Dublin,
proceeded to Rome, where he was ordained priest, and subsequently to Veletri, where Pope Lucius
III. consecrated him archbishop. He then came to Dublin, A.D. 1184, where preparations were
making for the reception of Henry's son, John, who, it will be remembered, he had appointed
King of Ireland when a mere child.

In 1183 the unfortunate Irish monarch, Roderic, had retired to the Abbey of Cong, and left
such empty titles as he possessed to his son, Connor. De Lacy and De Courcy had occupied themselves
alternately in plundering and destroying the religious houses which had so long existed, and
in founding new monasteries with a portion of their ill-gotten gains. It would appear that
De Lacy built so far on his popularity with the Anglo-Normans, as to have aspired to the sovereignty
of Ireland,--an aspiration which his master soon discovered, and speedily punished. He was
supplanted by Philip of Worcester, who excelled all his predecessors in rapacity and cruelty.
Not satisfied with the miseries inflicted on Ulster by De Courcy, he levied contributions there
by force of arms. One of his companions, Hugh Tyrrell, who "remained at Armagh, with his Englishmen,
during six days and nights, in the middle of Lent," signalized himself by carrying off the
property of the clergy of Armagh. Amongst other things, he possessed himself of a brewing-pan,
which he was obliged to abandon on his way, he met so many calamities, which were naturally
attributed to his sacrilegious conduct.[312]

John was now preparing for his visit to Ireland, and his singularly unfelicitous attempt at
royalty. It would appear that the Prince wished to decline the honour and the expedition; for,
as he was on the eve of his departure, Eraclius, Patriarch of Jerusalem, arrived in England,
to enjoin the fulfilment of the King's vow to undertake a crusade to Palestine. As Henry had
got out of his difficulties, he declined to fulfil his solemn engagement, and refused permission
to his son, John, who threw himself at his father's feet, and implored leave to be his substitute.
Eraclius then poured forth his indignation upon Henry, with all the energetic freedom of the
age. He informed him that God would punish his impieties--that he was worse than any Saracen;
and hinted that he might have inherited his wickedness from his grandmother, the Countess of
Anjou, who was reported to be a witch, and of whom it was said that she had flown through the
window during the most solemn part of Mass, though four squires attempted to hold her.

John sailed from Milford Haven on the evening of Easter Wednesday, 1185. He landed with his
troops at Waterford, at noon, on the following day. His retinue is described as of unusual
splendour, and, no doubt, was specially appointed to impress the "barbarous" Irish. Gerald
Barry, the famous Cambrensis, who had arrived in Ireland some little time before, was appointed
his tutor, in conjunction with Ranulf de Glanville. The bitter prejudice of the former against
Ireland and the Irish is a matter of history, as well as the indefatigable zeal of the latter
in pursuit of his own interests at the expense of justice.

A retinue of profligate Normans completed the court, whom an English authority describes as
"great quaffers, lourdens, proud, belly swains, fed with extortion and bribery." The Irish
were looked upon by these worthies as a savage race, only created to be plundered and scoffed
at. The Normans prided themselves on their style of dress, and, no doubt, the Irish costume
surprised them. Common prudence, however, might have taught them, when the Leinster chieftains
came to pay their respects to the young Prince, that they should not add insult to injury;
for, not content with open ridicule, they proceeded to pull the beards of the chieftains, and
to gibe their method of wearing their hair.

De Lacy has the credit of having done his utmost to render the Prince's visit a failure. But
his efforts were not necessary. The insolence of the courtiers, and the folly of the youth
himself, were quite sufficient to ruin more promising prospects. In addition to other outrages,
the Irish had seen their few remaining estates bestowed on the new comers; and even the older
Anglo-Norman and Welsh settlers were expelled to make room for the Prince's favourites--an
instalment of the fatal policy which made them eventually "more Irish than the Irish." When
the colony was on the verge of ruin, the young Prince returned to England. He threw the blame
of his failure on Hugh de Lacy; but the Norman knight did not live long enough after to suffer
from the accusation.[313] De Lacy was killed while inspecting a castle which he had just built
on the site of St. Columbkille's Monastery at Durrow, in the Queen's county. He was accompanied
by three Englishmen; as he was in the act of stooping, a youth of an ancient and noble family,
named O'Meyey, gave him his deathblow, severed his head from his body, and then fled with such
swiftness as to elude pursuit. It is said that he was instigated to perform this deed by Sumagh
O'Caharnay (the Fox), with whom he now took refuge.

The Annals mention this as a "revenge of Colum-cille,"[314] they also say that "all Meath was
full of his English castles, from the Shannon to the sea." Henry at once appointed his son,
John, to the Irish Viceroyalty, but domestic troubles prevented his plans from being carried
out. Archbishop Comyn held a synod in Dublin during this year, 1187; and on the 9th of June
the relics of SS. Patrick, Columba, and Brigid were discovered, and solemnly entombed anew
under the direction of Cardinal Vivian, who came to Ireland to perform this function. During
the year 1188 the Irish continued their usual fatal and miserable dissensions; still they contrived
to beat the common enemy, and O'Muldony drove De Courcy and his troops from Ballysadare. He
was again attacked in crossing the Curlieu Mountains, and escaped to Leinster with considerable
loss and difficulty.

In 1189 Henry II. died at Chinon, in Normandy. He expired launching anathemas against his sons,
and especially against John, as he had just discovered that he had joined those who conspired
against him. In his last moments he was stripped of his garments and jewels, and left naked
and neglected.

Richard I., who succeeded to the throne, was too much occupied about foreign affairs to attend
to his own kingdom. He was a brave soldier, and as such merits our respect; but he can scarcely
be credited as a wise king. Irish affairs were committed to the care of John, who does not
appear to have profited by his former experience. He appointed Hugh de Lacy Lord Justice, to
the no small disgust of John de Courcy; but it was little matter to whom the government of
that unfortunate country was confided. There were nice distinctions made about titles; for
John, even when King of England, did not attempt to write himself King of Ireland.[315] But
there were no nice distinctions about property; for the rule seemed to be, that whoever could
get it should have it, and whoever could keep it should possess it.

In 1189 Roderic's son, Connor Moinmoy, fell a victim to a conspiracy of his own chieftains,--a
just retribution for his rebellion against his father. He had, however, the reputation of being
brave and generous. At his death Connaught was once more plunged in civil war, and after some
delay and difficulty Roderic resumed the government.

In 1192 the brave King of Thomond again attacked the English invaders. But after his death,
in 1194, the Anglo-Normans had little to apprehend from native valour. His obituary is thus
recorded: "Donnell, son of Turlough O'Brien, King of Munster, a burning lamp in peace and war,
and the brilliant star of the hospitality and valour of the Momonians, and of all Leth-Mogha,
died." Several other "lamps" went out about the same time; one of these was Crunce O'Flynn,
who had defeated De Courcy in 1178, and O'Carroll, Prince of Oriel, who had been hanged by
the English the year before, after the very unnecessary cruelty of putting out his eyes.

The affairs of the English colony were not more prosperous. New Lords Justices followed each
other in quick succession. One of these governors, Hamon de Valois, attempted to replenish
his coffers from church property,--a proceeding which provoked the English Archbishop Comyn.
As this ecclesiastic failed to obtain redress in Ireland, he proceeded to England with his
complaints; but he soon learned that justice could not be expected for Ireland. The difference
between the conduct of ecclesiastics, who have no family but the Church, and no interests but
the interests of religion, is very observable in all history. While English and Norman soldiers
were recklessly destroying church property and domestic habitations in the country they had
invaded, we find, with few exceptions, that the ecclesiastic, of whatever nation, is the friend
and father of the people, wherever his lot may be cast. The English Archbishop resented the
wrongs of the Irish Church as personal injuries, and devoted himself to its advancement as
a personal interest. We are indebted to Archbishop Comyn for building St. Patrick's Cathedral
in Dublin, as well as for his steady efforts to promote the welfare of the nation. After an
appeal in person to King Richard and Prince John, he was placed in confinement in Normandy,
and was only released by the interference of the Holy See; Innocent III., who had probably
by this time discovered that the English monarchs were not exactly the persons to reform the
Irish nation, having addressed a letter from Perugia to the Earl of Montague (Prince John),
reprimanding him for detaining "his venerable brother, the Archbishop of Dublin," in exile,
and requiring him to repair the injuries done by his Viceroy, Hamon de Valois, on the clergy
of Leighlin. The said Hamon appears to have meddled with other property besides that belonging
to the Church--a more unpardonable offence, it is to be feared, in the eyes of his master.
On returning from office after two years viceroyalty, he was obliged to pay a thousand marks
to obtain an acquittance from his accounts.[316]

John ascended the English throne in 1199. He appointed Meiller FitzHenri[317] Governor of Ireland.
It has been conjectured that if John had not obtained the sovereignty, he and his descendants
might have claimed the "Lordship of Ireland." There can be no doubt that he and they might
have claimed it; but whether they could have held it is quite another consideration. It is
generally worse than useless to speculate on what might have been. In this case, however, we
may decide with positive certainty, that no such condition of things could have continued long.
The English kings would have looked with jealousy even on the descendants of their ancestors,
if they kept possession of the island; and the descendants would have become, as invariably
happened, Hibernicis ipsis Hibernior, and therefore would have shared the fate of the "common
enemy."

Meanwhile the O'Connors were fighting in Kerry. Cathal Carragh obtained the services of FitzAldelm,
and expelled Cathal Crovderg. He, in his turn, sought the assistance of Hugh O'Neill, who had
been distinguishing himself by his valour against De Courcy and the English. They marched into
Connaught, but were obliged to retreat with great loss. The exiled Prince now sought English
assistance, and easily prevailed on De Courcy and young De Lacy to help him. But misfortune
still followed him. His army was again defeated; and as they fled to the peninsula of Rindown,
on Lough Ree, they were so closely hemmed in, that no way of escape remained, except to cross
the lake in boats. In attempting to do this a great number were drowned. The Annals of Kilronan
and Clonmacnois enter these events under the year 1200; the Four Masters under the year 1199.
The former state that "Cahall Carragh was taken deceitfully by the English of Meath," and imprisoned
until he paid a ransom; and that De Courcy, "after slaying of his people," returned to Ulster.

Cathal Crovderg now obtained the assistance of the Lord Justice, who plundered Clonmacnois.
He also purchased the services of FitzAldelm, and thus deprived his adversary of his best support.
The English, like the mercenary troops of Switzerland and the Netherlands, appear to have changed
sides with equal alacrity, when it suited their convenience; and so as they were well paid,
it mattered little to them against whom they turned their arms. In 1201 Cathal Crovderg marched
from Limerick to Roscommon, with his new ally and the sons of Donnell O'Brien and Florence
MacCarthy. They took up their quarters at Boyle, and occupied themselves in wantonly desecrating
the abbey. Meanwhile Cathal Carragh, King of Connaught, had assembled his forces, and came
to give them battle. Some skirmishes ensued, in which he was slain, and thus the affair was
ended. FitzAldelm, or De Burgo, as he is more generally called now, assisted by O'Flaherty
of West Connaught, turned against Cathal when they arrived at Cong to spend the Easter. It
would appear that the English were billeted on the Irish throughout the country; and when De
Burgo demanded wages for them, the Connacians rushed upon them, and slew six hundred men. For
once his rapacity was foiled, and he marched off to Munster with such of his soldiers as had
escaped the massacre. Three years after he revenged himself by plundering the whole of Connaught,
lay and ecclesiastical.

During this period Ulster was also desolated by civil war. Hugh O'Neill was deposed, and Connor
O'Loughlin obtained rule; but the former was restored after a few years.

John de Courcy appears always to have been regarded with jealousy by the English court. His
downfall was at hand, A.D. 1204; and to add to its bitterness, his old enemies, the De Lacys,
were chosen to be the instruments of his disgrace. It is said that he had given mortal offence
to John, by speaking openly of him as a usurper and the murderer of his nephew; but even had
he not been guilty of this imprudence, the state he kept, and the large tract of country which
he held, was cause enough for his ruin. He had established himself at Downpatrick, and was
surrounded in almost regal state by a staff of officers, including his constable, seneschal,
and chamberlain; he even coined money in his own name. Complaints of his exactions were carried
to the King. The De Lacys accused him of disloyalty. In 1202 the then Viceroy, Hugh de Lacy,
attempted to seize him treacherously, at a friendly meeting. He failed to accomplish this base
design; but his brother, Walter, succeeded afterwards in a similar attempt, and De Courcy was
kept in durance until the devastations which his followers committed in revenge obliged his
enemies to release him.

In 1204 he defeated the Viceroy in a battle at Down. He was aided in this by the O'Neills,
and by soldiers from Man and the Isles. It will be remembered that he could always claim assistance
from the latter, in consequence of his connexion by marriage. But this did not avail him. He
was summoned before the Council in Dublin, and some of his possessions were forfeited. Later
in the same year (A.D. 1204) he received a safe conduct to proceed to the King. It is probable
that he was confined in the Tower of London for some time; but it is now certain that he revisited
Ireland in 1210, if not earlier, in the service of John, who granted him an annual pension.[318]
It is supposed that he died about 1219; for in that year Henry III. ordered his widow, Affreca,
to be paid her dower out of the lands which her late husband had possessed in Ireland.

Cambrensis states that De Courcy had no children; but the Barons of Kinsale claim to be descended
from him; and even so late as 1821 they exercised the privilege of appearing covered before
George IV.--a favour said to have been granted to De Courcy by King John, after his recall
from Ireland, as a reward for his prowess. Dr. Smith states, in his History of Cork, that Miles
de Courcy was a hostage for his father during the time when he was permitted to leave the Tower
to fight the French champion. In a pedigree of the MacCarthys of Cooraun Lough, county Kerry,
a daughter of Sir John de Courcy is mentioned. The Irish annalists, as may be supposed, were
not slow to attribute his downfall to his crimes.

Another English settler died about this period, and received an equal share of reprobation;
this was FitzAldelm, more commonly known as Mac William Burke (De Burgo), and the ancestor
of the Burke family in Ireland. Cambrensis describes him as a man addicted to many vices. The
Four Masters declare that "God and the saints took vengeance on him; for he died of a shameful
disease." It could scarcely be expected that one who had treated the Irish with such unvarying
cruelty, could obtain a better character, or a more pleasing obituary. Of his miserable end,
without "shrive or unction," there appears to be no doubt.

FOOTNOTES:

[304] Warrior.--Hib. Expug. lib. ii. cap. 17.

[305] Defeated.--Giraldus gives a detailed account of these affairs.--Hib. Expug. lib. ii.
cap. 17. He says the Irish forces under Dunlevy amounted to ten thousand warriors; but this
statement cannot at all be credited. De Courcy took advantage of some old Irish prophecies
to further his cause. They were attributed to St. Columbkille, and to the effect that a foreigner
who would ride upon a white horse, and have little birds painted on his shield, should conquer
the country. De Courcy did ride upon a white horse, and the birds were a part of his armorial
bearings.

[306] Newry.--See an interesting note to the Annals (Four Masters), vol. iii. p. 40, which
identifies the valley of Glenree with the vale of Newry. In an ancient map, the Newry river
is called Owen Glenree fluvius.

[307] General.--This is mentioned also by O'Flaherty, who quotes from some other annals. See
his account of Iar-Connaught, printed for the Archæological Society.

[308] Says.--Sylloge, ep. 48.

[309] Lives.--We give authority for this statement, as it manifests how completely the Holy
See was deceived in supposing that any reform was likely to be effected in Ireland by English
interference: "Ita ut quodam tempore (quod dictu mirum est) centum et quadraginta presby. incontinentiæ
convictos Romani miserit absolvendos."--Surius, t. vi. St. Laurence had faculties for absolving
these persons, but for some reason--probably as a greater punishment--he sent them to Rome.
English writers at this period also complain of the relaxed state of ecclesiastical discipline
in that country. How completely all such evils were eradicated by the faithful sons of the
Church, and the exertions of ecclesiastical superiors, is manifest from the fact, that no such
charges could be brought against even a single priest at the time of the so-called Reformation.

[310] Midnight.--"Itaque cum sextæ feriæ terminus advenisset, in confinio sabbati subsequentis
Spiritum Sancti viri requies æterna suscepit."--Vita S. Laurentii, cap. xxxiii. The saint's
memory is still honoured at Eu. The church has been lately restored, and there is a little
oratory on the hill near it to mark the spot where he exclaimed, Hoec est requies mea, as he
approached the town where he knew he should die. Dr. Kelly (Cambrensis Eversus, vol. ii. p.
648) mentions in a note that the names of several Irishmen were inscribed there.

[311] Fatal.--Dr. O'Donovan gives a long and most interesting note on the genealogy of St.
Laurence O'Toole, in which he shows that his father was a chieftain of an important territory
in the county Kildare, and that he was not a Wicklow prince, as has been incorrectly asserted.
The family removed there after the death of St. Laurence, when they were driven from their
property by an English adventurer.

[312] Conduct.--This is mentioned even by Cox, who, Dr. O'Donovan observes, was always anxious
to hide the faults of the English, and vilify the Irish. He calls Hugh Tyrrell "a man of ill
report," and says he returned to Dublin "loaden both with curses and extortions."--Hib. Angl.
p. 38, ad an. 1184.

[313] Accusation.--There can be no doubt that De Lacy had ambitious designs. See Cambrensis,
Hib. Expug. lib. ii. cap. 20. Henry II. heard of his death with considerable satisfaction.

[314] Colum-cille.--Dr. O'Donovan remarks that a similar disaster befell Lord Norbury. He was
also assassinated by a hand still unknown, after having erected a castle on the same site as
that of De Lacy, and preventing the burial of the dead in the ancient cemetery of Durrow.

[315] King of Ireland.--During the reign of Richard all the public affairs of the Anglo-Norman
colony were transacted in the name of "John, Lord of Ireland, Earl of Montague." Palgrave observes
that John never claimed to be King of the Irish; like Edward, who wrote himself Lord of Scotland,
and acknowledged Baliol to be King of the Scots.

[316] Accounts.--Gilbert's Viceroys, p. 58.

[317] FitzHenri.--His father was an illegitimate son of Henry I. When a mere youth, FitzHenri
came to Ireland with the Geraldines, and obtained large possessions.

[318] Pension.--One hundred pounds per annum. Orders concerning it are still extant on the
Close Rolls of England.--Rol. Lit. Clau. 1833, 144. It is curious, and should be carefully
noted, how constantly proofs are appearing that the Irish bards and chroniclers, from the earliest
to the latest period, were most careful as to the truth of their facts, though they may have
sometimes coloured them highly. Dr. O'Donovan has devoted some pages in a note (Four Masters,
vol. iii. p. 139) to the tales in the Book of Howth which record the exploits of De Courcy.
He appears satisfied that they were "invented in the fifteenth or sixteenth century." Mr. Gilbert
has ascertained that they were placed on record as early as 1360, in Pembridge's Annals. As
they are merely accounts of personal valour, we do not reproduce them here. He also gives an
extract from Hoveden's Annals, pars port, p. 823, which further supports the Irish account.
Rapin gives the narrative as history. Indeed, there appears nothing very improbable about it.
The Howth family were founded by Sir Almaric St. Lawrence, who married De Courcy's sister.

CHAPTER XIX.

Quarrels of the English Barons--The Interdict--John crushes and starves an Archdeacon to Death--King
John's Visit to Ireland--He starves the Wife and Son of Earl de Braose to Death--Henry de Londres--The
Poet O'Daly--Obituaries of Good Men--Henry III.--Regulations about the Viceroy--The Scorch
Villain--Scandalous Conduct of the Viceroys--Three Claimants for Connaught--Death of Hugh Crovderg--Felim
O'Connor--Henry's Foreign Advisers--Plots against the Earl of Pembroke--He is wounded treacherously--His
Pious Death--Misfortunes of the Early Settlers--De Marisco's Son is hanged for High Treason,
and he dies miserably in Exile.

[A.D. 1201-1244.]

King John was now obliged to interfere between his English barons in Ireland, who appear to
have been quite as much occupied with feuds among themselves as the native princes. In 1201
Philip of Worcester and William de Braose laid waste the greater part of Munster in their quarrels.
John had sold the lands of the former and of Theobald Walter to the latter, for four thousand
marks--Walter redeemed his property for five hundred marks; Philip obtained his at the point
of the sword. De Braose had large property both in Normandy and in England. He had his chancellor,
chancery, and seal, recognizances of all pleas, not even excepting those of the crown, with
judgment of life and limb. His sons and daughters had married into powerful families. His wife,
Matilda, was notable in domestic affairs, and a vigorous oppressor of the Welsh. A bloody war
was waged about the same time between De Lacy, De Marisco, and the Lord Justice. Cathal Crovderg
and O'Brien aided the latter in besieging Limerick, while some of the English fortified themselves
in their castles and plundered indiscrimately.

In 1205 the Earldom of Ulster was granted to Hugh de Lacy. The grant is inscribed on the charter
roll of the seventh year of King John, and is the earliest record now extant of the creation
of an Anglo-Norman dignity in Ireland. England was placed under an interdict in 1207, in consequence
of the violence and wickedness of its sovereign. He procured the election of John de Grey to
the see of Canterbury, a royal favourite, and, if only for this reason, unworthy of the office.
Another party who had a share in the election chose Reginald, the Sub-Prior of the monks of
Canterbury. But when the choice was submitted to Pope Innocent III., he rejected both candidates,
and fixed on an English Cardinal, Stephen Langton, who was at once elected, and received consecration
from the Pope himself. John was highly indignant, as might be expected. He swore his favourite
oath, "by God's teeth," that he would cut off the noses and pluck out the eyes of any priest
who attempted to carry the Pope's decrees against him into England. But some of the bishops,
true to their God and the Church, promulgated the interdict, and then fled to France to escape
the royal vengeance. It was well for them they did so; for Geoffrey, Archdeacon of Norwich,
was seized, and enveloped, by the royal order, in a sacerdotal vestment of massive lead, and
thus thrown into prison, where he was starved to death beneath the crushing weight. We sometimes
hear of the cruelties of the Inquisition, of the barbarity of the Irish, of the tyranny of
priestcraft; but such cruelties, barbarities, and tyrannies, however highly painted, pale before
the savage vengeance which English kings have exercised, on the slightest provocation, towards
their unfortunate subjects. But we have not yet heard all the refinements of cruelty which
this same monarch exercised. Soon after, John was excommunicated personally. When he found
that Philip of France was prepared to seize his kingdom, and that his crimes had so alienated
him from his own people that he could hope for little help from them, he cringed with the craven
fear so usually found in cruel men, and made the most abject submission. In the interval between
the proclamation of the interdict and the fulmination of the sentence of excommunication (A.D.
1210), John visited Ireland. It may be supposed his arrival could not excite much pleasure
in the hearts of his Irish subjects, though, no doubt, he thought it a mark of disloyalty that
he should not be welcomed with acclamations. A quarter of a century had elapsed since he first
set his foot on Irish ground. He had grown grey in profligacy, but he had not grown wiser or
better with advancing years.

The year before his arrival, Dublin had been desolated by a pestilence, and a number of people
from Bristol had taken advantage of the decrease in the population to establish themselves
there. On the Easter Monday after their arrival, when they had assembled to amuse themselves
in Cullen's Wood, the O'Byrnes and O'Tooles rushed down upon them from the Wicklow Mountains,
and took a terrible vengeance for the many wrongs they had suffered, by a massacre of some
three hundred men. The citizens of Bristol sent over new colonists; but the anniversary of
the day was long known as Black Monday.

The English King obtained money for his travelling expenses by extortion from the unfortunate
Jews. He landed at Crook, near Waterford, on the 20th June, 1210. His army was commanded by
the Earl of Salisbury, son to Henry I., by "Fair Rosamond," of tragic memory. De Braose fled
to England when he heard of the King's movements. Here he endeavoured to make peace with his
master, but failing to do so, he carefully avoided putting himself in his power, and took refuge
in France. His wife was not so fortunate. After John's return to England, Matilda and her son
were seized by his command, and imprisoned at Corfe Castle, in the isle of Pembroke. Here they
were shut up in a room, with a sheaf of wheat and a piece of raw bacon for their only provision.
When the prison door was opened on the eleventh day, they were both found dead.

De Lacy also fled before the King's visit; John took Carrickfergus Castle from his people,
and stationed a garrison of his own there. Several Irish princes paid homage to him; amongst
others we find the names of Cathal Crovderg and Hugh O'Neill. The Norman lords were also obliged
to swear fealty, and transcripts of their oaths were placed in the Irish Exchequer. Arrangements
were also made for the military support of the colony, and certain troops were to be furnished
with forty days' ration by all who held lands by "knight's service." The Irish princes who
lived in the southern and western parts of Ireland, appear to have treated the King with silent
indifference; they could afford to do so, as they were so far beyond the reach of his vengeance.

John remained only sixty days in Ireland. He returned to Wales on the 26th of August, 1210,
after confiding the government of the colony to John de Grey, Bishop of Norwich, whose predilection
for secular affairs had induced the Holy See to refuse his nomination to the Archbishopric
of Canterbury. The most important act of his Viceroyalty was the erection of a bridge and castle
at Ath-Luain (Athlone). He was succeeded, in 1213, by Henry de Londres, who had been appointed
to the see of Dublin during the preceding year. This prelate was one of those who were the
means of obtaining Magna Charta. His name appears second on the list of counsellors who advised
the grant; and he stood by the King's side, at Runnymede, when the barons obtained the bulwark
of English liberty. It is sometimes forgotten that the clergy were the foremost to demand it,
and the most persevering in their efforts to obtain it.

The Archbishop was now sent to Rome by the King to plead his cause there, and to counteract,
as best he might, the serious complaints made against him by all his subjects--A.D. 1215. In
1213 Walter de Lacy obtained the restoration of his father's property in Wales and England.
Two years later he recovered his Irish lands; but the King retained his son, Gislebert, as
hostage, and his Castle of Droicead-Atha (Drogheda).

The Irish chieftains made some stand for their rights at the close of this reign. Cormac O'Melaghlin
wrested Delvin, in Meath, from the English. O'Neill and O'Donnell composed their difference
pro tem., and joined in attacking the invaders. In the south there was a war between Dermod
and Connor Carthy, in which the Anglo-Normans joined, and, as usual, got the lion's share,
obtaining such an increase of territory as enabled them to erect twenty new castles in Cork
and Kerry.

The Four Masters give a curious story under the year 1213. O'Donnell More sent his steward
to Connaught to collect his tribute. On his way he visited the poet Murray O'Daly, and began
to wrangle with him, "although his lord had given him no instructions to do so." The poet's
ire was excited. He killed him on the spot with a sharp axe--an unpleasant exhibition of literary
justice--and then fled into Clanrickarde for safety. O'Donnell determined to revenge the insult,
until Mac William (William de Burgo) submitted to him. But the poet had been sent to seek refuge
in Thomond. The chief pursued him there also, and laid siege to Limerick.[319] The inhabitants
at once expelled the murderer, who eventually fled to Dublin. After receiving tribute from
the men of Connaught, O'Donnell marched to Dublin, and compelled the people to banish Murray
to Scotland. Here he remained until he had composed three poems in praise of O'Donnell, imploring
peace and forgiveness. He was then pardoned, and so far received into favour as to obtain a
grant of land and other possessions.

The Irish bishops were, as usual, in constant intercourse with Rome. Several prelates attended
the fourth General Council of Lateran, in 1215. The Annals give the obituaries of some saintly
men, whose lives redeemed the age from the character for barbarity, which its secular literature
would seem to justify. Amongst these we find the obituary of Catholicus O'Duffy, in 1201; of
Uaireirghe, "one of the noble sages of Clonmacnois, a man full of the love of God and of every
virtue;" of Con O'Melly, Bishop of Annaghdown, "a transparently bright gem of the Church;"
of Donnell O'Brollaghan, "a prior, a noble senior, a sage, illustrious for his intelligence;"
and of many others. A great number of monasteries were also founded, especially by the Anglo-Normans,
who appear to have had periodical fits of piety, after periodical temptations to replenish
their coffers out of their neighbours' property. We may not quite judge their reparations as
altogether insincere; for surely some atonement for evil deeds is better than an utter recklessness
of future punishment.

Henry III. succeeded his father, John, while only in his tenth year. William Marshal, Earl
of Pembroke, was appointed protector of the kingdom and the King. The young monarch was hastily
crowned at Bristol, with one of his mother's golden bracelets. Had the wise and good Earl lived
to administer affairs for a longer period, it would have been a blessing to both countries.
Geoffrey de Marisco still continued Governor of Ireland. Affairs in England were in an extremely
critical position. The profligate Isabella had returned to her first husband, Hugh de Lusignan,
whom she had before forsaken for King John. Gloucester, London, and Kent, were in the hands
of the Dauphin of France. Some few acts of justice to Ireland were the result; but when justice
is only awarded from motives of fear or interest, it becomes worse than worthless as a mode
of conciliation. Such justice, however, as was granted, only benefited the Anglo-Norman settlers;
the "mere Irish" were a race devoted to plunder and extermination.

In consequence of complaints from the English barons in Ireland, a modified form of Magna Charta
was granted to them, and a general amnesty was proclaimed, with special promises of reparation
to the nobles whom John had oppressed. Hugh de Lacy was also pardoned and recalled; but it
was specially provided that the Irish should have no share in such favours; and the Viceroy
was charged to see that no native of the country obtained cathedral preferment. This piece
of injustice was annulled through the interference of Pope Honorius III.

In 1217 the young King, or rather his advisers, sent the Archbishop of Dublin to that city
to levy a "tallage," or tax, for the royal benefit. The Archbishop and the Justiciary were
directed to represent to the "Kings of Ireland," and the barons holding directly from the crown,
that their liberality would not be forgotten; but neither the politeness of the address[320]
nor the benevolence of the promises were practically appreciated, probably because neither
were believed to be sincere, and the King's coffers were not much replenished.

Arrangements were now made defining the powers of the Viceroy or Justiciary. The earliest details
on this subject are embodied in an agreement between Henry III. and Geoffrey de Marisco, sealed
at Oxford, in March, 1220, in presence of the Papal Legate, the Archbishop of Dublin, and many
of the nobility.

By these regulations the Justiciary was bound to account in the Exchequer of Dublin for all
taxes and aids received in Ireland for the royal purse. He was to defray all expenses for the
maintenance of the King's castles and lands out of the revenues. In fact, the people of the
country were taxed, either directly or indirectly, for the support of the invaders. The King's
castles were to be kept by loyal and proper constables, who were obliged to give hostages.
Indeed, so little faith had the English kings in the loyalty of their own subjects, that the
Justiciary himself was obliged to give a hostage as security for his own behaviour. Neither
does the same Viceroy appear to have benefited trade, for he is accused of exacting wine, clothing,
and victuals, without payment, from the merchants of Dublin.

In 1221 the Archbishop of Dublin, Henry de Londres, was made Governor. He obtained the name
of "Scorch Villain," from having cast into the fire the leases of the tenants of his see, whom
he had cited to produce these documents in his court. The enraged landholders attacked the
attendants, and laid hands on the Archbishop, who was compelled to do them justice from fear
of personal violence. When such was the mode of government adopted by English officials, we
can scarcely wonder that the people of Ireland have not inherited very ardent feelings of loyalty
and devotion to the crown and constitution of that country.

Such serious complaints were made of the unjust Governor, that Henry was at last obliged to
check his rapacity. Probably, he was all the more willing to do so, in consequence of some
encroachments on the royal prerogative.

After the death of the Earl of Pembroke, who had obtained the pardon of Hugh de Lacy, a feud
arose between the latter and the son of his former friend. In consequence of this quarrel,
all Meath was ravaged, Hugh O'Neill having joined De Lacy in the conflict.

Some of the Irish chieftains now tried to obtain protection from the rapacity of the Anglo-Norman
barons, by paying an annual stipend to the crown; but the crown, though graciously pleased
to accept anything which might be offered, still held to its royal prerogative of disposing
of Irish property as appeared most convenient to royal interests. Though Cathal Crovderg had
made arrangements with Henry III., at an immense sacrifice, to secure his property, that monarch
accepted his money, but, nevertheless, bestowed the whole province of Connaught shortly after
on Richard de Burgo.

Crovderg had retired into a Franciscan monastery at Knockmoy, which he had founded, and there
he was interred nobly and honourably. After his death there were no less than three claimants
for his dignity. De Burgo claimed it in right of the royal gift; Hugh Cathal claimed it as
heir to his father, Crovderg; Turlough claimed it for the love of fighting, inherent in the
Celtic race; and a general guerilla warfare was carried on by the three parties, to the utter
ruin of each individual. For the next ten years the history of the country is the history of
deadly feuds between the native princes, carefully fomented by the English settlers, whose
interest it was to make them exterminate each other.

The quarrel for the possession of Connaught began in the year 1225. The Anglo-Normans had a
large army at Athlone, and Hugh Cathal went to claim their assistance. The Lord Justice put
himself at the head of the army; they marched into Connaught, and soon became masters of the
situation. Roderic's sons at once submitted, but only to bide their time. During these hostilities
the English of Desmond, and O'Brien, a Thomond prince, assisted by the Sheriff of Cork, invaded
the southern part of Connaught for the sake of plunder. In the previous year, 1224, "the corn
remained unreaped until the festival of St. Brigid [1st Feb.], when the ploughing was going
on." A famine also occurred, and was followed by severe sickness. Well might the friar historian
exclaim: "Woeful was the misfortune which God permitted to fall upon the west province in Ireland
at that time; for the young warriors did not spare each other, but preyed and plundered to
the utmost of their power. Women and children, the feeble and the lowly poor, perished by cold
and famine in this year."[321]

O'Neill had inaugurated Turlough at Carnfree.[322] He appears to have been the most popular
claimant. The northern chieftains then returned home. As soon as the English left Connaught,
Turlough again revolted. Hugh Cathal recalled his allies; and the opposite party, finding their
cause hopeless, joined him in such numbers that Roderic's sons fled for refuge to Hugh O'Neill.
The Annals suggest that the English might well respond when called on, "for their spirit was
fresh, and their struggle trifling." Again we find it recorded that the corn remained unreaped
until after the festival of St. Brigid. The wonder is, not that the harvest was not gathered
in, but that there was any harvest to gather.

Soon after these events, Hugh O'Connor was captured by his English allies, and would have been
sacrificed to their vengeance on some pretence, had not Earl Marshal rescued him by force of
arms. He escorted him out of the court, and brought him safely to Connaught; but his son and
daughter remained in the hands of the English. Hugh soon found an opportunity of retaliating.
A conference was appointed to take place near Athlone,[323] between him and William de Marisco,
son of the Lord Justice. When in sight of the English knights, the Irish prince rushed on William,
and seized him, while his followers captured his attendants, one of whom, the Constable of
Athlone, was killed in the fray. Hugh then proceeded to plunder and burn the town, and to rescue
his son and daughter, and some Connaught chieftains.

At the close of the year 1227, Turlough again took arms. The English had found it their convenience
to change sides, and assisted him with all their forces. Probably they feared the brave Hugh,
and were jealous of the very power they had helped him to obtain. Hugh Roderic attacked the
northern districts, with Richard de Burgo. Turlough Roderic marched to the peninsula of Rindown,
with the Viceroy. Hugh Crovderg had a narrow escape near the Curlieu Mountains, where his wife
was captured by the English. The following year he appears to have been reconciled to the Lord
Deputy, for he was killed in his house by an Englishman, in revenge for a liberty he had taken
with a woman.[324]

As usual, on the death of Hugh O'Connor, the brothers who had fought against him now fought
against each other. The Saxon certainly does not deserve the credit of all our national miseries.
If there had been a little less home dissension, there would have been a great deal less foreign
oppression. The English, however, helped to foment the discord. The Lord Justice took part
with Hugh, the younger brother, who was supported by the majority of the Connaught men, although
Turlough had already been inaugurated by O'Neill. A third competitor now started up; this was
Felim brother to Hugh O'Connor. Some of the chieftains declared that they would not serve a
prince who acknowledged English rule, and obliged Hugh to renounce his allegiance. But this
question was settled with great promptitude. Richard de Burgo took the field, desolated the
country--if, indeed, there was anything left to desolate--killed Donn Oge Mageraghty, their
bravest champion, expelled Hugh, and proclaimed Felim.

The reign of this prince was of short duration. In 1231 he was taken prisoner at Meelick, despite
the most solemn guarantees, by the very man who had so lately enthroned him. Hugh was reinstated,
but before the end of the year Felim was released. He now assembled his forces again, and attacked
Hugh, whom he killed, with several of his relations, and many English and Irish chieftains.
His next exploit was to demolish the castles of Galway; Dunannon, on the river Suck, Roscommon;
Hags' Castle, on Lough Mask; and Castle Rich, on Lough Corrib; all of which had been erected
by Roderic's sons and their English allies. But the tide of fortune soon turned. The invincible
De Burgo entered Connaught once more, and plundered without mercy. In a pitched battle the
English gained the day, principally through the skill of their cavalry[325] and the protection
of their coats-of-mail.

Felim fled to the north, and sought refuge with O'Donnell of Tir-Connell. O'Flaherty, who had
always been hostile to Felim, joined the English, and, by the help of his boats, they were
able to lay waste the islands of Clew Bay. Nearly all the inhabitants were killed or carried
off. The victorious forces now laid siege to a castle[326] on the Rock of Lough Key, in Roscommon,
which was held for O'Connor by Mac Dermod. They succeeded in taking it, but soon lost their
possession by the quick-witted cleverness of an Irish soldier, who closed the gates on them
when they set out on a plundering expedition. The fortress was at once demolished, that it
might not fall into English hands again.

When William Pembroke died, A.D. 1231, he bequeathed his offices and large estates in England
and Ireland to his brother, Richard, who is described by the chroniclers as a model of manly
beauty. Henry III. prohibited his admission to the inheritance, and charged him with treason.
The Earl escaped to Ireland, and took possession of the lands and castles of the family, waging
war upon the King until his rights were acknowledged. In 1232 Henry had granted the Justiciary
of England and of Ireland, with other valuable privileges, to Hubert de Burgo. Earl Richard
supported him against the adventurers from Poitou and Bretagne, on whom the weak King had begun
to lavish his favours. The Parliament and the barons remonstrated, and threatened to dethrone
Henry, if he persevered in being governed by foreigners. And well they might; for one of these
needy men, Pierre de Rivaulx, had obtained a grant for life of nearly every office and emolument
in Ireland; amongst others, we find mention of "the vacant sees, and the Jews in Ireland."
Henry did his best to get his own views carried out; but Earl Richard leagued with the Welsh
princes, and expelled the intruders from the towns and castles in that part of the country.

The King's foreign advisers determined to destroy their great enemy as speedily as possible.
Their plain was deeply laid. They despatched letters to Ireland, signed by twelve privy counsellors,
requiring the Viceroy and barons to seize his castles, bribing them with a promise of a share
in his lands. The wily Anglo-Normans demanded a charter, specifying which portion of his property
each individual should have. They obtained the document, signed with the royal seal, which
had been purloined for the occasion from the Chancellor. The Anglo-Normans acted with detestable
dissimulation. Geoffrey de Marisco tried to worm himself into the confidence of the man on
whose destruction he was bent. On the 1st of April, 1232, a conference was arranged to take
place on the Curragh of Kildare. The Viceroy was accompanied by De Lacy, De Burgo, and a large
number of soldiers and mercenaries. The Earl was attended by a few knights and the false De
Marisco. He declined to comply with the demands of the barons, who refused to restore his castles.
The treacherous De Marisco withdrew from him at this moment, and he suddenly found himself
overpowered by numbers. With the thoughtfulness of true heroism, he ordered some of his attendants
to hasten away with his young brother, Walter. Nearly all his retainers had been bribed to
forsake him in the moment of danger; and now that the few who obeyed his last command were
gone, he had to contend single-handed with the multitude. His personal bravery was not a little
feared, and the coward barons, who were either afraid or ashamed to attack him individually,
urged on their soldiers, until he was completely surrounded. The Earl laid prostrate six of
his foes, clove one knight to the middle, and struck off the hands of another, before he was
captured. At last the soldiers aimed at the feet of his spirited steed, until they were cut
off, and by this piece of cruelty brought its rider to the ground. A treacherous stab from
behind, with a long knife, plunged to the haft in his back, completed the bloody work.

The Earl was borne off, apparently lifeless, to one of his own castles, which had been seized
by the Viceroy. It is said that even his surgeon was bribed to prevent his recovery. Before
submitting his wounds to the necessary treatment, he prepared for death, and received the last
sacraments. He died calmly and immediately, clasping a crucifix, on Palm Sunday, the sixteenth
day after his treacherous capture. And thus expired the "flower of chivalry," and the grandson
of Strongbow, the very man to whom England owed so much of her Irish possessions.

It could not fail to be remarked by the Irish annalists, that the first Anglo-Norman settlers
had been singularly unfortunate. They can scarcely be blamed for supposing that these misfortunes
were a judgment for their crimes. Before the middle of this century (the thirteenth) three
of the most important families had become extinct. De Lacy, Lord of Meath, died in 1241, infirm
and blind; his property was inherited by his grand-daughters, in default of a male heir. Hugh
de Lacy died in 1240, and left only a daughter. The Earl of Pembroke died from wounds received
at a tournament. Walter, who succeeded him, also died without issue. The property came eventually
to Anselm, a younger brother, who also died childless; and it was eventually portioned out
among the females of the family.

It is said Henry III. expressed deep grief when he heard of Earl Richard's unfortunate end,
and that he endeavoured to have restitution made to the family. Geoffrey de Marisco was banished.
His son, William, conspired against the King, and even employed an assassin to kill him. The
man would have probably accomplished his purpose, had he not been discovered accidentally by
one of the Queen's maids, hid under the straw of the royal bed. The real traitor was eventually
captured, drawn at horses' tails to London, and hanged with the usual barbarities.

His miserable father, who had been thrice Viceroy of Ireland, and a peer of that country and
of England, died in exile, "pitifully, yet undeserving of pity, for his own treason against
the unfortunate Earl Richard, and his son's treason against the King." Such were the men who
governed Ireland in the thirteenth century.

Treachery seems to have been the recognized plan of capturing an enemy. In 1236 this method
was attempted by the government in order to get Felim O'Connor into their power. He was invited
to attend a meeting in Athlone, but, fortunately for himself, he discovered the designs of
his enemies time enough to effect his escape. He was pursued to Sligo. From thence he fled
to Tir-Connell, which appears to have been the Cave of Adullam in that era; though there were
so many discontented persons, and it was so difficult to know which party any individual would
espouse continuously, that the Adullamites were tolerably numerous. Turlough's son, Brian O'Connor,
was now invested with the government of Connaught by the English, until some more promising
candidate should appear. But even their support failed to enable him to keep the field. Felim[327]
returned the following year, and after defeating the soldiers of the Lord Justice, made Brian's
people take to flight so effectually, that none of Roderic's descendants ever again attempted
even to possess their ancestral lands.

The Four Masters have the following graphic entry under the year 1236: "Heavy rains, harsh
weather, and much war prevailed in this year." The Annals of Kilronan also give a fearful account
of the wars, the weather, and the crimes. They mention that Brian's people burned the church
of Imlagh Brochada over the heads of O'Flynn's people, while it was full of women, children,
and nuns, and had three priests in it. There were so many raids on cows, that the unfortunate
animals must have had a miserable existence. How a single cow survived the amount of driving
hither and thither they endured, considering their natural love of ease and contemplative habits,
is certainly a mystery. In the year 1238, the Annals mention that the English erected castles
in Connaught, principally in the territory from which the O'Flahertys had been expelled. This
family, however, became very powerful in that part of the country in which they now settled.

As Connaught had been fairly depopulated, and its kings and princes nearly annihilated, the
English turned their attention to Ulster, where they wished to play the same game. The Lord
Justice and Hugh de Lacy led an army thither, and deposed MacLoughlin, giving the government
to O'Neill's son; but MacLoughlin obtained rule again, after a battle fought the following
year at Carnteel.

In 1240 the King of Connaught went to England to complain personally of De Burgo's oppressions
and exactions; but his mission, as might be expected, was fruitless, although he was received
courteously, and the King wrote to the Lord Justice "to pluck out by the root that fruitless
sycamore, De Burgo, which the Earl of Kent, in the insolence of his power, hath planted in
these parts." However, we find that Henry was thankful to avail himself of the services of
the "fruitless sycamore" only two years after, in an expedition against the King of France.
He died on the voyage to Bourdeaux, and was succeeded by his son, Walter. In 1241 More O'Donnell,
Lord of Tir-Connell, died in Assaroe, in the monastic habit. In 1244 Felim O'Connor and some
Irish chieftains accompanied the then Viceroy, FitzGerald, to Wales, where Henry had requested
their assistance.

The King was nearly starved out, the Irish reinforcements were long in coming over, and the
delay was visited on the head of the unfortunate Justiciary, who was deprived of his office.
John de Marisco was appointed in his place.

FOOTNOTES:

[319] Limerick.--We give an illustration, at the head of this chapter, of King John's Castle,
Limerick. Stanihurst says that King John "was so pleased with the agreeableness of the city,
that he caused a very fine castle and bridge to be built there." This castle has endured for
more than six centuries. Richard I. granted this city a charter to elect a Mayor before London
had that privilege, and a century before it was granted to Dublin. M'Gregor says, in his History
of Limerick, that the trade went down fearfully after the English invasion.--vol. ii. p. 53.

[320] Address.--Gilbert's Viceroys, p. 82, where the address may be seen in extenso.

[321] Year.--Four Masters, vol. iii. p. 227.

[322] Carnfree.--This place has been identified by Dr. O'Donovan. It is near the village of
Tulsk, co. Roscommon. It was the usual place of inauguration for the O'Connors. See note d,
Annals, vol. iii. p. 221.

[323] Athlone.--This was one of the most important of the English towns, and ranked next to
Dublin at that period. We give an illustration of the Castle of Athlone at the beginning of
Chapter XX. The building is now used for a barrack, which in truth is no great deviation from
its original purpose. It stands on the direct road from Dublin to Galway, and protects the
passage of the Shannon. There is a curious representation on a monument here of an unfortunate
English monk, who apostatized and came to Ireland. He was sent to Athlone to superintend the
erection of the bridge by Sir Henry Sidney; but, according to the legend, he was constantly
pursued by a demon in the shape of a rat, which never left him for a single moment. On one
occasion he attempted to preach, but the eyes of the animal glared on him with such fury that
he could not continue. He then took a pistol and attempted to shoot it, but in an instant it
had sprung on the weapon, giving him, at the same time, a bite which caused his death. It is
to be presumed that this circumstance must have been well known, and generally believed at
the time, or it would not have been made a subject for the sculptor.

[324] Woman.--There are several versions of this story. The Four Masters say he was killed
"treacherously by the English." The Annals of Clonmacnois say that "he came to an atonement
with Geoffrey March, and was restored to his kingdom," and that he was afterwards treacherously
killed by an Englishman, "for which cause the Deputy the next day hanged the Englishman that
killed him, for that foul fact." The cause of the Englishman's crime was "meer jealousie,"
because O'Connor had kissed his wife.

[325] Cavalry.--Horse soldiery were introduced early into Britain, through the Romans, who
were famous for their cavalry.

[326] Castle.--The Annals of Boyle contain a wonderful account of the pirrels or engines constructed
by the English for taking this fortress.

[327] Felim.--The Four Masters say, when writing of the act of treachery mentioned above: "They
all yearned to act treacherously towards Felim, although he was the gossip of the Lord Justice."--Annals,
vol. iii. p. 285. He was sponsor or godfather to one of his children.

CHAPTER XX.

The Age was not all Evil--Good Men in the World and in the Cloister--Religious Houses and their
Founders--The Augustinians and Cistercians--Franciscans and Dominicans--Their close Friendship--
Dominican Houses--St. Saviour's, Dublin--The Black Abbey, Kilkenny-- Franciscan Houses--Youghal--Kilkenny--Multifarnham--Timoleague--
Donegal--Carmelite Convents and Friars--Rising of the Connaught Men-- A Plunderer of the English--Battle
of Downpatrick--The MacCarthys defeat the Geraldines at Kenmare--War between De Burgo and FitzGerald.

[A.D. 1244-1271.]

Zeal for founding religious houses was one of the characteristics of the age. Even the men
who spent their lives in desolating the sanctuaries erected by others, and in butchering their
fellow-creatures, appear to have had some thought of a future retribution--some idea that crime
demanded atonement--with a lively faith in a future state, where a stern account would be demanded.
If we contented ourselves with merely following the sanguinary careers of kings and chieftains,
we should have as little idea of the real condition of the country, as we should obtain of
the present social state of England by an exclusive study of the police reports in the Times.
Perhaps, there was not much more crime committed then than now. Certainly there were atonements
made for offending against God and man, which we do not hear of at the present day. Even a
cursory glance through the driest annals, will show that it was not all evil--that there was
something besides crime and misery. On almost every page we find some incident which tells
us that faith was not extinct. In the Annals of the Four Masters, the obituaries of good men
are invariably placed before the records of the evil deeds of warriors or princes. Perhaps
writers may have thought that such names would be recorded in another Book with a similar precedence.
The feats of arms, the raids, and destructions occupy the largest space. Such deeds come most
prominently before the eyes of the world, and therefore we are inclined to suppose that they
were the most important. But though the Annals may devote pages to the exploits of De Lacy
or De Burgo, and only say of Ainmie O'Coffey, Abbot of the Church of Derry-Columcille, that
he was "a noble ecclesiastic, distinguished for his piety, meekness, charity, wisdom, and every
other virtue;" or of MacGilluire, Coarb of St. Patrick, and Primate of Ireland, that "he died
at Rome, after a well-spent life,"[328]--how much is enfolded in the brief obituary! How many,
of whom men never have heard in this world, were influenced, advised, and counselled by the
meek and noble ecclesiastic!

The influence of good men is like the circle we make when we cast a little stone into a great
stream, and which extends wider and wider until it reaches the opposite bank. It is a noiseless
influence, but not the less effective. It is a hidden influence, but not the less efficacious.
The Coarb of St. Patrick, in his "well-spent life," may have influenced for good as many hundreds,
as the bad example of some profligate adventurer influenced for evil; but we are quite sure
to hear a great deal about the exploits of the latter, and equally certain that the good deeds
of the former will not be so carefully chronicled.

Nor should we at all suppose that piety in this age was confined to ecclesiastics. The Earls
of Pembroke stand conspicuously amongst their fellows as men of probity, and were none the
less brave because they were sincerely religious. At times, even in the midst of the fiercest
raids, men found time to pray, and to do deeds of mercy. On one Friday, in the year of grace
1235, the English knights, in the very midst of their success at Umallia, and after fearful
devastations commanded "that no people shall be slain on that day, in honour of the crucifixion
of Christ."[329] It is true they "plundered and devastated both by sea and land the very next
day;" but even one such public act of faith was something that we might wish to see in our
own times. After the same raid, too, we find the "English of Ireland" and the Lord Justice
sparing and protecting Clarus, the Archdeacon of Elphin, and the Canons of Trinity Island,
in honour of the Blessed Trinity--another act of faith; and the "Lord Justice himself and the
chiefs of the English went to see that place, and to kneel and pray there." On another occasion
the "English chiefs were highly disgusted" when their soldiers broke into the sacristy of Boyle
Abbey, and "took away the chalices, vestments, and other valuable things." Their leaders "sent
back everything they could find, and paid for what they could not find."[330] We must, however,
acknowledge regretfully that this species of "disgust" and reparation were equally rare. To
plunder monasteries which they had not erected themselves, seems to have been as ordinary an
occupation as to found new ones with a portion of their unjust spoils.

Although this is not an ecclesiastical history, some brief account of the monks, and of the
monasteries founded in Ireland about this period, will be necessary. The earliest foundations
were houses of the Cistercian Order and the Augustinians. The Augustinian Order, as its name
implies, was originally founded by St. Augustine, the great Archbishop of Hippo, in Africa.
His rule has been adopted and adapted by the founders of several congregations of men and women.
The great Benedictine Order owes its origin to the Patriarch of the West, so famous for his
rejection of the nobility of earth, that he might attain more securely to the ranks of the
noble in heaven. This Order was introduced into England at an early period. It became still
more popular and distinguished when St. Bernard preached under the mantle of Benedict, and
showed how austerity towards himself and tenderness towards others could be combined in its
highest perfection.

The twin Orders of St. Dominic and St. Francis, founded in the early part of the thirteenth
century--the one by a Spanish nobleman, the other by an Italian merchant--were established
in Ireland in the very lifetime of their founders. Nothing now remains of the glories of their
ancient houses, on which the patrons had expended so much wealth, and the artist so much skill;
but their memory still lives in the hearts of the people, and there are few places in the country
without traditions which point out the spot where a Franciscan was martyred, or a Dominican
taken in the act of administering to the spiritual necessities of the people.

The Abbey of Mellifont was founded A.D. 1142, for Cistercian monks, by Donough O'Carroll, King
of Oriel. It was the most ancient monastery of the Order in this country, and was supplied
with monks by St. Bernard, direct from Clairvaux, then in all its first fervour. We have already
mentioned some of the offerings which were made to this monastery. The date of the erection
of St. Mary's Abbey in Dublin has not been correctly ascertained, but it is quite certain that
the Cistercians were established here in 1139, although it was probably built originally by
the Danes. The abbots of this monastery, and of the monastery at Mellifont, sat as barons in
Parliament. There were also houses at Bectiff, county Meath; Baltinglass, county Wicklow; Moray,
county Limerick; Ordorney, county Kerry (quaintly and suggestively called Kyrie Eleison), at
Newry, Fermoy, Boyle, Monasterevan, Ashro, and Jerpoint. The superiors of several of these
houses sat in Parliament. Their remains attest their beauty and the cultivated tastes of their
founders. The ruins of the Abbey of Holy Cross, county Tipperary, founded in 1182, by Donald
O'Brien, are of unusual extent and magnificence. But the remains of Dunbrody, in the county
of Wexford, are, perhaps, the largest and the most picturesque of any in the kingdom. It was
also richly endowed. It should be remembered that these establishments were erected by the
founders, not merely as an act of piety to God during their lifetime, but with the hope that
prayers should be offered there for the repose of their souls after death. Those who confiscated
these houses and lands to secular purposes, have therefore committed a double injustice, since
they have robbed both God and the dead.

A great number of priories were also founded for the Canons Regular of St. Augustine. These
establishments were of great use in supplying a number of zealous and devoted priests, who
ministered to the spiritual wants of the people in their several districts. Tintern Abbey was
founded in the year 1200, by the Earl of Pembroke. When in danger at sea, he made a vow that
he would erect a monastery on whatever place he should first arrive in safety. He fulfilled
his promise, and brought monks from Tintern, in Monmouthshire, who gave their new habitation
the name of their old home. In 1224 the Cistercians resigned the Monastery of St. Saviour,
Dublin, which had been erected for them by the same Earl, to the Dominicans, on condition that
they should offer a lighted taper, on the Feast of the Nativity, at the Abbey of St. Mary,
as an acknowledgment of the grant. The Mayor of Dublin, John Decer (A.D. 1380), repaired the
church, and adorned it with a range of massive pillars. The friars of this house were as distinguished
for literature as the rest of their brethren; and in 1421 they opened a school of philosophy
and divinity on Usher's Island.[331]

The Dominican Convent of St. Mary Magdalene at Drogheda was founded, in 1224, by John Netterville,
Archbishop of Armagh. Richard II. and Henry IV. were great benefactors to this house. Four
general chapters were also held here. The Black Abbey of Kilkenny was erected by the younger
William, Earl of Pembroke. Four general chapters were also held here, and it was considered
one of the first houses of the Order in Ireland. We shall give details, at a later period,
of the destruction and restoration of this and other monasteries. The Dominicans had also houses
at Waterford, Cork, Mullingar, Athenry, Cashel, Tralee, Sligo, Roscommon, and, in fact, in
nearly all the principal towns in the country.

Nor were their Franciscan brethren less popular. The Order of Friars Minor generally found
a home near the Friars Preachers; and so close was the friendship between them, that it was
usual, on the festivals of their respective founders, for the Franciscan to preach the panegyric
of St. Dominic, and the Dominican to preach the panegyric of St. Francis. Youghal was the first
place where a convent of this Order was erected. The founder, Maurice FitzGerald, was Lord
Justice in the year 1229, and again in 1232. He was a patron of both Orders, and died in the
Franciscan habit, on the 20th May, 1257. Indeed, some of the English and Irish chieftains were
so devout to the two saints, that they appear to have had some difficulty in choosing which
they would have for their special patron. In 1649 the famous Owen O'Neill was buried in a convent
of the Order at Cavan. When dying he desired that he should be clothed in the Dominican habit,
and buried in the Franciscan monastery.

Some curious particulars are related of the foundation at Youghal. The Earl was building a
mansion for his family in the town, about the year 1231. While the workmen were engaged in
laying the foundation, they begged some money, on the eve of a great feast, that they might
drink to the health of their noble employer. FitzGerald willingly complied with their request,
and desired his eldest son to be the bearer of his bounty. The young nobleman, however, less
generous than his father, not only refused to give them the money, but had angry words with
the workmen. It is not mentioned whether the affair came to a more serious collision; but the
Earl, highly incensed with the conduct of his son, ordered the workmen to erect a monastery
instead of a castle, and bestowed the house upon the Franciscan fathers. The following year
he took their habit, and lived in the convent until his death. This house was completely destroyed
during the persecutions in the reign of Elizabeth.

The Convent of Kilkenny was founded immediately after. Its benefactor was the Earl of Pembroke,
who was buried in the church. Here was a remarkable spring, dedicated to St. Francis, at which
many miraculous cures are said to have been wrought. The site occupied by this building was
very extensive; its ruins only remain to tell how spacious and beautiful its abbey and church
must have been. It was also remarkable for the learned men who there pursued their literary
toil, among whom we may mention the celebrated annalist, Clynn. He was at first Guardian of
the Convent of Carrick-on-Suir; but, about 1338, he retired to Kilkenny, where he compiled
the greater part of his Annals. It is probable that he died about 1350. His history commences
with the Christian era, and is carried down to the year 1349. At this time the country was
all but depopulated by a fearful pestilence. The good and learned brother seems to have had
some forebodings of his impending fate, for his last written words run thus:--"And, lest the
writing should perish with the writer, and the work should fail with the workman, I leave behind
me parchment for continuing it; if any man should have the good fortune to survive this calamity,
or any one of the race of Adam should escape this pestilence, and live to continue what I have
begun." This abbey was also one of the great literary schools of Ireland, and had its halls
of philosophy and divinity, which, were well attended for many years.

In Dublin the Franciscans were established by the munificence of their great patron, Henry
III. Ralph le Porter granted a site of land in that part of the city where the street still
retains the name of the founder of the Seraphic Order. In 1308 John le Decer proved a great
benefactor to the friars, and erected a very beautiful chapel, dedicated to the Blessed Virgin,
in which he was interred.

But the Convent of Multifarnham was the great glory of this century. It was erected, in 1236,
by Lord Delemere; and from its retired situation, and the powerful protection of its noble
patrons, escaped many of the calamities which befell other houses of the Order. The church
and convent were built "in honour of God and St. Francis." The monastery itself was of unusual
size, and had ample accommodation for a number of friars. Hence, in times of persecution, it
was the usual refuge of the sick and infirm, who were driven from their less favoured homes.
The church was remarkable for its beauty and the richness of its ornaments. Here were the tombs
of its noble founders and patrons; and the south-eastern window was gorgeous with their heraldic
devices. The convent was situated on Lake Derravaragh, and was endowed with many acres of rich
land, through which flow the Inny and the Gaine. Such a position afforded opportunity for mills
and agricultural labours, of which the friars were not slow to avail themselves.

The site, as we have remarked, was secluded, at some distance even from any village, and far
from the more frequented roads. In process of time the family of the Nugents became lords of
the manor, but they were not less friendly to the religious than the former proprietors. Indeed,
so devoted were they to the Order, that, at the time of the dissolution of the monasteries,
Multifarnham would have shared the common fate, had they not again and again repurchased it
from those to whom it had been sold by Henry. Even during the reign of Elizabeth it was protected
by the same family. But the day of suffering was even then approaching. In the October of the
year 1601, a detachment of English soldiers was sent from Dublin by Lord Mountjoy, to destroy
the convent which had been so long spared. The friars were seized and imprisoned, the monastery
pillaged; and the soldiers, disappointed in their hope of a rich booty, wreaked their vengeance
by setting fire to the sacred pile.

The Convent of Kilcrea was another sequestered spot. It was founded in the fifteenth century,
by the MacCarthys, under the invocation of St. Brigid. The richness and magnificence of the
church, its graceful bell-tower, carved windows, and marble ornaments, showed both the generosity
and the taste of the Lord Muskerry. Cormac was interred here in 1495; and many noble families,
having made it their place of sepulture, protected the church for the sake of their ancestral
tombs.

Nor was the Monastery of Timoleague less celebrated. The honour of its foundation is disputed,
as well as the exact date; but as the tombs of the MacCarthys, the O'Donovans, O'Heas, and
De Courcys, are in its choir, we may suppose that all had a share in the erection or adornment
of this stately church. One of the De Courcy family, Edmund, Bishop of Ross, himself a Franciscan
friar, rebuilt the bell-tower, which rises to a height of seventy feet, as well as the dormitory,
infirmary, and library. At his death, in 1548, he bequeathed many valuable books, altar-plate,
&c., to his brethren.

The history of the establishment of the Order at Donegal is amusing enough, and very characteristic
of the customs of the age. In the year 1474 the Franciscans were holding a general chapter
in their convent near Tuam. In the midst of their deliberations, however, they were unexpectedly
interrupted by the arrival of the Lady Nuala O'Connor, daughter of the noble O'Connor Faly,
and wife of the powerful chieftain, Hugh O'Donnell. She was attended by a brilliant escort,
and came for no other purpose than to present her humble petition to the assembled fathers,
for the establishment of their Order in the principality of Tir-Connell. After some deliberation,
the Provincial informed her that her request could not be complied with at present, but that
at a future period the friars would most willingly second her pious design. The Lady Nuala,
however, had a woman's will, and a spirit of religious fervour to animate it. "What!" she exclaimed,
"have I made this long and painful journey only to meet with a refusal? Beware of God's wrath!
for to Him I will appeal, that He may charge you with all the souls whom your delay may cause
to perish." This was unanswerable. The Lady Nuala journeyed home with a goodly band of Franciscans
in her train; and soon the establishment of the Monastery of Donegal, situated at the head
of the bay, showed that the piety of the lady was generously seconded by her noble husband.
Lady Nuala did not live to see the completion of her cherished design. Her mortal remains were
interred under the high altar, and many and fervent were the prayers of the holy friars for
the eternal repose of their benefactress.

The second wife of O'Donnell was not less devoted to the Order. This lady was a daughter of
Connor O'Brien, King of Thomond. Her zeal in the good work was so great, that the monastery
was soon completed, and the church dedicated in 1474. The ceremony was carried out with the
utmost magnificence, and large benefactions bestowed on the religious. After the death of her
husband, who had built a castle close to the monastery, and was buried within the sacred walls,
the widowed princess retired to a small dwelling near the church, where she passed the remainder
of her days in prayer and penance. Her son, Hugh Oge, followed the steps of his good father.
So judicious and upright was his rule, that it was said, in his days, the people of Tir-Connell
never closed their doors except to keep out the wind. In 1510 he set out on a pilgrimage to
Rome. Here he spent two years, and was received everywhere as an independent prince, and treated
with the greatest distinction. But neither the honours conferred on him, nor his knightly fame
(for it is said he was never vanquished in the field or the lists), could satisfy the desires
of his heart. After a brief enjoyment of his ancestral honours, he retired to the monastery
which his father had erected, and found, with the poor children of St. Francis, that peace
and contentment which the world cannot give.

In the county Kerry there were at least two convents of the Order--one at Ardfert, founded,
probably, in the year 1389; the other, famous for the beauty of its ruins, and proximity to
the far-famed Lakes of Killarney, demands a longer notice.

The Convent of Irrelagh, or, as it is now called, Muckross, was founded early in the fifteenth
century, by a prince of the famous family of MacCarthy More, known afterwards as Tadeige Manistireach,
or Teigue of the Monastery.

According to the tradition of the county, and a MS. description of Kerry, written about the
year 1750, and now preserved in the Library of the Royal Irish Academy, the site on which the
monastery was to be built was pointed out to MacCarthy More in a vision, which warned him not
to erect his monastery in any situation except at a place called Carrig-an-Ceoil, i.e., the
rock of the music. As no such place was known to him, he despatched some of his faithful followers
to ascertain in what part of his principality it was situated. For some time they inquired
in vain; but as they returned home in despair, the most exquisite music was heard to issue
from a rock at Irrelagh. When the chief was made aware of this, he at once concluded it was
the spot destined by Providence for his pious undertaking, which he immediately commenced.

It was finished by his son, Donnell (1440). The convent was dedicated to the Blessed Trinity.
It is said there was a miraculous image of the Blessed Virgin here, which brought great crowds
of pilgrims. The feast of the Porziuncula was kept here long after the abbey had fallen to
ruins, and the friars dispersed, and was known as the Abbey Day. Until the last few years stations
were held there regularly, on the 2nd of October.

Clonmel Monastery was founded, about 1269, by the Desmonds; Drogheda, in 1240, by the Plunkets.

Some convents of Carmelite friars were also founded in the thirteenth century, but as yet they
have not been fortunate enough to obtain the services of a historian, so that we can only briefly
indicate the sites. The Convent of Dublin, for White Friars, was founded by Sir Robert Bagot,
in 1274. The date of the establishment of the house at Leighlin-bridge has not been ascertained;
but it was probably erected by the Carews, at the end of the reign of Henry III. There were
also convents at Ardee, Drogheda, Galway, Kildare, and Thurles. The Convent of Kildare was
the general seminary for the Order in Ireland; and one of its friars, David O'Brege, is styled
"the burning light, the mirror and ornament of his country."

In 1248 the young men of Connaught inaugurated the periodical rebellions, which a statesman
of modern times has compared to the dancing manias of the middle ages. Unfortunately for his
comparison, there was a cause for the one, and there was no cause for the other. They acted
unwisely, because there was not the remotest possibility of success; and to rebel against an
oppression which cannot be remedied, only forges closer chains for the oppressed. But it can
scarcely be denied that their motive was a patriotic one. Felim's son, Hugh, was the leader
of the youthful band. In 1249 Maurice FitzGerald arrived to crush the movement, or, in modern
parlance, "to stamp it out"--not always a successful process; for sparks are generally left
after the most careful stamping, which another method might effectually have quenched. Felim
at once fled the country. The English made his nephew, Turlough, ruler in his place; but the
following year Felim made a bold swoop down from the Curlieus, expelled the intruder, and drove
off a cattle prey. After this proof of his determination and valour, the English made peace
with him, and permitted him to retain his own dominions without further molestation. Florence
MacCarthy was killed this year, and Brian O'Neill, Lord of Tyrone, submitted to the Lord Justice--thereby
freeing the invaders from two troublesome combatants. The next year, however, the English,
who were not particular about treaties, invaded the north, and were repulsed with such loss
as to induce them to treat the enemy with more respect for the time.

Under the year 1249 the Annals mention a defeat which the Irish suffered at Athenry, which
they attribute to their refusal to desist from warfare on Lady Day, the English having asked
a truce in honour of the Blessed Virgin. They also record the death of Donough O'Gillapatrick,
and say that this was a retaliation due to the English; for he had killed, burned, and destroyed
many of them. He is characterized, evidently with a little honest pride, as the third greatest
plunderer of the English. The names of the other two plunderers are also carefully chronicled;
they were Connor O'Melaghlin and Connor MacCoghlan. The "greatest plunderer" was in the habit
of going about to reconnoitre the English towns in the disguise of pauper or poet, as best
suited him for the time; and he had a quatrain commemorating his exploits:--

    "He is a carpenter, he is a turner,
     My nursling is a bookman;
     He is selling wine and hides,
     Where he sees a gathering."

The quatrain, if of no other value, gives us an idea of the commodities bartered, and the tradesmen
who offered their goods at Irish fairs in English towns during the thirteenth century.

In 1257 there was a fierce conflict between the Irish, under Godfrey O'Donnell, and the English,
commanded by Maurice FitzGerald. The conflict took place at Creadrankille, near Sligo. The
leaders engaged in single combat, and were both severely wounded: eventually the invaders were
defeated and expelled from Lower Connaught. Godfrey's wound prevented him from following up
his success, and soon after the two chieftains died. The circumstances of Maurice's death have
been already recorded. The death of O'Donnell is a curious illustration of the feeling of the
times. During his illness, Brian O'Neill sent to demand hostages from the Cinel-Connaill. The
messengers fled the moment they had fulfilled their commission. For all reply, O'Donnell commanded
his people to assemble, to place him on his bier, and to bear him forth at their head. And
thus they met the enemy. The battle took place on the banks of the river Swilly, in Donegal.
O'Donnell's army conquered. The hero's bier was laid down in the street of a little village
at Connal, near Letterkenny, and there he died.

O'Neill again demanded hostages; but while the men deliberated what answer they should give,
Donnell Oge returned from Scotland, and though he was but a youth of eighteen, he was elected
chieftain. The same year the long-disused title of Monarch of Ireland was conferred on O'Neill
by some of the Irish kings. After a conference at Caol Uisge, O'Neill and O'Connor turned their
forces against the English, and a battle was fought near Downpatrick, where the Irish were
defeated.[332] O'Neill was killed, with fifteen of the O'Kanes and many other chieftains, A.D.
1260. The English were commanded by the then Viceroy, Stephen Longespé, who was murdered soon
after by his own people.

In the south the English suffered a severe reverse. The Geraldines were defeated by Connor
O'Brien in Thomond, and again at Kilgarvan, near Kenmare, by Fineen MacCarthy. The Annals of
Innisfallen give long details of this engagement, the sight of which is still pointed out by
the country people. John FitzThomas, the founder of the Dominican Monastery at Tralee, was
killed. The MacCarthys immediately proceeded to level all the castles which had been erected
by the English; they were very numerous in that district. Soon after the hero of the fight
was killed himself by the De Courcys.

The Annals mention an instance of a man who had taken a bell from the Church of Ballysadare,
and put it on his head when attacked by the enemy, hoping that he might escape with his prize
and his life, from the respect always shown to everything consecrated to God's service; but
he was killed notwithstanding. This incident is mentioned as characteristic of the age. After
the defeat narrated above, Hanmer says, "the Geraldines dared not put a plough into the ground
in Desmond." The next year, 1262, Mac William Burke marched with a great army as far as Elphin.
He was joined by the Lord Justice and John de Verdun. They marked out a place for a castle
at Roscommon, and plundered all that remained after Hugh O'Connor in Connaught. He, in his
turn, counterburned and plundered so successfully, that the English were glad to ask for peace.
The result was a conference at the ford of Doire-Chuire. A peace was concluded, after which
"Hugh O'Connor and Mac William Burke slept together in the one bed, cheerfully and happily;
and the English left the country on the next day, after bidding farewell to O'Connor."

After this fraternal demonstration, Burke led an army into Desmond, and an engagement took
place with MacCarthy on the side of Mangerton Mountain, where both English and Irish suffered
great losses. Gerald Roche, who is said to be the third best knight of his time in Ireland,
was slain by MacCarthy.[333] Burke was soon after created Earl of Ulster.[334] He and FitzGerald
waged war against each other in 1264, and desolated the country with their raids. The Lord
Justice sided with FitzGerald, who succeeded in taking all Burke's castles in Connaught.

The quarrels of the invaders now became so general, that even the Lord Justice was seized at
a conference by FitzMaurice FitzGerald, and was detained prisoner, with several other nobles,
for some time. During the wars between De Burgo (or Burke) and FitzGerald, the good people
of Ross threatened to defend their town from all invaders; and to effect this purpose the council
commanded all the citizens to assist in erecting the necessary fortifications. Even the ladies[335]
and clergy[336] took part in the works, which were soon and successfully completed.

An Anglo-Norman poet commemorated this event in verse, and celebrates the fame of Rose, a lady
who contributed largely to the undertaking, both by her presence and her liberal donations.
He informs us first of the reason for this undertaking. It was those two troublesome knights,
"sire Morice e sire Wauter," who would not permit the world to be at peace. He assures us that
the citizens of New Ross were most anxious for peace, because they were merchants, and had
an extensive trade, which was quite true; but he adds that they were determined to defend their
rights if attacked, which was also true.

The poet also compliments the ladies, and thinks that the man would be happy who could have
his choice of them. He also informs us they were to build a "Ladies' Gate," where there should
be a prison in which all who gave offence to the fair sex should be confined at their pleasure.
Of a surety, New Ross must have been the paradise of ladies in those days. We have not ascertained
whether its fair citizens retain the same potent sway in the present century.

Felim O'Connor died in 1265. The Four Masters give his obituary thus: "Felim, son of Cathal
Crovderg O'Connor, the defender and supporter of his own province, and of his friends on every
side, the expeller and plunderer of his foes; a man full of hospitality, prowess, and renown;
the exalter of the clerical orders and men of science; a worthy materies [sic] of a King of
Ireland for his nobility, personal shape, heroism, wisdom, clemency, and truth; died, after
the victory of unction and penance, in the monastery of the Dominican friars at Roscommon,
which he had himself granted to God and that Order."

He was succeeded by his son, Hugh, "who committed his regal depredation in Offaly." It appears
to have been considered a customary thing for a new sovereign to signalize himself, as soon
as possible, by some display of this description. He succeeded so well in this same depredation,
that the Lord Justice was alarmed, and came to assist De Burgo. The latter proposed a conference
at Carrick-on-Shannon; but Hugh O'Connor suspected treachery, and contrived to get the Earl's
brother, William Oge, into his hands before the conference commenced. The Earl "passed the
night in sadness and sorrow." At daybreak a fierce conflict ensued. Turlough O'Brien, who was
coming to assist the Connacians, was met on his way, and slain in single combat by De Burgo.
But his death was fearfully avenged; great numbers of the English were slain, and immense spoils
were taken from them. De Burgo died the following year, in Galway Castle, after a short illness,
A.D. 1271.

FOOTNOTES:

[328] Life.--Annals, vol. iii. p. 189.

[329] Christ.--Annals, vol. iii. p. 281.

[330] Find.--Ib. vol. iii. p. 275.

[331] Usher's Island.--This was once a fashionable resort. Moira House stood here. It was ornamented
so beautifully, that John Wesley observed, when visiting Lady Moira, that one of the rooms
was more elegant than any he had seen in England. Here, in 1777, Charles Fox was introduced
to Grattan. Poor Pamela (Lady Edward FitzGerald) was at Moira House on the evening of her husband's
arrest; and here she heard the fatal news on the following morning, her friends having concealed
it from her until then. In 1826 it was converted into a mendicity institution, and all its
ornamental portions removed.

[332] Defeated.--O'Neill's bard, MacNamee, wrote a lament for the chieftains who fell in this
engagement. He states that the head of "O'Neill, King of Tara, was sent to London;" and attributes
the defeat of the Irish to the circumstance of their adversaries having fought in coats-of-mail,
while they had only satin shirts:--

"Unequal they entered the battle, The Galls and the Irish of Tara; Fair satin shirts on the
race of Conn, The Galls in one mass of iron."

He further deplores the removal of the chief's noble face from Down, lamenting that his resurrection
should not be from amongst the limestone-covered graves of the fathers of his clan at Armagh.

[333] MacCarthy.--Four Masters, vol. iii. p. 389.

[334] Ulster.--The Annals of Innisfallen say he obtained this title in 1264, after his marriage
with Maud, daughter of Hugh de Lacy the younger.

[335]

Ladies.--"Tantz bele dames ne vi en fossée, Mult fu cil en bon sire née, Re purreit choisir
à sa volonté."

[336]

Clergy.--"E les prestres, quant on chanté, Si vont ovrir au fossé, E travellent mut durement,
Plus qe ne funt autre gent."

This ballad has been published, with a translation by W. Crofton Croker.

CHAPTER XXI.

Reign of Edward I.--Social State of Ireland--English Treachery--Irish Chieftains set at Variance--The
Irish are refused the Benefit of English Law--Feuds between the Cusacks and the Barretts--Death
of Boy O'Neill--The Burkes and the Geraldines--Quarrel between FitzGerald and De Vesci--Possessions
obtained by Force or Fraud--Why the Celt was not Loyal--The Governors and the Governed--Royal
Cities and their Charters--Dublin Castle, its Officers, Law Courts--A Law Court in the Fourteenth
Century--Irish Soldiers help the English King--A Murder for which Justice is refused--Exactions
of the Nobles--Invasion of Bruce--Remonstrance to the Pope--The Scotch Armies withdrawn from
Ireland.

[A.D. 1271--1326.]

It was now nearly a century since the Anglo-Normans invaded Ireland. Henry III. died in 1272,
after a reign of fifty-six years. He was succeeded by his son, Edward I., who was in the Holy
Land at the time of his father's death. In 1257 his father had made him a grant of Ireland,
with the express condition that it should not be separated from England. It would appear as
if there had been some apprehensions of such an event since the time of Prince John. The English
monarchs apparently wished the benefit of English laws to be extended to the native population,
but their desire was invariably frustrated by such of their nobles as had obtained grants of
land in Ireland, and whose object appears to have been the extermination and, if this were
not possible, the depression of the Irish race.

Ireland was at this time convulsed by domestic dissensions. Sir Robert D'Ufford, the Justiciary,
was accused of fomenting the discord; but he appears to have considered that he only did his
duty to his royal master. When sent for into England, to account for his conduct, he "satisfied
the King that all was not true that he was charged withal; and for further contentment yielded
this reason, that in policy he thought it expedient to wink at one knave cutting off another,
and that would save the King's coffers, and purchase peace to the land. Whereat the King smiled,
and bid him return to Ireland." The saving was questionable; for to prevent an insurrection
by timely concessions, is incomparably less expensive than to suppress it when it has arisen.
The "purchase of peace" was equally visionary; for the Irish never appear to have been able
to sit down quietly under unjust oppression, however hopeless resistance might be.

The Viceroys were allowed a handsome income; therefore they were naturally anxious to keep
their post. The first mention of salary is that granted to Geoffrey de Marisco. By letters-patent,
dated at Westminster, July 4th, 1226, he was allowed an annual stipend of £580. This was a
considerable sum for times when wheat was only 2s. a quarter, fat hogs 2s. each, and French
wine 2s. a gallon.

Hugh O'Connor renewed hostilities in 1272, by destroying the English Castle of Roscommon. He
died soon after, and his successor had but brief enjoyment of his dignity. In 1277 a horrible
act of treachery took place, which the unfortunate Irish specially mention in their remonstrance
to Pope John XXII., as a striking instance of the double-dealing of the English and the descendants
of the Anglo-Normans then in Ireland, Thomas de Clare obtained a grant of Thomond from Edward
I. It had already been secured to its rightful owners, the O'Briens, who probably paid, as
was usual, an immense fine for liberty to keep their own property. The English Earl knew he
could only obtain possession by treachery; he therefore leagued with Roe O'Brien, "so that
they entered into gossipred with each other, and took vows by bells and relics to retain mutual
friendship;" or, as the Annals of Clonmacnois have it, "they swore to each other all the oaths
in Munster, as bells, relics of saints, and bachalls, to be true to each other for ever."

The unfortunate Irish prince little suspected all the false oaths his friend had taken, or
all the villany he premeditated. There was another claimant for the crown as usual, Turlough
O'Brien. He was defeated, but nevertheless the Earl turned to his side, got Brian Roe into
his hands, and had him dragged to death between horses. The wretched perpetrator of this diabolical
deed gained little by his crime,[337] for O'Brien's sons obtained a victory over him the following
year. At one time he was so hard pressed as to be obliged to surrender at discretion, after
living on horse-flesh for several days. In 1281 the unprincipled Earl tried the game of dissension,
and set up Donough, the son of the man he had murdered, against Turlough, whom he had supported
just before. But Donough was slain two years after, and Turlough continued master of Thomond
until his death, in 1306. De Clare was slain by the O'Briens, in 1286.

In 1280 the Irish who lived near the Anglo-Norman settlers presented a petition to the English
King, praying that they might be admitted to the privileges of the English law. Edward issued
a writ to the then Lord Justice, D'Ufford, desiring him to assemble the lords spiritual and
temporal of the "land of Ireland," to deliberate on the subject. But the writ was not attended
to; and even if it had been, the lords "spiritual and temporal" appear to have decided long
before that the Irish should not participate in the benefit of English laws, however much they
might suffer from English oppression. A pagan nation pursued a more liberal policy, and found
it eminently successful. The Roman Empire was held together for many centuries, quite as much
by the fact of her having made all her dependencies to share in the benefits of her laws, as
by the strong hand of her cohorts. She used her arms to conquer, and her laws to retain her
conquests.

In 1281 a sanguinary engagement took place at Moyne, in the county Mayo, between the Cusacks
and the Barretts. The latter were driven off the field. The Annals say: "There were assisting
the Cusacks in this battle two of the Irish, namely, Taichleach O'Boyle and Taichleach O'Dowda,
who surpassed all that were there in bravery and valour, and in agility and dexterity in shooting."[338]
There was a battle this year also between the Cinel-Connaill and the Cinel-Owen, in which the
former were defeated, and their chieftain, Oge O'Donnell, was slain. This encounter took place
at Desertcreaght, in Tyrone.

Hugh Boy O'Neill was slain in 1283. He is styled "the head of the liberality and valour of
the Irish; the most distinguished in the north for bestowing jewels and riches; the most formidable
and victorious of his tribe; and the worthy heir to the throne of Ireland." The last sentence
is observable, as it shows that the English monarch was not then considered King of Ireland.
In 1285 Theobald Butler died at Berehaven. After his death a large army was collected by Lord
Geoffrey Geneville, and some other English nobles. They marched into Offaly, where the Irish
had just seized the Castle of Leix. Here they had a brief triumph, and seized upon a great
prey of cows; but the native forces rallied immediately, and, with the aid of Carbry O'Melaghlin,
routed the enemy completely. Theobald de Verdun lost both his men and his horses, and Gerald
FitzMaurice was taken prisoner the day after the battle, it is said through the treachery of
his own followers. The Four Masters do not mention this event, but it is recorded at length
in the Annals of Clonmacnois. They add: "There was a great snow this year, which from Christmas
to St. Brigid's day continued."

The two great families of De Burgo and Geraldine demand a special mention. The former, who
were now represented by Richard de Burgo (the Red Earl), had become so powerful, that they
took precedence even of the Lord Justice in official documents. In 1286 the Earl led a great
army into Connaught, destroying the monasteries and churches, and "obtaining sway in everyplace
through which he passed." This nobleman was the direct descendant of FitzAldelm de Burgo, who
had married Isabella, a natural daughter of Richard Coeur de Lion, and widow of Llewellyn,
Prince of Wales. Walter de Burgo became Earl of Ulster in right of his wife, Maud, daughter
of the younger Hugh de Lacy. The Red Earl's grandson, William, who was murdered, in 1333, by
the English of Ulster, and whose death was most cruelly revenged, was the third and last of
the De Burgo Earls of Ulster. The Burkes of Connaught are descended from William, the younger
brother of Walter, the first Earl.

John FitzThomas FitzGerald, Baron of Offaly, was the common ancestor of the two great branches
of the Geraldines, whose history is an object of such peculiar interest to the Irish historian.
One of his sons, John, was created Earl of Kildare; the other, Maurice, Earl of Desmond.

In 1286 De Burgo laid claim to that portion of Meath which Theobald de Verdun held in right
of his mother, the daughter of Walter de Lacy. He besieged De Verdun in his Castle of Athlone,
A.D. 1288, but the result has not been recorded. De Toleburne, Justiciary of Ireland, died
this year; the King seized on all his property, to pay debts which he owed to the crown. It
appears he was possessed of a considerable number of horses.[339]

Jean de Samford, Archbishop of Dublin, administered the affairs of the colony until 1290, when
he was succeeded by Sir William de Vesci, a Yorkshire man, and a royal favourite.

In 1289 Carbry O'Melaghlin possessed a considerable amount of power in Meath, and was therefore
extremely obnoxious to the English settlers. An army was collected to overthrow his government,
headed by Richard Tuite (the Great Baron), and assisted by O'Connor, King of Connaught. They
were defeated, and "Tuite, with his kinsmen, and Siccus O'Kelly, were slain."

Immediately after the arrival of the new Lord Justice, a quarrel sprung up between him and
FitzGerald, Baron of Offaly. They both appeared before the Council; and if Hollinshed's account
may be credited, they used language which would scarcely be tolerated in Billingsgate. FitzGerald
proposed an appeal to arms, which was accepted by his adversary. Edward summoned both parties
to Westminster. FitzGerald came duly equipped for the encounter, but De Vesci had fled the
country. He was, however, acquitted by Parliament, on the ground of informality, and the affair
was referred to the royal decision. According to Hollinshed's account, the King observed, that
"although de Vesci had conveyed his person to France, he had left his land behind him in Ireland;"
and bestowed the lordships of Kildare and Rathangan on his adversary.

Wogan was Viceroy during the close of this century, and had ample occupation pacifying the
Geraldines and Burkes--an occupation in which he was not always successful. Thomas FitzMaurice,
"of the ape," father of the first Earl of Desmond, had preceded him in the office of Justiciary.
This nobleman obtained his cognomen from the circumstances of having been carried, when a child,
by a tame ape round the walls of a castle, and then restored to his cradle without the slightest
injury.

The English possessions in Ireland at the close of this century consisted of the "Liberties"
and ten counties--Dublin, Louth, Kildare, Waterford, Tipperary, Cork, Limerick, Kerry, Roscommon,
and part of Connaught. The "Liberties" were those of Connaught and Ulster, under De Burgo;
Meath, divided between De Mortimer and De Verdun; Wexford, Carlow, and Kilkenny, under the
jurisdiction of the respective representatives of the Marshal heiresses; Thomond, claimed by
De Clare; and Desmond, partly controlled by the FitzGeralds. Sir William Davies says: "These
absolute palatines made barons and knights; did exercise high justice in all points within
their territories; erected courts for criminal and civil cases, and for their own revenues,
in the same forms as the King's courts were established at Dublin; made their own judges, sheriffs,
coroners, and escheators, so as the King's writ did not run in these counties (which took up
more than two parts of the English colonies), but only in the church-lands lying within the
same, which were called the 'Cross,' wherein the King made a sheriff; and so in each of these
counties-palatine there were two sheriffs, one of the Liberty, and another of the Cross. These
undertakers were not tied to any form of plantation, but all was left to their discretion and
pleasure; and although they builded castles and made freeholds, yet there were no tenures or
services reserved to the crown, but the lords drew all the respect and dependency of the common
people unto themselves." Hence the strong objection which the said lords had to the introduction
of English law; for had this been accomplished, it would have proved a serious check to their
own advancement for the present time, though, had they wisdom to have seen it, in the end it
would have proved their best safeguard and consolidated their power. The fact was, these settlers
aimed at living like the native princes, oblivious or ignorant of the circumstance, that these
princes were as much amenable to law as the lowest of their subjects, and that they governed
by a prescriptive right of centuries. If they made war, it was for the benefit of the tribe,
not for their individual aggrandizement; if they condemned to death, the sentence should be
in accordance with the Brehon law, which the people knew and revered. The settlers owned no
law but their own will; and the unhappy people whom they governed could not fail to see that
their sole object was their own benefit, and to obtain an increase of territorial possessions
at any cost.

On the lands thus plundered many native septs existed, whom neither war nor famine could quite
exterminate. Their feelings towards the new lord of the soil can easily be understood; it was
a feeling of open hostility, of which they made no secret. They considered the usurper's claim
unjust; and to deprive him of the possessions which he had obtained by force or fraud, was
the dearest wish of their hearts.

This subject should be very carefully considered and thoroughly understood, for much, if not
all, of the miseries which Ireland has endured, have arisen from the fatal policy pursued at
this period. How could the Celt be loyal to the Anglo-Norman, who lived only to oppress him,
to drive him from his ancestral home, and then to brand him with the foul name of rebel, if
he dared resist? Had he not resisted, he would have been branded with a worse name--a coward.

Such portions of the country as lay outside the land of which the Anglo-Normans had possessed
themselves, were called "marches." These were occupied by troops of natives, who continually
resisted the aggressions of the invader, always anxious to add to his territory. These troops
constantly made good reprisals for what had been taken, by successful raids on the castle or
the garrison. Fleet-footed, and well aware of every spot which would afford concealment, these
hardy Celts generally escaped scot-free. Thus occupied for several centuries, they acquired
a taste for this roving life; and they can scarcely be reproached for not having advanced in
civilization with the age, by those who placed such invincible obstacles to their progress.[340]

The most important royal castles, after Dublin, were those of Athlone, Roscommon, and Randown.
They were governed by a constable, and supplied by a garrison paid out of the revenues of the
colony. The object of these establishments was to keep down the natives, who were accordingly
taxed to keep the garrisons. The people quite understood this, and it was not an additional
motive for loyalty. The battlements of the castle were generally adorned with a grim array
of ghastly skulls, the heads of those who had been slain in the warfare so constantly going
on. But the attempt to strike terror into the Irish utterly failed, and new candidates passed
into the ranks. How, indeed, could they die more gloriously than in the service of their country?

The royal cities held charters direct from the crown of England. These cities were Dublin,
Waterford, Limerick, and Cork. Some idea has already been given of the streets and the size
of Dublin. The Castle was the most important building, at least to the civil portion of the
community. It contained within its walls a chapel, a jail, and a mill--characteristic of the
age. The mill was styled the "King's Mill." The chaplains had each an annual salary of fifty
shillings--not an insufficient provision, if we calculate that the penny then was nearly the
same value as the shilling now; moreover, they had two shillings each for wax, and probably
fees besides. The chapel was under the patronage of St. Thomas of Canterbury, who, when he
had been martyred, sent to heaven, and could give no more inconvenient reproofs, stood very
high in royal favour. The Castle was partly encompassed by a moat, called the "Castlegripe;"
the walls were fortified with bastions, and had various gates, towers, and narrow entrances,
which were defended by strong doors and portcullises. The chief communication with the city
was by a drawbridge on the southern side of Castle-street. Rolls of the fourteenth century
exhibit disbursements for repairs, ropes, bolts, and rings, from which we gather that everything
was kept ready for immediate service.

The hostages which were exacted from the Anglo-Norman lords, as well as from the Irish chieftains,
were kept in the Castle at their own expense. They can hardly have found their position very
pleasant, as at any moment they might be called on to submit to the operation of having their
eyes put out, or to be hanged. The judges and other officials held their courts in the Castle.
In the Court of Exchequer the primitive method of using counters for calculating[341] was still
continued. These were laid in rows upon the "chequered" cloth which covered the table. Square
hazel rods, notched[342] in a particular manner, styled tallies and counter-tallies, were employed
as vouchers.

The Red Book of the Exchequer contains a curious sketch of "the Exchequer of the King of England
in Dublin." Six officers of the court are at the top; to the left, three judges; to the right,
three suitors; a sheriff is seated at the bottom. The crier is in the act of adjourning the
court, exclaiming "à demain," showing that even in Ireland Norman-French was still the language
of law, and probably of courtesy. The officer to the left, supposed to be the Second Remembrancer,
holds a parchment containing the words, "Preceptum fuit Vice-comiti, per breve hujus Scaccarii."
The Chief Remembrancer occupies himself with a pen and an Exchequer roll, commencing "Memorandum
quod X° die Maij," &c.; while the Clerk of the Pipe prepares a writ, placed on his left knee,
his foot resting on the table. The Marshal of the Exchequer addresses the usher, and holds
a document inscribed, "Exiit breve Vice-comiti." One of the judges exclaims, "Soient forfez;"
another, "Voyr dire." On the chequered-covered table, before the judges, are the Red Book,
a bag with rolls, the counters used for computation, and a document commencing with the words,
"Ceo vous," &c. The sheriff sits at the bottom, wearing the leathern cap used by such officers
when their accounts were under examination in the Exchequer. Three suitors stand at the right
side of the picture. One, with uplifted hand, says, "Oz de brie;" another, extending his arm,
cries, "Chalange;" the third, with sword at his side, laced boots, and ample sleeves, holds
the thumb of his left hand between the fore and middle finger of his right, and exclaims, "Soite
oughte." Thus affording us an interesting and truthful picture of a law court in the fourteenth
century.

The crown revenues and customs were frequently pawned out to associations of Italian money-lenders;
and the "Ricardi" of Lucca, and "Frescobaldi" of Florence, had agents in the principal towns
in Ireland. The royal treasure was deposited in the Castle, in a coffer with three locks. The
keys were confided to different persons, and no payment could be made unless the three were
present; still, as might be expected from men, the sole object of whose lives appears to have
been to enrich themselves at the expense of others, the accounts were not always satisfactory.
Even the Viceroys were accused of conniving at and sharing in frauds, notwithstanding the salary
of £500 per annum and their other emoluments, with the permission to levy provisions of all
kinds for "the king's price," which was far below the current value.

The Castle garrison consisted of archers and halberdiers; the Constable, Warders, and Guardian
of Works and Supplies, being the principal officers. The Constable was generally a nobleman
of high rank, and received an annual salary[343] of £18 5s.

It will be remembered that Sir John Wogan had been appointed Viceroy at the close of the thirteenth
century. He brought about a two years' truce between the Geraldines and Burkes (De Burgos),
and then summoned a Parliament at Kilkenny, A.D. 1295. The roll of this Parliament contains
only twenty-seven names. Richard, Earl of Ulster, is the first on the list. The principal Acts
passed were: one for revising King John's division of the country into counties; another for
providing a more strict guard over the marches, so as to "keep out the Irish." The Irish were
not permitted to have any voice in the settlement of the affairs, of their country, and it
was a rebellious symptom if they demurred. Nevertheless, in 1303, King Edward was graciously
pleased to accept the services of Irish soldiers, in his expedition against Scotland. It is
said that, in 1299, his army was composed principally of Welsh and Irish, and that on this
occasion they were royally feasted at Roxburgh Castle.

The O'Connors of Offaly were for nearly two centuries the most heroic, and therefore the most
dangerous, of the "Irish enemies." Maurice O'Connor Faly and his brother, Calvagh, were the
heads of the sept. The latter had obtained the soubriquet of "the Great Rebel," from his earnest
efforts to free his country. He had defeated the English in a battle, in which Meiller de Exeter
and several others were slain; he had taken the Castle of Kildare; therefore, as he could not
be taken himself by fair means, treachery was employed.

The chiefs of Offaly were invited to dinner on Trinity Sunday, A.D. 1315, by Sir Pierce MacFeorais
(Peter Bermingham). As they rose up from table they were cruelly massacred, one by one, with
twenty-four of their followers. This black deed took place at Bermingham's own Castle of Carbury,[344]
county Kildare. Bermingham was arraigned before King Edward, but no justice was ever obtained
for this foul murder.

In the year 1308, Piers Gaveston, the unworthy favourite of Edward II., was appointed Viceroy.
The English barons had long been disgusted by his insolence, and jealous of his influence.
He was banished to France--or rather a decree to that effect was issued--but Ireland was substituted,
for it was considered a banishment to be sent to that country. Gaveston, with his usual love
of display, was attended by a magnificent suite, and commenced his Viceroyalty in high state.
He was accompanied by his wife, Marguerite, who was closely connected with the royal family.

The Templars had been suppressed and plundered by royal command; but though this evil deed
was accomplished without much trouble, there were Irish clans whose suppression was not so
easily effected. The O'Tooles and O'Briens, styled by the Anglo-Normans "les Ototheyles et
les Obrynnes," stood their ground so well, that they had put the late Viceroy to flight this
very year, and promised some active employment for his successor.

Edward appears to have had apprehensions as to the kind of reception his favourite was likely
to receive from the powerful Earl of Ulster; he therefore wrote him a special letter, requesting
his aid and counsel for the Viceroy. But De Burgo knew his own power too well; and instead
of complying with the royal request, he marched off to Drogheda, and then to Trim, where he
employed himself in giving sumptuous entertainments, and conferring the honour of knighthood
on his adherents. The favourite was recalled to England at the end of a year. Edward had conducted
him to Bristol, on his way to Ireland; he now went to meet him at Chester, on his return. Three
years later he paid the forfeit of his head for all these condescensions.

In 1309 De Wogan was again appointed Governor. The exactions of the nobles had risen to such
a height, that some of their number began to fear the effects would recoil on themselves. High
food rates and fearful poverty then existed, in consequence of the cruel exactions of the Anglo-Normans
on their own dependents. They lived frequently in their houses, and quartered their soldiers
and followers on them, without offering them the smallest remuneration. A statute was now made
which pronounced these proceedings "open robbery," and accorded the right of suit in such cases
to the crown. But this enactment could only be a dead letter. We have already seen how the
crown dealt with the most serious complaints of the natives; and even had justice been awarded
to the complainant, the right of eviction was in the hands of the nearest noble, and the unfortunate
tenant would have his choice between starvation in the woods or marauding on the highways,
having neither the dernier resort of a workhouse or emigration in that age.

The Viceroy had abundant occupation suppressing the feuds both of the Irish and the colonists.
Civil war raged in Thomond, but the quarrels between the Anglo-Norman settlers in the same
province, appear to have been more extensive and less easily appeased. In a note to the Annals
of Clonmacnois, MacGeoghegan observes, that "there reigned more dissentions, strife, warrs,
and debates between the Englishmen themselves, in the beginning of the conquest of this kingdome,
than between the Irishmen; as by perusing the warrs between the Lacies of Meath, John Coursey,
Earle of Ulster, William Marshal, and the English of Meath and Munster, Mac Gerald, the Burke,
Butler, and Cogan, may appear."

The famous invasion of Ireland by Bruce took place on the 16th of May, A.D. 1315. On that day
Edward landed on the coast of Ulster, near Carrickfergus, with six thousand men. He was attended
by the heroes of Bannockburn; and as a considerable number of native forces soon joined them,
the contingent was formidable. Although a few of the Irish had assisted Edward II. in his war
against Scotch independence, the sympathies of the nation were with the cause of freedom; and
they gladly hailed the arrival of those who had delivered their own country, hoping they would
also deliver Ireland. It was proposed that Edward Bruce should be made King of Ireland. The
Irish chieftain, Donnell O'Neill, King of Ulster, in union with the other princes of the province,
wrote a spirited but respectful remonstrance to the Holy See, on the part of the nation, explaining
why they were anxious to transfer the kingdom to Bruce.

In this document the remonstrants first state, simply and clearly, that the Holy Father was
deceived; that they were persuaded his intentions were pure and upright; and that his Holiness
only knew the Irish through the misrepresentations of their enemies. They state their wish
"to save their country from foul and false imputations," and to give a correct idea of their
state. They speak, truthfully and mournfully, "of the sad remains of a kingdom, which has groaned
so long beneath the tyranny of English kings, of their ministers and their barons;" and they
add, "that some of the latter, though born in the island, continued to exercise the same extortions,
rapine, and cruelties, as their ancestors inflicted." They remind the Pontiff that "it is to
Milesian princes, and not to the English, that the Church is indebted for those lands and possessions
of which it has been stripped by the sacrilegious cupidity of the English." They boldly assert
"it was on the strength of false statements" that Adrian transferred the sovereignty of the
country to Henry II, "the probable murderer of St. Thomas à Becket." Details are then given
of English oppression, to some of which we have already referred. They state the people have
been obliged to take refuge, "like beasts, in the mountains, in the woods, marshes, and caves.
Even there we are not safe. They envy us these desolate abodes." They contrast the engagements
made by Henry to the Church, and his fair promises, with the grievous failure in their fulfilment.
They give clear details of the various enactments made by the English, one of which merits
special attention, as an eternal refutation of the false and base charge against the Irish
of having refused to accept English laws, because they were a lawless race. They state (1)
"that no Irishman who is not a prelate can take the law against an Englishman, but every Englishman
may take the law against an Irishman." (2) That any Englishman may kill an Irishman, "falsely
and perfidiously, as often happened, of whatsoever rank, innocent or guilty, and yet he cannot
be brought before the English tribunals; and further, that the English murderer can seize the
property of his victim." When such was the state of Ireland, as described calmly in an important
document still extant, we cannot be surprised that the people eagerly sought the slightest
hope of redress, or the merest chance of deliverance from such oppression.[345] In conclusion,
the Irish princes inform his Holiness, "that in order to obtain their object the more speedily
and securely, they had invited the gallant Edward Bruce, to whom, being descended from their
most noble ancestors, they had transferred, as they justly might, their own right of royal domain."

A few years later Pope John wrote a letter to Edward III., in which he declares that the object
of Pope Adrian's Bull had been entirely neglected, and that the "most unheard-of miseries and
persecutions had been inflicted on the Irish." He recommends that monarch to adopt a very different
policy, and to remove the causes of complaint, "lest it might be too late hereafter to apply
a remedy, when the spirit of revolt had grown stronger."

The accounts of Bruce's Irish campaign have not been very clearly given. The Four Masters mention
it briefly, notwithstanding its importance; the fullest account is contained in the Annals
of Clonmacnois, which agree with the Annals of Connaught. Dundalk, Ardee, and some other places
in the north, were taken in rapid succession, and a good supply of victuals and wine was obtained
from the former place. The Viceroy, Sir Edmund le Botiller, marched to attack the enemy; but
the proud Earl of Ulster refused his assistance, and probably the Justiciary feared to offend
him by offering to remain. Meanwhile, Felim, King of Connaught, who had hitherto been an ally
of the Red Earl, came over to the popular side; and the English forces suffered a defeat at
Connor, in which William de Burgo and several knights were taken prisoners. This battle was
fought on the 10th of September, according to Grace's Annals, and the battle of Dundalk on
the 29th of July.

After the battle of Connor, the Earl of Ulster fled to Connaught, where he remained a year;
the remainder of his forces shut themselves up in Carrickfergus. Bruce was proclaimed King
of Ireland, and marched southward to pursue his conquests. The Earl of Moray was sent to Edinburgh
to invite King Robert over, and the Scotch armies prepared to spend the winter with the De
Lacys in Westmeath.

When the Christmas festivities were concluded, Bruce again took the field, and defeated the
Viceroy at Ardscull, in the co. Kildare, In the month of February some of the chief nobles
of the English colony met in Dublin, and signed a manifesto, in which they denounced the traitorous
conduct of the Scotch enemy, in trying to wrest Ireland from their Lord, "Monsieur Edward,"
taking special care to herald forth their own praises for loyalty, and to hint at the compensation
which might be required for the same.

But the Irish were again their own enemies; and to their miserable dissensions, though it can
never justify the cruelties of their oppressors, must be attributed most justly nearly all
their misfortunes. Had the Irish united against the invaders, there can be no doubt that, with
the assistance of the Scotch army, they would have obtained a complete and glorious victory,
though it may be doubtful whether any really beneficial results would have accrued to the country
should disunion continue. When Felim O'Connor joined Bruce, Rory O'Connor and his clan commenced
depredations on his territory. Felim returned to give him battle, and defeated him with terrible
slaughter. Thus men and time were lost in useless and ignoble strife. Rory was slain in this
engagement--a fate he richly merited; and Felim was once more free to fight for his country.
He was joined by the O'Briens of Thomond, and they marched together to attack Athenry, which
was defended by Burke and Bermingham. A fierce conflict ensued. The Irish fought with their
usual valour; but English coats-of-mail were proof against their attacks, and English cross-bows
mowed down their ranks.

The brave young Felim was slain, with 11,000 of his followers; and the Irish cause was irretrievably
injured, perhaps more by the death of the leader than by the loss of the men. This disaster
took place on the 10th of August, 1316.

Still the Irish were not daunted. The O'Tooles and O'Byrnes rose in Wicklow, the O'Mores in
Leix. Robert Bruce came over to Ireland. The Franciscan friars, always devoted to their country,
made themselves specially obnoxious by encouraging their countrymen to die in defence of their
country. They were threatened and cajoled by turns, but with little effect.[346] Edward Bruce
again appeared before Carrickfergus. The siege was protracted until September, when Robert
Bruce arrived, and found the English so hard pressed, that they ate hides, and fed on the bodies
of eight Scots whom they had made prisoners.[347] In the year 1317, the Scottish army was computed
at 20,000 men, besides their Irish auxiliaries. After Shrovetide, King Robert and his brother
crossed the Boyne, and marched to Castleknock, near Dublin, where they took Hugh Tyrrell prisoner,
and obtained possession of the fortress. There was no little fear in Dublin Castle thereupon,
for the Anglo-Normans distrusted each other. And well they might. The De Lacys had solemnly
pledged their fidelity, yet they were now found under the standard of Bruce. Even De Burgo
was suspected; for his daughter, Elizabeth, was the wife of the Scottish King. When the invading
army approached Dublin, he was seized and confined in the Castle. It will be remembered that
Dublin had been more than once peopled by the citizens of Bristol. They were naturally in the
English interest, and disposed to offer every resistance. They fortified Dublin so strongly,
even at the expense of burning the suburbs and pulling down churches, that Bruce deemed it
more prudent to avoid an encounter, and withdrew towards the Salmon Leap; from whence he led
his forces southward as far as Limerick, without encountering any serious opposition.

But a reverse was even then at hand. An Anglo-Irish army was formed, headed by the Earl of
Kildare; famine added its dangers; and on the 1st of May Robert Bruce returned to Scotland,
leaving his brother, Edward, with the Earl of Moray, to contend, as best they could, against
the twofold enemy. In 1318 a good harvest relieved the country in some measure from one danger;
two Cardinals were despatched from Rome to attempt to release it from the other. On the 14th
October, in the same year, the question was finally decided. An engagement took place at Faughard,
near Dundalk. On the one side was the Scotch army, headed by Bruce, and assisted (from what
motive it is difficult to determine) by the De Lacys and other Anglo-Norman lords; on the other
side, the English army, commanded by Lord John Bermingham. The numbers on each side have been
differently estimated; but it is probable the death of Edward Bruce was the turning point of
the conflict. He was slain by a knight named John Maupas, who paid for his valour with his
life. Bermingham obtained the Earldom of Louth and the manor of Ardee as a reward for Bruce's
head; and the unfortunate Irish were left to their usual state of chronic resistance to English
oppression. The head of the Scottish chieftain was "salted in a chest," and placed unexpectedly,
with other heads, at a banquet, before Edward II. The English King neither swooned nor expressed
surprise; but the Scotch ambassadors, who were present, rushed horror-stricken from the apartment.
The King, however, was "right blyth," and glad to be delivered so easily of a "felon foe."
John de Lacy and Sir Robert de Coulragh, who had assisted the said "felon," paid dearly for
their treason; and as they were Anglo-Normans, and subjects of the English crown, the term
was justly applied to them, however cruel the sentence. They were starved to death in prison,
"on three morsels of the worst bread, and three draughts of foul water on alternate days, until
life became extinct."

Since this chapter was written, Mr. O'Flanagan has kindly presented me with his valuable History
of Dundalk, from which I am permitted to make the following extracts, which throw much additional
light upon the subject:--[348]

"'In the ninth year of King Edward's reign,' writes Hollinshed, 'Edward Bruce, brother to Robert
Bruce, King of Scots, entered the north part of Ireland, with 6,000 men. There were with him
divers captains of high renown among the Scottish nation, of whom were these:--The Earls of
Murray and Monteith, the Lord John Stewart, the Lord John Campbell, the Lord Thomas Randolf,
Fergus of Ardrossan, John Wood, and John Bisset. They landed near to Cragfergus, in Ulster,
and joining with the Irish (a large force of whom was led out by Fellim, son of Hugh O'Conor).
Thus assisted, he conquered the Earldom of Ulster, and gave the English there divers great
overthrows, took the town of Dundalk, spoiled and burned it, with a great part of Orgiel. They
burned churches and abbeys, with the people whom they found in the same, sparing neither man,
woman, nor child. Then was the Lord Butler chosen Lord Justice, who made the Earl of Ulster
and the Geraldines friends, and reconciled himself with Sir John Mandeville, thus seeking to
preserve the residue of the realm which Edward Bruce meant wholly to conquer, having caused
himself to be crowned King of Ireland.'

"Dundalk was heretofore the stronghold of the English power, and the head-quarters of the army
for the defence of the Pale. At the north, as Barbour preserves in his metrical history of
Robert Bruce:

    "'At Kilsaggart Sir Edward lay,
    And wellsom he has heard say
    That at Dundalk was assembly
    Made of the lords of that country.'

"It was not, however, within this town that the ceremony of Bruce's coronation took place,
but, according to the best avouched tradition, on the hill of Knock-na-Melin, at half a mile's
distance.

"Connaught the while was torn with dissensions and family feuds, of which availing himself,
'the Lord Justice' (to resume the narrative of Hollinshed) 'assembled a great power out of
Munster and Leinster, and other parts thereabouts; and the Earl of Ulster, with another army,
came in unto him near unto Dundalk. There they consulted together how to deal in defending
the country against the enemies; but, hearing the Scots were withdrawn back, the Earl of Ulster
followed them, and, fighting with them at "Coiners," he lost the field. There were many slain
on both parts; and William de Burgh, the Earl's brother, Sir John Mandeville, and Sir Alan
FitzAlan were taken prisoners.' Bruce's adherents afterwards ravaged other parts of the Pale,
Meath, Kildare, &c., but met with much, resistance. At length 'Robert le Bruce, King of Scots,
came over himself, landed at Cragfergus, to the aid of his brother, whose soldiers most wickedly
entered into churches, spoiling and defacing the same of all such tombs, monuments, plate,
copes, and other ornaments which they found and might lay hands on.' Ultimately 'the Lord John
Bermingham, being general of the field, and having with him divers captains of worthy fame,
namely--Sir Richard Tuiyte, Sir Miles Verdon, Sir John Cusack, Sirs Edmund, and William, and
Walter Bermingham, the Primate of Armagh, Sir Walter de la Pulle, and John Maupas (with some
choice soldiers from Drogheda), led forth the King's power to the number of 1,324 able men,
against Edward Bruce, who had, with his adherents (the Lord Philip Moubray, the Lord Walter
Soulis, the Lord Allan Stuart, with three brothers, Sir Walter Lacy, Sir Robert and Aumar Lacy,
John Kermerelyn, Walter White, and about 3,000 others, writes Pembridge), encamped, not two
miles from Dundalk, with 3,000 men, there abiding the Englishmen to fight with them if they
came forward, which they did with all convenient speed, being as desirous to give battle as
the Scots were to receive it. The Primate of Armagh, personally accompanying the English power,
and blessing the enterprise, gave them such comfortable exhortation as he thought served the
time ere they began to encounter, and herewith buckling together, at length the Scots fully
and wholly were vanquished, and 2,000 of them slain, together with the Captain, Edward Bruce.
Maupas, that pressed into the throng to encounter with Bruce hand to hand, was found, in the
search, dead, aloft upon the slain body of Bruce. The victory thus obtained, upon St. Calixtus'
day, made an end of the Scottish kingdom in Ireland; and Lord Bermingham, sending the head
of Bruce into England, presented it to King Edward, who, in recompense, gave him and his heirs
male the Earldom of Louth, and the Baronies of Ardee and Athenry to him and his heirs general
for ever,' as hereafter noticed.

"'Edward Bruce,' say the Four Masters, 'a man who spoiled Ireland generally, both English and
Irish, was slain by the English, by force of battle and bravery, at Dundalk; and MacRory, Lord
of the Hebrides, MacDonell, Lord of the Eastern Gael (in Antrim), and many others of the Albanian
or Scottish chiefs were also slain; and no event occurred in Ireland for a long period from
which so much benefit was derived as that, for a general famine prevailed in the country during
the three years and a half he had been in it, and the people were almost reduced to the necessity
of eating each other.' Edward Bruce was, however, unquestionably a man of great spirit, ambition,
and bravery, but fiery, rash, and impetuous, wanting that rare combination of wisdom and valour
which so conspicuously marked the character of his illustrious brother.

"During the sojourn of Edward Bruce in this kingdom, he did much to retard the spread of English
rule. Having for allies many of the northern Irish, whose chieftain, O'Neill, invited him to
be King over the Gael in Ireland, and whose neighbourhood to the Scottish coast made them regard
his followers as their fellow-countrymen, he courted them on all occasions, and thus the Irish
customs of gossipred and fostering--preferring the Brehon laws to statute law, whether enacted
at Westminster or by the Parliaments of the Pale--destroyed all traces of the rule which the
English wished to impose upon the province of Ulster. Many of the English settlers--Hugh de
Lacy, John Lord Bissett, Sir Hugh Bissett, and others--openly took part with Bruce.

"The eastern shores of Ulster, Spenser informs us, previous to Bruce's arrival, bounded a well-inhabited
and prosperous English district, having therein the good towns of Knockfergus, Belfast, Armagh,
and Carlingford; but in process of time became 'outbounds and abandoned places in the English
Pale.' According to the metrical history of Barbour, Edward Bruce was by no means disposed
to continue a subject, while his brother reigned King; and, though Robert conferred his hereditary
Earldom of Carrick upon him, it by no means satisfied his ambitious projects:--

    "'The Erle of Carrick, Schyr Eduward,
    That stouter was than a libbard,
    And had na will to be in pess,
    Thoucht that Scotland to litill was
    Till his brother and hym alsua,
    Therefor to purpose he gav ta
    That he of Irland wold be king.'

"Shortly after his landing at Carrickfergus he proceeded towards the Pale. Dundalk, then the
principal garrison within the Pale, had all the Englishry of the country assembled in force
to defend it, when the Scots proceeded to the attack, 'with banners all displayit.' The English
sent out a reconnoitering party, who brought back the cheering news, the Scots would be but
'half a dinner' to them. This dinner, however, was never eaten. The town was stormed with such
vigour that the streets flowed with the blood of the defenders; and such as could escape fled
with the utmost precipitancy, leaving their foes profusion of victuals and great abundance
of wine. This assault took place 29th June, 1315. It was upon this success the Scots crowned
Edward Bruce King of Ireland, on the hill of Knocknamelan, near Dundalk, in the same simple
national manner in which his brother had been inaugurated at Scone.

"The new monarch, however, was not disposed to rest inactive, and his troops had many skirmishes
with Richard de Burgh, called the Red Earl of Ulster, who drove them as far as Coleraine. There
they were in great distress; and they would have suffered much from hunger and want, had not
a famous pirate, Thomas of Down, or Thomas Don, sailed up the Bann and set them free. De Burgh's
army were supplied with provisions from a distance; and one of Bruce's famous leaders, named
Randolph, Earl of Murray, who commanded the left wing at Bannockburn, having surprised the
convoy on its way to De Burgh's camp, equipped his men in the clothes of the escort, advanced
at dusk with his cavalry, and the banner of the English flaunting in the night wind. A large
party of De Burgh's force, perceiving, as they thought, the approach of the expected provisions,
advanced unguardedly to drive off the cattle, when they were vigorously assailed by the Scots,
shouting their war-cry, and they were chased back with the loss of a thousand slain. De Burgh's
army included all the chivalry of Ireland--that is, the English portion, viz.:--'The Butlers,
earls two, of Kildare and Desmond; Byrnhame (Bermingham), Widdan (Verdon), and FitzWaryne,
and Schyr Paschall off Florentyne, a Knight of Lombardy; with the Mandvillas, Bissetts, Logans,
Savages, and Schyr Nycholl off Kilkenave.' The Ulster Journal thinks this list of Barbour's
incorrect; certainly Sir Edmond Butler was not among them, nor probably either of the Geraldine
lords. Some lords of Munster, however, were present--Power, Baron of Donisle; Sir George Lord
Roche, and Sir Roger Hollywood, of county Meath.

"On the 10th September, A.D. 1315, De Burgh, being reinforced, marched to attack Bruce's position;
but the Scots, leaving their banners flying to deceive the Anglo-Irish, fell upon their flank
and gained the victory. This gave them Coleraine; and next day they bore off a great store
of corn, flour, wax, and wine, to Carrickfergus.

"This success gave to the Gael of the north an opportunity of declaring their exultation. Bruce,
whose royal authority was previously confined to his Scottish troops, was proclaimed King of
Ireland, and addressed as such.

"He then sent the Earl of Murray to Edinburgh, where the King of Scotland kept his court, entreating
him to join him in Ireland.

    "'For war thai both in to that land
    Thai suld find nane culd thaim withstand.'

"Robert gladly promised compliance, but was for some time prevented by the exigencies of his
own kingdom. Murray returned with a small reinforcement, but 500 men, and landed at Dundalk,
where Edward Bruce met him. This was in the December of 1315.

"In January, 1316, Edward Bruce led his forces into the county of Kildare, and was stoutly
opposed by the Lord Justiciary, or Viceroy, Sir Edward Butler, who, backed by the Geraldines,
under John Fitzgerald, first Earl of Kildare, bravely repulsed the invaders. They retreated
with the loss of Sir Walter Murray and Sir Fergus of Ardrossan, with seventy men, as Clyn records.
A new ally for the Palesmen arrived at this juncture--Mortimer, Lord of Meath, in right of
his wife, Joan de Joinville. He assembled a large force, and endeavoured to intercept the Scots
at Kells, but, on the eve of the onset, was deserted by the Lacys and others, who left him
almost defenceless. The season and scarcity made war against the Scots, and vast numbers perished
from hunger. Bruce was forced to retreat once more northward, where his chief adherents lay.
The citadel of Carrickfergus resisted the attacks of Bruce's army for a year. It was in this
town that (probably in September, 1316) Robert, King of Scotland, with a strong force, came
to his brother's help. Barbour gives the number who accompanied Robert at 5,000. This was enough
to make the Viceroy take heed for his government. He hasted, Barbour says:

    "'To Dewellyne, in full gret by,
    With othyr lordis that fled him by,
    And warnysit both castyls and towness
    That war in their possessionnys.'

"The stout defence of Dublin is already mentioned; and, as on the fate of this metropolis the
duration of English rule depended in Ireland, the public spirit and intrepidity of the citizens
of Dublin ought, according to Lord Hailes, be held in perpetual remembrance. The citizens took
the defence of the city into their own hands. The chief civic dignity was at that time most
worthily borne by Robert Nottingham, who seems to have distanced the celebrated Sir Richard
Whittington considerably, being seventeen times Mayor of Dublin. Knowing the close connexion
between the Earl of Ulster and the Bruces (he was father of the Queen of Scots), the Mayor
headed a strong band of citizens, and resolved to make him a hostage for the safety of the
city. This was not effected without loss of life. The Mayor succeeded, and announced 'he would
put the earl to death if the city was attacked.' This prompt step had the desired effect. Robert
Bruce feared to risk his father-in-law's life, and, instead of entering the city, turned aside
and encamped. Time was gained, of which the citizens promptly availed themselves. That night
the blazing suburbs told they were ready to anticipate the fire of Moscow, rather than allow
their invaders to possess their capital. They also worked so hard to strengthen the walls,
that the Scots, seeing such determination, broke up their camp and retired. The value set upon
the earl as a hostage was so great, that, although the King of England instantly wrote for
his liberation, he was detained until the Scots left the kingdom.

"Disappointed in their efforts on Dublin, the Scots ravaged the Pale, burned Naas, plundered
Castledermot, passed on to Gowran, and advanced to Callan; thence they went to Limerick. Sir
Edmond Butler followed with an army of 30,000 well-armed men; but, at the express desire of
Roger Mortimer, Earl of March, the Lord Deputy, who was himself desirous of having the command
against the King of Scots, delayed the encounter.

"Mortimer did not accomplish this; for, shortly after, Robert hastened to his own kingdom,
leaving a great number of his bravest knights to carry on the war for his brother. Edward continued
in the north for several months, and once more proceeded south.

    "'For he had not then in that land
      Of all men, I trow, two thousand,
      Owtane (except) the Kings of Irischery
      That in great route raid him by,
      Towart Dundalk he tuk the way.'

"When the Viceroy was aware of the advance of the Scots towards the Pale, he assembled a great
army, said to amount to '20,000 trappit horse,' and an equal number of foot.

"The approach of this immensely superior force did not dishearten the brother of the lion-hearted
King of Scotland. He declared he would fight were they sixfold more numerous.

"In vain his officers and allies counselled caution; in vain the Irish chiefs recommended him
to avoid a pitched battle, and harass the enemy by skirmishing. Edward indignantly bade them
'draw aside, and look on,' which Barbour declares they did. A very interesting account on the
battle on St. Callixtus' day is given in the Ulster Archæological Journal. The battle was on
Sunday, 14th October, 1318. According to Barbour, Edward Bruce had a presentiment of his death,
and would not use his usual coat-armour. The legend is, that having the idea the fall of King
Edward Bruce would decide the battle, Sir John Bermingham, leader of the Anglo-Irish army,
disguised himself as a friar, passed into the Scottish camp, and, being shown the king, who
was hearing Mass, craved alms, so as to induce Bruce to look up from his prayer-book. This
gave Bermingham the opportunity of marking well his face, in order to single him out in the
fray. The king ordered relief to be given to the importunate friar; but the eager glance of
the intrusive applicant so disquieted him--agitated, doubtless, from the idea of his small
force being about to engage at such desperate odds--that he presently caused the attendants
to look for the friar, but he was nowhere to be found. This caused him to array one Gib Harper
in his armour, and appoint Lord Alan Stewart general of the field. The fight commenced with
a rapid charge on the Scots by the Anglo-Irish under Bermingham. With him were divers lords
and a great army. The force was chiefly composed, however, of yeomanry, or, as an ancient record
says, 'the common people, with a powerful auxiliary dextram Dei.' Bermingham, believing Lord
Stewart was Bruce, singled him out, and, after a terrible combat, slew him, whereon the Scots
fled. According to the Howth Chronicle, few escaped, their loss being 1,230 men. Bruce's death
is generally ascribed to John Mapas, one of the Drogheda contingent. The Ulster Journal states:--'There
can be little doubt that the ancient Anglo-Irish family of "Mape," of Maperath, in the shire
of Meath, was descended from this distinguished slayer of Edward Bruce.' The heiress of John
Mapas, Esq., of Rochestown, county of Dublin, was married to the late Richard Wogan Talbot,
Esq., of Malahide. After the defeat at Dundalk, the small remnant of the Scottish invaders
yet alive fled northward, where they met a body of troops sent by King Robert as a reinforcement
to his brother. They could not make head against the victorious troops of Bermingham, so they
made their way to the coast, burning and destroying the country through which they passed."

FOOTNOTES:

[337] Crime.--We really must enter a protest against the way in which Irish history is written
by some English historians. In Wright's History of Ireland we find the following gratuitous
assertion offered to excuse De Clare's crime: "Such a refinement of cruelty must have arisen
from a suspicion of treachery, or from some other grievous offence with which we are not acquainted."
If all the dark deeds of history are to be accounted for in this way, we may bid farewell to
historical justice. And yet this work, which is written in the most prejudiced manner, has
had a far larger circulation in Ireland than Mr. Haverty's truthful and well-written history.
When Irishmen support such works, they must not blame their neighbours across the Channel for
accepting them as truthful histories.

[338] Shooting.--Four Masters, vol. iii. p. 435. These champions appear to have been very famous.
They are mentioned in the Annals of Ulster and in the Annals of Clonmacnois, with special commendations
for their skill. The following year O'Dowda was killed by Adam Cusack. It is hoped that he
is not the same person as "the Cusack" whom he had assisted just before.

[339] Horses.--As votaries of the turf maybe interested in knowing the appellations of equine
favourites in the thirteenth century, we subjoin a sample of their names: Lynst, Jourdan, Feraunt
de Trim, Blanchard de Londres, Connetable, Obin the Black, &c.

[340] Progress.--The following passage is taken from a work published a few years ago. It is
not a work of any importance, but it had some circulation in its day; and like many other works
then published, was calculated to do immense mischief, by quoting the false statements of Cambrensis
as authority, and by giving grotesque sketches of Irish character, which were equally untrue.
The writer says: "They [the Irish chieftains] opposed the introduction of English law, because
they had a direct interest in encouraging murder and theft." The fact was, as we have shown,
that the Irish did their best to obtain the benefit of English law; but the English nobles
who ruled Ireland would not permit it, unquestionably "because they had a direct interest encouraging
murder and theft."

[341] Calculating.--We derived the word from calculus, a white stone, the Romans having used
small white stones for arithmetical purposes. Probably they taught this custom to the aboriginal
English, whose descendants retained it long after.

[342] Notched.--Quite as primitive an arrangement as the quipus, and yet used in a condition
of society called civilized.

[343] Salary.--The value may be estimated by the current price of provisions: cows from 5s.
to 13s. 4d. each; heifers, 3s. 4d. to 5s.; sheep, 8d. to 1s.; ordinary horses, 13s. 4d. to
40s.; pigs, 1s. 6d. to 2s.; salmon, 6d. each; wheat, corn, and malt varied with the produce
of the season. Most of the details given above have been taken from Mr. Gilbert's Viceroys.

[344] Carbury.--Extensive ruins still mark the site.

[345] Oppression.--The original Latin is preserved by Fordun. Translations may be found in
the Abbé MacGeoghegan's History of Ireland, p. 323, and in Plowden's Historical Review. We
append one clause, in which these writers complain of the corruption of manners produced by
intercourse with the English settlers: "Quod sancta et columbina ejus simplicitas, ex eorum
cohabitatione et exemplo reprobo, in serpentinam calliditatem mirabiliter est mutata."

[346] Effect.--See Theiner, Vet. Man. Hiber. et Scot. p. 188, for the efforts made by the Holy
See to procure peace. The Pope's letter to Edward III. will be found at p. 206. It is dated
Avinione, iii. Kal. Junii, Pontificatus nostri anno secundo.

[347] Prisoners.--Gilbert's Viceroys, p. 138.

[348] Subject.--History of Dundalk, pp. 46-58.

CHAPTER XXII.

The Butlers--Quarrels of the Anglo-Norman Nobles--Treachery and its Consequences--The Burkes
proclaim themselves Irish--Opposition Parliaments--The Statute of Kilkenny and its Effects--Mistakes
of English Writers--Social Life in Ireland described by a French Knight--"Banishment" to Ireland--Richard
II. visits Ireland.

[A.D. 1326-1402.]

Richard de Burgo, the Red Earl, died in 1326. He took leave of the nobles after a magnificent
banquet at Kilkenny. When he had resigned his possessions to his grandson, William, he retired
into the Monastery of Athassel, where he expired soon after. In the same year Edward II. attempted
to take refuge in Ireland, from the vengeance of his people and his false Queen, the "she-wolf
of France." He failed in his attempt, and was murdered soon after--A.D. 1327.

The Butler family now appear prominently in Irish history for the first time. It would appear
from Carte[349] that the name was originally Walter, Butler being an addition distinctive of
office. The family was established in Ireland by Theobald Walter (Gaultier), an Anglo-Norman
of high rank, who received extensive grants of land from Henry II., together with the hereditary
office of "Pincerna," Boteler, or Butler, in Ireland, to the Kings of England. In this capacity
he and his successors were to attend these monarchs at their coronation, and present them,
with the first cup of wine. In return they obtained many privileges. On account of the quarrels
between this family and the De Burgos, De Berminghams, Le Poers, and the southern Geraldines,
royal letters were issued, commanding them, under pain of forfeiture, to desist from warring
on each other. The result was a meeting of the factious peers in Dublin, at which they engaged
to keep the "King's peace." On the following day they were entertained by the Earl of Ulster;
the next day, at St. Patrick's, by Maurice FitzThomas; and the third day by the Viceroy and
his fellow Knights Hospitallers, who had succeeded the Templars at Kilmainham. The Earldoms
of Ormonde[350] and Desmond were now created. The heads of these families long occupied an
important place in Irish affairs. Butler died on his return from a pilgrimage to Compostella,
and was succeeded by his eldest son, Jacques--"a liberal, friendly, pleasant, and stately youth"--who
was married this year to King Edward's cousin, Eleanor, daughter of the Earl of Essex. The
Desmond peerage was created in 1329, when the County Palatine[351] of Kerry was given to that
family.

The quarrels of these nobles seemed to have originated, or rather to have culminated, in an
insulting speech made by Poer to FitzGerald, whom he designated a "rhymer." The "King's peace"
did not last long; and in 1330 the Lord Justice was obliged to imprison both Desmond and Ulster,
that being the only method in which they could be "bound over to keep the peace." The following
year Sir Anthony de Lucy was sent to Ireland, as he had a reputation for summary justice. He
summoned a Parliament in Dublin; but as the barons did not condescend to attend, he adjourned
it to Kilkenny. This arrangement also failed to procure their presence. He seized Desmond,
who had been placed in the care of the Sheriff of Limerick, and conveyed him to Dublin Castle.
Several other nobles were arrested at the same time. Sir William Bermingham was confined with
his son in the Keep of Dublin Castle, which still bears his name. He was hanged there soon
after. De Lucy was recalled to England, probably in consequence of the indignation which was
excited by this execution.[352]

The years 1333 and 1334 were disgraced by fearful crimes, in which the English and Irish equally
participated. In the former year the Earl of Ulster seized Walter de Burgo, and starved him
to death in the Green Castle of Innishowen. The sister of the man thus cruelly murdered was
married to Sir Richard Mandeville, and she urged her husband to avenge her brother's death.
Mandeville took the opportunity of accompanying the Earl with some others to hear Mass at Carrickfergus,[353]
and killed him as he was fording a stream. The young Earl's death was avenged by his followers,
who slew 300 men. His wife, Maud, fled to England with her only child, a daughter, named Elizabeth,[354]
who was a year old. The Burkes of Connaught, who were the junior branch of the family, fearing
that she would soon marry again, and transfer the property to other hands, immediately seized
the Connaught estates, declared themselves independent of English law, and renounced the English
language and customs. They were too powerful to be resisted with impunity; and while the ancestor
of the Clanrickardes assumed the Irish title of Mac William Oughter, or the Upper, Edmund Burke,
the progenitor of the Viscounts of Mayo, took the appellation of Mac William Eighter, or the
Lower. This was not the last time when English settlers identified themselves, not merely from
policy, but even from inclination, with the race whom they had once hated and oppressed.

In 1334 the English and Irish marched into Munster to attack MacNamara, and added the guilt
of sacrilege to their other crimes, by burning a church, with 180 persons and two priests in
it, none of whom were permitted to escape. Another outrage was committed by the settlers, who
appear to have been quite as jealous of each others property as the Irish clans; for we find
that one Edmund Burke drowned another of the same name in Lough Mask, and, as usual a war ensued
between the partisans of each family. After a sanguinary struggle, Turlough O'Connor drove
the murderer out of the province. But this prince soon after ruined himself by his wickedness.
He married Burke's widow, and put away his own lawful wife; from which it may be concluded
that he had avenged the crime either from love of this woman, or from a desire to possess himself
of her husband's property. His immoral conduct alienated the other chieftains, and after three
years' war he was deposed.

Edward had thrown out some hints of an intended visit to Ireland, probably to conceal his real
purpose of marching to Scotland. Desmond was released on bail in 1333, after eighteen months'
durance, and repaired with some troops to assist the King at Halidon Hill. Soon after we find
him fighting in Kerry, while the Earl of Kildare was similarly occupied in Leinster. In 1339
twelve hundred Kerry men were slain in one battle. The Anglo-Norman, FitzNicholas, was among
the number of prisoners. He died in prison soon after. This gentleman, on one occasion, dashed
into the assize court at Tralee, and killed Dermod, the heir of the MacCarthy More, as he sat
with the judge on the bench. As MacCarthy was Irish, the crime was suffered to pass without
further notice.

In 1341 Edward took sweeping measures for a general reform of the Anglo-Norman lords, or, more
probably, he hoped, by threats of such measures, to obtain subsidies for his continental wars.
The colonists, however, were in possession, and rather too powerful to brook such interference.
Sir John Morris was sent over to carry the royal plans into execution; but though he took prompt
and efficient measures, the affair turned out a complete failure. The lords refused to attend
his Parliament, and summoned one of their own, in which they threw the blame of maladministration
on the English officials sent over from time to time to manage Irish affairs. They also protested
strongly against the new arrangement, which proposed that all the offices then held in Ireland
should be filled by Englishmen having no personal interest whatever in Ireland. The certainty
that they would have a personal interest in it the very moment there was a chance of bettering
their fortunes thereby, appears to have been quite overlooked. The settlers, therefore were
allowed to continue their career as before, and felt all the secure for their effectual resistance
of the royal interference.

In 1334 Sir Ralph Ufford, who had married Maud Plantagenet, the widow of the Earl of Ulster,
was appointed Justiciary of Ireland. He commenced with a high hand, and endeavoured especially
to humble the Desmonds. The Earl refused to attend the Parliament, and assembled one of his
own at Callan; but the new Viceroy marched into Leinster with an armed force, seized his lands,
farmed them out for the benefit of the crown, got possession of the strongholds of Castleisland
and Inniskisty in Kerry, and hanged Sir Eustace Poer, Sir William Grant, and Sir John Cottrell,
who commanded these places, on the charge of illegal exactions of coigne and livery.[355] The
Viceroy also contrived to get the Earl of Kildare into his power; and it is probable that his
harsh measures would have involved England in an open war with her colony and its English settlers,
had not his sudden death put an end to his summary exercise of justice.

It is said that his wife, Maud, who could scarcely forget the murder of her first husband,
urged him on to many of these violent acts; and it was remarked, that though she had maintained
a queenly state on her first arrival in Ireland, she was obliged to steal away from that country,
with Ufford's remains enclosed in a leaden coffin, in which her treasure was concealed. Her
second husband was buried near her first, in the Convent of Poor Clares, at Camposey, near
Ufford, in Suffolk.

The Black Death broke out in Ireland in the year 1348. The annalists give fearful accounts
of this visitation. It appeared in Dublin first, and so fatal were its effects, that four thousand
souls are said to have perished there from August to Christmas. It was remarked that this pestilence
attacked the English specially, while the "Irish-born"--particularly those who lived in the
mountainous parts of the country--escaped its ravages. We have already mentioned the account
of this calamity given by Friar Clynn, who fell a victim to the plague himself, soon after
he had recorded his mournful forebodings. Several other pestilences, more or less severe, visited
the country at intervals during the next few years.

Lionel, the third son of Edward III., who, it will be remembered, was Earl of Ulster in right
of his wife, Isabella, was now appointed Viceroy. He landed in Dublin, on the 15th September,
1360, with an army of one thousand men. From the first moment of his arrival he exercised the
most bitter hostility to the Irish, and enhanced the invidious distinction between the English
by birth and the English by descent. Long before his arrival, the "mere Irishman" was excluded
from the offices of mayor, bailiff, or officer in any town within the English dominions, as
well as from all ecclesiastical promotion. Lionel carried matters still further, for he forbid
any "Irish by birth to come near his army." But he soon found that he could not do without
soldiers, even should they have the misfortune to be Irish; and as a hundred of his best men
were killed soon after this insulting proclamation, he was graciously pleased to allow all
the King's subjects to assist him in his war against the enemy. He soon found it advisable
to make friends with the colonists, and obtained the very substantial offering of two years'
revenue of their lands, as a return for his condescension.

In 1367 the Viceroy returned to England, but he was twice again intrusted with office in Ireland.
During the last period of his administration, he held the memorable Parliament at Kilkenny,
wherein the famous "Statute of Kilkenny" was enacted. This statute is another proof of the
fatal policy pursued towards the Irish, and of the almost judicial blindness which appears
to have prevented the framers of it, and the rulers of that unfortunate nation, from perceiving
the folly or the wickedness of such enactments.

It was a continuance of the old policy. The natives of the country were to be trampled down,
if they could not be trampled out; the English and Irish were to be kept for ever separate,
and for ever at variance. How, then, could the Irish heart ever beat loyally towards the English
sovereign? How could the Irish people ever become an integral portion of the British Empire?
Pardon me for directing your attention specially to this statute. It will explain to you that
the Irish were not allowed to be loyal; it will excuse them if they have sometimes resented
such cruel oppressions by equally cruel massacres and burnings--if they still remembered these
wrongs with that statute before them, and the unfortunate fact that its enactments were virtually
continued for centuries.

This statute enacts (1) that any alliance with the Irish by marriage, nurture of infants, or
gossipred [standing sponsors], should be punishable as high treason; (2) that any man of English
race taking an Irish name, or using the Irish language, apparel, or customs, should forfeit
all his lands; (3) that to adopt or submit to the Brehon law was treason; (4) that the English
should not make war upon the natives without the permission of Government; (5) that the English
should not permit the Irish to pasture or graze upon their lands, nor admit them to any ecclesiastical
benefices or religious houses, nor entertain their minstrels or rhymers. (6) It was also forbidden
to impose or cess any soldiers upon the English subjects against their will, under pain of
felony; and some regulations were made to restrain the abuse of sanctuary, and to prevent the
great lords from laying heavy burdens upon gentlemen and freeholders.

I shall ask you to consider these statutes carefully; to remember that they were compiled under
the direction of a crown prince, and confirmed by the men who had the entire government of
Ireland in their hands. The first was an open and gross insult to the natives, who were treated
as too utterly beneath their English rulers to admit of their entering into social relations
with them. The settlers who had lived some time in the country, were ascertaining every day
that its inhabitants were not savages, and that they considered the ties of honour which bound
them to those whom they "fostered," or for whom they stood sponsors, as of the most sacred
description. Their own safety and interests, if not common feelings of humanity and affection,
led them to form these connexions, which were now so ruthlessly denounced. But it led them
also to treat the Irish with more respect, and placed them on some sort of social equality
with themselves; and this was clearly a crime in the eyes of those who governed the country.
The second clause had a similar object, and insulted the deepest feelings of the Celt, by condemning
his language, which he loved almost as his life, and his customs, which had been handed down
to him by an ancestry which the Anglo-Norman nobles might themselves have envied. The third
enactment was an outrage upon common justice. It has been already shown that the Irish were
refused the benefit of the English law; you will now see that their own law was forbidden.
Some of these laws are at present open to public inspection, and show that the compilers, who
wrote immediately after the introduction of Christianity into Ireland, and the original lawgivers,
who existed many centuries before the Christian era, were by no means deficient in forensic
abilities. Whatever feuds the Irish may have had between their clans, there is every reason
to believe that justice was impartially administered long before the English settlement. That
it was not so administered after that settlement, the preceding history, nay, even the very
subject under discussion, sufficiently proves.

The fourth clause might have been beneficial to the Irish, if it had been strictly observed.
The other enactments were observed; but this, which required the consent of the Government
to make war on the natives, was allowed to remain a dead letter. In any case, the Government
would seldom have refused any permission which might help to lessen the number of the "Irish
enemy."

The last enactments, or series of enactments, were simply barbarous. The Irish were an agricultural
nation; therefore they were not permitted to be agriculturists. Their wealth consisted solely
in their flocks; therefore every obstacle should be placed to their increase. So much for the
poor. The higher classes had formerly some hope of advancement if they chose to enter the English
service in the army; to do so now they must renounce their Irish name, their language, and
their customs. They might also have chosen the ecclesiastical state; from this now they are
completely barred.

Most fatal, most unjust policy! Had it been devised for the express purpose of imbittering
the feelings of the Irish Celt eternally against the Saxon ruler, it could not have succeeded
more effectually. The laws of Draco were figuratively said to have been written in blood: how
many bloody deeds, at which men have stood aghast in horror and dismay, were virtually enacted
by the Statute of Kilkenny? The country-loving, generous-hearted Celt, who heard it read for
the first time, must have been more or less than human, if he did not utter "curses, not loud,
but deep," against the framers of such inhuman decrees. If Englishmen studied the history of
Ireland carefully, and the character of the Celtic race, they would be less surprised at Irish
discontent and disloyalty. An English writer on Irish history admits, that while "there is
no room to doubt the wisdom of the policy which sought to prevent the English baron from sinking
into the unenviable state of the persecuted Irish chieftain, still less is there an apology
to be offered for the iniquity of the attempt to shut the great mass of the Irish people out
from the pale of law, civilization, and religion. The cruelty of conquest never broached a
principle more criminal, unsound, or unsuccessful."[356] It is to be regretted that a more
recent and really liberal writer should have attempted this apology, which his own countryman
and namesake pronounced impossible. The author to whom we allude grants "it sounds shocking
that the killing of an Irishman by an Englishman should have been no felony;" but he excuses
it by stating, "nothing more is implied than that the Irish were not under English jurisdiction,
but under the native or Brehon law."[357] Unfortunately this assertion is purely gratuitous.
It was made treason by this very same statute even to submit to the Brehon law; and the writer
himself states that, in the reign of Edward I., "a large body of the Irish petitioned for the
English law, and offered 8,000 marks as a fee for that favour."[358] He states that an Irishman
who murdered an Englishman, would only have been fined by his Brehon. True, no doubt; but if
an Englishman killed an Irishman, he escaped scot-free. If, however, the Irishman was captured
by the Englishman, he was executed according to the English law. If a regulation had been made
that the Englishman should always be punished for his crimes by English law, and the Irishman
by Irish law,[359] and if this arrangement had been carried out with even moderate impartiality,
it would have been a fair adjustment, however anomalous.

A little episode of domestic life, narrated by Froissart, is a sufficient proof that the social
state of the Irish was neither so wild nor so barbarous as many have supposed; and that even
a Frenchman might become so attached to the country as to leave it with regret, though, at
the same time, it was not a little difficult to find an English Viceroy who would face the
political complications which the Statute of Kilkenny had made more troublesome than ever.
Froissart's account runs thus: He was waiting in the royal chamber at Eltham one Sunday, to
present his treatise "On Loves" to Henry II.; and he takes care to tell us that the King had
every reason to be pleased with the present, for it was "handsomely written and illuminated,"
bound in crimson velvet, decorated with ten silver-gilt studs, and roses of the same. While
he was awaiting his audience, he gossiped with Henry Crystède, whom he describes as a very
agreeable, prudent, and well-educated gentleman, who spoke French well, and had for his arms
a chevron gules on a field argent, with three besants gules, two above the chevron, and one below.

Crystède gave him a sketch of his adventures in Ireland, which we can but condense from the
quaint and amusing original. He had been in the service of the Earl of Ormonde, who kept him
out of affection for his good horsemanship. On one occasion he was attending the Earl, mounted
on one of his best horses, at a "border foray" on the unfortunate Irish, with whom he kept
up constant warfare. In the pursuit his horse took fright, and ran away into the midst of the
enemy, one of whom, by a wonderful feat of agility, sprang up behind him, and bore him off
to his own house. He calls the gentleman who effected the capture "Brian Costeree," and says
he was a very handsome man, and that he lived in a strong house in a well barricaded city.

Crystède remained here for seven years, and married one of the daughters of his host, by whom
he had two children. At the end of this period his father-in-law was taken prisoner in an engagement
with the Duke of Clarence, and Crystède's horse, which he rode, was recognized. Evidently the
knight must have been a person of some distinction, for he states that the Duke of Clarence
and the English officers were so well pleased to hear of the "honorable entertainment" he had
received from "Brian Costeree," that they at once proposed to set him at liberty, on condition
that he should send Crystède to the army with his wife and children. At first "he refused the
offer, from his love to me, his daughter, and our children." Eventually the exchange was made.
Crystède settled at Bristol. His two daughters were then married. One was settled in Ireland.
He concluded the family history by stating that the Irish language was as familiar to him as
English, for he always spoke it to his wife, and tried to introduce it, "as much as possible,"
among his children.

On the retirement of the Duke of Clarence, in 1367, the Viceroyalty was accepted by Gerald,
fourth Earl of Desmond, styled "the poet." He was one of the most learned men of the day, and
thereby, as usual, obtained the reputation of practising magic. Yet this refined and educated
nobleman wished to have his son fostered in an Irish family, and, despite the Statute of Kilkenny,
obtained a special permission to that effect--another evidence that social life among the natives
could not have been quite what the malice of Cambrensis, and others who wrote from hearsay
reports, and not from personal knowledge, have represented it.

Sir Richard Pembridge refused the office of Viceroy in 1369. He was stripped of all his lands
and offices held under the crown, as a punishment for his contumacy, but this appears to have
had no effect upon his determination. It was decided legally, however, that the King could
neither fine nor imprison him for this refusal, since no man could be condemned to go into
exile. High prices were now offered to induce men to bear this intolerable punishment. Sir
William de Windsor asked something over £11,000 per annum for his services, which Sir John
Davis states exceeded the whole revenue of Ireland. The salary of a Lord Justice before this
period was £500 per annum, and he was obliged to support a small standing army. The truth was,
that the government of Ireland had become every day more difficult, and less lucrative. The
natives were already despoiled of nearly all their possessions, and the settlement of the feuds
of the Anglo-Norman nobles was neither a pleasant nor a profitable employment. In addition
to this, Edward was levying immense subsidies in Ireland, to support his wars in France and
Scotland. At last the clergy were obliged to interfere. The Archbishop of Cashel opposed these
unreasonable demands, and solemnly excommunicated the King's collector, and all persons employed
in raising the obnoxious taxes.

Richard II. succeeded his grandfather, A.D. 1377. As he was only in his eleventh year, the
government was carried on by his uncles. The Earl of March was sent to Ireland as Justiciary,
with extraordinary powers. He had married Philippa, daughter of Lionel, Duke of Clarence, by
his first wife, and in her right became Earl of Ulster. One of the Irish princes who came to
his court, was treacherously arrested and thrown into prison. The injustice was resented, or,
perhaps, we should rather say, feared, by the English nobles as well as the Irish chieftains,
who took care to keep out of the way of such adventures, by absenting themselves from the Viceregal
hospitalities. Roger Mortimer succeeded his father, and was followed by Philip de Courtenay,
the King's cousin. He was granted the office for ten years, but, in the interval, was taken
into custody by the Council of Regency, for his peculations.

There was war in Connaught between the O'Connors, in 1384, and fierce hostility continued for
years after between the families of the O'Connor Don (Brown) and the O'Connor Roe (Red). Richard
II. had his favourites as usual; and in a moment of wild folly he bestowed the sovereignty
of Ireland on the Earl of Oxford, whom he also created Marquis of Dublin. His royal master
accompanied him as far as Wales, and then, determining to keep the Earl near his person, despatched
Sir John Sydney to the troublesome colony.

A royal visit was arranged and accomplished soon after; and on the 2nd October, A.D. 1394,
Richard II. landed on the Irish shores. The country was in its normal state of partial insurrection
and general discontent; but no attempt was made to remove the chronic cause of all this unnecessary
misery. There was some show of submission from the Irish chieftains, who were overawed by the
immense force which attended the King. Art MacMurrough, the heir of the ancient Leinster kings,
was the most formidable of the native nobles; and from his prowess and success in several engagements,
was somewhat feared by the invaders. He refused to defer to any one but Richard, and was only
prevailed on to make terms when he found himself suddenly immured in Dublin Castle, during
a friendly visit to the court.

The King's account of his reception shows that he had formed a tolerably just opinion of the
political state of the country. He mentions in a letter from Dublin, that the people might
be divided into three classes--the "wild Irish, or enemies," the Irish rebels, and the English
subjects; and he had just discernment enough to see that the "rebels had been made such by
wrongs, and by want of close attention to their grievances," though he had not the judgment
or the justice to apply the necessary remedy. His next exploit was to persuade the principal
Irish kings to receive knighthood in the English fashion. They submitted with the worst possible
grace, having again and again repeated that they had already received the honour according
to the custom of their own country. The dealings of the Anglo-Norman knights, with whom they
already had intercourse, were not likely to have inspired them with very sublime ideas of the
dignity. They might, indeed, have been chevaliers sans peur, but the latter part of the flattering
appellation could not be applied.

The customs of the Irish nobles were again made a subject of ridicule, as they had been during
the visit of Prince John; though one should have supposed that an increased knowledge of the
world should have led to a wiser policy, if not to an avoidance of that ignorant criticism,
which at once denounces everything foreign as inferior.[360] Richard returned to England in
1395, after nine months of vain display. He appointed Roger Mortimer his Viceroy. Scarcely
had the King and his fleet sailed from the Irish shores, when the real nature of the proffered
allegiance of seventy-two kings and chieftains became apparent. The O'Byrnes rose up in Wicklow,
and were defeated by the Viceroy and the Earl of Ormonde; the MacCarthys rose up in Munster,
and balanced affairs by gaining a victory over the English. The Earl of Kildare was captured
by Calvagh O'Connor, of Offaly, in 1398; and, in the same year, the O'Briens and O'Tooles avenged
their late defeat, by a great victory, at Kenlis, in Ossory.

In 1399 King Richard paid another visit to Ireland. His exactions and oppressions had made
him very unpopular in England, and it is probable that this expedition was planned to divert
the minds of his subjects. If this was his object, it failed signally; for the unfortunate
monarch was deposed by Parliament the same year, and was obliged to perform the act of abdication
with the best grace he could. His unhappy end belongs to English history. Richard again landed
in state at Waterford, and soon after marched against the indomitable MacMurrough. His main
object, indeed, appears to have been the subjugation of this "rebel," who contrived to keep
the English settlers in continual alarm. A French chronicler again attended the court, and
narrated its proceedings. He describes MacMurrough's stronghold in the woods, and says that
they did not seem much appalled at the sight of the English army. A special notice is given
of the chieftain's horse, which was worth 400 cows.[361] The chieftain's uncle and some others
had made an abject submission to the English monarch, who naturally hoped that MacMurrough
would follow their example. He, therefore, despatched an embassy to him, to repair the "wrongs"
which he had inflicted on the settlers, for which he demanded reparation. The Leinster king,
however, could neither be frightened nor persuaded into seeing matters in that light, and,
probably, thought the term rebel would be more appropriately applied to those who resisted
the native rulers of the country. He declared that for all the gold in the world he would not
submit.

Richard's army was on the verge of starvation, so he was obliged to break up his camp, and
march to Dublin. Upon his arrival there, MacMurrough made overtures for peace, which were gladly
accepted, and the Earl of Gloucester proceeded at once to arrange terms with him. But no reconciliation
could be effected, as both parties refused to yield. When Richard heard the result, "he flew
into a violent passion, and swore by St. Edward he would not leave Ireland until he had MacMurrough
in his hands, dead or alive." How little he imagined, when uttering the mighty boast, that
his own fate was even then sealed! Had he but the grace to have conciliated instead of threatened,
a brave and loyal band of Irish chieftains would soon have surrounded him, and the next chapter
of English history would have been less tragic. Disastrous accounts soon reached him from England,
which at once annihilated his schemes of Irish conquest or revenge. His own people were up
in arms, and the prescriptive right to grumble, which an Englishman is supposed to enjoy par
excellence, had broken out into overt acts of violence. War was inaugurated between York and
Lancaster, and for years England was deluged with blood.

FOOTNOTES:

[349] Carte.--See his Life of the Duke of Ormonde, folio edition, p. 7.

[350] Ormonde.--The name Ormonde is intended to represent the Irish appellative Ur-Mhumhain,
or Eastern Munster. This part of the country was the inheritance of Cairbré Musc.

[351] Palatine.--The Lords-Palatine were endowed with extraordinary power, and were able to
exercise a most oppressive tyranny over the people under their government.

[352] Execution.--Bermingham was related to De Lucy, which perhaps induced him to deal more
harshly with him. De Lucy's Viceroyalty might otherwise have been popular, as he had won the
affections of the people by assisting them during a grievous famine. See page 329 for an illustration
of the scene of this tragedy.

[353] Carrickfergus.--See illustration at the commencement of this chapter.

[354] Elizabeth.--This lady was married to Lionel, third son of Edward III., in 1352. This
prince was created in her right Earl of Ulster. The title and estates remained in possession
of different members of the royal family, until they became the special inheritance of the
crown in the reign of Edward IV.

[355] Coigne and livery.--This was an exaction of money, food, and entertainment for the soldiers,
and fodder for their horses. A tax of a similar kind existed among the ancient Irish; but it
was part of the ordinary tribute paid to the chief, and therefore was not considered an exaction.

[356] Unsuccessful.--Ireland, Historical and Statistical, vol. i. p. 200.

[357] Law.--Irish History and Irish Character, p. 69.

[358] Favour.--Ibid. p. 70.

[359] Irish law.--A considerable amount of testimony might be produced to prove that the Irish
were and are peculiarly a law-loving people; but, in the words of the writer above-quoted,
"a people cannot be expected to love and reverence oppression, because it is consigned to a
statute-book, and called law."--p. 71. The truth is, that it was and is obviously the interest
of English writers to induce themselves to believe that Irish discontent and rebellion were
caused by anything or everything but English oppression and injustice. Even in the present
day the Irish are supposed to be naturally discontented and rebellious, because they cannot
submit silently to be expelled from their farms without any compensation or any other means
of support, either from political or religious motives, and because they object to maintain
a religion contrary to their conscience, and which is admitted by its own members to be "clearly
a political evil." See concluding remarks in Mr. Goldwin Smith's interesting little volume.

[360] Inferior.--While these sheets were passing through the press, we chanced to meet the
following paragraph in an English paper. The article was headed "International Courtesy," apropos
of the affair at Dinan:--"Prince John pulling the beards of the Irish chiefs is the aggravated
type of a race which alienated half a continent by treating its people as colonial, and which
gave India every benefit but civility, till Bengal showed that it was strong, and Bombay that
it could be rich," And yet it would be quite as unjust to accuse a whole nation of habitual
insolence to foreigners and dependents, as to blame every Englishman, in the reigns of John
or Richard, for the insults offered to the Irish nation.

[361]

Cows.--"Un cheval ot sans sele ne arcon, Qui lui avint consté, ce disoit-on,  Quatre cens vaches,
tant estoil bel et bon."

CHAPTER XXIII.

Henry IV.--A Viceroy's Difficulties--The Houses of York and Lancaster--The Colony almost Bankrupt--Literary
Ladies in Ireland--A Congress of Literati--The Duke of York is made Viceroy--Affection of the
Irish for him--Popularity of the Yorkists in Ireland--A Book given for a Ransom--Desolating
Effects of the Wars of the Roses--Accession of Henry VII.--Insurrection of the Yorkists--Simnel
is crowned in Dublin--Warbeck's Insurrection--Poyning's Parliament--Poyning's Law and its Effects--The
Earl of Kildare accused of Treason--His Defence and Pardon--His Quickwitted Speeches--He is
acquitted honorably--His Letter to the Gherardini--Ariosto.

[A.D. 1402-1509.]

A scion of royalty was again sent to administer law--we cannot say truthfully to administer
justice--in Ireland. On the accession of Henry IV., his second son, Thomas, Duke of Lancaster,
was made Viceroy, and landed at Bullock, near Dalkey, on Sunday, November 13, 1402. As the
youth was but twelve years of age, a Council was appointed to assist him. Soon after his arrival,
the said Council despatched a piteous document from "Le Naas," in which they represent themselves
and their youthful ruler as on the very verge of starvation, in consequence of not having received
remittances from England. In conclusion, they gently allude to the possibility--of course carefully
deprecated--of "peril and disaster" befalling their lord, if further delay should be permitted.
The King, however, was not in a position to tax his English subjects; and we find the prince
himself writing to his royal father on the same matter, at the close of the year 1402. He mentions
also that he had entertained the knights and squires with such cheer as could be procured under
the circumstances, and adds: "I, by the advice of my Council, rode against the Irish, your
enemies, and did my utmost to harass them."[362] Probably, had he shared the cheer with "the
Irish his enemies," or even showed them some little kindness, he would not have been long placed
in so unpleasant a position for want of supplies.

John Duke, the then Mayor of Dublin, obtained the privilege of having the sword borne before
the chief magistrate of that city, as a reward for his services in routing the O'Byrnes of
Wicklow. About the same time John Dowdall, Sheriff of Louth, was murdered in Dublin, by Sir
Bartholomew Vernon and three other English gentlemen, who were outlawed for this and other
crimes, but soon after received the royal pardon. In 1404 the English were defeated in Leix.
In 1405 Art MacMurrough committed depredations at Wexford and elsewhere, and in 1406 the settlers
suffered a severe reverse in Meath.

Sir Stephen Scroope had been appointed Deputy for the royal Viceroy, and he led an army against
MacMurrough, who was defeated after a gallant resistance. Teigue O'Carroll was killed in another
engagement soon after. This prince was celebrated for learning, and is styled in the Annals[363]
"general patron of the literati of Ireland." A few years before his death he made a pilgrimage
to Rome, and was honorably received on his return by Richard II., at Westminster. In 1412 the
O'Neills desolated Ulster with their feuds, and about the same time the English merchants of
Dublin and Drogheda armed to defend themselves against the Scotch merchants, who had committed
several acts of piracy. Henry V. succeeded his father in 1413, and appointed Sir John Stanley
Lord Deputy. He signalized himself by his exactions and cruelties, and, according to the Irish
account, was "rhymed to death" by the poet Niall O'Higgin, of Usnagh, whom he had plundered
in a foray. Sir John Talbot was the next Governor. He inaugurated his career by such martial
exploits against the enemy, as to win golden opinions from the inhabitants of "the Pale." Probably
the news of his success induced his royal master to recall him to England, that he might have
his assistance in his French wars.

His departure was a general signal for "the enemy" to enact reprisals. O'Connor despoiled the
Pale, and the invincible Art MacMurrough performed his last military exploit at Wexford (A.D.
1416), where he took 340 prisoners in one day. He died the following year, and Ireland lost
one of the bravest and best of her sons. The Annals describe him as "a man who had defended
his own province, against the English and Irish, from his sixteenth to his sixtieth year; a
man full of hospitality, knowledge, and chivalry." It is said that he was poisoned by a woman
at New Ross, but no motive is mentioned for the crime. His son, Donough, who has an equal reputation
for valour, was made prisoner two years after by the Lord Deputy, and imprisoned in the Tower
of London. O'Connor of Offaly, another chieftain who had also distinguished himself against
the English, died about this time. He had entered the Franciscan Monastery of Killeigh a month
before his death.

The Irish of English descent were made to feel their position painfully at the close of this
reign, and this might have led the new settlers to reflect, if capable of reflection, that
their descendants would soon find themselves in a similar condition. The commons presented
a petition complaining of the extortions and injustices practised by the Deputies, some of
whom had left enormous debts unpaid. They also represented the injustice of excluding Irish
law students from the Inns of Court in London. A few years previous (A.D. 1417), the settlers
had presented a petition to Parliament, praying that no Irishman should be admitted to any
office or benefice in the Church, and that no bishop should be permitted to bring an Irish
servant with him when he came to attend Parliament or Council. This petition was granted; and
soon after an attempt was made to prosecute the Archbishop of Cashel, who had presumed to disregard
some of its enactments.

Henry VI. succeeded to the English throne while still a mere infant, and, as usual, the "Irish
question" was found to be one of the greatest difficulties of the new administration. The O'Neills
had been carrying on a domestic feud in Ulster; but they had just united to attack the English,
when Edward Mortimer, Earl of March, assumed the government of Ireland (A.D. 1425). He died
of the plague the following year; but his successor in office, Lord Furnival, contrived to
capture a number of the northern chieftains, who were negotiating peace with Mortimer at the
very time of his death. Owen O'Neill was ransomed, but the indignation excited by this act
served only to arouse angry feelings; and the northerns united against their enemies, and soon
recovered any territory they had lost.

Donough MacMurrough was released from the Tower in 1428, after nine years' captivity. It is
said the Leinster men paid a heavy ransom for him. The young prince's compulsory residence
in England did not lessen his disaffection, for he made war on the settlers as soon as he returned
to his paternal dominions. The great family feud between the houses of York and Lancaster,
had but little effect on the state of Ireland. Different members of the two great factions
had held the office of Lord Justice in that country, but, with one exception, they did not
obtain any personal influence there. Indeed, the Viceroy of those days, whether an honest man
or a knave, was sure to be unpopular with some party.

The Yorkists and Lancastrians were descended directly from Edward III. The first Duke of York
was Edward's fifth son, Edmund Plantagenet; the first Duke of Lancaster was John of Gaunt,
the fourth son of the same monarch. Richard II. succeeded his grandfather, Edward III., as
the son of Edward the Black Prince, so famed in English chivalry. His arrogance and extravagance
soon made him unpopular; and, during his absence in Ireland, the Duke of Lancaster, whom he
had banished, and treated most unjustly, returned to England, and inaugurated the fatal quarrel.
The King was obliged to return immediately, and committed the government of the country to
his cousin, Roger de Mortimer, who was next in succession to the English crown, in right of
his mother, Philippa, the only child of the Duke of Clarence, third son of Edward III. The
death of this nobleman opened the way for the intrusion of the Lancastrians, the Duke of Lancaster
having obtained the crown during the lifetime of Richard, to the exclusion of the rightful
heir-apparent, Edmund, Earl of March, son to the late Viceroy.

The feuds of the Earl of Ormonde and the Talbots in Ireland, proved nearly as great a calamity
to that nation as the disputes about the English succession. A Parliament was held in Dublin
in 1441, in which Richard Talbot, the English Archbishop of Dublin. proceeded to lay various
requests before the King, the great object of which was the overthrow of the Earl, who, by
the intermarrying of his kinsmen with the Irish, possessed great influence among the native
septs contiguous to his own territory. The petitioners pray that the government may be committed
to some "mighty English lord," and they moderately request that the said "mighty lord" may
be permitted to create temporal peers. They hint at the Earl's age as an objection to his administration
of justice, and assert that "the Lieutenant should be a mighty, courageous, and laborious man,
to keep the field and make resistance against the enemy." But the great crime alleged against
him, is that "he hath ordained and made Irishmen, and grooms and pages of his household, knights
of the shire." These representations, however, had but little weight in the quarter to which
they were addressed, for Ormonde was a stout Lancastrian; and if he had sinned more than his
predecessors, his guilt was covered by the ample cloak of royal partiality. However, some appearance
of justice was observed. Sir Giles Thornton was sent over to Ireland to make a report, which
was so very general that it charged no one in particular, but simply intimated that there was
no justice to be had for any party, and that discord and division prevailed amongst all the
King's officers. The system of appointing deputies for different offices was very properly
condemned; and the rather startling announcement made, that the annual expenses of the Viceroy
and his officers exceeded all the revenues of Ireland for that year by £4,456. In fact, it
could not be otherwise; for every official, lay and ecclesiastical, English and Anglo-Irish,
appear to have combined in one vast system of peculation, and, when it was possible, of wholesale
robbery. Even the loyal burghers of Limerick, Cork, and Galway had refused to pay their debts
to the crown, and the representatives of royalty were not in a position to enforce payment.
The Talbot party seems to have shared the blame quite equally with the Ormondes, and the churchmen
in power were just as rapacious as the seculars. After having ruined the "mere Irish," the
plunderers themselves were on the verge of ruin; and the Privy Council declared that unless
an immediate remedy was applied, the law courts should be closed, and the royal castles abandoned.
Further complaints were made in 1444; and Robert Maxwell, a groom of the royal chamber, was
despatched to Ireland with a summons to Ormonde, commanding him to appear before the King and
Council.

The Earl at once collected his followers and adherents in Drogheda, where they declared, in
the presence of the King's messenger, as in duty bound, that their lord had never been guilty
of the treasons and extortions with which he was charged, and that they were all thankful for
"his good and gracious government:" furthermore, they hint that he had expended his means in
defending the King's possessions. However, the Earl was obliged to clear himself personally
of these charges in London, where he was acquitted with honour by his royal master.[364]

His enemy, Sir John Talbot, known better in English history as the Earl of Shrewsbury, succeeded
him, in 1446. This nobleman had been justly famous for his valour in the wars with France,
and it is said that even mothers frightened their children with his name. His success in Ireland
was not at all commensurate with his fame in foreign warfare, for he only succeeded so far
with the native princes as to compel O'Connor Faly to make peace with the English Government,
to ransom his sons, and to supply some beeves for the King's kitchen. Talbot held a Parliament
at Trim, in which, for the first time, an enactment was made about personal appearance, which
widened the fatal breach still more between England and Ireland. This law declared that every
man who did not shave[365] his upper lip, should be treated as an "Irish enemy;" and the said
shaving was to be performed once, at least, in every two weeks.

In the year 1447 Ireland was desolated by a fearful plague, in which seven hundred priests
are said to have fallen victims, probably from their devoted attendance on the sufferers. In
the same year Felim O'Reilly was taken prisoner treacherously by the Lord Deputy; and Finola,
the daughter of Calvagh O'Connor Faly, and wife of Hugh Boy O'Neill, "the most beautiful and
stately, the most renowned and illustrious woman of all her time in Ireland, her own mother
only excepted, retired from this transitory world, to prepare for eternal life, and assumed
the yoke of piety and devotion in the Monastery of Cill-Achaidh."

This lady's mother, Margaret O'Connor, was the daughter of O'Carroll, King of Ely, and well
deserved the commendation bestowed on her. She was the great patroness of the literati of Ireland,
whom she entertained at two memorable feasts. The first festival was held at Killeigh, in the
King's county, on the Feast-day of Da Sinchell (St. Seanchan, March 26). All the chiefs, brehons,
and bards of Ireland and Scotland were invited, and 2,700 guests are said to have answered
the summons. The Lady Margaret received them clothed in cloth of gold, and seated in queenly
state. She opened the "congress" by presenting two massive chalices of gold on the high altar
of the church--an act of duty towards God; and then took two orphan children to rear and nurse--an
act of charity to her neighbour. Her noble husband, who had already distinguished himself in
the field on many occasions, remained on his charger outside the church, to welcome his visitors
as they arrived. The second entertainment was given on the Feast of the Assumption, in the
same year, and was intended to include all who had not been able to accept the first invitation.
The chronicler concludes his account with a blessing on Lady Margaret, and a curse on the disease
which deprived the world of so noble an example: "God's blessing, the blessing of all the saints,
and every blessing, be upon her going to heaven; and blessed be he that will hear and read
this, for blessing her soul."[366] It is recorded of her also, that she was indefatigable in
building churches, erecting bridges, preparing highways, and providing mass-books. It is a
bright picture on a dark page; and though there may not have been many ladies so liberal or
so devoted to learning at that period in Ireland, still the general state of female education
could not have been neglected, or such an example could not have been found or appreciated.
Felim O'Connor, her son, died in the same year as his mother; he is described as "a man of
great fame and renown." He had been ill of decline for a long time, and only one night intervened
between the death of the mother and the son, A.D. 1451. Calvagh died in 1458, and was succeeded
by his son, Con, who was not unworthy of his noble ancestry.

In 1449 the Duke of York was sent to undertake the Viceregal dignity and cares. His appointment
is attributed to the all-powerful influence of Queen Margaret. The immortal Shakspeare, whose
consummate art makes us read history in drama, and drama in history,[367] has commemorated
this event, though not with his usual ability. The object of sending him to Ireland was to
deprive the Yorkists of his powerful support and influence, and place the affairs of France,
which he had managed with considerable ability, in other hands. In fact, the appointment was
intended as an honorable exile. The Irish, with that natural veneration for lawful authority
which is so eminently characteristic of the Celtic race, were ever ready to welcome a prince
of the blood, each time hoping against hope that something like ordinary justice should be
meted out from the fountain-head. For once, at least, they were not disappointed; and "noble
York" is represented, by an English writer of the sixteenth century, as consoling himself "for
every kinde of smart," with the recollection of the faithful love and devotion of the Irish
people.[368]

The royal Duke arrived in Ireland on the 6th of July, 1447. He was accompanied by his wife,
famous for her beauty, which had obtained her the appellation of the "Rose of Raby," and famous
also as the mother of two English kings, Edward IV. and Richard III. This lady was the daughter
of Neville, Earl of Westmoreland, whose rather numerous family, consisting of twenty-two children,
had all married amongst the highest families. The Duke was Earl of Ulster in right of Duke
Lionel, from whom he was descended; but instead of marching at once to claim his possessions,
he adopted such conciliatory measures as secured him the services and affections of a large
body of Irish chieftains, with whose assistance he soon subdued any who still remained refractory.
His popularity increased daily. Presents were sent to him by the most powerful and independent
of the native chieftains. Nor was his "fair ladye" forgotten, for Brian O'Byrne, in addition
to an offering of four hundred beeves to the Duke, sent "two hobbies"[369] for the special
use of the "Rose of Raby." Indeed, it was reported in England that "the wildest Irishman in
Ireland would before twelve months be sworn English." Such were the fruits of a conciliatory
policy, or rather of a fair administration of justice.

The cities of Cork, Kinsale, and Youghal, now sent in petitions to the Viceroy, complaining
bitterly of the way in which the English noblemen "fall at variance among themselves," so that
the whole country was desolated. The settlers of Waterford and Wexford made similar complaints
against an Irish chieftain, O'Driscoll, whom they describe as "an Irish enemy to the King and
to all his liege people of Ireland." The Duke pacified all parties, and succeeded in attaching
the majority of the nation more and more to his person and his interests. His English friends,
who looked on his residence in Ireland as equivalent to banishment and imprisonment, were actively
employed in promoting his return. The disgraceful loss of the English possessions in France,
and probably still more the haughty and unconciliatory policy adopted by the Queen, had strengthened
the Yorkist party, and emboldened them to action. The Duke was requested to return to England,
where the insurgents in Kent had already risen under the leadership of the famous Jack Cade,
whose origin is involved in hopeless obscurity, and whose character has been so blackened by
writers on the Lancastrian side that it is equally incomprehensible. He called himself John
Mortimer, and asserted that he was cousin to the Viceroy. A proclamation, offering one thousand
marks for his person, "quick or dead," described him as born in Ireland. In consequence of
the nonpayment of the annuity which had been promised to the Duke during his Viceroyalty, he
had been obliged to demand assistance from the Irish, who naturally resisted so unjust a tax.
After useless appeals to the King and Parliament, he returned to England suddenly, in September,
1450, leaving Sir James Butler, the eldest son of the Earl of Ormonde, as his Deputy.

The history of the Wars of the Roses does not belong to our province; it must, therefore, suffice
to say, that when his party was defeated in England for a time, he fled to Ireland, where he
was enthusiastically received, and exercised the office of Viceroy at the very time that an
act of attainder was passed against him and his family. He soon returned again to his own country;
and there, after more than one brilliant victory, he was slain at the battle of Wakefield,
on the 31st December, 1460. Three thousand of his followers are said to have perished with
him, and among the number were several Irish chieftains from Meath and Ulster. The Geraldines
sided with the House of York, and the Butlers with the Lancastrians: hence members of both
families fell on this fatal field on opposite sides.

The Earl of Kildare was Lord Justice on the accession of Edward IV., who at once appointed
his unfortunate brother, the Duke of Clarence, to that dignity. The Earls of Ormonde and Desmond
were at war (A.D. 1462), and a pitched battle was fought between them at Pilltown, in the county
Kilkenny, where the former was defeated with considerable loss. His kinsman, MacRichard Butler,
was taken prisoner; and we may judge of the value of a book,[370] and the respect for literature
in Ireland at that period, from the curious fact that a manuscript was offered and accepted
for his ransom.

The eighth Earl of Desmond, Thomas, was made Viceroy in 1462. He was a special favourite with
the King. In 1466 he led an army of the English of Meath and Leinster against O'Connor Faly,
but he was defeated and taken prisoner in the engagement. Teigue O'Connor, the Earl's brother-in-law,
conducted the captives to Carbury Castle, in Kildare, where they were soon liberated by the
people of Dublin. The Irish were very successful in their forays at this period. The men of
Offaly devastated the country from Tara to Naas; the men of Breffni and Oriel performed similar
exploits in Meath. Teigue O'Brien plundered Desmond, and obliged the Burkes of Clanwilliam
to acknowledge his authority, and only spared the city of Limerick for a consideration of sixty
marks.

The Earl of Desmond appears to have exerted himself in every way for the national benefit.
He founded a college in Youghal, with a warden, eight fellows, and eight choristers. He obtained
an Act for the establishment of a university at Drogheda, which was to have similar privileges
to that of Oxford. He is described by native annalists--almost as loud in their praises of
learning as of valour--as well versed in literature, and a warm patron of antiquaries and poets.
But his liberality proved his ruin. He was accused of making alliances and fosterage of the
King's Irish enemies; and perhaps he had also incurred the enmity of the Queen (Elizabeth Woodville),
for it was hinted that she had some share in his condemnation. It is at least certain that
he was beheaded at Drogheda, on the 15th of February, 1467, by the command of Typtoft, Earl
of Worcester, who was sent to Ireland to take his place as Viceroy, and to execute the unjust
sentence. The Earl of Kildare was condemned at the same time; but he escaped to England, and
pleaded his cause so well with the King and Parliament, that he obtained his own pardon, and
a reversal of the attainder against the unfortunate Earl of Desmond.

During the reigns of Edward IV., Edward V., and the usurper Richard, there was probably more
dissension in England than there ever had been at any time amongst the native Irish chieftains.
Princes and nobles were sacrificed by each party as they obtained power, and regicide might
almost be called common. The number of English slain in the Wars of the Roses was estimated
at 100,000. Parliament made acts of attainder one day, and reversed them almost on the next.
Neither life nor property was safe. Men armed themselves first in self-defence, and then in
lawlessness; and a thoughtful mind might trace to the evil state of morals, caused by a long
period of desolating domestic warfare, that fatal indifference to religion which must have
permeated the people, before they could have departed as a nation from the faith of their fathers,
at the mere suggestion of a profligate monarch. The English power in Ireland was reduced at
this time to the lowest degree of weakness. This power had never been other than nominal beyond
the Pale; within its precincts it was on the whole all-powerful. But now a few archers and
spearmen were its only defence; and had the Irish combined under a competent leader, there
can be little doubt that the result would have been fatal to the colony. It would appear as
if Henry VII. hoped to propitiate the Yorkists in Ireland, as he allowed the Earl of Kildare
to hold the office of Lord Deputy; his brother, Thomas FitzGerald, that of Chancellor; and
his father-in-law, FitzEustace, that of Lord Treasurer. After a short time, however, he restored
the Earl of Ormonde to the family honours and estates, and thus a Lancastrian influence was
secured. The most important events of this reign, as far as Ireland is concerned, are the plots
of Simnel and Perkin Warbeck, and the enactments of Poyning's Parliament. A contemporary Irish
chronicler says: "The son of a Welshman, by whom the battle of Bosworth field was fought, was
made King; and there lived not of the royal blood, at that time, but one youth, who came the
next year (1486) in exile to Ireland."[371]

The native Irish appear not to have had the least doubt that Simnel was what he represented
himself to be. The Anglo-Irish nobles were nearly all devoted to the House of York; but it
is impossible now to determine whether they were really deceived, or if they only made the
youth a pretext for rebellion. His appearance is admitted by all parties to have been in his
favour; but the King asserted that the real Earl of Warwick was then confined in the Tower,
and paraded him through London[372] as soon as the pseudo-noble was crowned in Ireland. Margaret,
Dowager Duchess of Burgundy, was the great promoter of the scheme. She despatched Martin Swart,
a famous soldier, of noble birth, to Ireland, with 2,000 men. The expedition was fitted out
at her own expense. The English Yorkists joined his party, and the little army landed at Dublin,
in May, 1487. On Whit-Sunday, the 24th of that month, Lambert Simnel was crowned in the Cathedral
of the Holy Trinity. After the ceremony he was borne in state, on the shoulders of tall men
to the Castle. One of his bearers, a gigantic Anglo-Irishman, was called Great Darcy. Coins
were now struck, proclamations issued, and all the writs and public acts of the colony executed
in the name of Edward VI.

Soon after, Simnel's party conducted him to England, where they were joined by a few desperate
men of the Yorkist party. The battle of Stoke, in Nottinghamshire, terminated the affair. The
youth and his tutor were captured, and the principal officers were slain. According to one
account, Simnel was made a turnspit in the royal kitchen; according to another authority[373]
he was imprisoned in the Tower of London. It would appear as if Henry was afraid to visit the
Earl of Kildare too heavily for his transgressions, as he retained him in the office of Lord
Deputy.

The use of fire-arms appears to have become general in Ireland about this period (1487), as
the Annals mention that an O'Rourke was slain by an O'Donnell, "with a ball from a gun;" and
the following year the Earl of Kildare destroyed the Castle of Balrath, in Westmeath, with
ordnance. The early guns were termed hand-cannons and hand-guns, to distinguish them from the
original fire-arms, which were not portable, though there were exceptions to this rule; for
some of the early cannons were so small, that the cannonier held his gun in his hand, or supported
it on his shoulder, when firing it.[374]

In 1488 Sir Richard Edgecumbe was sent to Ireland to exact new oaths of allegiance from the
Anglo-Norman lords, whose fidelity Henry appears to have doubted, and not without reason. The
commissioner took up his lodgings with the Dominican friars, who appear to have been more devoted
to the English interests than their Franciscan brethren; but they did not entertain the knight
at their own expense, for he complains grievously of his "great costs and charges." A Papal
Bull had been procured, condemning all who had rebelled against the King. This was published
by the Bishop of Meath, with a promise of absolution and royal pardon for all who should repent.
Edgecumbe appears to have been at his wit's end to conciliate the "rebels," and informs us
that he spent the night in "devising as sure an oath as he could." The nobles at last came
to terms, and took the proffered pledge in the most solemn manner, in presence of the Blessed
Sacrament. This accomplished, the knight returned to England; and on his safe arrival, after
a stormy passage, made a pilgrimage to Saint Saviour's, in Cornwall.

It is quite impossible now to judge whether these solemn oaths were made to be broken, or whether
the temptation to break them proved stronger than the resolution to keep them. It is at least
certain that they were broken, and that in a year or two after the Earl of Kildare had received
his pardon under the Great Seal. In May, 1492, the Warbeck plot was promulgated in Ireland,
and an adventurer landed on the Irish shores, who declared himself to be Richard, Duke of York,
the second son of Edward IV., who was supposed to have perished in the Tower. His stay in Ireland,
however, was brief, although he was favourably received. The French monarch entertained him
with the honours due to a crowned head; but this, probably, was merely for political purposes,
as he was discarded as soon as peace had been made with England. He next visited Margaret,
the Dowager Duchess of Burgundy, who treated him as if he were really her nephew.

Henry now became seriously alarmed at the state of affairs in Ireland, and sent over Sir Edward
Poyning, a privy counsellor and a Knight of the Garter, to the troublesome colony. He was attended
by some eminent English lawyers, and what was of considerably greater importance, by a force
of 1,000 men. But neither the lawyers nor the men succeeded in their attempt, for nothing was
done to conciliate, and the old policy of force was the rule of action, and failed as usual.
The first step was to hunt out the abettors of Warbeck's insurrection, who had taken refuge
in the north: but the moment the Deputy marched against them, the Earl of Kildare's brother
rose in open rebellion, and seized Carlow Castle. The Viceroy was, therefore, obliged to make
peace with O'Hanlon and Magennis, and to return south. After recovering the fortress, he held
a Parliament at Drogheda, in the month of November, 1494. In this Parliament the celebrated
statute was enacted, which provided that henceforth no Parliament should be held in Ireland
until the Chief Governor and Council had first certified to the King, under the Great Seal,
as well the causes and considerations as the Acts they designed to pass, and till the same
should be approved by the King and Council. This Act obtained the name of "Poyning's Law."
It became a serious grievance when the whole of Ireland was brought under English government;
but at the time of its enactment it could only affect the inhabitants of the Pale, who formed
a very small portion of the population of that country; and the colonists regarded it rather
favourably, as a means of protecting them against the legislative oppressions of the Viceroys.

The general object of the Act was nominally to reduce the people to "whole and perfect obedience."
The attempt to accomplish this desirable end had been continued for rather more than two hundred
years, and had not yet been attained. The Parliament of Drogheda did not succeed, although
the Viceroy returned to England afterwards under the happy conviction that he had perfectly
accomplished his mission. Acts were also passed that ordnance[375] should not be kept in fortresses
without the Viceregal licence; that the lords spiritual and temporal were to appear in their
robes in Parliament, for the English lords of Ireland had, "through penuriousness, done away
the said robes to their own great dishonour, and the rebuke of all the whole land;" that the
"many damnable customs and uses," practised by the Anglo-Norman lords and gentlemen, under
the names of "coigne, livery, and pay," should be reformed; that the inhabitants on the frontiers
of the four shires should forthwith build and maintain a double-ditch, raised six feet above
the ground on the side which "meared next unto the Irishmen," so that the said Irishmen should
be kept out; that all subjects were to provide themselves with cuirasses and helmets, with
English bows and sheaves of arrows; that every parish should be provided with a pair of butts,[376]
and the constables were ordered to call the parishioners before them on holidays, to shoot
at least two or three games.

The Irish war-cries[377] which had been adopted by the English lords were forbidden, and they
were commanded to call upon St. George or the King of England. The Statutes of Kilkenny were
confirmed, with the exception of the one which forbid the use of the Irish language. As nearly
all the English settlers had adopted it, such an enactment could not possibly have been carried
out. Three of the principal nobles of the country were absent from this assembly: Maurice,
Earl of Desmond, was in arms on behalf of Warbeck; Gerald, Earl of Kildare, was charged with
treason; and Thomas, Earl of Ormonde, was residing in England. The Earl of Kildare was sent
to England to answer the charges of treason which were brought against him. Henry had discovered
that Poyning's mission had not been as successful as he expected, and what, probably, influenced
him still more, that it had proved very expensive.[378] He has the credit of being a wise king
in many respects, notwithstanding his avariciousness; and he at once saw that Kildare would
be more useful as a friend, and less expensive, if he ceased to be an enemy. The result was
the pardon of the "rebel," his marriage with the King's first cousin, Elizabeth St. John, and
his restoration to the office of Deputy. His quick-witted speeches, when examined before the
King, took the royal fancy. He was accused of having burned the Cathedral of Cashel, to revenge
himself on the Archbishop, who had sided with his enemy, Sir James Ormonde. There was a great
array of witnesses prepared to prove the fact; but the Earl excited shouts of laughter by exclaiming:
"I would never have done it, had it not been told me the Archbishop was within."

The Archbishop was present, and one of his most active accusers. The King then gave him leave
to choose his counsel, and time to prepare his defence. Kildare exclaimed that he doubted if
he should be allowed to choose the good fellow whom he would select. Henry gave him his hand
as an assurance of his good faith. "Marry," said the Earl, "I can see no better man in England
than your Highness, and will choose no other." The affair ended by his accusers declaring that
"all Ireland could not rule this Earl," to which Henry replied: "Then, in good faith, shall
this Earl rule all Ireland."[379]

In August, 1489, Kildare was appointed Deputy to Prince Henry, who was made Viceroy. In 1498
he was authorized to convene a Parliament, which should not sit longer than half a year. This
was the first Parliament held under Poyning's Act. Sundry regulations were made "for the increasing
of English manners and conditions within the land, and for diminishing of Irish usage." In
1503 the Earl's son, Gerald, was appointed Treasurer for Ireland by the King, who expressed
the highest approval of his father's administration. He married the daughter of Lord Zouch
of Codnor during his visit to England, and then returned with his father to Ireland. Both father
and son were treated with the utmost consideration at court, and the latter took an important
part in the funeral ceremonies for the King's eldest son, Arthur. The Earl continued in office
during the reign of Henry VII. An interesting letter, which he wrote in reply to an epistle
from the Gherardini of Tuscany, is still extant. In this document he requests them to communicate
anything they can of the origin of their house, their numbers, and their ancestors. He informs
them that it will give him the greatest pleasure to send them hawks, falcons, horses, or hounds,
or anything that he can procure which they may desire. He concludes:

"God be with you; love us in return.

"GERALD, Chief in Ireland of the family of Gherardini, Earl of Kildare, Viceroy of the most
serene Kings of England in Ireland."

Eight years after this letter was written, Ariosto writes thus of a brave old man, whose fame
had passed long before to distant lands:

    "Or guarda gl' Ibernisi: appresso il piano
     Sono due squadre; e il Conte di Childera
     Mena la pinna; e il Conte di Desmonda,
     Da fieri monti ha tratta la seconda."

FOOTNOTES:

[362] Them.--Gilbert's Viceroys, p. 292.

[363] Annals.--Four Masters, vol. iv. p. 791.

[364] Master.--Gilbert's Viceroys, p. 347.

[365] Shave.--There are no monumental effigies of Henry VI. His remains were removed several
times by Richard III., who was annoyed at the popular belief that he worked miracles; but the
costume of the period may be studied in an engraving by Strutt, from a scene depicted in the
Royal M.S., 15E 6, which represents Talbot in the act of presenting a volume of romances to
the King and Queen. Henry was notoriously plain in his dress, but his example was not followed
by his court. Fairholt says: "It would appear as if the English nobility and gentry sought
relief in the invention of all that was absurd in apparel, as a counter-excitement to the feverish
spirit engendered by civil war."--History of Costume, p. 146.

[366] Soul.--Duald Mac Firbis.--Annals.

[367] History.--The scene is laid at the Abbey of Bury. Act 3.

[368]

People.--"I twise bore rule in Normandy and Fraunce, And last lieutenant in Ireland, where
my hart Found remedy for every kinde of smart; For through the love my doings there did breede,
I had my helpe at all times in my neede."

--Mirrour for Magistrates, vol. ii. p. 189.

Hall, in his Union of the Two Noble Houses (1548), wrote that York "got him such love and favour
of the country [Ireland] and the inhabitants, that their sincere love and friendly affection
could never be separated from him and his lineage."

[369] Hobbies.--Irish horses were famous from an early period of our history. They were considered
presents worthy of kings. The name hobbies is a corruption of hobilarius, a horseman. It is
probable the term is derived from the Spanish caballo, a horse. There were three different
Irish appellations for different kinds of horses, groidh, each, and gearran. These words are
still in use, but capall is the more common term.

[370] Book.--This ancient MS. is still in existence, in the Bodleian Library in Oxford (Laud,
610). It is a copy of such portions of the Psalter of Cashel as could then be deciphered, which
was made for Butler, by Shane O'Clery, A.D. 1454. There is an interesting memorandum in it
in Irish, made by MacButler himself: "A blessing on the soul of the Archbishop of Cashel, i.e.,
Richard O'Hedigan, for it was by him the owner of this book was educated. This is the Sunday
before Christmas; and let all those who shall read this give a blessing on the souls of both."

[371] Ireland.--The Annals of Ulster, compiled by Maguire, Canon of Armagh, who died A.D. 1498.

[372] London.--The Irish Yorkists declared that this youth was a counterfeit. The Earl of Lincoln,
son of Elizabeth Plantagenet, sister of Richard III., saw and conversed with the boy at the
court at Shene, and appeared to be convinced that he was not his real cousin, for he joined
the movement in favour of Simnel immediately after the interview. Mr. Gilbert remarks in his
Viceroys, p. 605, that the fact of all the documents referring to this period of Irish history
having been destroyed, has been quite overlooked. A special Act of Poyning's Parliament commanded
the destruction of all "records, processes, ordinances, &c., done in the 'Laddes' name."

[373] Authority.--Gilbert's Viceroys, p. 605. The English Parliament attainted those English
gentlemen and nobles who had fought against the King at Stoke, but they took no notice of the
English in Ireland, who were the real promoters of the rebellion. This is a curious and valuable
illustration of the state of affairs in that country.

[374] Firing it.--A valuable paper on this subject, by Sir S.R. Meyrick, will be found in the
Archæologia, vol. xxii. The people of Lucca are supposed to have been the first to use hand-cannons,
at the beginning of the fifteenth century. Cannon-balls were first made of stone, but at the
battle of Cressy the English "shot small balls of iron." For popular information on this subject,
see Fairholt, History of Costume.

[375] Ordnance.--In 1489 six hand-guns or musquets were sent from Germany to the Earl of Kildare,
which his guard bore while on sentry at Thomas Court, his Dublin residence. The word "Pale"
came to be applied to that part of Ireland occupied by the English, in consequence of one of
the enactments of Poyning's Parliament, which required all the colonists to "pale" in or enclose
that portion of the country possessed by the English.

[376] Butts.--We give an illustration, at the head of this chapter, of the Butts' Cross, Kilkenny.

[377] War-cries.--That of the Geraldines of Kildare was Cromadh-abu, from Croom Castle, in
Limerick; the war-cry of the Desmond Geraldines was Seanaid-abu, from Shannid Castle.

[378] Expensive.--English writers accuse Henry of miserable avariciousness. He is accused of
having consented to the execution of Sir William Stanley, who had saved his life, for the sake
of his enormous wealth.--Lingard's History of England, vol. v. p. 308. He is also accused,
by a recent writer, of having seized the Wealth of the Queen Dowager, because he chose to believe
that she had assisted Simnel.--Victoria History of England, p. 223.

[379] Ireland.--On one occasion, when the Earl and Sir James Ormonde had a quarrel, the latter
retired into the chapter-house of St. Patrick's Cathedral, the door of which he closed and
barricaded. The Earl requested him to come forth, and pledged his honour for his safety. As
the knight still feared treachery, a hole was cut in the door, through which Kildare passed
his hand; and after this exploit, Ormonde came out, and they embraced each other.

CHAPTER XXIV.

The Reign of Henry VIII.--The Three Eras in Irish History: Military Violence, Legal Iniquity,
and Religious Oppression--The Earl of Kildare--Report on the State of Ireland--The Insurrection
of Silken Thomas--His Execution with his five Uncles--First Attempt to introduce the Reformation
in Ireland--Real Cause of the English Schism--The King acts as Head of the Church--The New
Religion enacted by Law, and enforced by the Sword--How the Act was opposed by the Clergy,
and how the Clergy were disposed of--Dr. Browne's Letter to Henry--The Era of Religious Persecution--Massacre
of a Prelate, Priest, and Friars--Wholesale Plunder of Religious Property.

[A.D. 1509-1540.]

We have now approached one of the most important standpoints in Irish history. An English writer
has divided its annals into three eras, which he characterizes thus: first, the era of military
violence; second, the era of legal iniquity; third, the era of religious persecution.[380]
We may mark out roughly certain lines which divide these periods, but unhappily the miseries
of the two former blended eventually with the yet more cruel wrongs of the latter. Still, until
the reign of Henry VIII., the element of religious contention did not exist; and its importance
as an increased source of discord, may be easily estimated by a careful consideration of its
subsequent effects. Nevertheless, I believe that Irish history has not been fairly represented
by a considerable number of writers, who are pleased to attribute all the sufferings and wrongs
endured by the people of that country to religious grounds.

Ireland was in a chronic state of discontent and rebellion, in the eras of military violence
and legal iniquity, which existed some centuries before the era of religious persecution; but,
unquestionably all the evils of the former period were enhanced and intensified, when the power
which had so long oppressed and plundered, sought to add to bodily suffering the still keener
anguish of mental torture.

In the era of military violence, a man was driven from his ancestral home by force of arms;
in the era of legal iniquity, he was treated as a rebel if he complained; but in the era of
religious persecution, his free will, the noblest gift of God to man--the gift which God Himself
will not shackle--was demanded from him; and if he dared act according to the dictates of his
conscience, a cruel death or a cruel confiscation was his portion. And this was done in the
name of liberty of conscience! While England was Catholic, it showed no mercy to Catholic Ireland;
I doubt much, if Ireland had become Protestant to a man, when England had become Protestant
as a nation, that she would have shown more consideration for the Celtic race. But the additional
cruelties with which the Irish were visited, for refusing to discard their faith at the bidding
of a profligate king, are simply matters of history.

Henry succeeded his father in the year 1509. The Earl of Kildare was continued in his office
as Deputy; but the King's minister, Wolsey, virtually ruled the nation, until the youthful
monarch had attained his majority; and he appears to have devoted himself with considerable
zeal to Irish affairs. He attempted to attach some of the Irish chieftains to the English interest,
and seems in some degree to have succeeded. Hugh O'Donnell, Lord of Tir-Connell, was hospitably
entertained at Windsor, as he passed through England on his pilgrimage to Rome. It is said
that O'Donnell subsequently prevented James IV. of Scotland from undertaking his intended expedition
to Ireland; and, in 1521, we find him described by the then Lord Deputy as the best disposed
of all the Irish chieftains "to fall into English order."

Gerald, the ninth and last Catholic Earl of Kildare, succeeded his father as Lord Deputy in
1513. But the hereditary foes of his family were soon actively employed in working his ruin;
and even his sister, who had married into that family, proved not the least formidable of his
enemies. He was summoned to London; but either the charges against him could not be proved,
or it was deemed expedient to defer them, for we find him attending Henry for four years, and
forming one of his retinue at the Field of the Cloth of Gold. Kildare was permitted to return
to Dublin again in 1523, but he was tracked by Wolsey's implacable hatred to his doom.[381]
In 1533 he was confined in the Tower for the third time. The charges against him were warmly
urged by his enemies. Two of his sisters were married to native chieftains; and he was accused
of playing fast and loose with the English as a baron of the Pale--with the Irish as a warm
ally.[382] Two English nobles had been appointed to assist him, or rather to act the spy upon
his movements, at different times. One of these, Sir Thomas Skeffington, became his most dangerous
enemy.

In 1515 an elaborate report on the state of Ireland was prepared by the royal command. It gives
a tolerably clear idea of the military and political condition of the country. According to
this account, the only counties really subject to English rule, were Louth, Meath, Dublin,
Kildare, and Wexford. Even the residents near the boundaries of these districts, were obliged
to pay "black mail" to the neighbouring Irish chieftains. The King's writs were not executed
beyond the bounds described; and within thirty miles of Dublin, the Brehon law was in full
force. This document, which is printed in the first volume of the "State Papers" relating to
Ireland, contains a list of the petty rulers of sixty different states or "regions," some of
which "are as big as a shire; some more, some less." The writer then gives various opinions
as to the plans which might be adopted for improving the state of Ireland, which he appears
to have taken principally from a curious old book, called Salus Populi.[383] Both writers were
of opinion that war to the knife was the only remedy for Ireland's grievances. It was at least
clear that if dead men could tell no tales, neither could dead men rebel against oppression;
and the writer of the report concludes, "that if the King were as wise as Solomon the Sage,
he shall never subdue the wild Irish to his obedience without dread of the sword." Even this
he admits may fail; for he adds, "so long as they may resist and save their lives, they will
never obey the King." He then quotes the Salus Populi, to show the advantages which England
might derive if the Irish united with her in her wars on foreign countries, and observes, "that
if this land were put once in order as aforesaid, it would be none other but a very paradise,
delicious of all pleasaunce, in respect and regard of any other land in this world; inasmuch
as there never was stranger nor alien person, great or small, that would leave it willingly,
notwithstanding the said misorder, if he had the means to dwell therein honestly."

It cannot now be ascertained whether Kildare had incited the Irish chieftains to rebellion
or not. In 1520, during one of his periods of detention in London, the Earl of Surrey was sent
over as Deputy with a large force. It would appear as if a general rising were contemplated
at that time, and it was then the Earl wrote the letter[384] already mentioned to O'Carroll.
The new Viceroy was entirely ignorant of the state of Ireland, and imagined he had nothing
to do but conquer. Several successful engagements confirmed him in this pleasing delusion;
but he soon discovered his mistake, and assured the King that it was hopeless to contend with
an enemy, who were defeated one day, and rose up with renewed energy the next. As a last resource
he suggested the policy of conciliation, which Henry appears to have adopted, as he empowered
him to confer the honour of knighthood on any of the Irish chieftains to whom he considered
it desirable to offer the compliment, and he sent a collar of gold to O'Neill. About the same
time Surrey wrote to inform Wolsey, that Cormac Oge MacCarthy and MacCarthy Reagh were "two
wise men, and more conformable to order than some English were;" but he was still careful to
keep up the old policy of fomenting discord among the native princes, for he wrote to the King
that "it would be dangerful to have them both agreed and joined together, as the longer they
continue in war, the better it should be for your Grace's poor subjects here."

Surrey became weary at last of the hopeless conflict, and at his own request he was permitted
to return to England and resign his office, which was conferred on his friend, Pierse Butler,[385]
of Carrick, subsequently Earl of Ormonde. The Scotch had begun to immigrate to Ulster in considerable
numbers, and acquired large territories there; the Pale was almost unprotected; and the Irish
Privy Council applied to Wolsey for six ships-of-war, to defend the northern coasts, A.D. 1522.
The dissensions between the O'Neills and O'Donnells had broken out into sanguinary warfare.

The Earl of Kildare left Ireland for the third and last time, in February, 1534. Before his
departure he summoned a Council at Drogheda, and appointed his son, Thomas, to act as Deputy
in his absence. On the Earl's arrival in London, he was at once seized and imprisoned in the
Tower. A false report was carefully circulated in Ireland that he had been beheaded, and that
the destruction of the whole family was even then impending. Nor was there anything very improbable
in this statement. The English King had already inaugurated his sanguinary career. One of the
most eminent English laymen, Sir Thomas More, and one of her best ecclesiastics, Bishop Fisher,
had been accused and beheaded, to satisfy the royal caprice. When the King's tutor and his
chancellor had been sacrificed, who could hope to escape?

The unfortunate Earl had advised his son to pursue a cautious and gentle policy; but Lord Thomas'
fiery temper could ill brook such precaution, and he was but too easily roused by the artful
enemies who incited him to rebellion. The reports of his father's execution were confirmed.
His proud blood was up, and he rushed madly on the career of self-destruction. On the 11th
of June, 1534, he flung down the sword of state on the table of the council-hall at St. Mary's
Abbey, and openly renounced his allegiance to the English monarch. Archbishop Cromer implored
him with tears to reconsider his purpose, but all entreaties were vain. Even had he been touched
by this disinterested counsel, it would probably have failed of its effect; for an Irish bard
commenced chanting his praises and his father's wrongs, and thus his doom was sealed. An attempt
was made to arrest him, but it failed. Archbishop Allen, his father's bitterest enemy, fled
to the Castle, with several other nobles, and here they were besieged by FitzGerald and his
followers. The Archbishop soon contrived to effect his escape. He embarked at night in a vessel
which was then lying at Dame's Gate; but the ship was stranded near Clontarf, either through
accident or design, and the unfortunate prelate was seized by Lord Thomas' people, who instantly
put him to death. The young nobleman is said by some authorities to have been present at the
murder, as well as his two uncles: there is at least no doubt of his complicity in the crime.
The sentence of excommunication was pronounced against him, and those who assisted him, in
its most terrible form.

Ecclesiastical intervention was not necessary to complete his ruin. He had commenced his wild
career of lawless violence with but few followers, and without any influential companions.
The Castle of Maynooth, the great stronghold of the Geraldines, was besieged and captured by
his father's old enemy, Sir William Skeffington. In the meanwhile the intelligence of his son's
insurrection had been communicated to the Earl, and the news of his excommunication followed
quickly. The unfortunate nobleman succumbed beneath the twofold blow, and died in a few weeks.
Lord Thomas surrendered himself in August, 1535, on the guarantee of Lord Leonard and Lord
Butler, under a solemn promise that his life should be spared.[386] But his fate was in the
hands of one who had no pity, even where the tenderest ties were concerned. Soon after the
surrender of "Silken Thomas," his five uncles were seized treacherously at a banquet; and although
three of them had no part in the rebellion, the nephew and the uncles were all executed together
at Tyburn, on the 3rd of February, 1537. If the King had hoped by this cruel injustice to rid
himself of the powerful family, he was mistaken. Two children of the late Earl's still existed.
They were sons by his second wife, Lady Elizabeth Grey. The younger, still an infant, was conveyed
to his mother in England; the elder, a youth of twelve years of age, was concealed by his aunts,
who were married to the chieftains of Offaly and Donegal, and was soon conveyed to France,
out of the reach of the enemies who eagerly sought his destruction. It is not a little curious
to find the native princes, who had been so cruelly oppressed by his forefathers, protecting
and helping the hapless youth, even at the risk of their lives. It is one of many evidences
that the antipathy of Celt to Saxon is not so much an antipathy of race or person, as the natural
enmity which the oppressed entertains towards the oppressor.

Henry made his first appearance at establishing his spiritual supremacy in the year 1534, by
appointing an Augustinian friar, who had already[387] become a Protestant, to the see of Dublin.
He was consecrated by Cranmer, always the servile instrument of the royal pleasure. The previous
events in England, which resulted in the national schism, are too well known to require much
observation. It must be admitted as one of the most patent facts of history, that the English
King never so much as thought of asserting his supremacy in spiritual matters, until he found
that submission to Papal supremacy interfered with his sinful inclinations. If Pope Clement
VII. had dissolved the marriage between Queen Catherine and Henry VIII. in 1528, Parliament
would not have been asked to legalize the national schism in 1534. Yet it would appear as if
Henry had hesitated for a moment before he committed the final act of apostacy. It was Cromwell
who suggested the plan which he eventually followed. With many expressions of humility he pointed
out the course which might be pursued. The approbation of the Holy See, he said, was the one
thing still wanting. It was plain now that neither bribes nor threats could procure that favour.
But was it so necessary as the King had hitherto supposed? It might be useful to avert the
resentment of the German Emperor; but if it could not be obtained, why should the King's pleasure
depend on the will of another? Several of the German princes had thrown off their allegiance
to the Holy See: why, then, should not the English King? The law could legalize the King's
inclination, and who dare gainsay its enactments? Let the law declare Henry the head of the
Church, and he could, as such, give himself the dispensations for which he sought. The law
which could frame articles of faith and sanction canons, could regulate morals as easily as
it could enact a creed.

Such counsel was but too acceptable to a monarch resolved to gratify his passions at all hazards,
temporal or spiritual. Cromwell was at once appointed a member of the Privy Council. He received
a patent for life of the Chancellorship of the Exchequer, and he was authorized to frame the
necessary bills, and conduct them through the two houses.[388] Parliament complied without
hesitation; the clergy in convocation made a show of opposition, which just sufficed to enhance
their moral turpitude, since their brief resistance intimated that they acted contrary to their
consciences in giving their final assent. The royal supremacy in matters ecclesiastical, was
declared to be the will of God and the law of the land.

The King's mistress was now made his wife, by the same authority which had made the King head
of the Church; and it was evident that the immediate cause of the separation of the English
nation from the Catholic Church was the desire of the monarch, that his profligacy should obtain
some kind of sanction. But this commencement of the Anglican Establishment, however true, is
so utterly disreputable, that English historians have been fain to conceal, as far as might
be, the real cause, and to justify the schism by bringing grave charges[389] against the Church.
This, after all, is a mere petitio principii. It has been already remarked that England was
demoralized socially to an extraordinary degree, as a nation always has been by a continuance
of civil war. The clergy suffered from the same causes which affected the laity, and the moral
condition of the ecclesiastical body was not all that could be desired. These were remote causes,
which acted powerfully as they rolled along the stream of time, and which broke the barriers
of faith like an overwhelming torrent, when an additional impetus was given. But it should
be distinctly remembered (1) that the direct act of schism was committed when Henry required
Parliament and Convocation to exalt him to the spiritual supremacy; and (2) that the sins of
churchmen and the faith of the Church are two distinct questions. There may have been more
corruption of life and morals, both in the laity and the priesthood of the Catholic Church
at the Reformation, than at any other period of the Church's history; but the Jews had been
commanded to obey the Scribes and Pharisees, because they sat in Moses' seat, at the very time
when the Lamb of God could find no milder term to describe their hypocrisy and iniquity than
that of a generation of vipers.

If schism is admitted to be a sin, it is difficult to see how any amount of crime with which
other individuals can be charged, even justly, lessens the guilt of the schismatic. There can
be little doubt that the members of the Church are most fervent and edifying in their lives,
when suffering from persecution. Ambition has less food when there are no glittering prizes
within its reach. Faith is more sincere when there are no motives for a false profession, and
every natural motive to conceal religious belief. The Irish clergy were never charged with
the gross crimes which have been mentioned in connexion with some few of their brethren in
England. Those who ministered outside the Pale, lived in poverty and simplicity. The monasteries
were not so richly endowed as the English conventual houses; and, perhaps, this freedom from
the world's goods, served to nerve them for the coming trial; and that their purer and more
fervent lives saved the Irish Church and people from national apostacy.

Soon after Dr. Browne's arrival in Ireland, he received an official letter from Cromwell, containing
directions for his conduct there. He is informed it is "the royal will and pleasure of his
Majesty, that his subjects in Ireland, even as those in England, should obey his commands in
spiritual matters as in temporal, and renounce their allegiance to the See of Rome." This language
was sufficiently plain. They are required to renounce their allegiance to the See of Rome,
simply because "the King wills it." The affair is spoken of as if it were some political matter,
which could easily be arranged. But the source of this prelate's authority was simply political;
for Henry writes to him thus: "Let it sink into your remembrance, that we be as able, for the
not doing thereof, to remove you again, and put another man of more virtue and honesty into
your place, as we were at the beginning to prefer you." Browne could certainly be in no doubt
from whom he had received his commission to teach and preach to the people of Ireland; but
that nation had received the faith many centuries before, from one who came to them with very
different credentials; and years of oppression and most cruel persecution have failed in inducing
them to obey human authority rather than divine.

Dr. Browne soon found that it was incomparably easier for Henry to issue commands in England,
than for him to enforce them in Ireland. He therefore wrote to Cromwell, from Dublin, on "the
4th of the kal. of December, 1535," and informed him that he "had endeavoured, almost to the
danger and hazard of my temporal life, to procure the nobility and gentry of this nation to
due obedience in owning of his Highness their supreme head, as well spiritual as temporal;
and do find much oppugning therein, especially by my brother Armagh, who hath been the main
oppugner, and so hath withdrawn most of his suffragans and clergy within his see and diocese.
He made a speech to them, laying a curse on the people whosoever should own his Highness' supremacy,
saying, that isle--as it is in their Irish chronicles, insula sacra--belongs to none but the
Bishop of Rome, and that it was the Bishop of Rome that gave it to the King's ancestors."[390]
Dr. Browne then proceeds to inform his correspondent that the Irish clergy had sent two messengers
to Rome.[391] He states "that the common people of this isle are more zealous in their blindness,
than the saints and martyrs were in truth;" and he advises that a Parliament should at once
be summoned, "to pass the supremacy by Act; for they do not much matter his Highness' commission,
which your lordship sent us over." Truly, the nation which had been so recently enlightened
in so marvellous a manner, might have had a little patience with the people who could not so
easily discern the new light; and, assuredly, if the term "Church by law established" be applicable
to the Protestant religion in England, it is, if possible, still more applicable to the Protestant
Establishment in Ireland, since the person delegated to found the new religion in that country,
has himself stated it could only be established there by Act of Parliament.

The Parliament was summoned in 1536; but, as a remote preparation, the Lord Deputy made a "martial
circuit" of Ireland, hoping thereby to overawe the native septs, and compel their submission
to the royal will and pleasure. "This preparation being made," i.e., the "martial circuit"--I
am quoting from Sir John Davies;[392] I request the reader's special attention to the statement--"he
first propounded and passed in Parliament these Lawes, which made the great alteration in the
State Ecclesiastical, namely, the Act which declared King Henry VIII. to be Supreme Head of
the Church of Ireland; the Act prohibiting Apeales to the Church of Rome; the Act for first
fruites and twentieth part to be paid to the King; and lastly, the Act that did utterly abolish
the usurped Authoritie of the Pope. Next, for the increase of the King's Revenew. By one Act
he suppressed sundry Abbayes and Religious Houses, and by another Act resumed the Lands of
the Absentees."

The royal process of conversion to the royal opinions, had at least the merits of simplicity.
There is an old rhyme--one of those old rhymes which are often more effectual in moving the
hearts of the multitude than the most eloquent sermons, and truer exponents of popular feeling
than Acts of Parliament--which describes the fate of Forrest, the Franciscan friar, confessor
of the King's only lawful wife and the consequences of his temerity in denying the King's supremacy:--

     "Forrest, the fryar,
      That obstinate lyar,
    That wilfully will be dead;
      Incontinently
      The Gospel doth deny,
    The King to be supreme head."

There is a grand and simple irony in this not easily surpassed. Some very evident proofs had
been given in England, that to deny the King's spiritual supremacy was "wilfully to be dead,"
although neither the King nor the Parliament had vouchsafed to inform the victims in what part
of the Gospel the keys of the kingdom of heaven had been given to a temporal prince. Still,
as I have observed, the royal process was extremely simple--if you believed, you were saved;
if you doubted, you died.

With the example of Sir Thomas More[393] before their eyes, the Anglo-Norman nobles and gentlemen,
assembled in Parliament by the royal command, were easily persuaded to do the royal bidding.
But the ecclesiastics were by no means so pliable. Every diocese had the privilege of sending
two proctors to Parliament; and these proctors proved so serious an obstacle, that Lords Grey
and Brabazon wrote to Cromwell, that they had prorogued the Parliament in consequence of the
"forwardness and obstinacy of the proctors, of the clergy, and of the bishops and abbots;"
and they suggest that "some means should be devised, whereby they should be brought to remember
their duty better," or that "means may be found which shall put these proctors from a voice
in Parliament."[394] The means were easily found--the proctors were forbidden to vote.[395]
The Act was passed. Every one who objected to it having been forbidden to vote, Henry's agents
on the Continent proclaimed triumphantly that the Irish nation had renounced the supremacy
of Rome. A triumph obtained at the expense of truth, is but poor compensation for the heavy
retribution which shall assuredly be demanded of those who have thus borne false witness against
their neighbour. Men forget too often, in the headlong eagerness of controversy, that truth
is eternal and immutable, and that no amount of self-deceit or successful deception of others
can alter its purity and integrity in the eyes of the Eternal Verity.

The Irish Parliament, or, we should say more correctly, the men permitted to vote in Ireland
according to royal directions, had already imitated their English brethren by declaring the
marriage of Henry and Catherine of Arragon null and void, and limiting the succession to the
crown to the children of Anna Boleyn. When this lady had fallen a victim to her husband's caprice,
they attainted her and her posterity with equal facility. A modern historian has attempted
to excuse Henry's repudiation of his lawful wife, on the ground of his sincere anxiety to prevent
disputes about the succession.[396] But the King's subsequent conduct ought surely to have
deterred any one from attempting so rash an apology. To doubt the royal supremacy, or the right
of the lady, who for the time being held a place in Henry's affections, to royal honours, was
an evidence of insincerity in devotion to himself which he could not easily pardon.

As it was now ascertained that the Irish people would not apostatize as a nation, an expedient
was prepared for their utter extirpation. It would be impossible to believe that the human
heart could be guilty of such cruelty, if we had not evidence of the fact in the State Papers.
By this diabolical scheme it was arranged to till or carry away their cattle, and to destroy
their corn while it was green. "The very living of the Irishry," observes the writer, "doth
clearly consist in two things; and take away the same from them, and they are past power to
recover, or yet to annoy any subject in Ireland. Take first from them their corn--burn and
destroy the same; and then have their cattle and beasts, which shall be most hardest to come
by, and yet, with guides and policy, they be often had and taken." Such was the arrangement;
and it was from no want of inclination that it was not entirely carried out, and the "Irishry"
starved to death in their own land.

The title of King of Ireland had not as yet been given to English monarchs, but the ever-subservient
Parliament of this reign granted Henry this addition to his privileges, such as it was. We
have already seen the style in which the "supreme head of the Church" addressed the bishops
whom he had appointed; we shall now give a specimen of their subserviency to their master,
and the fashion in which they executed his commands, before returning to secular history.

Henry's letter to Dr. Browne is dated July 7th, 1537; the Bishop's reply is given on the 27th
September, 1537. He commences by informing his most excellent Highness that he had received
his most gracious letter on the 7th September, and that "it made him tremble in body for fear
of incurring his Majesty's displeasure," which was doubtless the most truthful statement in
his epistle. He mentions all his zeal and efforts against Popery, which, he adds, "is a thing
not little rooted among the inhabitants here." He assures the King of his activity in securing
the twentieth part and first-fruits for the royal use (what had been given to God was now given
to Cæsar), and states what, indeed, could not be denied, that he was the "first spiritual man
who moved" for this to be done. He concludes with the fearful profanity of "desiring of God,
that the ground, should open and swallow him up the hour or minute that he should declare the
Gospel of Christ after any sort than he had done heretofore, in rebuking the Papistical power,
or in any other point concerning the advancement of his Grace's affairs."

Such a tissue of profanity and absurdity was seldom penned; but men who could write and act
thus were fitting instruments for a man, who made it a point of conscience to commit immoral
crimes that he might preserve the succession; who kept his mistress in the same palace with
his queen; and only went through the form of marriage when he found his real or pretended wishes
about the same succession on the point of being realized in a manner that even he could not
fail to see would scarcely be admitted as legal or legitimate by public opinion, whatever an
obsequious Parliament might do. It is at least certain that such letters never were addressed
by Catholic prelates to the Holy See, and that those who speak of its tyranny and priestcraft,
and the absolute submission it requires from its subjects, would do well to remember the trite
motto, Audi alteram partem, and to inquire whether a similar charge might not be made more
justly against the founders of the Protestant Establishment.

Dr. Browne and the Lord Deputy now rivalled each other in their efforts to obtain the royal
approbation, by destroying all that the Irish people held most sacred, determined to have as
little cause as possible for "the trembling in body" which the King's displeasure would effect.
They traversed the land from end to end, destroying cathedrals, plundering abbeys, and burning
relics--all in the name of a religion which proclaimed liberty of conscience to worship God
according to individual conviction, as the great boon which it was to confer on the nation.
However full of painful interest these details may be, as details they belong to the province
of the ecclesiastical historian. The Four Masters record the work of desecration in touching
and mournful strains. They tell of the heresy which broke out in England, and graphically characterize
it as "the effect of pride, vain-glory, avarice, and sensual desire." They mention how "the
King and Council enacted new laws and statutes after their own will." They observe that all
the property of the religious orders was seized for the King; and they conclude thus: "They
also made archbishops and bishops for themselves; and although great was the persecution of
the Roman emperors against the Church, it is not probable that so great a persecution as this
ever came upon the world; so that it is impossible to tell or narrate its description, unless
it should be told by him saw it."[397]

The era of religious persecution was thus inaugurated; and if Ireland had made no martyrs of
the men who came to teach her the faith, she was not slow to give her best and noblest sons
as victims to the fury of those who attempted to deprive her of that priceless deposit. Under
the year 1540, the Four Masters record the massacre of the Guardian and friars of the Convent
at Monaghan, for refusing to acknowledge the spiritual supremacy of the King. Cornelius, Bishop
of Down, a Franciscan friar, and Father Thomas FitzGerald, a member of the noble family of
the Geraldines, and a famous preacher, were both killed in the convent of that Order in Dublin.
Father Dominic Lopez has given a detailed account of the sufferings of the religious orders
in Ireland during the reign of Henry VIII., in a rare and valuable work, entitled, Noticias
Historicas de las tres florentissimas Provincias del celeste Ordem de la Ssma. Trinidad.[398]
I shall give two instances from this history, as a sample of the fashion in which the new doctrine
of the royal supremacy was propagated. In 1539 the Prior and religious of the Convent of Atharee
were commanded to take the oath of supremacy, and to surrender their property to the crown.
The Superior, Father Robert, at once assembled his spiritual children, and informed them of
the royal mandate. Their resolution was unanimous; after the example of the early Christians,
when threatened with martyrdom and spoliation by heathen emperors, they at once distributed
their provisions, clothing, and any money they had in hand amongst the poor, and concealed
the sacred vessels and ornaments, so that not so much as a single emblem of our redemption
was left to be desecrated by men professing to believe that they had been redeemed by the cross
of Christ. Father Robert was summoned thrice to recognize the new authority. Thrice he declined;
declaring that "none had ever sought to propagate their religious tenets by the sword, except
the pagan emperors in early ages, and Mahomet in later times. As for himself and his community,
they were resolved that no violence should move them from the principles of truth: they recognized
no head of the Catholic Church save the Vicar of Jesus Christ; and as for the King of England,
they regarded him not even as a member of that holy Church, but as head of the synagogue of
Satan." The conclusion of his reply was a signal for massacre. An officer instantly struck
off his head with one blow. As the prisons were already full of "recusants," the friars were
placed in confinement in private houses, some were secretly murdered, and others were publicly
hanged in the market-place. These events occurred on the 12th and 13th of February, 1539.

An almost similar tragedy was enacted in the Trinitarian Convent of Limerick, where the Prior
was coadjutor to the Bishop of that city. He also assembled the brethren, exhorted them to
perseverance, distributed their few poor possessions, and concealed the sacred vessels. On
the feast of St. John Baptist, 24th June, in the year of grace 1539, he preached in his cathedral
against the new heresy, and exhorted his flock to persevere in the faith. The emissaries of
Government were afraid to attack him openly; but that evening they visited him at his private
residence, and offered him his choice between death and apostacy. For all reply the venerable
prelate knelt down, and exclaimed: "O Lord, on this morning I offered to Thee on the altar
the unbloody sacrifice of the body of my Saviour; grant that I may now offer, to Thy greater
honour and glory, the sacrifice of my own life." Then he turned towards a picture of the most
holy Trinity, which was suspended in his room, and scarce had time to pronounce the aspiration
of his Order, "Sancta Trinitas, unus Deus, miserere nobis," ere his head was severed from his
body, and he entered upon the beatific vision of the Three in One, for Whom he had so gladly
sacrificed his life.

The Protestant Archbishop, Dr. Browne, the Lord Chancellor, and some other members of the Council,
set out on a "visitation" of the four counties of Carlow, Wexford, Waterford, and Tipperary,
in which the church militant was for the nonce represented by the church military. They transmitted
an account of their expedition, and the novel fashion in which they attempted to propagate
the Gospel, to England, on the 18th January, 1539. One brief extract must suffice as a specimen
of their proceedings. "The day following we kept the sessions there [at Wexford]. There was
put to execution four felons, accompanied with another, a friar, whom we commanded to be hanged
in his habit, and so to remain upon the gallows for a mirror to all his brethren to live truly."[399]

There was One, whom from reverence I name not here, who said, when about to die, that, when
"lifted up, He should draw all men unto Him." Centuries have rolled by since those most blessed
words were uttered, but they have been verified in the disciples as well as in the Master.
The "lifting up" of a friar upon the gallows, or of a bishop upon the block, has but served
to draw men after them; and the reformations they failed to effect during their lives, by their
preaching and example, have been accomplished after and because of their martyrdoms.

The reformers now began to upbraid each other with the very crimes of which they had accused
the clergy in England. When mention is made of the immense sums of money which were obtained
by the confiscation of religious houses at this period, it has been commonly and naturally
supposed, that the religious were possessors of immense wealth, which they hoarded up for their
own benefit; and although each person made a vow of poverty, it is thought that what was possessed
collectively, was enjoyed individually. But this false impression arises (1) from a mistaken
idea of monastic life, and (2) from a misapprehension as to the kind of property possessed
by the religious.

A brief account of some of the property forfeited in Ireland, will explain this important matter.
We do not find in any instance that religious communities had large funds of money. If they
had extensive tracts of land, they were rather the property of the poor, who farmed them, than
of the friars, who held them in trust. Any profit they produced made no addition to the fare
or the clothing of the religious, for both fare and clothing were regulated by certain rules
framed by the original founders, and which could not be altered. These rules invariably required
the use of the plainest diet and of the coarsest habits. A considerable portion--indeed, by
far the most considerable portion--of conventual wealth, consisted in the sacred vessels and
ornaments. These had been bestowed on the monastic churches by benefactors, who considered
that what was used in the service of God should be the best which man could offer. The monk
was none the richer if he offered the sacrifice to the Eternal Majesty each morning in a chalice
of gold, encrusted with the most precious jewels; but if it were right and fitting to present
that chalice to God for the service of His Divine Majesty, who shall estimate the guilt of
those who presumed to take the gift from Him to whom it had been given? We know how terrible
was the judgment which came upon a heathen monarch who dared to use the vessels which had belonged
to the Jewish Temple, and we may believe that a still more terrible judgment is prepared for
those who desecrate Christian churches, and that it will be none the less sure, because, under
the new dispensation of mercy, it comes less swiftly.

All the gold and silver plate, jewels, ornaments, lead, bells, &c., were reserved by special
command for the King's use.[400] The church-lands were sold to the highest bidder, or bestowed
as a reward on those who had helped to enrich the royal coffers by sacrilege. Amongst the records
of the sums thus obtained, we find £326 2s. 11d., the price of divers pieces of gold and silver,
of precious stones, silver ornaments, &c.; also £20, the price of 1,000 lbs. of wax. The sum
of £1,710 2s. was realized from the sale of sacred vessels belonging to thirty-nine monasteries.
The profits on the spoliation of St. Mary's, Dublin, realized £385. The destruction of the
Collegiate Church of St. Patrick must have procured an enormous profit, as we find that Cromwell
received £60 for his pains in effecting the same. It should also be remembered that the value
of a penny then was equal to the value of a shilling now, so that we should multiply these
sums at least by ten to obtain an approximate idea of the extent of this wholesale robbery.

The spoilers now began to quarrel over the spoils. The most active or the most favoured received
the largest share; and Dr. Browne grumbled loudly at not obtaining all he asked for. But we
have not space to pursue the disedifying history of their quarrels. The next step was to accuse
each other. In the report of the Commissioners appointed in 1538 to examine into the state
of the country, we find complaints made of the exaction of undue fees, extortions for baptisms
and marriages, &c. They also (though this was not made an accusation by the Commissioners)
received the fruits of benefices in which they did not officiate, and they were accused of
taking wives and dispensing with the sacrament of matrimony. The King, whatever personal views
he might have on this subject, expected his clergy to live virtuously; and in 1542 he wrote
to the Lord Deputy, requiring an Act to be passed "for the continency of the clergy," and some
"reasonable plan to be devised for the avoiding of sin." However, neither the Act nor the reasonable
plan appear to have succeeded. In 1545, Dr. Browne writes: "Here reigneth insatiable ambition;
here reigneth continually coigne and livery, and callid extortion." Five years later, Sir Anthony
St. Leger, after piteous complaints of the decay of piety and the increase of immorality, epitomizes
the state of the country thus: "I never saw the land so far out of good order."[401] Pages
might be filled with such details; but the subject shall be dismissed with a brief notice of
the three props of the Reformation and the King's supremacy in Ireland. These were Dr. Browne
of Dublin, Dr. Staples of Meath, and Dr. Bale of Ossory. The latter writing of the former in
1553, excuses the corruption of his own reformed clergy, by stating that "they would at no
hand obey; alleging for their vain and idle excuse, the lewd example of the Archbishop of Dublin,
who was always slack in things pertaining to God's glory." He calls him "an epicurious archbishop,
a brockish swine, and a dissembling proselyte," and accuses him in plain terms of "drunkenness
and gluttony." Dr. Browne accuses Dr. Staples of having preached in such a manner, "as I think
the three-mouthed Cerberus of hell could not have uttered it more viperously." And Dr. Mant,
the Protestant panegyrist of the Reformation and the Reformers, admits that Dr. Bale was guilty
of "uncommon warmth of temperament"--a polite appellation for a most violent temper; and of
"unbecoming coarseness"--a delicate definement of a profligate life. His antecedents were not
very creditable. After flying from his convent in England, he was imprisoned for preaching
sedition in York and London. He obtained his release by professing conformity to the new creed.
He eventually retired to Canterbury, after his expulsion from Kilkenny by the Catholics, and
there he died, in 1563.

FOOTNOTES:

[380] Persecution.--Smith's Ireland Hist. and Statis. vol. i. p. 327.

[381] Doom.--See The Earls of Kildare, vol. i. p. 106, for Wolsey's reasons for not removing
him from the Viceroyalty, notwithstanding his dislike.

[382] Ally.--He was charged with having written a letter to O'Carroll of Ely, in which he advised
him to keep peace with the Pale until a Deputy should come over, and then to make war on the
English. The object of this advice is not very clear.

[383] Salus Populi.--There is a copy of this book in MS. in the British Museum. The name of
the author is not known.

[384] Letter.--The deposition accusing Kildare is printed in the "State Papers," part iii.
p. 45. The following is an extract from the translation which it gives of his letter to O'Carroll.
The original was written in Irish: "Desiring you to kepe good peas to English men tyll an English
Deputie come there; and when any English Deputie shall come thydder, doo your beste to make
warre upon English men there, except suche as bee towardes mee, whom you know well your silf."

[385] Pierse Butler.--Called by the Irish, Red Pierse. Leland gives a curious story about him.
He was at war with MacGillapatrick, who sent an ambassador to Henry VIII. to complain of the
Earl's proceedings. The messenger met the English King as he was about to enter the royal chapel,
and addressed him thus: "Stop, Sir King! my master, Gillapatrick, has sent me to thee to say,
that if thou wilt not punish the Red Earl he will make war on thee." Pierse resigned his title
in favour of Sir Thomas Boleyn, in 1527, and was created Earl of Ossory; but after the death
of the former he again took up the old title, and resigned the new.

[386] Spared.--It is quite evident from the letter of the Council to Henry VIII. (State Papers,
ciii.), that a promise was made. Henry admits it, and regrets it in his letter to Skeffington
(S.P. cvi.): "The doyng whereof [FitzGerald's capture], albeit we accept it thankfully, yet,
if he had been apprehended after such sorte as was convenable to his deservynges, the same
had been muche more thankfull and better to our contentacion."

[387] Already.--Mant describes him as a man "whose mind was happily freed from the thraldom
of Popery," before his appointment.--History of the Church of Ireland, vol. i. p. 111.

[388] Houses.--Lingard, vol. vi. p. 203.

[389] Charges.--Mr. Froude has adopted this line with considerable ability, in his History
of England. He has collected certain statements, which he finds in the books of the Consistory
Courts, and gives details from these cases which certainly must "shock his readers" considerably,
as he expects. He leaves it to be implied that, as a rule, ecclesiastics lived in open immorality.
He gives names and facts concerning the punishment of priests for vicious lives (History of
England, vol. i. pp. 178-180); and asserts that their offences were punished lightly, while
another measure was dealt out to seculars. He might as well select the cases of scandal given
by Protestant clergymen in modern times from the law books, and hold them up as specimens of
the lives of all their brethren. The cases were exceptions; and though they do prove, what
is generally admitted, that the moral condition of the clergy was not all that could be desired
in individual cases, they also prove that such cases were exceptional, and that they were condemned
by the Church, or they would not have been punished. With regard to the punishment, we can
scarcely call it a light penance for a priest to be compelled to go round the church barefoot,
to kneel at each altar and recite certain prayers, and this while High Mass was singing. It
was a moral disgrace, and keener than a corporal punishment. The writer also evidently misunderstands
the Catholic doctrine of absolution, when he says that a fine of six-and-eightpence was held
sufficient penalty for a mortal sin.

[390] Ancestors.--See the Phoenix, a collection of valuable papers, published in London, 1707;
and the Harleian Miscellany, &c.

[391] Rome.--This was the invariable practice of the Irish Church. It will be remembered how
letters and expostulations had been sent to the Holy See in regard to the temporal oppressions
of the English settlers.

[392] Davies.--Cause why Ireland was never Subdued.--Thorn's Reprints, vol. i. p. 694.

[393] More.-Sir Thomas More's son-in-law, Roper, gives the following account of his condemnation:
"Mr. Rich, pretending friendly talk with him, among other things of a set course, said this
unto him: 'Admit there were, sir, an Act of Parliament that the realm should take me for king;
would not you, Master More, take me for King?' 'Yes, sir,' quoth Sir Thomas More, 'that I would.'
'I put the case further,' quoth Mr. Rich, 'that there were an Act of Parliament that all the
realm should take me for Pope; would not you then, Master More, take me for Pope?' 'For answer,
sir,' quoth Sir Thomas More, 'to your first case, the Parliament may well, Master Rich, meddle
with the state of temporal princes; but to make answer to your other case, I will put you this
case. Suppose the Parliament should make a law that God should not be God, would you then,
Master Rich, say that God were not God?' 'No, sir,' quoth he, 'that I would not, sith no Parliament
may make any such law.' 'No more,' quoth Sir Thomas More, 'could the Parliament make the King
supreme head of the Church.' Upon whose only report was Sir Thomas indicted for high treason
on the statute to deny the King to be supreme head of the Church, into which indictment were
put these heinous words--maliciously, traitorously, and diabolically."

[394] Parliament.--State Papers, vol. ii. p. 437.

[395] Vote.--Irish Statutes, 28th Henry VIII. c. xii.

[396] Succession.--Froude, vol. i. p. 94. He also quotes Hall to the effect that "all indifferent
and discreet persons judged that it was right and necessary." Persons who were "indifferent"
enough to think that any reason could make a sin necessary, or "discreet" enough to mind losing
their heads or their property, were generally of that opinion. But Henry's difficulties in
divorcing his wife are a matter of history.

[397] Saw it,--Four Masters, vol. v. p. 1445.

[398] Trinidad.--Madrid, 1714.

[399] Truly.--State Papers, vol. iii. p. 108.

[400] Use.--28th Henry VIII. cap. xvi. In Shirley's Original Letters, p. 31, we find the following
order from the Lord Protector, Somerset, to the Dean of St. Patrick's: "Being advertised that
one thousand ounces of plate of crosses and such like things remaineth in the hands of you,
we require you to deliver the same to be employed to his Majesty's use," &c. He adds that the
Dean is to receive "£20 in ready money" for the safe keeping of the same.

[401] Order.--The original letter may be seen in Shirley, pp. 41, 42.

CHAPTER XXV.

Creation of the Earls of Thomond and Clanrickarde--How the King procured Money--Prayers in
English--Opposition of Dr. Dowdall--Accession of Queen Mary--Joy of the Irish--The Catholic
Service restored Publicly--Accession of Queen Elizabeth--Shane O'Neill obtains his Dominions--Parliament
assembled--Unfair Dealing--Martyrs in the Reign of Elizabeth--The Protestant Archbishop advises
Persecution--Cruelties enacted by English Officers--Shane O'Neill--The Deputy tries to get
him Poisoned or Assassinated, with the Queen's Concurrence--His Visit to England--He refuses
to Dress in the English Fashion.

[A.D. 1540-1567.]

Every official was now required to take the oath of supremacy, and the consequences of refusal
were too well known to be estimated lightly. It has been asserted by several historians, that
no Irish clergyman suffered death during this reign; but this statement is quite incorrect.
A careful examination of the State Papers and of the private records of the religious orders,
prove the contrary. In the spring of the year 1540, Lord Leonard Grey was recalled, and Sir
William Brereton was appointed Chief Justice. Grey was soon after committed to the Tower, on
a charge of high treason, and was executed in the following year. The usual feuds between the
Irish chieftains and the settlers were continued during this period, as well as the usual feuds
between the chiefs of each party. Sir Anthony St. Leger, who was appointed Deputy at the close
of the year 1540, tried to reconcile the Ormondes and the Desmonds, and describes the latter
as "undoubtedly a very wise and discreet gentleman"--a character which must be taken with some
qualifications.

On the 1st of July, 1543, Murrough O'Brien was created Earl of Thomond and Baron of Inchiquin;
and De Burgo, known by the soubriquet of Ulich-na-gceann ("of the heads"), from the number
of persons whom he decapitated in his wars, was created Earl of Clanrickarde and Baron of Dunkellin.
These titles were conferred by the King, with great pomp, at Greenwich; but the Irish chieftains
paid for the honour, if honour it could be called where honour was forfeited, by acknowledging
the royal supremacy.

The Four Masters record the following events under the year 1545:--A dispute between the Earl
of Ormonde and the Lord Justice. Both repaired to the King of England to decide the quarrel,
and both swore that only one of them should return to Ireland. "And so it fell out; for the
Earl died in England, and the Lord Justice returned to Ireland." Sir Richard Cox asserts that
the Earl and thirty-five of his servants were poisoned, at a feast at Ely House, Holborn, and
that he and sixteen of them died; but he does not mention any cause for this tragedy. It was
probably accidental, as the Earl was a favourer of the reformed religion, and not likely to
meet with treachery in England. The Irish annalists do not even allude to the catastrophe;
the Four Masters merely observe, that "he would have been lamented, were it not that he had
greatly injured the Church by advice of the heretics."[402]

Great dearth prevailed this year, so that sixpence of the old money was given for a cake of
bread in Connaught, or six white pence in Meath.

In 1546 they mention a rising of the Geraldines, "which did indescribable damages;" and two
invasions of the Lord Justice in Offaly, who plundered and spoiled, burning churches and monasteries,
crops and corn. They also mention the introduction of a new copper coin into Ireland, which
the men of Ireland were obliged to use as silver.

The immense sums which Henry had accumulated by the plunder of religious houses, appear to
have melted away, like snow-wreaths sunshine, long before the conclusion of his reign. His
French and Scotch wars undoubtedly exhausted large supplies; his mistresses made large demands
for their pleasures and their needy friends; yet there should have been enough, and to spare,
for all these claims. When the monasteries were destroyed, the English clergy trembled for
their own existence. The King could easily have dispensed with their services, and deprived
them of their revenues. They were quite aware of their precarious tenure of office, and willingly
agreed, in 1543, to give Henry ten per cent, on their incomes for three years, after the deduction
of the tenths already vested in the crown. Their incomes were thus ascertained, and a loan
was demanded, which, when granted, was made a gift by the ever-servile Parliament.

In 1545 a benevolence was demanded, though benevolences had been declared illegal by Act of
Parliament. This method of raising money had been attempted at an early period of his reign;
but the proposal met with such spirited opposition from the people, that even royalty was compelled
to yield. A few years later, when the fatal result of opposition to the monarch's will and
pleasure had become apparent, he had only to ask and obtain. Yet neither percentage, nor tenths,
nor sacrilegious spoils, sufficed to meet his expenses; and, as a last expedient, the coin
was debased, and irreparable injury inflicted on the country.

On the 28th of January, 1547, Edward VI. was crowned King of England. The Council of Regency
appointed by Henry was set aside, and Seymour, Duke of Somerset, appointed himself Protector.
St. Leger was continued in the office of Lord Deputy in Ireland; but Sir Edward Bellingham
was sent over as Captain-General, with a considerable force, to quell the ever-recurring disturbances.
His energetic character bore down all opposition, as much by the sheer strength of a strong
will as by force of arms. In 1549 the Earl of Desmond refused to attend a Council in Dublin,
on the plea that he wished to keep Christmas in his own castle. Bellingham, who had now replaced
St. Leger as Lord Deputy, set out at once, with a small party of horse, for the residence of
the refractory noble, seized him as he sat by his own fireside, and carried him off in triumph
to Dublin.

In 1548 O'Connor and O'More were expelled from Offaly and Leix, and their territory usurped
by an Englishman, named Francis Bryan. Cahir Roe O'Connor, one of the sept, was executed in
Dublin, and a number of the tribe were sent to assist in the Scotch wars. The political cabals
in England consequent on the youth of the King, who nominally governed the country, occasioned
frequent changes in the Irish administration.

In 1551 the Lord Deputy Crofts succeeded Sir Thomas Cusack, and led an army into Ulster against
the Scotch settlers, who had long been regarded with a jealous eye by the English Government;
but he was defeated both at this time and on a subsequent occasion. No Parliament was convened
during this short reign, and the affairs of the country were administered by the Privy Council.
Dr. Browne and Dr. Staples were leading members. The Chancellor, Read, and the Treasurer, Brabazon,
were both English. The Irish members were Aylmer, Luttrell, Bath, Howth, and Cusack, who had
all recently conformed, at least exteriorly, to the new religion.

The most important native chieftain of the age was Shane O'Neill. His father, Con, surnamed
Baccagh ("the lame"), had procured the title of Baron of Dungannon, and the entail of the earldom
of Tyrone, from Henry VII., for his illegitimate son, Ferdoragh. He now wished to alter this
arrangement; but the ungrateful youth made such charges against the old man, that he was seized
and imprisoned by the Deputy. After his death Shane contended bravely for his rights. The French
appear to have made some attempt about this period to obtain allies in Ireland, but the peace
which ensued between that country and England soon terminated such intrigues.

All efforts to establish the new religion during this reign was equally unsuccessful. On Easter
Sunday, A.D. 1551, the liturgy was read for the first time in the English tongue, in Christ
Church Cathedral. As a reward for his energy in introducing the reform in general, and the
liturgy in particular, Edward VI. annexed the primacy of all Ireland to the see of Dublin by
Act of Parliament. There was one insuperable obstacle, however, in the way of using the English
tongue, which was simply that the people did not understand it. Even the descendants of the
Anglo-Norman were more familiar with the Celtic dialect, and some attempt was made at this
time to procure a Latin translation of the Protestant communion service.[403]

Dr. Dowdall had been appointed, in 1543, to the primatial see of Armagh, by Henry VIII., who
naturally hoped he would prove a ready instrument in his service; but, to the surprise of the
court, he put himself at the head of the orthodox party, and was one of the most faithful opposers
of the introduction of the Protestant form of prayer. In 1552 he was obliged to seek refuge
on the Continent. On the death of Dr. Wauchop, petitions were sent to Rome, requesting his
appointment to the see of Armagh. He was proposed in Consistory on the 1st of March, 1553.

Mary succeeded to the crown in 1553. A Protestant writer explains the difference between the
religious persecutions of her reign, and those which occurred during the reign of Henry VIII.,
with admirable discrimination and impartiality: "The religious persecutions which prevailed
in this reign, proceeded altogether from a different cause from that which stands as an everlasting
blot on the memory of Henry VIII. In Henry's instance, people were tortured and murdered in
the name of religion, but the real cause was their opposition to the will of an arbitrary tyrant;
whereas those who suffered under Mary, were martyred because the Queen conscientiously believed
in those principles to which she clung with such pertinacity."[404] One of the principal of
these victims was Archbishop Cranmer, who had already caused several persons to suffer in the
flames for differing from his opinions, and thus almost merited his fate. It is a curious fact
that several Protestants came to Ireland during this reign, and settled in Dublin; they were
subsequently the founders of respectable mercantile families.

Although the English people had adopted the reformed religion nationally, there were still
a few persons whom neither favour nor indifference could induce to renounce the ancient faith;
and this brief respite from persecution tended to confirm and strengthen those who wavered.
In Ireland, always Catholic, the joy was unbounded. Archbishop Dowdall immediately prepared
to hold a provincial synod at Drogheda, where enactments were made for depriving the conforming
prelates and priests. Happily their number was so few that there was but little difficulty
in making the necessary arrangements. The only prelates that were removed were Browne, of Dublin;
Staples, of Meath; Lancaster, of Kildare; and Travers, of Leighlin. Goodacre died a few months
after his intrusion into the see of Armagh; Bale, of Ossory, fled beyond the seas; Casey, of
Limerick, followed his example. All were English except the latter, and all, except Staples,
were professing Protestants at the time of their appointment to their respective sees. Bale,
who owed the Kilkenny people a grudge, for the indignant and rather warm reception with which
they treated him on his intrusion into the see, gives a graphic account of the joy with which
the news of Edward's death was received. The people "flung up their caps to the battlements
of the great temple;" set the bells ringing; brought out incense and holy water, and formed
once more a Catholic procession, chanting the Sancta Maria, ora pro nobis, as of old. In fact,
"on the accession of Mary to the throne, so little had been done in the interest of the Reformation,
that there was little or nothing to undo. She issued a licence for the celebration of Mass
in Ireland, where no other service was or had been celebrated worth mentioning, and where no
other supreme head had been ever in earnest acknowledged but the Pope."[405]

But the Irish obtained no temporal advantages during this reign--an illustration of the truth
of what I have before remarked, that the nation has suffered almost as much from political
as from religious causes. The work of extermination still went on. The boundaries of the Pale
were increased thereby. Leix was designated the Queen's county, and the fort of Campa obtained
the name of Maryborough, in compliment to the Queen. Offaly was named the King's county, and
the fortress of Daingèan, Philipstown, in compliment to her Spanish consort.

In the year 1553 Gerald and Edward, the sons of the late Earl of Kildare, returned from exile,
and were restored to the family honours and possessions. The Four Masters say that "there was
great rejoicing because of their arrival, for it was thought that not one of the descendants
of the Earls of Kildare or of the O'Connors Faly would ever again come to Ireland." They also
mention that Margaret, a daughter of O'Connor Faly, went to England, "relying on the number
of her friends and relatives there, and her knowledge of the English language, to request Queen
Mary to restore her father to her." Her petition was granted, but he was soon after seized
again by the English officials, and cast into prison.

Shane O'Neill made an unsuccessful attempt to recover his paternal dominions, in 1557. The
following year his father died in captivity,[406] Dublin, and he procured the murder of Ferdoragh,
so that he was able to obtain his wishes without opposition. Elizabeth had now ascended the
English throne (A.D. 1558), and, as usual, those in power, who wished to retain office, made
their religion suit the views of the new ruler. The Earl of Sussex still continued Viceroy,
and merely reversed his previous acts. Sir Henry Sidney also made his worldly interests and
his religious views coincide. A Parliament was held in Dublin, in 1560, on the 12th of January.
It was composed of seventy-six members, the representatives of ten counties, the remainder
being citizens and burgesses of those towns in which the royal authority was predominant. "It
is little wonder," observes Leland, "that, in despite of clamour and opposition, in a session
of a few weeks, the whole ecclesiastical system of Queen Mary was entirely reversed." Every
subject connected with this assembly and its enactments, demands the most careful consideration,
as it has been asserted by some writers--who, however, have failed to give the proofs of their
assertion--that the Irish Church and nation conformed at this time to the Protestant religion.
This certainly was not the opinion of the Government officials, who were appointed by royal
authority to enforce the Act, and who would have been only too happy could they have reported
success to their mistress.

A recent writer, whose love of justice has led him to take a position in regard to Irish ecclesiastical
history which has evoked unpleasant remarks from those who are less honest, writes thus: "There
was not even the show of free action in the ordering of that Parliament, nor the least pretence
that liberty of choice was to be given to it. The instructions given to Sussex, on the 10th
of May 1559, for making Ireland Protestant by Act of Parliament, were peremptory, and left
no room for the least deliberation. Sussex had also other instructions (says Cox) to him and
the Council, to set up the worship of God as it is in England, and make such statutes next
Parliament as were lately made in England, mutatis mutandis. [Hist. Angl. Part I. p.313.] It
is plain that her Majesty's command is not sufficient warrant for a national change of faith,
and that a convocation of bishops only is not the proper or legal representative assembly of
the Church. It is also plain that the acts of an unwilling Parliament, and that Parliament
one which does not deserve the name of a Parliament, cannot be justly considered as the acts
of either the Irish Church or the Irish people."[407]

The official list of the members summoned to this Parliament, has been recently published by
the Irish Archæological Society. More than two-thirds of the upper house were persons of whose
devotion to the Catholic faith there has been no question; there were but few members in the
lower house. No county in Ulster was allowed a representative, and only one of its borough
towns, Carrickfergus, was permitted to elect a member. Munster furnished twenty members. No
county members were allowed in Connaught, and it had only two boroughs, Galway and Athenry,
from which it could send a voice to represent its wishes. The remaining fifty members were
chosen from a part of Leinster. In fact, the Parliament was constituted on the plan before-mentioned.
Those who were considered likely to agree with the Government, were allowed to vote; those
of whose dissent there could be no doubt, were not allowed a voice in the affairs of the nation.

It might be supposed that, with the exception of a few members of the upper house, such a Parliament
would at once comply with the Queen's wishes; but the majority made no secret of their intention
to oppose the change of religion, and the penal code which should be enacted to enforce it.
The Deputy was in an unpleasant Position. Elizabeth would not easily brook the slightest opposition
to her wishes. The Deputy did not feel prepared to encounter her anger, and he determined to
avoid the difficulty, by having recourse to a most unworthy stratagem. First, he prorogued
the house from the 11th of January to the 1st of February, 1560; and then took advantage of
the first day of meeting, when but few members were present, to get the Act passed; secondly,
he solemnly swore that the law should never be carried into execution, and by this false oath
procured the compliance of those who still hesitated. I shall give authority for these statements.

The letter of Elizabeth, with her positive instructions to have the law passed, was dated October
18, 1559, and may be seen in extenso in the Liber Munerum Hibernia, vol. i. p.113. There are
several authorities for the dishonest course pursued by the Lord Deputy. The author of Cambrensis
Eversus says: "The Deputy is said to have used force, and the Speaker treachery. I heard that
it had been previously announced in the house that Parliament would not sit on that very day
on which the laws against religion were enacted; but, in the meantime, a private summons was
sent to those who were well known to be favourable to the old creed."[408] Father George Dillon,
who died in 1650, a martyr to his charity in assisting the plague-stricken people of Waterford,
gives the following account of the transaction: "James Stanihurst, Lord of Corduff, who was
Speaker of the lower house, by sending private summons to some, without any intimation to the
more respectable Irish who had a right to attend, succeeded in carrying that law by surprise.
As soon as the matter was discovered, in the next full meeting of Parliament, there was a general
protest against the fraud, injustice, and deliberate treachery of the proceeding; but the Lord
Justice, having solemnly sworn that the law would never be carried into execution, the remonstrants
were caught in the dexterous snare, and consented that the enactment should remain on the statute-book."[409]
Dr. Rothe corroborates these statements, and records the misfortunes which followed the Speaker's
family from that date.[410] Dr. Moran[411] has very acutely observed, that the day appointed
for the opening of Parliament was the festival of St. Brigid, which was always kept with special
solemnity in Ireland; therefore, the orthodox members would probably have absented themselves,
unless informed of some business which absolutely required their attendance.

The Loftus MS., in Marsh's Library, and Sir James Ware, both mention the positive opposition
of the Parliament to pass this law, and the mission of the Earl of Sussex to consult her Majesty
as to what should be done with the refractory members. If he then proposed the treachery which
he subsequently carried out, there is no reason to suppose her Majesty would have been squeamish
about it, as we find she was quite willing to allow even more questionable methods to be employed
on other occasions.

The Loftus MS. mentions a convocation of bishops which assembled this year, "by the Queen's
command, for establishing the Protestant religion." The convocation was, if possible, a greater
failure than the Parliament. If the bishops had obeyed the royal command, there would have
been some record of their proceedings; but until the last few years, when the ipse dixit of
certain writers was put forward as an argument--for proof it cannot be called--that the Irish
Catholic bishops had conformed to the Protestant religion, so wild a theory was not even hazarded.
It would be impossible here to go into details and proofs of the nonconformity of each bishop.
The work has been already undertaken, with admirable success, by an Anglican clergyman.[412]
I shall, however, give some of the impediments offered to the progress of the Reformation in
the time of Queen Elizabeth, and of the cruel persecutions which were inflicted on those who
dared to wish for liberty to worship God according to their conscience.

Notwithstanding the solemn promise of the Lord Deputy, the penal statutes against Catholics
were carried out. In 1563 the Earl of Essex issued a proclamation, by which all priests, secular
and regular, were forbidden to officiate, or even to reside in Dublin. Fines and penalties
were strictly enforced for absence from the Protestant service; before long, torture and death
were inflicted. Priests and religious were, as might be expected, the first victims. They were
hunted into mountains and caves; and the parish churches and few monastic chapels which had
escaped the rapacity of Henry VIII., were sacrificed to the sacrilegious emissaries of Elizabeth.
Curry gives some account of those who suffered for the faith in this reign. He says: "Among
many other Roman Catholic bishops and priests, there were put to death for the exercise of
their function in Ireland, Globy O'Boyle, Abbot of Boyle, and Owen O'Mulkeran, Abbot of the
Monastery of the Holy Trinity, hanged and quartered by Lord Grey, in 1580. John Stephens suffered
the same punishment from Lord Burroughs, for saying Mass, in 1597; Thady O'Boyle was slain
in his own monastery at Donegal; six friars were slain at Moynihigan; John O'Calyhor and Bryan
O'Freeor were killed at their monastery in Ulster, with Felimy O'Hara, a lay brother. Eneus
Penny was massacred at the altar of his own parish church, Killagh. Fourteen other priests
died in Dublin Castle, either from hard usage, or the violence of torture."

Dr. Adam Loftus, the Protestant Archbishop of Armagh, was one of the most violent persecutors
of the Catholics. In his first report to the Queen, dated May 17th, 1565, he describes the
nobility of the Pale as all devoted to the ancient creed; and he recommends that they should
be fined "in a good round sum," which should be paid to her Majesty's use, and "sharply dealt
withal."[413] An original method of conversion, certainly! But it did not succeed. On the 22nd
of September, 1590, after twenty-five years had been spent in the fruitless attempt to convert
the Irish, he writes to Lord Burleigh, detailing the causes of the general decay of the Protestant
religion in Ireland, and suggesting "how the same may be remedied." He advises that the ecclesiastical
commission should be put in force, "for the people are poor, and fear to be fined." He requests
that he and such commissioners as are "well affected in religion, may be permitted to imprison
and fine all such as are obstinate and disobedient;" and he has no doubt, that "within a short
time they will be reduced to good conformity." He concludes: "And this course of reformation,
the sooner it is begun the better it will prosper; and the longer it is deferred, the more
dangerous it will be." When remember that such words were written, and such deeds were enacted,
by the head of the Protestant Church in Ireland, and sanctioned by the head of the Protestant
Church in England, they may surely be content to allow modern controversialists the benefit
of their pleasant dream that Catholic bishops conformed. If they had conformed to such doctrines
and such practice, it can scarcely be seen what advantage the Anglican Establishment could
gain from their parentage.

Seven years later, when the same prelate found that the more the Church was persecuted the
more she increased, he wrote to advise pacification: "The rebels are increased, and grown insolent.
I see no other cure for this cursed country but pacification, [he could not help continuing]
until, hereafter, when the fury is passed, her Majesty may, with more convenience, correct
the heads of those traitors."[414] The prelate was ably seconded by the Lord Deputy. Even Sir
John Perrot, who has the name of being one of the most humane of these Governors, could not
refrain from acts of cruelty where Catholics were concerned. On one occasion he killed fifty
persons, and brought their heads home in triumph to Kilmallock, where he arranged them as a
trophy round the cross in the public square. In 1582 he advised her Majesty "that friars, monks,
Jesuits, priests, nuns, and such like vermin, who openly uphold the Papacy, should be executed
by martial law."[415] The English officers seem to have rivalled each other in acts of cruelty.
One is said to have tied his victim to a maypole, and then punched out his eyes with his thumbs.[416]
Others amused themselves with flinging up infants into the air, and catching them on the points
of their swords.[417] Francis Crosby, the deputy of Leix, used to hang men, women, and children
on an immense tree which grew before his door, without any crime being imputed to them except
their faith, and then to watch with delight how the unhappy infants hung by the long hair of
their martyred mothers.[418]

Father Dominic à Rosario, the author of The Geraldines, scarcely exceeded truth when he wrote
these memorable words: "This far famed English Queen has grown drunk on the blood of Christ's
martyrs; and, like a tigress, she has hunted down our Irish Catholics, exceeding in ferocity
and wanton cruelty the emperors of pagan Rome." We shall conclude this painful subject for
the present with an extract from O'Sullivan Beare: "All alarm from the Irish chieftains being
ceased, the persecution was renewed with all its horrors. A royal order was promulgated, that
all should renounce the Catholic faith, yield up the priests, receive from the heretical minister
the morality and tenets of the Gospel. Threats, penalties and force were to be employed to
enforce compliance. Every effort of the Queen and her emissaries was directed to despoil the
Irish Catholics of their property, and exterminate them. More than once did they attempt this,
for they knew that not otherwise could the Catholic religion be suppressed in our island, unless
by the extermination of those in whose hearts it was implanted; nor could their heretical teachings
be propagated, while the natives were alive to detest and execrate them."[419]

In 1561 Sussex returned from England with reinforcements for his army, and marched to Armagh,
where he established himself in the Cathedral. From thence he sent out a large body of troops
to plunder in Tyrone, but they were intercepted by the redoubtable Shane O'Neill, and suffered
so serious a defeat as to alarm the inhabitants of the Pale, and even the English nation. Fresh
supplies of men and arms were hastily despatched from England, and the Earls of Desmond, Ormonde,
Kildare, Thomond, and Clanrickarde assembled round the Viceregal standard to assist in suppressing
the formidable foe. And well might they fear the lion-hearted chieftain! A few years later,
Sidney describes him as the only strong man in Ireland. The Queen was warned, that unless he
were speedily put down, she would lose Ireland, as her sister had lost Calais. He had gained
all Ulster by his sword, and ruled therein with a far stronger hand, and on a far firmer foundation,
than ever any English monarch had obtained in any part of Ireland. Ulster was his terra clausa;
and he would be a bold, or, perhaps I should rather say, a rash man, who dare intrude in these
dominions. He could muster seven thousand men in the field; and though he seldom hazarded a
general engagement, he "slew in conflicts 3,500 soldiers and 300 Scots of Sidney's army."[420]
The English chronicler, Hooker, who lived in times when the blaze and smoke of houses and haggards,
set on fire by Shane, could be seen even from Dublin Castle, declares that it was feared he
intended to make a conquest over the whole land.

Even his letters are signed, if not written, in royal style.[421] He dates one Ex finibus de
Tirconail, when about to wage war with the neighbouring sept of O'Donnell; he dates another,
Ex silvis meis, when, in pursuance of his Celtic mode of warfare, he hastened into his woods
to avoid an engagement with the English soldiers; he signs himself Misi O'Neill--Me, the O'Neill.
As this man was too clever to be captured, and too brave to be conquered, a plan was arranged,
with the full concurrence of the Queen, by which he might be got rid of by poison or assassination.
Had such an assertion been made by the Irish annalists, it would have been scouted as a calumny
on the character of "good Queen Bess;" but the evidence of her complicity is preserved in the
records of the State Paper Office. I shall show presently that attempts at assassination were
a common arrangement for the disposal of refractory Irish chieftains during this reign.

The proposal for this diabolical treachery, and the arrangements made for carrying it out,
were related by Sussex to the Queen. I told him the ways he might do it, and how to escape
after with safety; which he offered and promised to do." The Earl adds a piece of information,
which, no doubt, he communicated to the intended murderer, and which, probably, decided him
on making the attempt: "I assure your Highness he may do it without danger if he will; and
if he will not do what he may in your service, there will be done to him what others may."[422]

Her Majesty, however, had a character to support; and whatever she may have privately wished
and commanded, she was obliged to disavow complicity publicly. In two despatches from court
she expresses her "displeasure at John Smith's horrible attempt to poison Shane O'Neill in
his wine." In the following spring John Smith was committed to prison, and "closely examined
by Lord Chancellor Cusake." What became of John is not recorded, but it is recorded that "Lord
Chancellor Cusake persuaded O'Neill to forget the poisoning." His clan, however, were not so
easily persuaded, and strongly objected to his meeting the Viceroy in person, or affording
him an opportunity which he might not live to forget. About this time O'Neill despatched a
document to the Viceroy for his consideration, containing a list of "other evill practices
devised to other of the Irish nation within ix or tenn yeares past." The first item mentions
that Donill O'Breyne and Morghe O'Breyne, his son, "required the benefit of her Majesty's laws,
by which they required to be tried, and thereof was denied;"[423] and that when they came to
Limerick under the protection of the Lord Deputy, they were proclaimed traitors, and their
lands and possessions taken from them. Several other violations of protection are then enumerated,
and several treacherous murders are recorded, particularly the murder of Art Boy Cavanagh,
at Captain Hearn's house, after he had dined with him, and of Randall Boye's two sons, who
were murdered, one after supper, and the other in the tower, by Brereton, "who escaped without
punishment."

In October, 1562, Shane was invited to England, and was received by Elizabeth with marked courtesy.
His appearance at court is thus described by Camden, A.D. 1562: "From Ireland came Shane O'Neill,
who had promised to come the year before, with a guard of axe-bearing galloglasses, their heads
bare, their long curling hair flowing on their shoulders, their linen garments dyed with saffron,
with long open sleeves, with short tunics, and furry cloaks, whom the English wondered at as
much as they do now at the Chinese or American aborigines." Shane's visit to London was considered
of such importance, that we find a memorandum in the State Paper Office, by "Secretary Sir
W. Cecil, March, 1562," of the means to be used with Shane O'Neill, in which the first item
is, that "he be procured to change his garments, and go like an Englishman."[424] But this
was precisely what O'Neill had no idea of doing. Sussex appears to have been O'Neill's declared
and open enemy. There is more than one letter extant from the northern chief to the Deputy.
In one of these he says: "I wonder very much for what purpose your Lordship strives to destroy
me." In another, he declares that his delay in visiting the Queen had been caused by the "amount
of obstruction which Sussex had thrown in his way, by sending a force of occupation into his
territory without cause; for as long as there shall be one son of a Saxon in my territory against
my will, from that time forth I will not send you either settlement or message, but will send
my complaint through some other medium to the Queen." In writing to the Baron of Slane, he
says that "nothing will please him [the Deputy] but to plant himself in my lands and my native
territory, as I am told every day that he desires to be styled Earl of Ulster."

The Lord Chancellor Cusack appears, on the contrary, to have constantly befriended him. On
12th January, 1568, he writes of O'Neill's "dutifulness and most commendable dealing with the
Scots;" and soon after three English members of the Dublin Government complain that Cusack[425]
had entrapped them into signing a letter to the unruly chieftain. There is one dark blot upon
the escutcheon of this remarkable man. He had married the daughter of O'Donnell, Lord of one
of the Hebrides. After a time he and his father-in-law quarrelled, and Shane contrived to capture
O'Donnell and his second wife. He kept this lady for several years as his mistress; and his
own wife is said to have died of shame and horror at his conduct, and at his cruel treatment
of her father. English writers have naturally tried to blacken his character as deeply as possible,
and have represented him as a drunkard and a profligate; but there appears no foundation for
the former accusation. The foundation for the latter is simply what we have mentioned, which,
however evil in itself, would scarcely appear so very startling to a court over which Henry
VIII. had so long presided.

After many attempts at assassination, Shane-an-Diomais [John the Ambitious] fell a victim to
English treachery. Sir William Piers, the Governor of Carrickfergus, invited some Scotch soldiers
over to Ireland, and then persuaded them to quarrel with him, and kill him. They accomplished
their purpose, by raising a disturbance at a feast, when they rushed on the northern chieftain,
and despatched him with their swords. His head was sent to Dublin, and his old enemies took
the poor revenge of impaling it on the Castle walls.

The Earl of Sussex was recalled from Ireland in 1564, and Sir Henry Sidney was appointed Viceroy.
The Earls of Ormonde and Desmond had again quarrelled, and, in 1562, both Earls were summoned
to court by the Queen. Elizabeth was related to the Butlers through her mother's family, and
used to boast of the loyalty of the house of Ormonde. The Geraldines adhered to the ancient
faith, and suffered for it. A battle was fought at Affane, near Cappoquin, between the two
parties, in which Desmond was wounded and made prisoner. The man who bore him from the field
asked, tauntingly: "Where is now the proud Earl of Desmond?" He replied, with equal pride and
wit: "Where he should be; upon the necks of the Butlers!"

FOOTNOTES:

[402] Heretics.--Annals, vol. v. p. 1493.

[403] Service.--Shirley's Original Letters, p. 47. Dr. Browne gives an account of his signal
failures in attempting to introduce the Protestant form of prayer in his letters to Cromwell.
He says one prebendary of St. Patrick's "thought scorn to read them." He adds: "They be in
a manner all the same point with me. There are twenty-eight of them, and yet scarce one that
favoureth God's Word."--State Papers, vol. iii. p. 6.

[404] Pertinacity.--The Victoria History of England, p. 256.

[405] Pope.--Lib. Mun. Hib. part i. p. 37.

[406] Captivity.--Lord Chancellor Cusack addressed a very curious "Book on the State of Ireland"
to the Duke of Northumberland, in 1552, in which he mentions the fearful condition of the northern
counties. He states that "the cause why the Earl was detained [in Dublin Castle] was for the
wasting and destroying of his county." This Sir Thomas Cusack, who took a prominent part in
public affairs during the reign of Queen Elizabeth, was a son of Thomas Cusack, of Cassington,
in Meath, an ancient Norman-Irish family, who were hereditary seneschals and sheriffs of that
county.--Ulster Arch. Jour. vol. iii p. 51.

[407] People.--The Irish Reformation, by the Rev. W. Maziere Brady, D.D., fifth edition, pp.
32, 33.

[408] Creed.--Cambrensis Eversus, vol. iii. p. 19.

[409] Book.--Orationes et Motiva, p. 87.

[410] Date.--Analecta, p. 387.

[411] Dr. Moran.--Archbishops of Dublin, p. 68. Further information may be obtained also in
Curry's Historical Review.

[412] Clergyman.--The Rev. W. Maziere Brady, D.D. Mr. Froude remarks, in his History of England,
vol. x. p. 480: "There is no evidence that any of the bishops in Ireland who were in office
at Queen Mary's death, with the exception of Curwin, either accepted the Reformed Prayer-Book,
or abjured the authority of the Pope." He adds, in a foot-note: "I cannot express my astonishment
at a proposition maintained by Bishop Mant and others, that whole hierarchy of Ireland went
over to the Reformation with the Government. In a survey of the country supplied to Cecil in
1571, after death and deprivation had enabled the Government to fill several sees, the Archbishops
Armagh, Tuam, and Cashel, with almost every one of the Bishops of the respective provinces,
are described as Catholici et Confederati. The Archbishop of Dublin, with the Bishops of Kildare,
Ossory, and Ferns, are alone returned as 'Protestantes'"

[413] Withal.--Shirley, Original Letters, p. 194.

[414] Traitors.--Letter of October 18, 1597.--State Paper Office.

[415] Law.--Letter to the Queen, in Government of Ireland under Sir John Parrot, p.4.

[416] Thumbs.--Despatch of Castlerosse, in State Paper Office, London.

[417] Swords.--O'Sullivan Beare, Hist. Cath. p. 238.

[418] Mothers.--Ibid. p. 99.

[419] Them.--Hist. Cath. p.133.

[420] Army.--See Dr. Stuart's History of Armagh, p. 261.

[421] Style.--In one of the communications from Sussex to O'Neill, he complains of the chieftain's
letters as being "nimis superbe scriptæ."--State Papers for 1561.

[422] May.--Moore's History of Ireland, vol. iv. p.33.

[423] Denied.--This document has been printed in the Ulster Arch. Jour. vol. ii, p.221, but
the editor does not mention where the original was procured.

[424] Englishman.--Moore, vol. iv. p. 37, has "like a gentleman," but the above is the correct
reading. In 1584 Sir J. Perrot tried to get the Irish chieftains to attend Parliament clothed
in the English fashion, and even offered them robes and cloaks of velvet and satin. The chieftains
objected; the Lord Deputy insisted. At last one of them, with exquisite humour, suggested that
if he were obliged to wear English robes, a Protestant minister should accompany him attired
in Irish garments, so that the mirth and amazement of the People should be fairly divided between
them.--Sir J. Perrot's Life, p.198.

[425] Cusack.--One reason, perhaps, was that the Chancellor always treated O'Neill with the
respect due from one gentleman to another. Flemyng mentions, in a letter to Cecil, November
29, 1563, that O'Neill told him, when about to take the oaths of his people to an agreement
with the Queen, that "Cusack did not give them their oath so, but let me give them their oath."

CHAPTER XXVI.

Spenser's Castle--Sidney's Official Account of Ireland--Miserable State of the Protestant Church--The
Catholic Church and its Persecuted Rulers--The Viceroy's Administration--A Packed Parliament
and its Enactments--Claim of Sir P. Carew--An Attempt to plant in Ulster--Smith's Settlement
in the Ards--His Description of the Native Irish--He tries to induce Englishmen to join him--Smith
is killed, and the attempt to plant fails--Essex next tries to colonize Ulster--He dies in
Dublin--Sidney returns to Ireland--His Interview with Granuaile--Massacre at Mullamast--Spenser's
Account of the State of Ireland.

[A.D. 1567-1579.]

Kilcolman Castle, with its fair domains, were bestowed on the poet Spenser, who had accompanied
Lord Grey to Ireland in 1579. He has left a fearful description of the miseries of the country;
but it scarcely exceeds the official report of Sir Henry Sidney, which must first be noticed.
At the close of the month of January, 1567, the Lord Deputy set out on a visitation of Munster
and Connaught. In his official account he writes thus of Munster: "Like as I never was in a
more pleasant country in all my life, so never saw I a more waste and desolate land. Such horrible
and lamentable spectacles are there to behold--as the burning of villages, the ruin of churches,
the wasting of such as have been good towns and castles; yea, the view of the bones and skulls
of the dead subjects, who, partly by murder, partly by famine, have died in the fields--as,
in truth, hardly any Christian with dry eyes could behold." He declares that, in the territory
subject to the Earl of Ormonde, he witnessed "a want of justice and judgment." He describes
the Earl of Desmond as "a man devoid of judgment to govern, and will be to be ruled." The Earl
of Thomond, he says, "had neither wit of himself to govern, nor grace or capacity to learn
of others." The Earl of Clanrickarde he describes as "so overruled by a putative wife, as ofttimes,
when he best intendeth, she forceth him to do the worst;" and it would appear that neither
he nor his lady could govern their own family, for their sons were so turbulent they kept the
whole country in disturbance. In Galway he found the people trying to protect themselves, as
best they might, from their dangerous neighbours; and at Athenry there were but four respectable
householders, who presented him with the rusty keys of their town--"a pitiful and lamentable
present;" and they requested him to keep those keys, for "they were so impoverished by the
extortions of the lords about them, as they were no longer able to keep that town."

Well might he designate the policy by which the country had been hitherto governed as "cowardly,"
and contemn the practice of promoting division between the native princes, which was still
practised. He adds: "So far hath that policy, or rather lack of policy, in keeping dissensions
among them, prevailed, as now, albeit all that are alive would become honest and live in quiet,
yet there are not left alive, in those two provinces, the twentieth person necessary to inhabit
the same." Sidney at once proceeded to remedy the evils under which the unfortunate country
groaned, by enacting other evils. We shall leave him to give his own account of his proceedings.
He writes thus, in one of his official despatches: "I write not the names of each particular
varlet that hath died since I arrived, as well by the ordinary course of the law, as of the
martial law, as flat fighting with them, when they would take food without the good will of
the giver, for I think it no stuff worthy the loading of my letters with; but I do assure you
the number of them is great, and some of the best, and the rest tremble. For most part they
fight for their dinner, and many of them lose their heads before they be served with supper.
Down they go in every corner, and down they shall go, God willing."[426]

When we remember Sidney's own description of the desolation of country, and read of the fashion
in which he remedied that desolation we cannot wonder at the piteous account given a few years
later by the English poet; for who could escape the threefold danger of "ordinary law, martial
law, and flat fighting." Nor was the state of religious affairs at all more promising. The
Deputy describes the kingdom as "overwhelmed by the most deplorable immorality and irreligion;"[427]
the Privy Council, in their deliberations, gives a similar account. "As for religion, there
was but small appearance of it; the churches uncovered, and the clergy scattered."[428] An
Act of Parliament was then passed to remedy the evils which Acts of Parliament had created.
In the preamble (11th Elizabeth, sess. iii. cap. 6) it mentions the disorders which Sidney
had found, and complains of "the great abuse of the clergy in getting into the said dignities
by force, simony, friendship, and other corrupt means, to the great overthrow of God's holy
Church;" and for remedy, the Act authorizes the Lord Deputy to appoint, for ten years, to all
the ecclesiastical benefices of these provinces, with the exception of the cathedral churches
of Waterford, Limerick, Cork, and Cashel.

But it was soon evident that Acts of Parliament could not effect ecclesiastical reform, though
they might enforce exterior conformity to a new creed. In 1576, Sidney again complains of the
state of the Irish Church, and addresses himself, with almost blasphemous flattery to the head
of that body, "as to the only sovereign salve-giver to this your sore and sick realm, the lamentable
state of the most noble and principal limb thereof--the Church I mean--as foul, deformed, and
as cruelly crushed as any other part thereof, only by your gracious order to be cured, or at
least amended. I would not have believed, had I not, for a greater part, viewed the same throughout
the whole realm." He then gives a detailed account of the state of the diocese of Meath, which
he declares to be the best governed and best peopled diocese in the realm; and from his official
report of the state of religion there, he thinks her Majesty may easily judge of the spiritual
condition of less favoured districts. He says there are no resident parsons or vicars, and
only a very simple or sorry curate appointed to serve them; of them only eighteen could speak
English, the rest being "Irish ministers, or rather Irish rogues, having very little Latin,
and less learning or civility."[429] In many places he found the walls of the churches thrown
down, the chancels uncovered, and the windows and doors ruined or spoiled--fruits of the iconoclastic
zeal of the original reformers and of the rapacity of the nobles, who made religion an excuse
for plunder. He complains that the sacrament of baptism was not used amongst them, and he accuses
the "prelates themselves" of despoiling their sees, declaring that if he told all he should
make "too long a libel of his letter. But your Majesty may believe it, that, upon the face
of the earth where Christ is professed, there is not a Church in so miserable a case."

A Protestant nobleman, after citing some extracts from this document, concludes thus: "Such
was the condition of a Church which was, half a century ago, rich and flourishing, an object
of reverence, and a source of consolation to the people. It was now despoiled of its revenues;
the sacred edifices were in ruins; the clergy were either ignorant of the language of their
flocks, or illiterate and uncivilized intruders; and the only ritual permitted by the laws
was one of which the people neither comprehended the language nor believed the doctrines. And
this was called establishing the Reformation!"[430]

It should be observed, however, that Sir Henry Sidney's remarks apply exclusively to the Protestant
clergy. Of the state of the Catholic Church and clergy he had no knowledge, neither had he
any interest in obtaining information. His account of the Protestant clergy who had been intruded
into the Catholic parishes, and of the Protestant bishops who had been placed in the Catholic
dioceses, we may presume to be correct, as he had no interest or object in misrepresentation;
but his observation concerning the neglect of the sacrament of baptism, may be taken with some
limitation. When a religious revolution takes place in a Catholic country, there is always
a large class who conform exteriorly to whatever opinions maybe enforced by the sword. They
have not the generosity to become confessors, nor the courage to become martyrs. But these
persons rarely renounce the faith in their hearts; and sacrifice their conscience to their
worldly interest, though not without considerable uneasiness. In such cases, these apparently
conforming Protestants would never think of bringing their children to be baptized by a minister
of the new religion; they would make no nice distinctions between the validity of one sacrament
and another; and would either believe that sacraments were a matter of indifference, as the
new creed implied, or if they were of any value that they should be administered by those who
respected them and that their number should remain intact. In recent famine years, the men
who risked their spiritual life to save their temporal existence, which the tempter would only
consent to preserve on his own terms, were wont to visit the church, and bid Almighty God a
solemn farewell until better times should come. They could not make up their minds to die of
starvation, when food might be had for formal apostacy; they knew that they were denying their
God when they appeared to deny their religion. It is more than probable that a similar feeling
actuated thousands at the period of which we are writing; and that the poor Celt, who conformed
from fear of the sword, took his children by night to the priest of the old religion, that
he might admit them, by the sacrament of baptism, into the fold of the only Church in which
he believed.

It is also a matter of fact, that though the Protestant services were not attended, and the
lives of the Protestant ministers were not edifying, that the sacraments were administered
constantly by the Catholic clergy. It is true they date their letters "from the place of refuge"
(e loco refugii nostri), which might be the wood nearest to their old and ruined parish-church,
or the barn or stable of some friend, who dared not shelter them in his house; yet this was
no hindrance to their ministrations; for we find Dr. Loftus complaining to Sir William Cecil
that the persecuted Bishop of Meath, Dr. Walsh, was "one of great credit amongst his countrymen,
and upon whom (as touching cause of religion) they wholly depend."[431] Sir Henry Sidney's
efforts to effect reformation of conduct in the clergy and laity, do not seem to have been
so acceptable at court as he might have supposed. His strong measures were followed by tumults;
and the way in which he obtained possession of the persons of some of the nobles, was not calculated
to enhance his popularity. He was particularly severe towards the Earl of Desmond, whom he
seized in Kilmallock, after requiring his attendance, on pretence of wishing him to assist
in his visitation of Munster. In October, 1567, the Deputy proceeded to England to explain
his conduct, taking with him the Earl of Desmond and his brother, John, whom he also arrested
on false pretences. Sidney was, however, permitted to return, in September, 1568. He landed
at Carrickfergus, where he received the submission of Turlough O'Neill, who had been elected
to the chieftaincy on the death of Shane the Proud.

The first public act of the Lord Deputy was to assemble a Parliament, in which all constitutional
rules were simply set at defiance (January 17th, 1569). Mayors and sheriffs returned themselves;
members were sent up for towns not incorporated, and several Englishmen were elected as burgesses
for places they had never seen. One of these men, Hooker, who was returned for Athenry, has
left a chronicle of the age. He had to be protected by a guard in going to his residence. Popular
feeling was so strongly manifested against this gross injustice, that the judges were consulted
as to the legality of proceedings of whose iniquity there could be no doubt. The elections
for non-corporate towns, and the election of individuals by themselves, were pronounced invalid;
but a decision was given in favour of non-resident Englishmen, which still gave the court a
large majority.[432] In this Parliament--if, indeed, it could be called such--Acts were passed
for attainting Shane O'Neill, for suppressing the name, and for annexing Tyrone to the royal
possessions. Charter schools were to be founded, of which the teachers should be English and
Protestants; and the law before-mentioned, for permitting the Lord Deputy to appoint persons
to ecclesiastical benefices for ten years, was passed.

Sir Philip Carew came to Ireland about this time, and renewed the claim of his family to possessions
in Ireland. This plea had been rejected in the reign of Edward III.; but he now produced a
forged roll, which the corrupt administration of the day readily admitted as genuine. His claim
was made in right of Robert FitzStephen, one of the first adventurers; his demand included
one-half of the "kingdom of Cork," and the barony of Idrone, in Carlow. Several engagements
ensued, in one of which Carew boasted of having slain 400 Irish, and lost only one man. If
his statement be true, it is probable the engagement was simply a massacre. The war became
so formidable, that the MacCarthys, FitzGeralds, Cavanaghs, and FitzMaurices united against
the "common enemy," and at last despatched emissaries to the Pope to implore his assistance.
It is strange to find native Irish chieftains uniting with Anglo-Norman lords to resist an
English settler.

Sidney now began to put his plan of local governments into execution; but this arrangement
simply multiplied the number of licensed oppressors. Both of these gentlemen distinguished
themselves by "strong measures," of which cruelty to the unfortunate natives was the predominant
feature. Perrot boasted that he would "hunt the fox out of his hole," and devoted himself to
the destruction of the Geraldines. Fitton arrested the Earl of Clanrickarde, and excited a
general disturbance. In 1570 the Queen determined to lay claim to the possessions in Ulster,
graciously conceded to her by the gentlemen who had been permitted to vote according to her
royal pleasure in the so-called Parliament of 1569. She bestowed the district of Ards, in Down,
upon her secretary, Sir Thomas Smith. It was described as "divers parts and parcels of her
Highness' Earldom of Ulster that lay waste, or else was inhabited with a wicked, barbarous,
and uncivil people." There were, however, two grievous misstatements in this document. Ulster
did not belong to her Highness, unless, indeed, the Act of a packed Parliament could be considered
legal; and the people who inhabited it were neither "wicked, barbarous, nor uncivil." The tract
of country thus unceremoniously bestowed on an English adventurer, was in the possession of
Sir Rowland Savage. His first ancestor was one of the most distinguished of the Anglo-Norman
settlers who had accompanied De Courcy to Ireland. Thus, although he could not claim the prescriptive
right of several thousand years for his possessions, he certainly had the right of possession
for several centuries. An attempt had been made about ten years before to drive him out of
part of his territory, and he had written a letter to "The Right Hon. the Earl of Sussex, Lieutenant-General
of Ireland," asking for "justice," which justice he had not obtained. He was permitted to hold
the Southern Ards, because he could not be expelled from it without considerable difficulty,
and because it was the least valuable part of his property.

Smith confided the conduct of the enterprise to his natural son who has already been mentioned
as the person who attempted to poison Shane O'Neill. The first State Paper notice of this enterprise
is in a letter, dated February, 8, 1572, from Captain Piers to the Lord Deputy, stating that
the country is in an uproar "at Mr. Smith coming over to plant in the north." There is a rare
black letter still extant, entitled, ["Letter by F.B. on the Peopling of the Ardes"] which
Smith wrote to induce English adventurers to join him in his speculation. It is composed with
considerable ability. He condemns severely the degeneracy of the early English settlers, "who
allied and fostered themselves with the Irish." He says that "England was never fuller of people
than it is at this day," and attributes this to "the dissolution of abbeys, which hath doubled
the number of gentlemen and marriages." He says the younger sons who cannot "maintain themselves
in the emulation of the world," as the elder and richer do, should emigrate; and then he gives
glowing accounts of the advantages of this emigration.

Strange to say, one of the principal inducements he offers is that the "churle of Ireland is
very simple and toylsomme man, desiring nothing but that he may not be eaten out with ceasse
[rent], coyne, and liverie." He passes over the subject of rent without any comment, but he
explains very fully how "the churle is eaten up" with the exactions of "coyne and liverie."
He says these laborious Irish will gladly come "to live under us, and to farm our ground;"
but he does not say anything about the kind of treatment they were to receive in return for
their labour. His next inducement is the immense sale (and profit) they might expect by growing
corn; and he concludes by relieving their fears as to any objections which the inhabitants
of this country might make to being dispossessed from their homes and lands, or any resistance
they might offer. He considers it immaterial, "for the country of Lecale [which had been taken
in a similar manner from Savage] was some time kept by Brereton with a hundred horses, and
Lieutenant Burrows kept Castle Rean [Castlereagh], and went daily one quarter of a mile to
fetch his water, against five hundred Irish that lay again him."

Smith concludes with "an offer and order" for those who wished to join in the enterprise. Each
footman to have a pike,[433] or halberd, or caliver, and a convenient livery cloak, of red
colour or carnation, with black facings. Each horseman to have a staffe[434] and a case of
dagges,[435] and his livery[436] to be of the colour aforesaid.

Strype wrote a life of Sir Thomas Smith, Bart., Oxford, 1620. He mentions this attempt at colonizing
Ulster, having this good design therein: "that those half-barbarous people might be taught
some civility." He speaks of "the hopeful gentleman," Sir Thomas Smith's son and concludes
with stating how the expedition terminated: "But when matters went on thus fairly, Mr. Smith
was intercepted and slain by a wild Irishman."

Before his assassination Smith had written an account of his proceedings to his father, in
which he says that "envy had hindered him more than the enemy," and that he had been ill-handled
by some of his own soldiers, ten of whom he had punished. He also expresses some fear of the
native Irish, whom he had tried to drive out of their lands, as he says they sometimes "lay
wait to intrap and murther the maister himself."

I have given details of this attempted plantation in Ulster, because it illustrates the subject;
and each plantation which will be recorded afterwards, was carried out on the same plan. The
object of the Englishman was to obtain a home and a fortune; to do this he was obliged to drive,
the natives out of their homes, and to deprive them of their wealth, whether greater or less.
The object of the Irishman was to keep out the intruder; and, if he could not be kept out,
to get rid of him by fair means or foul.

It is probable that the attempt of Smith was intended by Government principally as an experiment
to ascertain whether the plantation could be carried out on a larger scale. The next attempt
was made by Walter Devereux, Earl of Essex, who received part of the signories of Clannaboy
and Ferney, provided he could expel the "rebels" who dwelt there. Essex mortgaged his estates
to the Queen to obtain funds for the enterprise. He was accompanied by Sir Henry Kenlis, Lord
Dacres, and Lord Norris' three sons.

Sir William FitzGerald, the then Lord Deputy, complained loudly of the extraordinary powers
granted to Essex; and some show of deference to his authority was made by requiring the Earl
to receive his commission from him. Essex landed in Ireland in 1573, and the usual career of
tyranny and treachery was enacted. The native chieftains resisted the invasion of their territories,
and endeavoured to drive out the men whom they could only consider as robbers. The invaders,
when they could not conquer, stooped to acts of treachery. Essex soon found that the conquest
of Ulster was not quite so easy a task as he had anticipated. Many of the adventurers who had
assumed his livery, and joined his followers, deserted him; and Brian O'Neill, Hugh O'Neill,
and Turlough O'Neill rose up against him. Essex then invited Conn O'Donnell to his camp; but,
as soon as he secured him, he seized his Castle of Lifford, and sent the unfortunate chieftain
a prisoner to Dublin.

In 1574 the Earl and Brian O'Neill made peace. A feast was prepared by the latter, to which
Essex and his principal followers were invited; but after this entertainment had lasted for
three days and nights, "as they were agreeably drinking and making merry, Brian, his brother,
and his wife were seized upon by the Earl, and all his people put unsparingly to the sword-men,
women, youths, and maidens--in Brian's own presence. Brian was afterwards sent to Dublin, together
with his wife and brother, where they were cut in quarters. Such was the end of their feast.
This wicked and treacherous murder of the lord of the race of Hugh Boy O'Neill, the head and
the senior of the race of Eoghan, son of Nial of the Nine Hostages, and of all the Gaels, a
few only excepted, was a sufficient cause of hatred and dispute to the English by the Irish."[437]

Essex visited England in 1575, and tried to induce the Queen to give him further assistance
in his enterprise. On her refusal, he retired to Ireland, and died in Dublin, on the 22nd September,
1576. It was rumoured he had died of poison, and that the poison was administered at the desire
of the Earl of Leicester, who soon after divorced his own wife, and married the widow of his
late rival Essex complained bitterly, in his letter to Sir Henry Sidney, of the way in which
he had been treated in his projected plantation of Clannaboy, and protested against the injustice
which had been done through him on O'Donnell, MacMahon, and others, who were always peaceable
and loyal, but "whom he had, on the pledged word of the Queen, undone with fair promises."
Probably, only for his own "undoing," he would have had but scant pity for others.

Yet Essex could be generous and knightly with his friends, kind and courtly, at least to his
English dependents. There are some curious accounts of his expenses while he was "Lord-General
of Ulster," in a State Paper, from which it will appear that he could be liberal, either from
natural benevolence or from policy. The entries of expenditure indicate a love of music, which
he could easily gratify in Ireland, still famous for the skill of its bards. He gave ten shillings
to the singing men of Mellifont, then inhabited by Edward Moore, to whom it had been granted
at the suppression of monasteries. A harper at Sir John Bellew's received three shillings;
"Crues, my Lord of Ormonde's harper," received the large sum of forty shillings, but whether
in compliment to the bard or the bard's master is doubtful. The Earl of Ormonde's "musicians"
also got twenty shillings. But there are other disbursements, indicating that presents were
gratefully received and vails expected. "A boy that brought your lordship a pair of greyhounds"
had a small donation; but "M'Genis, that brought your lordship two stags," had 13s. 4d., a
sum equivalent to £7 of our money. Nor were the fair sex forgotten, for Mrs. Fagan, wife of
the Lord Mayor of Dublin, was presented with a piece of taffeta "for good entertainment."

Sir Henry Sidney returned to Ireland in 1575. He tells us himself how he took on him, "the
third time, that thanklesse charge; and so taking leave of her Majesty, kissed her sacred hands,
with most gracious and comfortable wordes, departed from her at Dudley Castell, passed the
seas, and arrived the xiii of September, 1575, as nere the city of Dublin as I could saufly;
for at that tyme the city was greevously infested with the contagion of the pestilence."[438]
He proceeded thence to Tredagh (Drogheda), where he received the sword of the then Deputy.
He next marched northward, and attacked Sorley Boy and the Scotch, who were besieging Carrickfergus;
and after he had conquered them, he received the submission of Turlough O'Neill and other Ulster
chieftains. Turlough's wife, the Lady Agnes O'Neill, née M'Donnell, was aunt to the Earl of
Argyle, and appears to have been very much in favour with the Lord Deputy.

In the "depe of wynter" he went to Cork, were he remained from Christmas to Candlemas. He mentions
his entertainment at Barry's Court with evident zest, and says "there never was such a Christmas
kept in the same." In February he visited Thomond, and subdued "a wicked generation, some of
whom he killed, and some he hanged by order of law." A nice distinction, which could hardly
have been appreciated by the victims. The Earl of Clanrickarde caused his "two most bade and
rebellious sonnes" to make submission, "whom I would to God I had then hanged." However, he
kept them close prisoners, and "had a sermon made of them and their wickedness in the chief
church in the town." John seems to have been the principal delinquent. Some time after, when
they had been set at liberty, they rebelled again; and he records the first "memorable act"
which one of them had done, adding, "which I am sure was John."[439]

Sidney then marched into the west, and had an interview with the famous Grace O'Malley, or
Granuaile, which he describes thus: "There came to me also a most famous femynyne sea captain,
called Granuge I'Mally, and offered her services unto me wheresoever I would command her, with
three galleys and two hundred fighting men. She brought with her her husband, for she was as
well by sea as by land more than master's-mate with him. He was of the nether Burkes, and called
by nickname Richard in Iron. This was a notorious woman in all the coasts of Ireland. This
woman did Philip Sidney see and speak with; he can more at large inform you of her." Grana,
or Grace O'Malley, was the daughter of a chieftain of the same patronymic. Her paternal clan
were strong in galleys and ships. They owned a large territory on the sea-coast, besides the
islands of Arran. Her first husband was Donnell O'Flaherty. His belligerent propensities could
scarcely have been less than hers, for he is termed Aith Chogaid, or "of the wars." Her second
husband, Sir Richard Burke, or Richard an Iarainn, is described by the Four Masters as a "plundering,
warlike, unjust, and rebellious man." He obtained his soubriquet from the circumstance of constantly
appearing in armour. It would appear from this account that Sidney's statement of the Lady
Grana being "more than master's-mate with him," must be taken with some limitations, unless,
indeed, he who ruled his foes abroad, failed to rule his wife at home, which is quite possible.
The subjoined illustration represents the remains of one of her castles. It is situated near
the lake of Borrishoole, in the county Mayo. The ruins are very striking, and evince its having
once been an erection of considerable strength.

Sir William Drury was made Lord President of Munster, 1576, in place of Sir John Perrot. Sir
Nicholas Malby was installed in the same office in Connaught; but the barbarities enacted by
his predecessor, Fitton, made the very name of president so odious, that Sidney gave the new
Governor the title of Colonel of Connaught. The Earl of Desmond and Drury were soon at variance.
Sidney says, in his Memoir, that the Earl "was still repyning at the government of Drury."
After causing great apprehension to the governors, the Lord Deputy sent the whole party to
Kilkenny, and found the "Earl hot, wilful, and stubborn; but not long after, as you know, he
and his two brothers, Sir John and Sir James, fell into actual rebellion, in which the good
knight, Sir William Drury, the Lord Justice, died, and he, as a malicious and unnatural rebel,
still persisteth and liveth."

In 1577 serious complications were threatened, in consequence of the pecuniary difficulties
of the crown. An occasional subsidy had been granted hitherto for the support of the Government
and the army; an attempt was now made to convert this subsidy into a tax. On previous occasions
there had been some show of justice, however little reality, by permitting the Parliament to
pass the grant; a scheme was now proposed to empower the Lord Deputy to levy assessments by
royal authority, without any reference to Parliament. For the first time the Pale opposed the
Government, and resisted the innovation. But their opposition was speedily and effectually
silenced. The deputies whom they sent to London to remonstrate were committed to the Tower,
and orders were despatched to Ireland that all who had signed the remonstrance should be consigned
to Dublin Castle.

It is said that Elizabeth was not without some misgivings as to the injustice with which her
Irish subjects were treated, and that she was once so touched by the picture presented to her
of their sufferings under such exactions, that she exclaimed: "Ah, how I fear lest it be objected
to us, as it was to Tiberius by Bato, concerning the Dalmatian commotions! You it is that are
in fault, who have committed your flocks, not to shepherds, but to wolves." Nevertheless, the
"wolves" were still permitted to plunder; and any impression made on the royal feelings probably
evaporated under the fascinating influence of her next interview with Leicester, and the indignation
excited by a "rebel" who refused to resign his ancestral home quietly to some penniless adventurer.
There had been serious difficulties in England in 1462, in consequence of the shameful state
of the current coin; and the Queen has received considerable praise for having accomplished
a reform. But the idea, and the execution of the idea, originated with her incomparable minister,
Cecil, whose master-mind applied itself with equal facility to every state subject, however
trifling or however important; and the loss and expenditure which the undertaking involved,
was borne by the country to the last penny. Mr. Froude says it was proposed that the "worst
money might be sent to Ireland, as the general dust-heap for the outcasting of England's vileness."[440]
The standard for Ireland had always been under that of England, but the base proposal above-mentioned
was happily not carried into execution. Still there were enough causes of misery in Ireland
apart from its normal grievances. The Earl of Desmond wrote an elaborate and well-digested
appeal to Lord Burleigh, complaining of military abuses, and assuring his Lordship that if
he had "sene them [the poor who were burdened with cess], he would rather give them charitable
alms than burden them with any kind of chardge." He mentions specially the cruelty of compelling
a poor man to carry for five, eight, or ten miles, on his back, as many sheaves as the "horse-boies"
choose to demand of him; and if he goes not a "good pace, though the poor soule be overburdened,
he is all the waye beaten outt of all measure."

Cess was also commanded to be delivered at the "Queen's price," which was considerably lower
than the market price. Even Sidney was supposed to be too lenient in his exactions; but eventually
a composition of seven years' purveyance, payable by instalments, was agreed upon, and the
question was set at rest. The Queen and the English Council naturally feared to alienate the
few nobles who were friendly to them, as well as the inhabitants of the Pale, who were as a
majority in their interest.

The Pale was kept in considerable alarm at this period, by the exploits of the famous outlaw,
Rory Oge O'More. In 1577 he stole into Naas with his followers, and set the town on fire; after
this exploit he retired, without taking any lives. He continued these depredations for eighteen
years. In 1571 he was killed by one of MacGillapatrick's men, and the Pale was relieved from
a most formidable source of annoyance. But the same year in which this brave outlaw terminated
his career, is signalized by one of the most fearful acts of bloodshed and treachery on record.
The heads of the Irish families of Offaly and Leix, whose extirpation had long been attempted
unsuccessfully, were invited in the Queen's name, and under the Queen's protection, to attend
a conference at the great rath on the hill of Mullach-Maistean (Mullamast). As soon as they
had all assembled, they were surrounded by a treble line of the Queen's garrison soldiers,
and butchered to a man in cold blood.

This massacre was performed with the knowledge and approval of the Deputy, Sir Henry Sidney.
The soldiers who accomplished the bloody work were commanded by Captain Francis Crosby, to
whom the chief command of all the kerne in the Queen's pay was committed. We have already related
some incidents in his career, which show how completely destitute he was of the slightest spark
of humanity.[441]

Sir Henry Sidney retired from office finally on the 26th of May, 1578. He dates his Memoir
from "Ludlow Castell, with more payne than harte, the 1st of March, 1582." In this document
he complains bitterly of the neglect of his services by Government, and bemoans his losses
in piteous strains. He describes himself as "fifty-four yeres of age, toothlesse and trembling,
being five thousand pounds in debt." He says he shall leave his sons £20,000 worse off than
his father left him. In one place he complains that he had not as much ground as would "feede
a mutton," and he evidently considers his services were worth an ampler remuneration; for he
declares: "I would to God the country was yet as well as I lefte it almost fyve yeres agoe."
If he did not succeed in obtaining a large grant for his services, it certainly was not for
want of asking it; and if he did not succeed in pacifying the country, it was not for lack
of summary measures. Even in his postscript he mentions how he hanged a captain of Scots, and
he thinks "very nere twenty of his men."

It seems almost needless to add anything to the official descriptions of Ireland, which have
already been given in such detail; but as any remark from the poet Spenser has a special interest,
I shall give some brief account of his View of Ireland. The work which bears this name is written
with considerable prejudice, and abounds in misstatements. Like all settlers, he was utterly
disgusted with the hardships he endured, though the poet's eye could not refuse its meed of
admiration to the country in which they were suffered. His description of the miseries of the
native Irish can scarcely be surpassed, and his description of the poverty of the country is
epitomized in the well-known lines:--

    "Was never so great waste in any place,
     Nor so foul outrage done by living men;
       For all the cities they shall sack and raze,
     And the green grass that groweth they shall burn,
     That even the wild beast shall die in starved den."[442]

Yet this misery never touched his heart; for the remedy he proposes poses for Irish sufferings
is to increase them, if possible, a thousandfold; and he would have troops employed to "tread
down all before them, and lay on the ground all the stiff-necked people of the land." And this
he would have done in winter, with a refinement of cruelty, that the bitter air may freeze
up the half-naked peasant, that he may have no shelter from the bare trees, and that he may
be deprived of all sustenance by the chasing and driving of his cows.

It is probable that Spenser's "view" of Irish affairs was considerably embittered by his own
sufferings there. He received his property on the condition of residence, and settled himself
at Kilcolman Castle. Here he spent four years, and wrote the three first books of the Faerie
Queene. He went to London with Sir Walter Raleigh to get them published. On his return he married
a country girl, named Elizabeth--an act which was a disgrace to himself, if the Irish were
what he described them to be. In 1598, during Tyrone's insurrection, his estate was plundered,
his castle burned, and his youngest child perished in the flames. He then fled to London, where
he died a year after in extreme indigence.

His description of the condition of the Protestant Church coincides with the official account
of Sidney. He describes the clergy as "generally bad, licentious, and most disordered;" and
he adds: "Whatever disorders[443] you see in the Church of England, you may find in Ireland,
and many more, namely, gross simony, greedy covetousness, incontinence, and careless sloth."
And then he contrasts the zeal of the Catholic clergy with the indifference of "the ministers
of the Gospel," who, he says, only take the tithes and offerings, and gather what fruit else
they may of their livings.

FOOTNOTES:

[426] Willing.--Sidney's Despatches, British Museum, MSS. Cat. Titus B. x.

[427] Irreligion.--Mant, vol. i. p.287.

[428] Scattered.--Cox, vol. i. p.319.

[429] Civility.--Sidney's Letters and Memorials, vol i. p.112. Sidney's memoir has been published
in extenso in the Ulster Arch. Journal, with most interesting notes by Mr. Hore of Wexford.

[430] Reformation.--Past and Present Policy of England towards Ireland, p. 27. London, 1845.

[431] Depend.--Shirley, p. 219. An admirable History of the Diocese of Meath, in two volumes,
has been published lately by the Rev. A. Cogan, Catholic Priest of Navan. It is very much to
be wished that this rev. author would extend his charitable labours to other dioceses throughout
Ireland.

[432] Majority.--Leland, vol. ii. p.241.

[433] Pike.--This was probably the Morris pike or Moorish pike, much used in the reign of Henry
VIII and Elizabeth. The common pike was used very generally by foot soldiers until the reign
of George II. The halberd was introduced during the reign of Henry VIII. It was peculiar to
the royal guard, and is still carried by them. In Shirley's comedy, A Bird in a Cage (1633),
one of the characters is asked, "You are one of the guard?" and replies, "A Poor halberd man,
sir." The caliver was quite recently introduced. It was a light kind of musket, fired without
a rest. It derived its name from the calibre or width of its bore.

[434] Staffe.--This was probably a cane staff. We read in Piers Plowman's Vision of "hermits
on a heap with hookyd staves."

[435] Dagges.--"Pistols."--"My dagge was levelled at his heart."

[436] Livery--It was usual for all retainers of a noble house to wear a uniform-coloured cloth
in dress. Thus, in the old play of Sir Thomas More, we find:

"That no man whatsoever Do walk without the livery of his lord, Either in cloak or any other
garment."

[437] Irish.--Four Masters, vol. v. pp. 1678-9. Camden mentions the capture of O'Neill, and
says Essex slew 200 of his men; but he does not mention the treachery with which this massacre
was accomplished.

[438] Pestilence.--Memoir or Narrative addressed to Sir Francis Walsingham, 1583. Ware says
he wrote "Miscellanies of the Affairs of Ireland," but the MS. has not yet been discovered.
The Four Masters notice the pestilence, which made fearful ravages.

[439] John.--He was called Shane Seamar Oge, or John of the Shamrocks, from having threatened
to live on shamrocks sooner than submit to the English. John was the younger of the two De
Burgos or Burkes.

[440] Vileness.--Reign of Elizabeth, vol. i, p. 458.

[441] Humanity.--Dr. O'Donovan, with his usual conscientious accuracy, has given a long and
most interesting note on the subject of this massacre, in the Annals of the Four Masters, vol.
v.p. 1695. Dowling is the oldest writer who mentions the subject, and he expressly mentions
Crosby and Walpole as the principal agents in effecting it. Dr. O'Donovan gives a curious traditional
account of the occurrence, in which several Catholic families are accused of having taken part.

[442] Den.--Faerie Queene, book iii c. 3.

[443] Disorders.--"In many dioceses in England (A.D. 1561), a third of the parishes were left
without a clergyman, resident or non-resident.... The children grew up unbaptized; the dead
buried their dead." Elizabeth had to remonstrate with Parliament upon the "open decays and
ruins" of the churches. "They were not even kept commonly clean, and nothing was done to make
them known to be places provided for divine service." "The cathedral plate adorned the prebendal
sideboards and dinner-tables. The organ pipes were melted into dishes for their kitchens. The
organ frames were carved into bedsteads, where the wives reposed beside their reverend lords.
The copes and vestments were slit into gowns and bodices. Having children to provide for, the
chapters cut down their woods, and worked their fines ... for the benefit of their own generation."
"The priests' wives were known by their dress in the street, and their proud gait, from a hundred
other women."--Froude, Reign of Elizabeth, vol. i. pp. 465-467.

CHAPTER XXVII.

FitzMaurice obtains Help from Spain and from Rome--The Martyrs of Kilmallock--Death of FitzMaurice--Drury's
Cruelties and Death--Arrival of San José--His Treachery--Massacre at the Fort del Ore--O'Neill
shows Symptoms of Disaffection--Treacherous Capture of O'Donnell--Injustice to Tenants--O'Donnell
attempts to Escape--O'Neill's Marriage with Mabel Bagnal--O'Donnell Escapes from Dublin Castle--Causes
of Discontent--Cruel Massacre of Three Priests--Tortures and Death inflicted in Dublin on Bishop
O'Hurley--O'Neill's Insurrection--His Interview with Essex--He marches to the South--His Fatal
Reverse at Kinsale--The Siege of Dunboy--O'Neill's Submission--Foundation of Trinity College,
Dublin, on the Site and with the Funds of a Catholic Abbey.

[A.D. 1579-1605.]

Exaggerated rumours were now spread throughout Munster, of the probability of help from foreign
sources--A.D. 1579. James FitzMaurice had been actively employed on the Continent in collecting
troops and assistance for the Irish Catholics. In France his requests were politely refused,
for Henry III. wished to continue on good terms with Elizabeth. Philip II. of Spain referred
him to the Pope. In Rome he met with more encouragement; and at the solicitation of the Franciscan
Bishop of Killaloe, Cornelius O'Mullrain, Dr. Allen, and Dr. Saunders, he obtained a Bull,
encouraging the Irish to fight for the recovery of religious freedom, and for the liberation
of their country. An expedition was fitted out at the expense of the Holy See, and maintained
eventually by Philip of Spain. At the earnest request of FitzMaurice, an English adventurer,
named Stukeley, was appointed admiral. The military command was bestowed on Hercules Pisano,
a soldier of some experience.

Stukeley was reported to be an illegitimate son of Henry VIII. He was a wild and lawless adventurer,
and entirely unfitted for such a command. At Lisbon he forsook his squadron, and joined the
expedition which Sebastian, the romantic King of Portugal, was preparing to send to Morocco.
FitzMaurice had travelled through France to Spain, from whence he proceeded to Ireland, with
a few troops. He had three small vessels besides his own, and on his way he captured two English
ships. He was accompanied by Dr. Saunders,[444] as Legate, the Bishop of Killaloe, and Dr.
Allen.[445] They were entirely ignorant of Stukeley's desertion until their arrival in Ireland.
The squadron reached Dingle on the 17th of July, 1579. Eventually they landed at Smerwick Harbour,
and threw themselves into the Fort del Ore, which they fortified as best they could. If the
Earl of Desmond had joined his brother at once, the expedition might have ended differently;
but he stood aloof, fearing to involve himself in a struggle, the issue of which could scarcely
be doubtful.

A short time before the arrival of this little expedition, three persons had landed in disguise
at Dingle, whom Desmond, anxious to show his zeal towards the ruling powers, consigned to the
authorities in Limerick. They were discovered to be Dr. Patrick O'Haly, a Franciscan, and Bishop
of Mayo, and Father Cornelius O'Rourke; the name of the third person has not been ascertained.
On Sir William Drury's arrival at Kilmallock, they were brought before him, and condemned to
torture and death. The torture was executed with unusual barbarity, for Drury was a man who
knew no mercy. The confessors were first placed upon the rack, and then, as if the agony of
that torment was not sufficient, their hands and feet were broken with large hammers, and other
torments were added. When life was nearly extinct, they were released, and their martyrdom
was finally accomplished by hanging. For fourteen days their bodies remained suspended in chains,
and the soldiers used them as targets in their shooting exercises.

The Earl of Desmond, however, soon joined his brother. John Geraldine allied himself with the
movement from its commencement. A second expedition was fitted out in Spain, which reached
Ireland on the 13th of September, 1580. It was commanded by Colonel Sebastian San José, who
proved eventually so fearful a traitor to the cause he had volunteered to defend. Father Mathew
de Oviedo, a member of the Franciscan Order, was the principal promoter of this undertaking.
He was a native of Spain, and had been educated in the College of Salamanca, then famous for
the learning and piety of its alumni. The celebrated Florence Conry, subsequently Archbishop
of Tuam, was one of his companions; and when he entered the Franciscan novitiate, he had the
society of eleven brethren who were afterwards elevated to the episcopate. Oviedo was the bearer
of a letter from the Roman Pontiff, Gregory XIII., granting indulgences to those who joined
the army.

On the 18th of August, scarcely a month after he had landed in Ireland, James FitzMaurice was
killed by Theobald and Ulick Burke, his own kinsmen. Their father, Sir William Burke, was largely
rewarded for his loyalty in opposing the Geraldines; and, if Camden is to be believed, he died
of joy in consequence of the favours heaped upon him. The death of FitzMaurice was a fatal
blow to the cause. John Geraldine, however, took the command of the force; but the Earl hastened
to Kilmallock to exculpate himself, as best he could, with the Lord Deputy. His apologies were
accepted, and he was permitted to go free on leaving his only son, James, then a mere child,
as hostage with Drury. The Geraldines were successful soon after in an engagement with the
English; and Drury died in Waterford at the end of September. Ecclesiastical historians say
that he had been cited by the martyrs of Kilmallock to meet them at Christ's judgment, and
answer for his cruelties.

Sir Nicholas Malby was left in command of the army, and Sir William Pelham was elected Lord
Deputy in Dublin. The usual career of burning and plundering was enacted--"the country was
left one levelled plain, without corn or edifices." Youghal was burned to the ground, and the
Mayor was hanged at his own door. James Desmond was hanged and quartered, by St. Leger and
Raleigh, in Cork. Pelham signalized himself by cruelties, and executed a gentleman who had
been blind from his birth, and another who was over a hundred years of age.

But the crowning tragedy was at hand. The expedition commanded by San José now arrived in Ireland.
The Fort del Ore was once more occupied and strengthened; the courage of the insurgents was
revived. Meanwhile Lord Grey was marching so southward with all possible haste. He soon reached
the fort, and, at the same time, Admirals Winter and Bingham prepared to attack the place by
sea. In a few days the courage of the Spanish commander failed, and he entered into treaty
with the Lord Deputy. A bargain was made that he should receive a large share of the spoils.
He had obtained a personal interview in the Viceroy's camp,[446] and the only persons for whom
he made conditions were the Spaniards who had accompanied him on the expedition. The English
were admitted to the fortress on the following day, and a feast was prepared for them. All
arms and ammunition were consigned to the care of the English soldiers, and, this accomplished,
the signal for massacre was given; and, according to Lord Grey's official[447] account, 600
men were slain in cold blood. So universal was the reprobation of this fearful tragedy, that
Sir Richard Bingham tried to make it appear that it had not been premeditated. Grey's official
despatch places the matter beyond question, and Dr. Saunders' letter supplies the details on
authority which cannot be disputed.

Three persons who had been treacherously given up to the Viceroy, were spared for special torments;
those were--a priest named Lawrence, an Englishman named William Willick, and Oliver Plunket.
They were offered liberty if they would renounce the faith; but on their resolute refusal,
their legs and arms were broken in three places, and after they had been allowed to pass that
night and the next day in torment, they were hanged and quartered. The State Papers confirm
the account given by Saunders of these barbarities. The English officers now endeavoured to
rival each other in acts of cruelty to obtain official commendation and royal favour. Sir Walter
Raleigh was especially active in Cork, and brought a charge of treason against the Barrys and
Roches, old English settlers; but Barry set fire to his castle, and took to the woods, where
he joined Lord Desmond. Lord Roche was taken prisoner, but eventually escaped from his persecutors.
Pretended plots were rumoured in all directions, and numbers of innocent persons were executed.
William Burke was hanged in Galway, and forty-five persons were executed. The Geraldine cause
was reduced to the lowest ebb by the treachery of José. The Earl of Desmond and his sons were
fugitives in their own country. The latter was offered pardon if he would surrender Dr. Saunders,
the Papal Legate, but this he resolutely refused. Saunders continued his spiritual ministrations
until he was entirely worn out with fatigue, and he died, at the close of the year 1581, in
a miserable hovel in the woods of Claenglass. He was attended by the Bishop of Killaloe, from
whom he received the last rites of the Church.

Immense rewards were now offered for the capture of the Geraldine leaders, but their faithful
followers would not be bribed. John was at length seized, through the intervention of a stranger.
He was wounded in the struggle, and died immediately after; but his enemies wreaked their vengeance
on his remains, which were gibbeted at Cork. The Earl of Desmond was assassinated on the 11th
of November, 1583, and the hopeless struggle terminated with his death. He had been hunted
from place to place like a wild beast, and, according to Hooker, obliged to dress his meat
in one place, to eat it in another, and to sleep in a third. He was surprised, on one occasion,
while his soldiers were cooking their mid-day meal, and five-and-twenty of his followers were
put to the sword; but he escaped, and fled to Kerry, where he was apprehended ended and slain.
His head was sent to Elizabeth, and impaled on London-bridge, according to the barbarous practice
of the time. His body was interred in the little chapel of Kilnamaseagh, near Castleisland.
Complaints of the extreme severity of Lord Grey's administration had been sent to the English
court. Even English subjects declared that he had "left her Majesty little to reign over but
carcasses and ashes." He was therefore recalled. The administration was confided to Loftus,
the Protestant Archbishop of Dublin, and Sir Henry Wallope, and an amnesty was proclaimed.
Sir Thomas Norreys was appointed Governor of Munster, and Sir Richard Bingham, Governor of
Connaught. In 1584 Sir John Perrot was made Deputy, and commenced his career by executing Beg
O'Brien, who had taken an active part in the late insurrections, at Limerick, with a refinement
of cruelty, as "a warning to future evil-doers."

In 1585 Perrot held a Parliament in Dublin, from which, however, no very important enactments
proceeded. Its principal object appears to have been the confiscation of Desmond's estates.
This was opposed by many of the members; but the crown was determined to have them, and the
crown obtained them. Thus lands to the extent of 574,628 acres were ready for new adventurers.
The most tempting offers were made to induce Englishmen to plant; estates were given for twopence
an acre; rent was only to commence after three years. No Irish families were to be admitted
as tenants, though their labours might be accepted or compelled. English families were to be
substituted in certain proportions; and on these conditions, Raleigh, Hatton, Norris, St. Leger,
and others, obtained large grants. The Irish question was to be settled finally, but somehow
it was not settled, though no one seemed exactly prepared to say why.

Meanwhile Sir Richard Bingham was opposing the conciliatory policy of the Deputy, and hanged
seventy persons at one session in Galway, in January, A.D. 1586. Perrot interfered; but the
Burkes, who had been maddened by Bingham's cruelties, broke out into open rebellion; and he
pointed to the revolt which he had himself occasioned, as a justification of his former conduct.
The Scotch now joined the Burkes, but were eventually defeated by the President, the Irish
annalists say, with the loss of 2,000 men. Another bloody assize was held in Galway, where
young and old alike were victims.

The state of Ulster was now giving considerable anxiety to the English Government. Hugh O'Neill
was just commencing his famous career; and although he had fought under the English standard
in Geraldine war, it was thought quite possible that he might set up a standard of his own.
He had taken his seat in parliament as Baron of Dungannon. He had obtained the title of Earl
of Tyrone. He had visited Elizabeth, and by a judicious mixture of flattery and deference,
which she was never able to resist he obtained letters-patent under the Great Seal restoring
his inheritance and his rank. He was even permitted, on his return, to keep up a standing army
of six companies, "to preserve the peace of the north."

In 1586 a thousand soldiers were withdrawn from Ireland to serve in the Netherlands; and as
the country was always governed by force, it could scarcely be expected not to rebel when the
restraint was withdrawn. O'Neill manifested alarming symptoms of independence. He had married
a daughter of Sir Hugh O'Donnell, and Sir Hugh refused to admit an English sheriff into his
territory. The Government had, therefore, no resource but war or treachery. War was impossible,
when so large a contingent had been withdrawn; treachery was always possible; and even Sir
John Perrot stooped to this base means of attaining his end. The object was to get possession
of Hugh Roe O'Donnell, a noble youth, and to keep him as hostage. The treachery was accomplished
thus: a vessel, laden with Spanish wine, was sent to Donegal on pretence of traffic. It anchored
at Rathmullen, where it had been ascertained that Hugh Roe O'Donnell was staying with his foster-father,
MacSweeny. The wine was distributed plentifully to the country people; and when MacSweeny sent
to make purchases, the men declared there was none left for sale, but if the gentlemen came
on board, they should have what was left. Hugh and his companions easily fell into the snare.
They were hospitably entertained, but their arms were carefully removed, the hatches were shut
down, the cable cut, and the ship stood off to sea. The guests who were not wanted were put
ashore, but the unfortunate youth was taken to Dublin, and confined in the Castle.[448]

In 1588 Sir John Perrot was succeeded by Sir William FitzWilliam, a nobleman of the most opposite
character and disposition. Perrot was generally regretted by the native Irish, as he was considered
one of the most humane of the Lord Deputies. The wreck of the Spanish Armada occurred during
this year, and was made at once an excuse for increased severity towards the Catholics, and
for acts of grievous injustice. Even loyal persons were accused of harbouring the shipwrecked
men, as it was supposed they might have obtained some treasure in return for their hospitality.
FitzWilliam, according to Ware, wished to "finger some of it himself," and invaded the territories
of several Irish chieftains. A complete history of FitzWilliam's acts of injustice, and the
consummate cruelty with which they were perpetrated, would be so painful to relate, that they
can scarcely be recorded in detail. He farmed out the country to the highest bidders, who practised
every possible extortion on the unfortunate natives. The favourite method of compelling them
to yield up their lands without resistance, was to fry the soles of their feet in boiling brimstone
and grease. When torture did not succeed, some unjust accusation was brought forward, and they
were hanged. A tract preserved in Trinity College, Dublin, gives details of these atrocities,
from which I shall only select one instance. A landlord was anxious to obtain the property
of one of his tenants, an Irishman, who had lived "peaceably and quietly, as a good subject,"
for many years. He agreed with the sheriff to divide the spoil with him, if he would assist
in the plot. The man and his servant were seized; the latter was hanged, and the former was
sent to Dublin Castle, to be imprisoned on some pretence. The gentleman and the sheriff at
once seized the tenant's property, and turned his wife and children out to beg. After a short
time, "they, by their credit and countenance, being both English gentlemen, informed the Lord
Deputy so hardly of him, as that, without indictment or trial, they executed him."[449]

It was considered a grave reproach, and an evidence of barbarism, when Maguire sent word to
the Lord Deputy, who wished to send a sheriff to Fermanagh: "Your sheriff will be welcome,
but let me know his eric [the fine which would be levied on the district if he were killed],
that if my people cut off his head, I may levy it on the country." One other instance from
another source will sufficiently prove that the dread of an English sheriff was well founded.
The chieftain of Oriel, Hugh MacMahon, had given a present of 600 cows to the Lord Deputy to
recognize his rights. Sir Henry Bagnal the Marshal of Ireland, had his head-quarters at Newry,
where his property had been principally acquired by deeds of blood, and he wished for a share
of the spoil. A charge of treason was made against MacMahon after the cows had been accepted;
a jury of common soldiers was empannelled to try the case. A few were Irish, and they were
locked up without food until they agreed to give the required verdict of guilty, while the
English jurors were permitted to go in and out as they pleased. The unfortunate chieftain was
hanged, in two days after his arrest, at his own door; his property was divided amongst those
whom we must call his murderers. The MacMahon sept were, however, permitted to retain a portion
on payment of a "good fine, underhand," to the Lord Deputy.[450]

In 1590, Hugh of the Fetters, an illegitimate son of the famous Shane O'Neill, was hanged by
the Earl of Tyrone, for having made false charges against him to the Lord Deputy. This exercise
of authority excited considerable fear, and the Earl was obliged to clear himself of blame
before Elizabeth. After a brief detention in London, he was permitted to return to Ireland,
but not until he had signed certain articles in the English interest, which he observed precisely
as long as it suited his convenience. About this time his nephew, Hugh O'Donnell, made an ineffectual
attempt to escape from Dublin Castle, but he was recaptured, and more closely guarded. This
again attracted the attention of Government to the family; but a more important event was about
to follow. O'Neill's wife was dead, and the chieftain was captivated by the beauty of Sir Henry
Bagnal's sister. How they contrived to meet and to plight their vows is not known, though State
Papers have sometimes revealed as romantic particulars. It has been discovered, however, from
that invaluable source of information, that Sir Henry was furious, and cursed himself and his
fate that his "bloude, which had so often been spilled in reppressinge this rebellious race,
should nowe be mingled with so traitorous a stocke and kindred." He removed the from Newry
to her sister's house, near Dublin, who was the wife of Sir Patrick Barnwell. The Earl followed
Miss Bagnal thither. Her brother-in-law received him courteously; and while the O'Neill engaged
the family in conversation, a confidential friend rode off with the lady, who was married to
O'Neill immediately after.

But a crisis was approaching; and while this event tended to embitter the English officials
against the Earl, a recurrence of outrages against the northern chieftains prepared them for
revolt. One of their leading men, O'Rourke, was executed this year (A.D. 1591) in London. He
had taken refuge in Scotland some time before, from those who wished to take his life, as the
easiest method of securing his property, but the Scots had given him up to the English Government.
He was said to be one of the handsomest and bravest men of his times, and his execution excited
universal pity. The apostate, Miler Magrath, attempted to tamper with his faith in his last
moments, but the chieftain bade him rather to repent himself and to return to the faith of
his fathers.

Hugh O'Donnell made another attempt to escape from confinement at Christmas, A.D. 1592. He
succeeded on this occasion, though his life was nearly lost in the attempt. Turlough Roe O'Hagan,
his father's faithful friend, was the principal agent in effecting his release. Henry and Art
O'Neill, sons of Shane the Proud, were companions in his flight. They both fell exhausted on
their homeward journey. Art died soon after, from the effects of fatigue and exposure, and
Hugh recovered but slowly. He continued ill during the remainder of the winter, and was obliged
to have his toes amputated. As soon as he was sufficiently recovered, a general meeting of
his sept was convened, when he was elected to the chieftaincy, and inaugurated in the usual
manner. He then commenced incursions on the territories occupied by the English; but as the
Earl of Tyrone was anxious to prevent a premature rebellion, he induced the Lord Deputy to
meet him at Dundalk, where he obtained a full pardon for his escape from Dublin Castle, and
a temporary pacification was arranged.

In 1593 he collected another army; Turlough Luineach resigned his chieftaincy to the Earl of
Tyrone; and Ulster became wholly the possession of its old chieftains--the O'Neill and O'Donnell.
An open rebellion broke out soon after, in consequence of the exactions of two English officers
on the territories of Oge O'Rourke and Maguire. Several trifling engagements took place. The
Earl of Tyrone was placed in a difficult position. He was obliged to join the English side,
while his heart and inclination were with his own people; but he contrived to send a messenger
to Hugh Roe, who had joined Maguire's party, requesting him not to fight against him. He was
placed in a still greater difficulty at the siege of Enniskillen, which took place the following
year; but he compromised matters by sending his brother, Cormac O'Neill, with a contingent,
to fight on the national side. Cormac met the English soldiers, who had been sent to throw
provisions into the town, almost five miles from their destination, and routed them with great
slaughter. The site of the engagement was called the "Ford of the Biscuits," from the quantity
of that provision which he obtained there. An Irish garrison was left at Enniskillen, and the
victorious party, after retaliating the cruelties which had been inflicted on the natives,
marched into northern Connaught to attack Sir Richard Bingham.

On the 11th of August, in this year, 1594, Sir William Russell was appointed Deputy in place
of FitzWilliam. Tyrone appeared at the Castle soon after, and complained of the suspicions
which were entertained of his loyalty, not, it is to be supposed, without a very clear personal
conviction that they were well founded. The Viceroy would have received him favourably, but
his old enemy, Bagnal, charged him with high treason. O'Neill's object was to gain time. He
was unwilling to revolt openly, till he could do so with some prospect of success; and if his
discretion was somewhat in advance of the average amount of that qualification as manifested
by Irish chieftains hitherto, his valour redeemed him from all possible imputation of having
made it an excuse for cowardice, or any conciliation with the "English enemy," which was not
warranted by motives of prudence.

Tyrone now offered to clear himself by the ordeal of single combat with his adversary, but
Bagnal declined the offer. The following year (A.D. 1595), the new Deputy took O'Byrne's Castle,
at Glenmalure. One of the Kildare Geraldines revenged the injuries done to this chieftain,
by making nocturnal attacks in the neighbourhood of Dublin; but he was soon captured, and hanged
in Dublin. These and similar outrages excited popular feeling to an unwonted degree; but there
were other wrongs besides the robberies of chieftains' estates, and their subsequent murder
if they resisted oppression. The men whose lives the Irish nation have always held even more
sacred than those of their most ancient chiefs, were daily slaughtered before their eyes, and
the slaughter was perpetrated with cruelties which were so utterly uncalled-for, so barbarously
inhuman, that they might well have excited the burning indignation of a heathen or a Turk.

These men were the priests of the old faith which the Irish had received so many hundred years
before, and which neither death nor torments could induce them to forsake. I shall mention
but two of these outrages, premising that there were few places in Ireland where similar scenes
had not been enacted. In the year 1588 three Franciscan fathers were martyred, who had devoted
themselves for some years previously to the spiritual necessities of the people. Many Catholic
families from Carlow, Wexford, and Wicklow had been obliged to fly into the mountainous districts
of Leinster, to escape further persecution. The three fathers, John Molloy, Cornelius Dogherty,
and Wilfred Ferral, were unwearied in their ministrations. They spoke to these poor creatures
of the true Home, where all their sufferings should be rewarded with eternal joy--of how wise
it was to exchange the passing things of time for the enduring goods of eternity; they visited
the sick, they consoled the dying; above all, they administered those life-giving sacraments
so precious to the Catholic Christian; and if, like the holy martyrs, persecuted by heathen
emperors, they were obliged to offer the adorable sacrifice on a rock or in a poor hut, it
was none the less acceptable to God, and none the less efficacious to the worshippers. These
shepherds of the flock were specially obnoxious to the Government. They preached patience,
but they were accused of preaching rebellion; they confirmed their people in their faith, but
this was supposed to be equivalent to exciting them to resist their oppressors. The three fathers
were at last seized by a party of cavalry, in a remote district of the Queen's county. They
were tied hand and foot, and conducted with every species of ignominy to the garrison of Abbeyleix.
Here they were first flogged, then racked, and finally hanged[451], drawn, and quartered. The
soldiers, brutalized as man can be brutalized by familiarity with scenes of blood, scoffed
at the agonies they inflicted, and hardened themselves for fresh barbarities. But there were
men who stood by to weep and pray; and though they were obliged to conceal their tears, and
to breathe their prayers softly into the eternal and ever-open ear of God, the lash which mangled
the bodies of the men they revered lacerated their souls yet more deeply; and as they told
to others the tale of patient suffering endured for Christ and His Church, the hearts of the
people were bound yet closer to their faithful pastors, and they clung yet more ardently to
the religion which produced such glorious examples.

The other execution is, if possible, more barbarous. If the duty of an historian did not oblige
me to give such details, I would but too gladly spare you the pain of reading and myself the
pain of writing them. The name of Dermod O'Hurley has ever stood prominent in the roll of Irish
martyrs. He was a man of more than ordinary learning, and of refined and cultivated tastes;
but he renounced even the pure pleasures of intellectual enjoyments for the poor of Christ,
and received for his reward the martyr's crown. After he had taught philosophy in Louvain and
rhetoric at Rheims, he went to Rome, where his merit soon attracted the attention of Gregory
XIII., who appointed him to the see of Cashel. O'Sullivan describes his personal appearance
as noble and imposing, and says that "none more mild had ever held the crozier of St. Cormac."
His position was not an enviable one to flesh and blood; but to one who had renounced all worldly
ties, and who only desired to suffer like his Lord, it was full of promise. His mission was
soon discovered; and though he complied with the apostolic precept of flying, when he was persecuted,
from one city to another, he was at last captured, and then the long-desired moment had arrived
when he could openly announce his mission and his faith.

When he had informed his persecutors that he was a priest and an archbishop, they at once consigned
him to "a dark and loathsome prison, and kept him there bound in chains till the Holy Thursday
of the following year (1584)." He was then summoned before the Protestant Archbishop Loftus
and Wallop. They tempted him with promises of pardon, honour, and preferment; they reasoned
with him, and urged all the usual arguments of heretics against his faith; but when all had
failed, they declared their determination to use "other means to change his purpose." They
did use them-they failed. But these were the means: the Archbishop was again heavily ironed.
He was remanded to prison. His persecutors hastened after him; and on the evening of Thursday,
May 5, 1584, they commenced their cruel work. They tied him firmly to a tree, as his Lord had
once been tied. His hands were bound, his body chained, and then his feet and legs were thrust
into long boots, filled with oil, turpentine, and pitch, and stretched upon an iron grate,
under which a slow fire was kindled. The spectacle which was exhibited when the instruments
of torture were withdrawn has been described, but I cannot write the description. What sufferings
he must have endured during that long night, no words could tell. Again he was tempted with
the offer of earthly honours, and threatened with the vengeance of prolonged tortures. Through
all his agony he uttered no word of complaint, and his countenance preserved its usual serene
and tranquil expression. His sister was sent to him, as a last resource, to tempt him to apostatize,
but he only bade her ask God's forgiveness for the crime she had committed. Meanwhile, the
cruelties which had been executed on him became known; public feeling, as far as it was Catholic,
was excited; and it was determined to get rid of the sufferer quietly. At early dawn of Friday,
May 6, 1584, he was carried out to the place now called Stephen's-green, where what remained
of human life was quickly extinguished, first by putting him again to torture, and then by hanging.

O'Neill had hitherto acted merely on the defensive; but the memory of the events just related
was still fresh in the minds of thousands, and it was generally felt that some effort must
be made for freedom of conscience, if not for deliverance from political oppression. A conference
was held at Dundalk. Wallop, the Treasurer, whose name has been so recently recorded in connexion
with the torture of the Archbishop, and Gardiner, the Chief Justice, received the representatives
of the northern chieftains, but no important results followed.

In 1598 another conference was held, the intervening years having been spent in mutual hostilities,
in which, on the whole, the Irish had the advantage. O'Neill's tone was proud and independent;
he expected assistance from Spain, and he scorned to accept a pardon for what he did not consider
a crime. The Government was placed in a difficult position. The prestige of O'Neill and O'Donnell
was becoming every day greater. On the 7th of June, 1598, the Earl laid siege to the fort of
the Blackwater, then commanded by Captain Williams, and strongly fortified. Reinforcements
were sent to the besieged from England, but they were attacked en route by the Irish, and lost
400 men at Dungannon. At last the Earl of Ormonde and Bagnal determined to take up arms--the
former marching against the Leinster insurgents; the latter, probably but too willing, set
out to encounter his old enemy and brother-in-law. He commanded a fine body of men, and had
but little doubt on which side victory should declare itself.

The contingent set out for Armagh on the 14th of August, and soon reached the Yellow Ford,
about two miles from that city, where the main body of the Irish had encamped. They were at
once attacked on either flank by skirmishers from the hostile camp; but the vanguard of the
English army advanced gallantly to the charge, and were soon in possession of the first entrenchments
of the enemy. Although Bagnal's personal valour is unquestionable, he was a bad tactician.
His leading regiment was cut to pieces before a support could come up; his divisions were too
far apart to assist each other. Bagnal raised the visor of his helmet for one moment, to judge
more effectually of the scene of combat, and that moment proved his last. A musket ball pierced
his forehead, and he fell lifeless to the ground. Almost at the same moment an ammunition waggon
exploded in his ranks--confusion ensued. O'Neill took advantage of the panic; he charged boldly;
and before one o'clock the rout had become general.

The English officers and their men fled to Armagh, and shut themselves up in the Cathedral;
but they had left twenty-three officers and 1,700 rank and file dead or dying on the field.
Ormonde thought that the "devil had bewitched Bagnal," to leave his men unsupported; the Irish
annalists thought that Providence had interfered wonderfully on their behalf.[452] O'Neill
retired for a time to recruit his forces, and to rest his men; and a revolt was organized under
his auspices in Munster, with immense success. O'Donnell was making rapid strides; but a new
Viceroy was on his way to Ireland, and it was hoped by the royalist party that he would change
the aspect of affairs.

Essex arrived on the 15th of April, 1599. He had an army of 20,000 foot and 2,000 horse--the
most powerful, if not the best equipped force ever sent into the country. He at once issued
a proclamation, offering pardon to all the insurgents who should submit, and he despatched
reinforcements to the northern garrison towns, and to Wicklow and Naas. He then marched southward
not without encountering a sharp defeat from Rory O'More. Be attacked the Geraldines, without
much success, in Fermoy and Lismore, having, on the whole, lost more than he had accomplished
by the expedition. An engagement took place between O'Donnell and Sir Conyers Clifford, in
the pass of Balloghboy, on the 16th of August, in which Conyers was killed, and his army defeated.
His body was recognized by the Irish, towards whom he had always acted honorably, and they
interred the remains of their brave and noble enemy with the respect which was justly due to him.

Essex wrote to England for more troops, and his enemies were not slow to represent his incapacity,
and to demand his recall: but he had not yet lost grace with his royal mistress, and his request
was granted. The Viceroy now marched into the northern provinces. When he arrived at the Lagan,
where it bounds Louth and Monaghan, O'Neill appeared on the opposite hill with his army, and
sent the O'Hagan, his faithful friend and attendant, to demand a conference. The interview
took place on the following day; and O'Neill, with chivalrous courtesy, dashed into the river
on his charger, and there conversed with the English Earl, while he remained on the opposite
bank. It was supposed that the Irish chieftain had made a favourable impression on Essex, and
that he was disposed to conciliate the Catholics. He was obliged to go to England to clear
himself of these charges; and his subsequent arrest and execution would excite more sympathy,
had he been as amiable in his domestic relations as he is said to have been in his public life.

Ulster enjoyed a brief period of rest under the government of its native princes. In 1600 O'Neill
proceeded southward, laying waste the lands of the English settlers, but promoting the restoration
of churches and abbeys, and assisting the clergy and the native Irish in every possible way.
Having lost Hugh Maguire, one of his best warriors, in an accidental engagement with St. Leger,
the President of Munster, he determined to return to Ulster. A new Viceroy had just arrived
in Ireland, and he attempted to cut off his retreat ineffectually.

O'Neill had now obtained a position of considerable importance, and one which he appears to
have used invariably for the general good. The fame of his victories[453] had spread throughout
the Continent. It was well known now that the Irish had not accepted Protestant Reformation,
and it appeared as if there was at last some hope of permanent peace in Ireland.

Sir George Carew was sent over as President of Munster. He has left an account of his exploits
in the Pacata Hibernia, which are not much to the credit of his humanity, but which he was
pleased to consider refined strokes of policy. The English Government not only countenanced
his acts, but gave the example of a similar line of conduct. James, son of Gerald, Earl of
Desmond, who had long been imprisoned in London, was now sent to Ireland, and a patent, restoring
his title and estates, was forwarded to Carew, with private instructions that it should be
used or not, as might be found expedient. The people flocked with joy to meet the heir of the
ancient house, but their enthusiasm was soon turned into contempt. He arrived on a Saturday,
and on Sunday went to the Protestant service, for he had been educated in the new religion
in London. His people were amazed; they fell on their knees, and implored him not to desert
the faith of his fathers; but he was ignorant of their language as well as of their creed.
Once this was understood, they showed how much dearer that was to them than even the old ties
of kindred, so revered in their island; and his return from prayers was hailed by groans and
revilings. The hapless youth was found to be useless to his employers; he was therefore taken
back to London, where he died soon after of a broken heart.

Attempts were made to assassinate O'Neill in 1601. £2,000 was offered to any one who would
capture him alive; £1,000 was offered for his head; but none of his own people could be found
to play the traitor even for so high a stake. The "Sugane Earl" was treacherously captured
about the end of August, and was sent to London in chains, with Florence MacCarthy. But the
long-expected aid from Spain had at last arrived. The fleet conveyed a force of 3,000 infantry,
and entered the harbour of Kinsale on the 23rd of September, under the command of Don Juan
d'Aquila. It would appear as if Spanish expeditions were not destined to succeed on Irish soil
for only part of the expedition arrived safely, and they had the misfortune to land in the
worst situation, and to arrive after the war had ceased. The northern chieftains set out at
once to meet their allies when informed of their arrival; and O'Donnell, with characteristic
impetuosity, was the first on the road. Carew attempted to intercept him, but despaired of
coming up with "so swift-footed a general," and left him to pursue his way unmolested.

The Lord Deputy was besieging Kinsale, and Carew joined him there. The siege was continued
through the month of November during which time fresh reinforcements came from Spain; and on
the 21st of December, O'Neill arrived with all his force. Unfortunately, the Spanish general
had become thoroughly disgusted with the enterprise; and, although the position of the English
was such that the Lord Deputy had serious thoughts of raising the siege, he insisted on decisive
measures; and O'Neill was obliged to surrender his opinion, which was entirely against this
line of action. A sortie was agreed upon for a certain night; but a youth in the Irish camp,
who had been in the President's service formerly, warned him of the intended attack. This was
sufficient in itself to cause the disaster which ensued. But there were other misfortunes.
O'Neill and O'Donnell lost their way; and when they reached the English camp at dawn, found
the soldiers under arms, and prepared for an attack. Their cavalry at once charged, and the
new comers in vain struggled to maintain their ground, and a retreat which they attempted was
turned into a total rout.

A thousand Irish were slain, and the prisoners were hanged without mercy. The loss on the English
side was but trifling. It was a fatal blow to the Irish cause. Heavy were the hearts and bitter
the thoughts of the brave chieftains on that sad night. O'Neill no longer hoped for the deliverance
of his country; but the more sanguine O'Donnell proposed to proceed at once to Spain, to explain
their position to King Philip. He left Ireland in a Spanish vessel three days after the battle--if
battle it can be called; and O'Neill marched rapidly back to Ulster with Rory O'Donnell, to
whom Hugh Roe had delegated the chieftaincy of Tir-Connell.

D'Aquila, whose haughty manners had rendered him very unpopular, now surrendered to Mountjoy,
who received his submission with respect, and treated his army honorably. According to one
account, the Spaniard had touched some English gold, and had thus been induced to desert the
Irish cause; according to other authorities, he challenged the Lord Deputy to single combat,
and wished them to decide the question at issue. In the meantime, O'Sullivan Beare contrived
to get possession of his own Castle of Dunboy, by breaking into the wall at the dead of night,
while the Spanish garrison were asleep, and then declaring that he held the fortress for the
King of Spain, to whom he transferred his allegiance. Don Juan offered to recover it for the
English by force of arms; but the Deputy, whose only anxiety was to get him quietly out of
the country, urged his immediate departure. He left Ireland on the 20th of February; and the
suspicions of his treachery must have had some foundation, for he was placed under arrest as
soon as he arrived in Spain.

The siege of Dunboy is one of the most famous and interesting episodes in Irish history. The
castle was deemed almost impregnable from its situation; and every argument was used with Sir
George Carew to induce him to desist from attacking it. It was then, indeed--

    "Dunboy, the proud, the strong,
    The Saxon's hate and trouble long."[454]

But the Lord Deputy had resolved that it should be captured. The Lord President considered
the enterprise would be by no means difficult, for "he declared that he would plant the ordnance
without the losse of a man; and within seven dayes after the battery was begun, bee master
of all that place."[455] There was considerable delay in the arrival of the shipping which
conveyed the ordnance, and operations did not commence until the 6th of June. The defence of
the castle was intrusted by O'Sullivan to Richard MacGeoghegan. The chief himself was encamped
with Tyrrell in the interior of the country. The soldiers were tempted, and the governor was
tempted, but neither flinched for an instant from their duty. The garrison only consisted of
143 fighting men, with a few pieces of cannon. The besieging army was about 3,000 strong, and
they were amply supplied with ammunition. On the 17th of June, when the castle was nearly shattered
to pieces, its brave defenders offered to surrender if they were allowed to depart with their
arms; but the only reply vouchsafed was to hang their messenger, and to commence an assault.

The storming party were resisted for an entire day with undaunted bravery. Their leader was
mortally wounded, and Taylor took the command. The garrison at last retreated into a cellar
into which the only access was a narrow flight of stone steps, and where nine barrels of gunpowder
were stored. Taylor declared he would blow up the place if life were not promised to those
who surrendered. Carew refused, and retired for the night, after placing a strong guard over
the unfortunate men. The following morning he sent cannon-ball in amongst them, and Taylor
was forced by his companions to yield without conditions. As the English soldiers descended
the steps, the wounded MacGeoghegan staggered towards the gunpowder with a lighted candle,
and was in the act of throwing it in, when he was seized by Captain Power, and in another moment
he was massacred. Fifty-eight of those who had surrendered were hanged immediately; a few were
reserved to see if they could be induced to betray their old companions, or to renounce their
faith; but as they "would not endeavour to merit life"[456] they were executed without mercy.
One of these prisoners was a Father Dominic Collins. He was executed in Youghal, his native
town--a most unwise proceeding; for his fate was sure to excite double sympathy in the place
where he was known, and, consequently, to promote double disaffection.[457] O'Sullivan Beare
assigns the 31st of October as the day of his martyrdom.

The fall of Dunboy was a fatal blow to the national cause. The news soon reached Spain. Hugh
O'Donnell had been warmly received there; but the burst of grief which his people uttered when
they saw him departing from his native land, was his death-keen, for he did not long survive
his voluntary expatriation. The war might now be considered over--at least, until the victims
recovered courage to fight once more for their own; but the victims had to be taught how dearly
they should pay for each attempt at national independence. Captain Harvey was sent to Carberry,
"to purge the country of rebels"[458] by martial law. Wilmot was sent to Kerry, with orders
to extirpate whole districts, which arrangement is called "settling the country," in the official
document from which I quote. On one occasion a number of wounded Irish soldiers were found,
who are described as "hurt and sick men;" they were at massacred, and this is called putting
them out of pain.[459]

Donnell O'Sullivan now found his position hopeless, and commenced his famous retreat to Leitrim.
He set out with about 1,000 people, of whom only 400 were fighting men; the rest were servants,
women, and children. He fought all the way, and arrived at his destination with only thirty-five
followers.[460]

O'Neill now stood merely on the defensive. The land was devastated by famine; Docwra, Governor
of Derry, had planted garrisons at every available point; and Mountjoy plundered Ulster. In
August he prepared to attack O'Neill with a large army, and, as he informs Cecil, "by the grace
of God, as near as he could, utterly to waste the country of Tyrone." O'Neill had now retired
to a fastness at the extremity of Lough Erne, attended by his brother, Cormac Art O'Neill,
and MacMahon. Mountjoy followed him, but could not approach nearer than twelve miles; he therefore
returned to Newry. In describing this march to Cecil, he says: "O'Hagan protested to us, that
between Tullaghoge and Toome there lay unburied 1,000 dead."

The news of O'Donnell's death had reached Ireland; and his brother submitted to the Deputy.
In 1603 Sir Garret More entered into negotiations with O'Neill, which ended in his submitting
also. The ceremony took place at Mellifont, on the 31st of March. Queen Elizabeth had expired,
more miserably than many of the victims who had been executed in her reign, on the 24th of
March; but the news was carefully concealed until O'Neill had made terms with the Viceroy.

Trinity College, Dublin, was founded during this reign. Sir John Perrot had proposed to convert
St. Patrick's Cathedral into an university; but Loftus, the Protestant Archbishop, would not
allow it, because, according to Leland, "he was particularly interested in the livings of this
church, by leases and estates, which he had procured for himself and his kinsmen." When the
Deputy, whom he cordially hated, had been withdrawn, he proposed a plan which gave him the
credit of the undertaking without any expenditure on his part. The site he selected was in
what was then called Hogges-green, now College-green; and the place was the "scite, ambit and
presinct"[461] of the Augustinian Monastery of All Saints, which had been founded by Dermod
MacMurrough, King of Leinster, A.D. 1166. Dr. Loftus, after obtaining this grant, and such
rents as still belonged to the old Catholic monastery, endeavoured to raise a subscription
to supply the further funds still necessary to complete the work. In this he signally failed;
for those to whom he applied excused themselves on the plea of poverty. Other funds were therefore
sought for, and easily obtained; and the revenues of some suppressed Catholic houses in Kerry,
Mayo, and Ulster, were taken to endow and erect the Protestant University.

FOOTNOTES:

[444] Dr. Saunders.--He has given a full and most interesting account of this expedition, in
a letter to the Roman court. The original has been printed by Monsignor Moran, in his Archbishops,
a work which every reader should possess.

[445] Dr. Allen.--He was a medical man, and was killed in an engagement immediately after the
arrival of the expedition.

[446] Camp.--Dr. Saunders' letter, Moran's Archbishops, p. 202.

[447] Official.--Lord Grey says, in his official despatch to the Queen, dated "From the camp
before Smerwick, November 12, 1580:" "I sent streighte certeyne gentlemen to see their weapons
and armouries laid down, and to guard the munition and victual, then left, from spoil; then
put in certeyne bandes, who streighte fell to execution. There were 600 slayn." After this
exploit, "Grey's faith"--Graia fides--became proverbial even on the Continent. Grey appears
to have a touch of the Puritan (by anticipation) in his composition, for we find him using
very unctuous language about one John Cheeke, who "so wrought in him God's Spirit, plainlie
declairing him a child of His elected;" and he calls the Pope "a detestable shaveling." Raleigh
is said to have had the execution of this butchery; his friend, Spenser, was "not far off,"
according to his own account. He has attempted to excuse his patron, Lord Grey, but his excuse
simply shows that the massacre was reprobated by all persons not destitute of common humanity.

[448] Castle.--The Four Masters give a detailed account of this treachery, taken from the life
of Hugh Roe O'Donnell, which was written by one of themselves. A copy of this work, in the
handwriting of Edward O'Reilly, is still preserved in the Library of the Royal Irish Academy.

[449] Him.--This document was written by Captain Lee, and presented to the Queen in 1594. It
is printed in Desiderata Curiosa Hibernica, vol. ii. p. 91.

[450] Deputy.--Four Masters, vol. vi. p. 1878. The State Papers clearly prove the Deputy's guilt.

[451] Hanged.--It was usual to hang the Franciscans by their own cord, or to tie them together
with their cords and hurl them from the summit of a tower or from a high rock into the sea.

[452] Behalf.--The Four Masters give copious details of this important engagement, which O'Donovan
has supplemented with copious notes, vol. vi. pp.2061-2075.

[453] Victories.--The victory of the Blackwater was hailed with salvos of artillery from S.
Angelo. The Pope and Philip III. of Spain corresponded with O'Neill constantly, the one about
the affairs of the Church, the other with generous offers of assistance. At one time the Emperor
sent him 22,000 crowns of gold.

[454] Long--Dunboy and other Poems, by T.D. Sullivan, Esq.

[455] Place--Hibernia Pacata, vol. ii. p. 559.

[456] Life.--Hib. Pac. vol. ii. p. 578.

[457] Disaffection.--Dr. Moran quotes a letter from Dublin, written 26th Feb., 1603, which
says that he imparted great edification to the faithful by his constancy, and that the whole
city of Cork accompanied him with its tears.

[458] Rebels.--Commission from the Lord Deputy to Harvey.--See the document in extenso, Hib,
Pac. vol ii. p. 447.

[459] Pain.--Hib. Pac. p. 659.

[460] Followers.--The father and mother of the celebrated historian, O'Sullivan were amongst
the number of those who reached Leitrim in safety. Philip, the author, had been sent to Spain
while a boy in 1602, for his education: the whole family joined him there soon after. Dr. O'Donovan
is not correct in his genealogy. It is well known that the real representative of the family
is Murtough O'Sullivan, Esq., of Clohina, co. Cork.

[461] Presinct.--History of the University of Dublin, by W.B.S. Taylor. London, 1845.

CHAPTER XXVIII.

Accession of King James--Joy of the Irish Catholics--Their Disappointment--Bishops, Priests,
and Laity imprisoned for the Faith--Paul V. encourages the Catholics to Constancy--Plot to
entrap O'Neill and O'Donnell--Flight of the Earls--Ulster is left to the Mercy of the English
Nation--The Plantation commences--Chichester's Parliament, and how he obtained Members--Death
of James I., and Accession of Charles--The Hopes of the Catholics are raised again--They offer
a large sum of Money to obtain "Graces"--It is accepted, and the "Graces" are treacherously
refused--The Plantation of Connaught--How Obedience was enforced and Resistance punished--Conspiracy
to seize Dublin--Sir Phelim O'Neill-Massacre of Island Magee.

[A.D. 1605-1642.]

Great was the joy of the Irish nation when James the First of England and the Sixth of Scotland
ascended the throne. The people supposed him to be a Catholic in heart, and a prince in feeling.
They should have judged less favourably of one who could see his mother sacrificed without
making one real effort to avert her doom. His weakness, obstinacy, and duplicity, helped to
prepare the way for the terrible convulsion of English society, whose origin was the great
religious schism, which, by lessening national respect for the altar, undermined national respect
for the throne.

The Irish Catholics, only too ready to rejoice in the faintest gleam of hope, took possession
of their own churches, and hoped they might practise their religion openly. The Cathedral of
Limerick was re-dedicated by Richard Arthur, the Cathedral of Cork and Cloyne by Robert Urigh,
the Metropolitan Church of Cashel by Thomas Rachtar, the churches of Wexford by John Coppinger.
Dr. White restored himself the churches of Clonmel, Kilkenny, and Ross, and other clergymen
acted in like manner in other places. But the most open and remarkable manifestation of devotion
to the old faith was in Cork, always famous for its Catholicity, for the generosity of its
people, and their special devotion to literature and religion. All the Protestant Bibles and
Prayer-books were publicly and solemnly burned, the churches were hallowed, and Smith says:
"They had a person named a Legate from the Pope [Dr. Moran, who quotes this passage, supposes
him to have been a Vicar-Apostolic], who went about in procession with a cross, and forced
people to reverence it. They buried the dead with the Catholic ceremonies; and numbers took
the sacrament to defend that religion with their lives and fortunes."[462]

But the Catholics were soon undeceived. King James drank "to the eternal damnation of the Papists"[463]
solemnly at a public dinner, no doubt to convince the sceptical of his Protestantism; and he
divided his time very equally between persecuting the Puritans and the Catholics, when not
occupied with his pleasures or quarrelling with his Parliament. The Puritans, however, had
the advantage; popular opinion in England was on their side; they were sufficiently wealthy
to emigrate if they pleased: while the Catholics were not only unpopular, but hated, and utterly
impoverished by repeated fines and exactions.

James' conduct on his accession was sufficiently plain. He was proclaimed in Dublin on the
28th September, 1605. A part of his proclamation ran thus: "We hereby make known to our subjects
in Ireland, that no toleration shall ever be granted by us. This we do for the purpose of cutting
off all hope that any other religion shall be allowed, save that which is consonant to the
laws and statutes of this realm." The penal statutes were renewed, and enforced with increased
severity. Several members of the Corporation and some of the principal citizens of Dublin were
sent to prison; similar outrages on religious liberty were perpetrated at Waterford, Ross,
and Limerick. In some cases these gentlemen were only asked to attend the Protestant church
once, but they nobly refused to act against their conscience even once, though it should procure
them freedom from imprisonment, or even from death. The Vicar-Apostolic of Waterford and Lismore
wrote a detailed account of the sufferings of the Irish nation for the faith at this period
to Cardinal Baronius. His letter is dated "Waterford, 1st of May, 1606." He says: "There is
scarcely a spot where Catholics can find a safe retreat. The impious soldiery, by day and night,
pursue the defenceless priests, and mercilessly persecute them. Up to the present they have
only succeeded in seizing three: one is detained in Dublin prison, another in Cork, and the
third, in my opinion, is the happiest of all triumphing in heaven with Christ our Lord; for
in the excess of the fury of the soldiery, without any further trial or accusation, having
expressed himself to be a priest, he was hanged upon the spot."

He then narrates the sufferings of the Catholic laity, many of whom he says are reduced to
"extreme poverty and misery;" "if they have any property, they are doubly persecuted by the
avaricious courtiers." But so many have given a glorious testimony of their faith, he thinks
their enemies and persecutors have gained but little. Thus, while one party was rejoicing in
their temporal gain, the other was rejoicing in temporal loss; and while the former were preaching
liberty of conscience as their creed, the latter were martyrs to it.

Another letter to Rome says: "2,000 florins are offered for the discovery of a Jesuit, and
1,000 for the discovery of any other priest, or even of the house where he lives. Whenever
the servants of any of the clergy are arrested, they are cruelly scourged with whips, until
they disclose all that they know about them. Bodies of soldiers are dispersed throughout the
country in pursuit of bandits and priests; and all that they seize on, they have the power,
by martial law, of hanging without further trial. They enter private house, and execute whom
they please, vieing with each other in cruelty. It is difficult to define the precise number
of those who are thus put to death. All who are greedy and spend-thrifts, seek to make a prey
of the property of Catholics. No doors, walls, no enclosures can stop them in their course.
Whatever is for profane use they profess to regard as sacred, and bear it off; and whatever
is sacred they seize on to desecrate. Silver cups are called chalices, and gems are designated
as Agnus Deis: and all are, therefore, carried away. There are already in prison one bishop,
one vicar-general, some religious, very many priests, and an immense number of the laity of
every class and condition. In one city alone five of the aldermen were thrown into prison successively,
for refusing to take the nefarious oath of allegiance, on their being nominated to the mayoralty;
in another city, no less than thirty were likewise thrust into prison at Easter last, for having
approached the holy communion in the Catholic Church."

The Catholics protested against this treatment in vain. A petition was considered an offence,
and the petitioners were sent to gaol for their pains.

In 1611 the Bishop of Down and Connor was executed in Dublin. He had been seized, in 1587,
by Perrot, and thrown into prison. He was released in 1593, and, according to Dr. Loftus, he
took the oath of supremacy. This statement, however, is utterly incredible, for he devoted
himself to his flock immediately after his release, and continued to administer the sacraments
to them at the risk of his life, until June, 1611, when he was again arrested in the act of
administering the sacrament of confirmation to a Catholic family. Father O'Luorchain was imprisoned
with him, and they were both sentenced and executed together. At the trial the Bishop declared
that the oath of spiritual supremacy was impious, and said that his enemies could not thirst
more eagerly for his blood than he himself was desirous to shed it for Christ his Redeemer.
This venerable prelate had attained his eightieth year, but he was full of the vigour of saintly
heroism. When on the scaffold he asked the executioner to allow him to be the last victim,
as he wished to spare Father O'Luorchain the terrible spectacle of his sufferings. But the
good priest was not behind the Franciscan bishop in his zeal, and he exclaimed, with a touching
grace of courtesy, which the occasion made sublime, that "it was not fitting for a bishop to
be without a priest to attend him, and he would follow him without fear." And he did follow
him, for the Bishop went first to his crown.

There was great difficulty in procuring any one who would carry out the sentence. The executioner
fled, and could not be found when he learned on whom he was to do his office. At last an English
culprit, under sentence of death, undertook the bloody work, on a promise that his own life
should be granted as his reward.

Communications with Rome were still as frequent and as intimate as they had ever been since
Ireland received the faith at the hands of the great Apostle. To be children of Patrick and
children of Rome were convertible terms; and the Holy See watched still more tenderly over
this portion of the Church while it was suffering and persecuted. Paul V. wrote a special letter
to the Irish Catholics, dated from "St. Mark's, 22nd of September, 1606," in which he mourns
over their afflictions, commends their marvellous constancy, which he says can only be compared
to that of the early Christians, and exhorts them specially to avoid the sin of attending Protestant
places of worship--a compliance to which they were strongly tempted, when even one such act
might procure exemption, for a time at least, from severe persecution or death.

On another occasion the same Pontiff writes thus: "You glory in that faith by which your fathers
procured for their country the distinguished appellation of the Island of Saints. Nor have
the sufferings which you have endured been allowed to remain unpublished; your fidelity and
Christian fortitude have become the subject of universal admiration; and the praise of your
name has long since been loudly celebrated in every portion of the Christian world."[464]

O'Neill and O'Donnell may be justly considered the last of the independent native chieftains.
When the latter died in exile, and the former accepted the coronet of an English earl, the
glories of the olden days of princes, who held almost regal power, had passed away for ever.
The proud title of "the O'Neill" became extinct; his country was made shire ground; he accepted
patents, and held his broad acres "in fee;" sheriffs were admitted; judges made circuits; king's
commissioners took careful note of place, person, and property; and such a system of espionage
was established, that Davies boasts, "it was not only known how people lived and what they
do, but it is foreseen what they purpose and intend to do;" which latter species of clairvoyance
seems to have been largely practised by those who were waiting until all suspicions were lulled
to rest, that they might seize on the property, and imprison the persons of those whose estates
they coveted.

In May, 1603, O'Neill had visited London, in company with Mountjoy and Rory O'Donnell. The
northern chieftains were graciously received; and it was on this occasion that O'Neill renounced
his ancient name for his new titles. O'Donnell was made Earl of Tyrconnel at the same time.
The first sheriffs appointed for Ulster were Sir Edward Pelham and Sir John Davies. The latter
has left it on record, as his deliberate opinion, after many years' experience, "that there
is no nation of people under the sun that doth love equal and indifferent justice better than
the Irish, or will rest better satisfied with the execution thereof, although it be against
themselves, so that they may have the protection and benefits of the law, when, upon just cause,
they do desire it."

A plot was now got up to entrap O'Neill and O'Donnell. Their complicity in it has long been
questioned, though Dr. O'Donovan appears to think that Moore has almost decided the question
against them. Moore's evidence, however, is hardly complete, while there is unquestionable
authority which favours the opinion that "artful Cecil" was intriguing to accomplish their
destruction. Curry says, in his Historical Review: "The great possessions of these two devoted
Irish princes, proved the cause of their ruin. After the successful issue of the plot-contriving
Cecil's gunpowder adventure in England, he turned his inventive thoughts towards this country.
A plot to implicate the great northern chieftains was soon set on foot, and finally proved
successful. The conspiracy is thus related by a learned English divine, Dr. Anderson, in his
Royal Genealogies, printed in London, 1736: 'Artful Cecil employed one St. Lawrence to entrap
the Earls of Tyrone and Tyrconnel, the Lord Delvin, and other Irish chiefs, into a sham plot,
which had no evidence but his.'"

The next movement was to drop an anonymous letter at the door of the council-chamber, mentioning
a design, as then in contemplation, for seizing the Castle of Dublin, and murdering the Lord
Deputy. No names were mentioned, but it was publicly stated that Government had information
in their possession which fixed the guilt of the conspiracy on the Earl of Tyrone. His flight,
which took place immediately after, was naturally considered as an acknowledgment of his guilt.
It is more probable that the expatriation was prompted by his despair. The exiles left Rathmullen
on the 14th of September, 1607. O'Neill had been with the Lord Deputy shortly before; and one
cannot but suppose that he had then obtained some surmise of premeditated treachery, for he
arranged his flight secretly and swiftly, pretending that he was about to visit London. O'Neill
was accompanied by his Countess, his three sons, O'Donnell, and other relatives. They first
sailed to Normandy, where an attempt was made by the English Government to arrest them, but
Henry IV. would not give them up. In Rome they were received as confessors exiled for the faith,
and were liberally supported by the Pope and the King of Spain. They all died in a few years
after their arrival, and their ashes rest in the Franciscan Church of St. Peter-in-Montorio.
Rome was indeed dear to them, but Ireland was still dearer; and the exiled Celt, whether expatriated
through force or stern necessity, lives only to long for the old home, or dies weeping for it.

The Red Hand of the O'Neills had hitherto been a powerful protection to Ulster. The attempts
"to plant" there had turned out failures; but now that the chiefs were removed, the people
became an easy prey. O'Dogherty, Chief of Innishowen, was insulted by Sir George Paulett, in
a manner which no gentleman could be expected to bear without calling his insulter to account;
and the young chieftain took fearful vengeance for the rude blow which he had received from
the English sheriff. He got into Culmore Fort at night by stratagem, and then marched to Derry,
killed Paulett, massacred the garrison, and burned the town. Some other chieftains joined him,
and kept up the war until July; when O'Dogherty was killed, and his companions-in-arms imprisoned.
Sir Arthur Chichester received his property in return for his suggestions for the plantation
of Ulster, of which we must now make brief mention.

There can be little doubt, from Sir Henry Docwra's own account, that O'Dogherty was purposely
insulted, and goaded into rebellion. He was the last obstacle to the grand scheme, and he was
disposed of. Ulster was now at the mercy of those who chose to accept grants of land; and the
grants were made to the highest bidders, or to those who had paid for the favour by previous
services. Sir Arthur Chichester evidently considered that he belonged to the latter class,
for we find him writing[465] at considerable length to the Earl of Northampton, then a ruling
member of King James' cabinet, to request that he may be appointed President of Ulster. He
commences his epistle by stating how deeply he is indebted to his Lordship for his comfortable
and kind letters, and the praise he has given him in public and private. He then bestows an
abundant meed of commendation on his justice in return. He next explains his hopes and desires.
He declares that he wishes for the Presidency of Ulster, "more for the service he might there
do his Majesty, than for the profit he expects,"--a statement which the Earl no doubt read
exactly as it was intended; and he says that he only mentions his case because "charitie beginnes
with myeselfe," which, indeed, appears to have been the view of that virtue generally taken
by all planters and adventurers. He concludes with delicately informing his correspondent,
that if he can advance any friend of his in any way he will be most happy to do so. This letter
is dated from the "Castle of Dublin, 7th of February, 1607." The date should read, according
to the change of style, 1608. The Lord Deputy knew well what he was asking for. During the
summer of the preceding year, he had made a careful journey through Ulster, with John Davies;
and Carte has well observed, that "nobody knew the territories better to be planted;" and he
might have added, that few persons had a clearer eye to their own advantage in the arrangements
he made.

The plan of the plantation was agreed upon in 1609. It was the old plan which had been attempted
before, though with less show of legal arrangement, but with quite the same proportion of legal
iniquity. The simple object was to expel the natives, and to extirpate the Catholic religion.
The six counties to be planted were Tyrone, Derry, Donegal, Armagh, Fermanagh, and Cavan. These
were parcelled out into portions varying from 2,000 to 4,000 acres, and the planters were obliged
to build bawns and castles, such as that of Castle Monea, county Fermanagh, of which we subjoin
an illustration. Tully Castle[466] was built by Sir John Hume, on his plantation. Both these
castles afford good examples of the structures erected at this period. The great desiderata
were proximity to water and rising ground--the beauty of the surrounding scenery, which was
superadded at least at Tully Castle, was probably but little valued.

Chichester now proposed to call a Parliament. The plantation of Ulster had removed some difficulties
in the way of its accomplishment. The Protestant University of Dublin had obtained 3,000 acres
there, and 400,000 acres of tillage land had been partitioned out between English and Scotch
proprietors. It was expressly stipulated that their tenants should be English or Scotch, and
Protestants; the Catholic owners of the land were, in some cases, as a special favour, permitted
to remain, if they took the oath of supremacy, if they worked well for their masters, and if
they paid double the rent fixed for the others. Sixty thousand acres in Dublin and Waterford,
and 385,000 acres in Westmeath, Longford, King's county, Queen's county, and Leitrim, had been
portioned out in a similar manner. A Presbyterian minister, whose father was one of the planters,
thus describes the men who came to establish English rule, and root out Popery: "From Scotland
came many, and from England not a few; yet all of them generally the scum of both nations,
who, from debt, or making and fleeing from justice, or seeking shelter, came hither, hoping
to be without fear of man s justice, in a land where there was nothing or but little as yet
of the fear of God.... Most of the people were all void of godliness.... On all hands atheism
increased, and disregard of God; iniquity abounds, with contention, fighting, murder and adultery."[467]

It was with such persons as these the lower house was filled. The upper house was composed
of the Protestant bishops and English aristocracy, who were of course unanimous in their views.
Chichester obtained ample powers to arrange the lower house. Forty new boroughs were formed,
many of them consisting merely of a few scattered houses; some of them were not incorporated
until after the writs were issued. The Catholics were taken by surprise as no notice had been
given, either of the Parliament or the laws intended to be enacted. Six Catholic lords of the
Pale remonstrated with the King, but he treated them with the utmost contempt. The house assembled;
there was a struggle for the Speaker's chair. The Catholic party proposed Sir John Everard,
who had just resigned his position as Justice of the King's Bench sooner than take the oath
of supremacy; the court party insisted on having Sir John Davies. The Catholics protested,
and sent a deputation to James, who first lectured[468] them to show his learning, and them
imprisoned them to show his power. Some kind of compromise was eventually effected. A severe
penal law was withdrawn; a large subsidy was voted. In truth, the Irish party acted boldly,
considering their peculiar circumstances, for one and all refused to enter the old cathedral,
which their forefathers had erected, when Protestant service was read therein on the day of
the opening of Parliament; and even Lord Barry retired when he laid the sword of state before
the Lord Deputy. We may excuse them for submitting to the attainder of O'Neill and O'Donnell,
for there were few national members who had not withdrawn before the vote was passed.

Chichester retired from the government of Ireland in 1616. In 1617 a proclamation was issued
for the expulsion of the Catholic clergy, and the city of Waterford was deprived of its charter
in consequence of the spirited opposition which its corporation offered to the oath of spiritual
supremacy. In 1622 Viscount Falkland came over as Lord Deputy, and Usher, who was at heart
a Puritan,[469] preached a violent sermon on the occasion, in which he suggested a very literal
application of his text, "He beareth not the sword in vain." If a similar application of the
text had been made by a Catholic divine, it would have been called intolerance, persecution,
and a hint that the Inquisition was at hand; as used by him, it was supposed to mean putting
down Popery by the sword.

James I. died on the 27th March, 1625, and left his successor no very pleasant prospects in
any part of his kingdom. He was pronounced by Sully to be "the wisest fool in Europe;" Henry
IV. styled him "Captain of Arts and Clerk of Arms;" and a favourite epigram of the age is thus
translated:--

    "When Elizabeth was England's King,
    That dreadful name thro' Spain did ring
    How altered is the case, ah sa' me!
    The juggling days of good Queen Jamie."

On the accession of Charles I., in 1625, it was so generally supposed he would favour the Catholic
cause, that the earliest act of the new Parliament in London was to vote a petition, begging
the King to enforce the laws against recusants and Popish priests. The Viceroy, Lord Falkland,
advised the Irish Catholics to propitiate him with a voluntary subsidy. They offered the enormous
sum of £120,000, to be paid in three annual instalments, and in return he promised them certain
"graces." The contract was ratified by royal proclamation, in which the concessions were accompanied
by a promise that a Parliament should be held to confirm them. The first instalment of the
money was paid, and the Irish agents returned home to find themselves cruelly deceived and
basely cheated. Falkland was recalled by the Puritan party, on suspicion of favouring the Catholics;
Viscount Ely and the Earl of Cork were appointed Lords Justices; and a reign of terror was
at once commenced.

The Protestant Archbishop of Dublin, Dr. Bulkely, was foremost in commencing the persecution.
He marched, with the Mayor and a file of soldiers, to the Franciscan[470] church in Cook-street,
on St. Stephen's Day, 1629, dispersed the congregation, seized the friars profaned the church,
and broke the statue of St. Francis. The friars were rescued by the people, and the Archbishop
had "to take to his heels and cry out for help," to save himself. Eventually the Franciscans
established their novitiates on the Continent, but still continued their devoted ministrations
to the people, at the risk of life and liberty. Their house in Cook-street was pulled down
by royal order, and three other chapels and a Catholic seminary were seized and converted to
the King's use. Wentworth assembled a Parliament in July, 1634, the year after his arrival
in Ireland. Its subserviency was provided for by having a number of persons elected who were
in the pay of the crown as military officers. The "graces" were asked for, and the Lord Deputy
declared they should be granted, if the supply was readily voted. "Surely," he said, "so great
a meanness cannot enter your hearts as once to suspect his Majesty's gracious regards of you,
and performance with you, when you affix yourself upon his grace." This speech so took the
hearts of the people, that all were ready to grant all that might be demanded; and six subsidies
of £50,000 each were voted, though Wentworth only expected £30,000. In the meanwhile neither
Wentworth nor the King had the slightest idea of granting the "graces" and the atrocious duplicity
and incomparable "meanness" of the King is placed eternally on record, in his own letter to
his favourite, in which he thanks him "for keeping off the envy [odium] of a necessary negative
from me, of those unreasonable graces that people expected from me."[471] Wentworth describes
himself how two judges and Sir John Radcliffe assisted him in the plan, and how a positive
refusal was made to recommend the passing of the "graces" into law at the next session.

"Charles' faith" might now safely rank with Grey's; and the poor impoverished Irishman, who
would willingly have given his last penny, as well as the last drop of his blood, to save his
faith, was again cruelly betrayed where he most certainly might have expected that he could
have confided and trusted. One of the "graces" was to make sixty years of undisputed possession
of property a bar to the claims of the crown; and certainly if there ever a country where such
a demand was necessary and reasonable, it was surely Ireland. There had been so many plantations,
it was hard for anything to grow; and so many settlements, it was hard for anything to be settled.
Each new monarch, since the first invasion of the country by Henry II., had his favourites
to provide for and his friends to oblige. The island across the sea was considered "no man's
land," as the original inhabitants were never taken into account, and were simply ignored,
unless, indeed, when they made their presence very evident by open resistance to this wholesale
robbery. It was no wonder, then, that this "grace" should be specially solicited. It was one
in which the last English settler in Ulster had quite as great an interest as the oldest Celt
in Connemara. The Burkes and the Geraldines had suffered almost as much from the rapacity of
their own countrymen as the natives, on whom their ancestors had inflicted such cruel wrongs.
No man's property was safe in Ireland, for the tenure was depending on the royal will; and
the caprices of the Tudors were supplemented by the necessities of the Stuarts.

But the "grace" was refused, although, probably, there was many a recent colonist who would
have willingly given one-half of his plantation to have secured the other to his descendants.
The reason of the refusal was soon apparent. As soon as Parliament was dissolved, a Commission
of "Defective Titles" was issued for Connaught. Ulster had been settled, Leinster had been
settled, Munster had been settled; there remained only Connaught, hitherto so inaccessible,
now, with advancing knowledge of the art of war, and new means of carrying out that art, doomed
to the scourge of desolation.

The process was extremely simple. The lawyers were set to work to hunt out old claims for the
crown; and as Wentworth had determined to invalidate the title to every estate in Connaught,
they had abundant occupation. Roscommon was selected for a commencement. The sheriffs were
directed to select jurors who would find for the crown. The jurors were made clearly to understand
what was expected from them, and what the consequences would be if they were "contumacious."
The object of the crown was, of course, the general good of the country. The people of Connaught
were to be civilized and enriched; but, in order to carry out this very desirable arrangement,
the present proprietors were to be replaced by new landlords, and the country was to be placed
entirely at the disposal of the Sovereign.[472]

It was now discovered that the lands and lordships of De Burgo, adjacent to the Castle of Athlone,
and, in fact, the whole remaining province, belonged to the crown. It would be useless here
to give details of the special pleading on which this statement was founded; it is an illustration
of what I have observed before, that the tenure of the English settler was quite as uncertain
as the tenure of the Celt. The jury found for the King; and as a reward, the foreman, Sir Lucas
Dillon, was graciously permitted to retain a portion of his own lands. Lowther, Chief Justice
of the Common Pleas, got four shillings in the pound of the first year's rent raised under
the Commission of "Defective Titles." The juries of Mayo and Sligo were equally complacent;
but there was stern resistance made in Galway, and stern reprisals were made for the resistance.
The jurors were fined £4,000 each and were imprisoned, and their estates seized until that
sum was paid. The sheriff was fined £1,000, and, being unable to pay that sum, he died in prison.
And all this was done with the full knowledge and the entire sanction of the "royal martyr."

The country was discontented, and the Lord Deputy demanded more troops, "until the intended
plantation should be settled." He could not see why the people should object to what was so
very much for their own good, and never allowed himself to think that the disturbance had anything
to do with the land question. The new proprietors were of the same opinion. Those who were
or who feared to be dispossessed, and those who felt that their homes, whether humble or noble,
could not be called their own, felt differently; but their opinion was as little regarded as
their sufferings.

The Earl of Ormonde's property was next attacked, but he made a prudent compromise, and his
party was too powerful to permit of its refusal. A Court of Wards was also established about
this time, for the purpose of having all heirs to estates brought up in the Protestant religion;
and a High Commission Court was instituted, which rivalled the exactions of the Star Chamber
in England.

In 1640 another appeal was made by the King for assistance, and Wentworth headed the contribution
with £20,000. He had devoted himself with considerable ability to increasing the Irish revenue
and the trade of the country had improved, although the Irish woollen manufacture had been
completely crushed, as it threatened to interfere with English commerce. The Lord Deputy now
saw the advantage of procuring a standing army in Ireland, and he proceeded to embody a force
of 10,000 foot and 1,000 horse. These men were principally Irish and Catholics, as he knew
they would be most likely to stand by the King in an hour of trial, notwithstanding the cruel
persecutions to which they had been subjected. But the Deputy's own career was nearer its termination
than he had anticipated. When he forsook the popular side in England, Pym had remarked significantly:
"Though you have left us, I will not leave you while your head is on your shoulders." The Puritan
faction never lost sight of a quarry when once they had it in sight, and it scarcely needed
Stafford's haughtiness and devotion to the King to seal his doom. The unhappy King was compelled
to sign his death-warrant; and the victim was executed on the 12th of May, 1641, redeeming
in some manner, by the nobleness of his death, the cruelties, injustices, and duplicity of
which he had been guilty during his life.

The kingdom of England was never in a more critical state than at this period. The King was
such only in name, and the ruling powers were the Puritan party, who already looked to Cromwell
as their head. The resistance, which had begun in opposition to tyrannical enactments, and
to the arbitrary exercise of authority by the King and his High Church prelates, was fast merging
into, what it soon became, an open revolt against the crown, and all religion which did not
square with the very peculiar and ill-defined tenets of the rebellious party. In 1641 the Queen's
confessor was sent to the Tower, and a resolution was passed by both houses never to consent
to the toleration of the Catholic worship in Ireland, or in any other part of his Majesty's
dominions. The country party had determined to possess themselves of the command of the army;
and whatever struggles the King might make, to secure the only support of his throne, it was
clear that the question was to be decided in their favour. The conduct of Holles, Pym, Hampden,
and Stroud was well known even in Ireland; and in Ireland fearful apprehensions were entertained
that still more cruel sufferings were preparing for that unfortunate country.

An insurrection was organized, and its main supports were some of the best and bravest of the
old race, who had been driven by political and religious persecution to other lands, where
their bravery had made them respected, and their honorable dealings had made them esteemed.
Spain had received a considerable number of these exiles. In June, 1635, an Irish regiment
in the Spanish service, commanded by Colonel Preston, had immortalized themselves by their
heroic defence of Louvain. Wherever they went they were faithful to the sovereign under whom
they served; and French and Spanish generals marvelled how the English nation could be so infatuated
as to drive their noblest and bravest officers and men into foreign service. An important official
document still exists in the State Paper Office, which was prepared by a Government spy, and
which details the names, rank, and qualifications of many of these gentlemen. They were serving
in Spain, Italy, France, Germany, Poland, and the Low Countries. Don Richard Burke--strange
that the first on the list of Irish exiles should be of Anglo-Norman descent--was Governor
of Leghorn, and had seen great service in Italy and in the West Indies; "Phellemy O'Neill,
nephew to old Tyrone," lived with great respect in Milan. There were one hundred able to command
companies, and twenty fit to be made colonels under the Archduchess alone. The list of the
names would fill several pages, and those, it should be remembered, were leading men. There
were, besides, to be considered, an immense number of Irish of the lower classes, who had accompanied
their chiefs abroad, and served in their regiments. The movement in Ireland was commenced by
Roger O'More, a member of the ancient family of that name, who had been so unjustly expelled
from their ancestral home in Leix; by Lord Maguire, who had been deprived of nearly all his
ancient patrimony at Fermanagh, and his brother Roger; by Sir Phelim O'Neill of Kinnare, the
elder branch of whose family had been expatriated; by Turlough O'Neill, his brother, and by
several other gentlemen similarly situated. O'More was the chief promoter of the projected
insurrection. He was eminently suited to become a popular leader for he was a man of great
courage, fascinating address, and imbued with all the high honour of the old Celtic race. In
May, 1641, Nial O'Neill arrived in Ireland with a promise of assistance from Cardinal Richelieu;
and the confederates arranged that the rising should take place a few days before or after
All Hallows, according to circumstances. In the meanwhile the exiled Earl of Tyrone was killed;
but his successor, Colonel Owen Roe O'Neill, then serving in Flanders, entered warmly into
all their plans.

The King was now obliged to disband his Irish forces, and their commanders were sent orders
for that purpose. They had instructions, however, to keep the men at home and together, so
that they might easily be collected again if they could be made available, as, strange to say,
the so-called "Irish rebels" were the only real hope which Charles had to rely on in his conflict
with his disloyal English subjects. An understanding was soon entered into between these officers
and the Irish party. They agreed to act in concert; and one of the former, Colonel Plunket,
suggested the seizure of Dublin Castle. The 23rd of October was fixed on for the enterprise;
but, though attempted, the attempt was frustrated by a betrayal of the plot, in consequence
of an indiscretion of one of the leaders.

The rage of the Protestant party knew no limits. The Castle was put in a state of defence,
troops were ordered in all directions, and proclamations were issued. In the meantime the conspirators
at a distance had succeeded better, but unfortunately they were not aware of the failure in
Dublin until it was too late. Sir Phelim O'Neill was at the head of 30,000 men. He issued a
proclamation, stating that he intended "no hurt to the King, or hurt of any of his subjects,
English or Scotch;" but that his only object was the defence of Irish liberty. He added that
whatever hurt was done any one, should be personally repaired. This proclamation was from "Dungannon,
the 23rd of October, 1641," and signed "PHELIM O'NEILL."

A few days after he produced a commission, which he pretended he had received from the King,
authorizing his proceedings; but he amply atoned for this ruse de guerre afterwards, by declaring
openly and honorably that the document was forged. The Irish were treated with barbarous severity,
especially by Sir Charles Coote; while they were most careful to avoid any bloodshed, except
what was justifiable and unavoidable in war. Dr. Bedell, the good and gentle Protestant Bishop
of Kilmore, and all his people, were protected; and he drew up a remonstrance, from the tenor
of which he appears to have given some sanction to the proceedings of the northern chieftains.
The massacre of Island Magee took place about this period; and though the exact date is disputed,
and the exact number of victims has been questioned, it cannot be disproved that the English
and Scotch settlers at Carrickfergus sallied forth at night, and murdered a number of defenceless
men, women, and children. That there was no regular or indiscriminate massacre of Protestants
by the Catholics at this period, appears to be proved beyond question by the fact, that no
mention of such an outrage was made in any of the letters of the Lords Justices to the Privy
Council. It is probable, however, that the Catholics did rise up in different places, to attack
those by whom they had been so severely and cruelly oppressed; and although there was no concerted
plan of massacre, many victims, who may have been personally innocent, paid the penalty of
the guilty. In such evidence as is still on record, ghost stories predominate; and even the
Puritans seem to have believed the wildest tales of the apparition of Protestants, who demanded
the immolation of the Catholics who had murdered them.

FOOTNOTES:

[462] Fortunes.--Smith's History of Kerry, vol. ii. p. 97.

[463] Papists.--Oliver's Collections, quoted by Dr. Moran, p. 250.

[464] World.--Dr. Rothe, quoted by Monsignor Moran, p. 251.

[465] Writing.--The original is in the Cot. Col. British Museum.

[466] Tully Castle.--See heading of this chapter.

[467] Adultery.--MS. History, by Rev. A. Stuart, quoted in Reid's History of the Presbyterian
Church, vol. i. p. 96.

[468] Lectured. The address of the Irish party to James is given in O'Sullivan Beare's History,
p. 316, and also the King's reply, p. 323. A collection made throughout Ireland to defray the
expenses of the delegates.

[469] Puritan--Plowden's History of Ireland, vol. i. p. 338. "By his management and contrivance,
he provided the whole doctrine of Calvin to be received as the public belief of the Protestant
Church of Ireland, and ratified by Chichester in the King's name." Chichester himself was a
thorough Puritan, and a disciple of Cartwright, who used to pray, "O Lord, give us grace and
power as one man to set ourselves against them" (the bishops).

[470] Franciscan.--An account of the sufferings of the Franciscans will be found in St. Francis
and the Franciscans. The Poor Clares, who are the Second Order of St. Francis, were refounded
and established in Ireland, by Sir John Dillon's sister, about this time, and suffered severe
persecutions. Miss Dillon, the Abbess, was brought before the Lord Deputy; but her quiet dignity
made such impression on the court, that she was dismissed without molestation for the time.

[471] From me.--Stafford's State Letters, vol. i. p. 331.

[472] Sovereign.--Strafford's Letters, vol. ii. p. 241.

[473] Means.--This curious document was first published in the Nation of February 5th, 1859.

CHAPTER XXIX.

English Adventurers speculate on Irish Disaffection--Coote's Cruelties--Meeting of Irish Noblemen
and Gentlemen--Discontent of the People--The Catholic Priests try to save Protestants from
their fury--A National Synod to deliberate on the State of Irish Affairs--The General Assembly
is convened at Kilkenny--A Mint is established--A Printing-Press set up--Relations are entered
into with Foreign States, and a Method of Government is organized--Differences of Opinion between
the Old Irish and Anglo-Irish--A Year's Treaty is made--Arrival of Rinuccini--He lands at Kenmare--His
Account of the Irish People--His Reception at Kilkenny--His Opinion of the State of Affairs--Divisions
of the Confederates--Ormonde's Intrigues--The Battle of Benburb--Divisions and Discord in Camp
and Senate--A Treaty signed and published by the Representatives of the English King--Rinuccini
returns to Italy.

[A.D. 1642-1649.]

O'Neill now took the title of "Lord-General of the Catholic army in Ulster." A proclamation
was issued by the Irish Government, declaring he had received no authority from the King; and
the ruling powers were often heard to say, "that the more were in rebellion, the more lands
should be forfeited to them."[474] A company of adventurers were already formed in London on
speculation, and a rich harvest was anticipated. Several engagements took place, in which the
insurgents were on the whole successful. It was now confidently stated that a general massacre
of the Catholics was intended; and, indeed, the conduct of those engaged in putting down the
rising, was very suggestive of such a purpose. In Wicklow, Sir Charles Coote put many innocent
persons to the sword, without distinction of age or sex. On one occasion, when he met a soldier
carrying an infant on the point of his pike, he was charged with saying that "he liked such
frolics."[475] Carte admits that his temper was rather "sour;" but he relates incidents in
his career which should make one think "barbarous" would be the more appropriate term. The
Lords Justices approved of his proceedings; and Lord Castlehaven gives a fearful account of
the conduct of troops sent out by these gentlemen, who "killed men, women, and children promiscuously;
which procedure," he says, "not only exasperated the rebels, and induced them to commit the
like cruelties upon the English, but frightened the nobility and gentry about; who, seeing
the harmless country people, without respect of age or sex, thus barbarously murdered, and
themselves then openly threatened as favourers of the rebellion, for paying the contributions
they could not possibly refuse, resolved to stand upon their guard."[476]

Before taking an open step, even in self-defence, the Irish noblemen and gentlemen sent another
address to the King; but their unfortunate messenger, Sir John Read, was captured, and cruelly
racked by the party in power--their main object being to obtain something from his confessions
which should implicate the King and Queen. Patrick Barnwell, an aged man, was also racked for
a similar purpose. The Lords Justices now endeavoured to get several gentlemen into their possession,
on pretence of holding a conference. Their design was suspected, and the intended victims escaped;
but they wrote a courteous letter, stating the ground of their refusal. A meeting of the principal
Irish noblemen and gentlemen was now held on the Hill of Crofty, in Meath. Amongst those present
were the Earl of Fingall, Lords Gormanstown, Slane, Louth, Dunsany, Trimbleston, and Netterville,
Sir Patrick Barnwell and Sir Christopher Bellew; and of the leading country gentlemen, Barnwell,
Darcy, Bath, Aylmer, Cusack, Malone, Segrave, &c. After they had been a few hours on the ground,
the leaders of the insurgent party came up, and were accosted by Lord Gormanstown, who inquired
why they came armed into the Pale.

On the 1st of January, 1642, Charles issued a proclamation against the Irish rebels, and wished
to take the command against them in person; but his Parliament was his master, and the members
were glad enough of the excuse afforded by the troubles in Ireland to increase the army, and
to obtain a more direct personal control over its movements. They voted away Irish estates,
and uttered loud threats of exterminating Popery; but they had a more important and interesting
game in hand at home, which occupied their attention, and made them comparatively indifferent
to Irish affairs.

Sir Phelim O'Neill was not succeeding in the north. He had been obliged to raise the siege
of Drogheda, and the English had obtained possession of Dundalk. £1,000 was offered for his
head, and £600 for the heads of some of his associates. Ormonde and Tichburne were in command
of the Government forces, but Ormonde was considered to be too lenient; and two priests, Father
Higgins and Father White, were executed by Coote, the one without trial, and the other without
even the forms of justice, although they were under the Earl's protection. Carte says that
Father Higgins' case excited special interest, for he had saved many Protestants from the fury
of the Irish, and afforded them relief and protection afterwards. Indeed, at this period, the
Catholic clergy were unwearied in their efforts to protect the Protestants. They must have
been actuated by the purest motives of religion, which were none the less sacred to them because
they could neither be understood nor appreciated by those whose whole conduct had been so different.
Father Saul, a Jesuit, sheltered Dr. Pullen, the Protestant Dean of Clonfert, and his family;
Father Everard and Father English, Franciscan friars, concealed many Protestants in their chapels,
and even under their altars. Many similar instances are on record in the depositions concerning
the murders and massacres of the times, at present in Trinity College, Dublin; though those
depositions were taken with the avowed object of making out a case against the Catholics of
having intended a general massacre. In Galway the Jesuits were especially active in charity
to their enemies, and went through the town exhorting the people, for Christ's sake, our Lady's
and St. Patrick's, to shed no blood. But although the Catholic hierarchy were most anxious
to prevent outrages against humanity, they were by no means insensible to the outrages against
justice, from which the Irish nation had so long suffered. They were far from preaching passive
submission to tyranny, or passive acceptance of heresy. The Church had long since not only
sanctioned, but even warmly encouraged, a crusade against the infidels, and the deliverance,
by force of arms, of the holy places from desecration; it had also granted[477] similar encouragements
and similar indulgences to all who should fight for "liberties and rights" in Ireland, and
had "exhorted, urged, and solicited" the people to do so with "all possible affection." The
Irish clergy could have no doubt that the Holy See would sanction a national effort for national
liberty. The Archbishop of Armagh, therefore, convened a provincial synod, which was held at
Kells, on the 22nd of March, 1641, which pronounced the war undertaken by the Catholics of
Ireland lawful and pious, but denounced murders and usurpations, and took steps for assembling
a national synod at Kilkenny during the following year.

The Catholic cause, meanwhile, was not advancing through the country. The Irish were defeated
in nearly every engagement with the English troops. The want of a competent leader and of unanimity
of purpose was felt again, as it had so often been felt before; but the Church attempted to
supply the deficiency, and, if it did not altogether succeed, it was at least a national credit
to have done something in the cause of freedom.

The synod met at Kilkenny, on the 10th of May, 1642. It was attended by the Archbishops of
Armagh, Cashel, and Tuam, and the Bishops of Ossory, Elphin, Waterford and Lismore, Kildare
Clonfert, and Down and Connor. Proctors attended for the Archbishop of Dublin, and for the
Bishops of Limerick, Emly, and Killaloe. There were present, also, sixteen other dignitaries
and heads of religious orders. They issued a manifesto explaining their conduct and, forming
a Provisional Government, concluded their labours, after three days spent in careful deliberation.

Owen Roe O'Neill and Colonel Preston arrived in Ireland in July, 1642, accompanied by a hundred
officers, and well supplied with arms and ammunition. Sir Phelim O'Neill went at once to meet
O'Neill, and resigned the command of the army; and all promised fairly for the national cause.
The Scots, who had kept up a war of their own for some time, against both the King and the
Catholics, were wasting Down and Antrim; and O'Neill was likely to need all his military skill
and all his political wisdom in the position in which he was placed.

Preston had landed in Wexford, and brought a still larger force; while all the brave expatriated
Irishmen in foreign service, hastened home the moment there appeared a hope that they could
strike a blow with some effect for the freedom of their native land.

The General Assembly projected by the national synod in Kilkenny, held its first meeting on
October 14, 1642,--eleven spiritual and fourteen temporal peers, with 226 commoners, representing
the Catholic population of Ireland. It was, in truth, a proud and glorious day for the nation.
For once, at least, she could speak through channels chosen by her own free will; and for once
there dawned a hope of legislative freedom of action for the long-enslaved people. The old
house is still shown where that Assembly deliberated--a Parliament all but in name. The table
then used, and the chair occupied by the Speaker, are still preserved, as sad mementos of freedom's
blighted cause.[478] The house used was in the market-place, The peers and commoners sat together;
but a private room was allotted for the lords to consult in. Dr. Patrick Darcy, an eminent
lawyer, represented the Chancellor and the judges. Mr. Nicholas Plunket was chosen as Speaker;
the Rev. Thomas O'Quirk, a learned Dominican friar, was appointed Chaplain to both houses.

The Assembly at once declared that they met as a provisional government, and not as a parliament.
The preliminary arrangements occupied them until the 1st of November. From the 1st until the
4th, the committee was engaged in drawing up a form for the Confederate Government; on the
4th it was sanctioned by the two houses. Magna Charta, and the common and statute law of England,
in all points not contrary to the Catholic religion, or inconsistent with the liberty of Ireland,
were made the basis of the new Government. The administrative authority was vested in a Supreme
Council, which was then chosen, and of which Lord Mountgarret was elected President.

There were six members elected for each province. For Leinster, the Archbishop of Dublin, Lords
Gormanstown and Mountgarret, Nicholas Plunket, Richard Belling, and James Cusack. For Ulster,
the Archbishop of Armagh, the Bishop of Down, Philip O'Reilly, Colonel MacMahon, Heber Magennis,
and Turlough O'Neill. For Munster, Viscount Roche, Sir Daniel O'Brien, Edmund FitzMaurice,
Dr. Fennell, Robert Lambert, and George Comyn. For Connaught, the Archbishop of Tuam, Viscount
Mayo, the Bishop of Clonfert, Sir Lucas Dillon, Geoffrey Browne, and Patrick Darcy. The Earl
of Castlehaven, who had just escaped from his imprisonment in Dublin, was added as a twenty-fifth
member. Generals were appointed to take the command of the forces--Owen Roe O'Neill, for Ulster;
Preston, for Leinster; Barry, for Munster; and Burke, for Connaught. A seal was made, a printing-press
set up, and a mint established. Money was coined and levied for the necessary expenses; and
a levy of 31,700 men was prepared to be drilled by the new officers. Envoys were sent to solicit
assistance from the Catholic courts of Europe; and the famous and learned Franciscan, Father
Luke Wadding, applied himself to the cause with unremitting earnestness. Father John Talbot
was employed in a similar manner in Spain.

The Assembly broke up on the 9th of January, 1643, after sending a remonstrance to the King,
declaring their loyalty, and explaining their grievances. The complicated state of English
politics proved the ruin of this noble undertaking, so auspiciously commenced. Charles was
anxious to make terms with men whom he knew would probably be the only subjects on whose loyalty
he could thoroughly depend. His enemies--and the most cursory glance at English history during
this period proves how many and how powerful they were--desired to keep open the rupture, and,
if possible, to bring it down, from the high stand of dignified remonstrance, to the more perilous
and lower position of a general and ill-organized insurrection. The Lords Justices Borlase
and Parsons were on the look-out for plunder; but Charles had as yet sufficient power to form
a commission of his own, and he sent the Marquis of Ormonde and some other noblemen to treat
with the Confederates. Ormonde was a cold, calculating, and, if we must judge him by his acts,
a cruel man; for, to give only one specimen of his dealings, immediately after his appointment,
he butchered the brave garrison of Timolin, who had surrendered on promise of quarter.

The Confederates were even then divided into two parties. The section of their body principally
belonging to the old English settlers, were willing to have peace on almost any terms; the
ancient Irish had their memories burdened with so many centuries of wrong, that they demanded
something like certainty of redress before they would yield. Ormonde was well aware of the
men with whom, and the opinions with which, he had to deal, and he acted accordingly. In the
various engagements which occurred, the Irish were on the whole successful They had gained
an important victory near Fermoy, principally through the headlong valour of a troop of mere
boys who dashed down with wild impetuosity on the English, and showed what mettle there was
still left in the country. Envoys were arriving from foreign courts, and Urban VIII. had sent
Father Scarampi with indulgences and a purse of 30,000 dollars, collected by Father Wadding.
It was, therefore, most important that the movement should be checked in some way; and, as
it could not be suppressed by force, it was suppressed by diplomacy.

On the 15th of September, 1643, a cessation of arms for one year was agreed upon; and the tide,
which had set in so gloriously for Irish independence, rolled back its sobbing waves slowly
and sadly towards the English coast, and never returned again with the same hopeful freedom
and overpowering strength.

The Irish, even those whose wisdom or whose ardour made them most dissatisfied with the treaty,
observed it honorably. The Puritan party professed to regard the cessation as a crime, and
therefore did not consider themselves bound to observe it. As they were in fact the ruling
powers, the unfortunate Irish were, as usual, the victims. The troops, who had been trained
and collected for the defence of their native land, were now sent to Scotland, to shed their
blood in the royal cause. As honorable men, having undertaken the duty, they fulfilled it gloriously,
and won the admiration even of their enemies by their undaunted valour.

The unhappy English monarch was now besieged by petitions and counter-petitions. The Confederates
asked for liberty of conscience; the Puritans demanded a stern enforcement of the penal laws.
Complaints were made on both sides of the infringement of the cessation; but Munroe was the
chief offender; and Owen O'Neill was summoned to consult with the Supreme Council in Kilkenny.
Lord Castlehaven, who was utterly incompetent for such an appointment, was given the command
of the army; and O'Neill, though he felt hurt at the unjust preference, submitted generously.

In August, 1644, the cessation was again renewed by the General Assembly until December, and
subsequently for a longer period. Thus precious time, and what was still more precious, the
fresh energies and interests of the Confederates, were hopelessly lost. The King's generals,
or rather it should be said the Parliamentary officers, observed or held these engagements
at their convenience, and made treaties of their own--Inchiquin and Purcell making a truce
between themselves in the south. As the King's affairs became daily more complicated, and his
position more perilous, he saw the necessity for peace with his Irish subjects, and for allying
himself with them, if possible. Had he treated them with more consideration, or rather with
common justice and humanity, at the commencement of his reign, England might have been saved
the guilt of regicide and Cromwell's iron rule. Ormonde had received ample powers from Charles
to grant the Catholics every justice now; but Ormonde could not resist the inclination to practise
a little subtle diplomacy, even at the risk of his master's kingdom and his master's head.
The Confederate commissioners rejected his temporizing measures with contempt, though a few
of their members, anxious for peace, were inclined to yield.

When Inchiquin set out to destroy the growing crops early in summer, Castlehaven was sent against
him, and obliged him to retire into Cork. At the same time Coote was overrunning Connaught
and took possession of Sligo. The Irish forces again recovered the town; but, in the attempt,
the Archbishop and two friars fell into the hands of the enemy, and were cruelly murdered.
Charles now made another attempt to obtain the assistance of the Catholic party, and sent over
Lord Herbert to Ireland on a secret mission for that purpose. This nobleman and his father-in-law,
the Earl of Thomond, were almost romantically attached to the King, and had already advanced
£200,000 for the support of the royal cause. He proceeded to Kilkenny, after a brief interview
with Ormonde. England's difficulty proved Ireland's opportunity. Everything that could be desired
was granted; and all that was asked was the liberty to worship God according to each man's
conscience, and the liberty of action and employment, which is the right of every member of
civil society who has not violated the rules of moral conduct which governors are bound to
enforce. In return for the promise that they should enjoy the rights of subjects, the Irish
Confederates promised to do the duty of subjects. They had already assisted more than one English
King to rule his Scotch dominions; they were now to assist Charles to rule his English subjects;
and they promised to send him 10,000 armed men, under the command of Lord Herbert. It was a
great risk to trust a Stuart; and he made it a condition that the agreement should remain secret
until the troops had landed in England.

In the meantime Belling, the Secretary of the Supreme Council, was sent to Rome and presented
to Innocent X., by Father Wadding, as the envoy of the Confederate Catholics, in February,
1645. On hearing his report, the Pope sent John Baptist Rinuccini[479], Archbishop of Fermo,
to Ireland, as Nuncio-Extraordinary. This prelate set out immediately; and, after some detention
at St. Germains, for the purpose of conferring with the English Queen, who had taken refuge
there, he purchased the frigate San Pietro at Rochelle, stored it with arms and ammunition;
and, after some escapes from the Parliamentary cruisers, landed safely in Kenmare Bay, on the
21st of October, 1645. He was soon surrounded and welcomed by the peasantry; and after celebrating
Mass in a poor hut,[480] he at once proceeded to Limerick. Here he celebrated the obsequies
of the Archbishop of Tuam, and then passed on to Kilkenny. He entered the old city in state,
attended by the clergy. At the entrance to the Cathedral he was met by the Bishop of Ossory,
who was unable to walk in the procession. When the Te Deum had been sung, he was received in
the Castle by the General Assembly, and addressed them in Latin. After this he returned to
the residence prepared for him.

In a Catholic country, and with a Catholic people, the influence of a Papal Nuncio was necessarily
preponderant, and he appears to have seen at a glance the difficulties and advantages of the
position of Irish affairs and the Confederate movement. "He had set his mind," says the author
of the Confederation of Kilkenny, "on one grand object--the freedom of the Church, in possession
of all her rights and dignities, and the emancipation of the Catholic people from the degradation
to which English imperialism had condemned them. The churches which the piety of Catholic lords
and chieftains had erected, he determined to secure to the rightful inheritors. His mind and
feelings recoiled from the idea of worshipping in crypts and catacombs; he abhorred the notion
of a priest or bishop performing a sacred rite as though it were a felony; and despite the
wily artifices of Ormonde and his faction, he resolved to teach the people of Ireland that
they were not to remain mere dependents on English bounty, when a stern resolve might win for
them the privileges of freemen."[481]

The following extract from Rinuccini's own report, will show how thoroughly he was master of
the situation in a diplomatic point of view: "From time immemorial two adverse parties have
always existed among the Catholics of Ireland. The first are called the 'old Irish.' They are
most numerous in Ulster, where they seem to have their head-quarters; for even the Earl of
Tyrone placed himself at their head, and maintained a protracted war against Elizabeth. The
second may be called the 'old English,'--a race introduced into Ireland in the reign of Henry
II., the fifth king in succession from William the Conqueror; so called to distinguish them
from the 'new English,' who have come into the kingdom along with the modern heresy. These
parties are opposed to each other principally on the following grounds: the old Irish, entertaining
a great aversion for heresy, are also averse to the dominion of England, and have Biased, generally
speaking, to accept the investiture of Church property offered to them since the apostacy of
the Kings of England from the Church. The others, on the contrary, enriched with the spoils
of the monasteries, and thus bound to the King by obligation, no less than by interest, neither
seek nor desire anything but the exaltation of the crown, esteem no laws but those of the realm,
are thoroughly English in their feelings, and, from their constant familiarity with heretics,
are less jealous of differences of religion."

The Nuncio then goes on to state how even the military command was divided between these two
parties,--O'Neill belonging to the old Irish interest, and Preston to the new. He also mentions
the manner in which this difference of feeling extended to the lower classes, and particularly
to those who served in the army.[482]

I have given this lengthened extract from Rinuccini's report, because, with all the advantages
of looking back upon the times and events, it would be impossible to explain more clearly the
position of the different parties. It remains only to show how these unfortunate differences
led to the ruin of the common cause.

The Confederates now began to be distinguished into two parties, as Nuncionists and Ormondists.
Two sets of negotiations were carried on, openly with Ormonde, and secretly with Glamorgan.
The Nuncio, from the first, apprehended the treachery of Charles, and events proved the correctness
of his forebodings. Glamorgan produced his credentials, dated April 30th, 1645, in which the
King promised to ratify whatever terms he might make; and he further promised, that the Irish
soldiers, whose assistance he demanded, should be brought back to their own shores, if these
arrangements were not complied with by his master. Meanwhile a copy of this secret treaty was
discovered on the Archbishop of Tuam, who had been killed at Sligo. It was used as an accusation
against the King. Glamorgan was arrested in Dublin, and the whole scheme was defeated.

The General Assembly met in Kilkenny, in January, 1646, and demanded the release of Glamorgan.
He was bailed out; but the King disowned the commission, as Rinuccini had expected, and proved
himself thereby equally a traitor to his Catholic and Protestant subjects. Ormonde took care
to foment the division between the Confederate party, and succeeded so well that a middle party
was formed, who signed a treaty consisting of thirty articles. This document only provided
for the religious part of the question, that Roman Catholics should not be bound to take the
oath of supremacy. An Act of oblivion was passed, and the Catholics were to continue to hold
their possessions until a settlement could be made by Act of Parliament. Even in a political
point of view, this treaty was a failure; and one should have thought that Irish chieftains
and Anglo-Irish nobles had known enough of Acts of Parliament to have prevented them from confiding
their hopes to such an uncertain future.

The division of the command in the Confederate army had been productive of most disastrous
consequences. The rivalry between O'Neill, Preston, and Owen Roe, increased the complication;
but the Nuncio managed to reconcile the two O'Neills, and active preparations were made by
Owen Roe for his famous northern campaign. The Irish troops intended for Charles had remained
in their own country; the unfortunate monarch had committed his last fatal error by confiding
himself to his Scotch subjects, who sold him to his own people for £400,000. Ormonde now refused
to publish the treaty which had been just concluded, or even to enforce its observance by Monroe,
although the Confederates had given him £3,000 to get up an expedition for that purpose.

In the beginning of June, A.D. 1646, Owen Roe O'Neill marched against Monroe, with 5,000 foot
and 500 horse. Monroe received notice of his approach; and although his force was far superior
to O'Neill's, he sent for reinforcements of cavalry from his brother, Colonel George Monroe,
who was stationed at Coleraine. But the Irish forces advanced more quickly than he expected;
and on the 4th of June they had crossed the Blackwater, and encamped at Benburb. O'Neill selected
his position admirably. He encamped between two small hills, with a wood in his rear. The river
Blackwater protected him on the right, and an impassable bog on the left. Some brushwood in
the front enabled him to conceal a party of musketeers; he was also well-informed of Monroe's
movements, and took precautions to prevent the advance of his brother's forces. Monroe crossed
the river at Kinard, at a considerable distance in the rear of his opponent, and then advanced,
by a circuitous march, from the east and north. The approach was anticipated; and, on in the
5th of June, 1646, the most magnificent victory ever recorded in the annals of Irish history
was won. The Irish army prepared for the great day with solemn religious observances. The whole
army approached the sacraments of penance and holy communion, and thus were prepared alike
for death or victory. The chaplain deputed by the Nuncio addressed them briefly, and appealed
to their religious feelings; their General, Owen Roe, appealed to their nationality. How deeply
outraged they had been, both in their religion and in their national feelings, has been already
mentioned; how they fought for their altars and their domestic hearths will now be recorded.
O'Neill's skill as a military tactician, is beyond all praise. For four long hours he engaged
the attention of the enemy, until the glare of the burning summer sun had passed away, and
until he had intercepted the reinforcements which Monroe expected. At last the decisive moment
had arrived. Monroe thought he saw his brother's contingent in the distance; O'Neill knew that
they were some of his own men who had beaten that very contingent. When the Scotch general
was undeceived, he resolved to retire. O'Neill saw his advantage, and gave the command to charge.
With one loud cry of vengeance for desecrated altars and desolated homes, the Irish soldiers
dashed to the charge, and Monroe's ranks were broken, and his men driven to flight. Even the
General himself fled so precipitately, that he left his hat, sword, and cloak after him, and
never halted until he reached Lisburn. Lord Montgomery was taken prisoner, and 3,000 of the
Scotch were left on the field. Of the Irish only seventy men were killed, and 200 wounded.
It was a great victory; and it was something more--it was a glorious victory; although Ireland
remained, both as to political and religious freedom, much as it had been before. The standards
captured on that bloody field were sent to the Nuncio at Limerick, and carried in procession
to the Cathedral, where a solemn Te Deum was chanted--and that was all the result that came
of it. Confusion thrice confounded followed in the rear. The King issued orders, under the
compulsion of the Scotch, which Lord Digby declared to be just the contrary of what he really
wished; and Ormonde proclaimed and ratified the treaty he had formerly declined to fulfil,
while the "old Irish" everywhere indignantly rejected it. In Waterford, Clonmel, and Limerick,
the people would not permit it even to be proclaimed. The Nuncio summoned a national synod
in Waterford, at which it was condemned; and a decree was issued, on the 12th of August, declaring
that all who adhered to such terms should be declared perjurers. Even Preston declared for
the Nuncio; and the clergy and the nobles who led the unpopular cause, were obliged to ask
Ormonde's assistance to help them out of their difficulty. The Earl arrived at Kilkenny with
an armed force; but fled precipitately when he heard that O'Neill and Preston were advancing
towards him.

Rinuccini now took a high hand. He entered Kilkenny in state, on the 18th of September, and
committed the members of the Supreme Council as prisoners to the Castle, except Darcy and Plunket.
A new Council was appointed, or self-appointed, on the 20th, of which the Nuncio was chosen
President. The imprisonment of the old Council was undoubtedly a harsh and unwise proceeding,
which can scarcely be justified; but the times were such that prompt action was demanded, and
the result alone, which could not be foreseen, could justify or condemn it.

The Generals were again at variance; and although the new Council had decided on attacking
Dublin, their plans could not be carried out. Preston was unquestionably playing fast and loose;
and when the Confederate troops did march towards Dublin, his duplicity ruined the cause which
might even then have been gained. A disgraceful retreat was the result. An Assembly was again
convened at Kilkenny; the old Council was released; the Generals promised to forget their animosities:
but three weeks had been lost in angry discussion; and although the Confederates bound themselves
by oath not to lay down their arms until their demands were granted, their position was weakened
to a degree which the selfishness of the contending parties made them quite incapable of estimating.

The fact was, the Puritan faction in England was every day gaining an increase of power; while
every hour that the Confederate Catholics wasted in discussion or division, was weakening their
moral strength. Even Ormonde found himself a victim to the party who had long made him their
tool, and was ordered out of Dublin unceremoniously, and obliged eventually to take refuge
in France. Colonel Jones took possession of Dublin Castle for the rebel forces and defeated
Preston in a serious engagement at Dungan Hill soon after his arrival in Ireland. O'Neill now
came to the rescue; and even the Ormondists, having lost their leader, admitted that he was
their only resource. His admirable knowledge of military tactics enabled him to drive Jones
into Dublin Castle, and keep him there for a time almost in a state of siege.

In the mean time Inchiquin was distinguishing himself by his cruel victories in the south of
Ireland. The massacre of Cashel followed. When the walls were battered down, the hapless garrison
surrendered without resistance, and were butchered without mercy. The people fled to the Cathedral,
hoping there, at least, to escape; but the savage General poured volleys of musket-balls through
the doors and windows, and his soldiers rushing in afterwards, piked those who were not yet
dead. Twenty priests were dragged out as objects of special vengeance; and the total number
of those were thus massacred amounted to 3,000.

An engagement took place in November between Inchiquin and Lord Taaffe, in which the Confederates
were again beaten and cruelly massacred. Thus two of their generals had lost both their men
and their prestige, and O'Neill alone remained as the prop of a falling cause. The Irish now
looked for help from foreign sources, and despatched Plunket and French to Rome, and Muskerry
and Browne to France; but Ormonde had already commenced negotiations on his own account, and
he alone was accredited at the court of St. Germains. Even at this moment Inchiquin had been
treating with the Supreme Council for a truce; but Rinuccini, who detested his duplicity, could
never be induced to listen to his proposals. A man who had so mercilessly massacred his own
countrymen, could scarcely be trusted by them on so sudden a conversion to their cause; but,
unhappily, there were individuals who, in the uncertain state of public affairs, were anxious
to steer their barks free of the thousand breakers ahead, and in their eagerness forgot that,
when the whole coast-line was deluged with storms, their best chance of escape was the bold
resolution of true moral courage. The cautious politicians, therefore, made a treaty with Inchiquin,
which was signed at Dungarvan, on the 20th of May. On the 27th of that month the Nuncio promulgated
a sentence of excommunication against all cities and villages where it should be received,
and, at the same time, he withdrew to the camp of Owen Roe O'Neill, against whom Inchiquin
and Preston were prepared to march. It was a last and desperate resource, and, as might be
expected, it failed signally of its intended effects. Various attempts to obtain a settlement
of the question at issue by force of arms, were made by the contending parties; but O'Neill
baffled his enemies, and the Nuncio withdrew to Galway.

Ormonde arrived in Ireland soon after, and was received at Cork, on the 27th of September,
1648, by Inchiquin. He then proceeded to Kilkenny, where he was received in great state by
the Confederates. On the 17th of January, 1649, he signed a treaty of peace, which concluded
the seven years' war. This treaty afforded the most ample indulgences to the Catholics, and
guaranteed fairly that civil and religious liberty for which alone they had contended; but
the ink upon the deed was scarcely dry, ere the execution of Charles I., on the 30th of January,
washed out its enactments in royal blood; and civil war, with more than ordinary complications,
was added to the many miseries of our unfortunate country.

Rinuccini embarked in the San Pietro once more, and returned to Italy, February 23, 1649. Had
his counsels been followed, the result might have justified him, even in his severest measures;
as it is we read only failure in his career; but it should be remembered, that there are circumstances
under which failure is more noble than success.

FOOTNOTES:

[474] Them.--Castlehaven's Memoirs, p, 28.

[475] Frolics.--Carte's Ormonde, vol. i. p. 245, folio edition.

[476] Guard.--Castlehaven's Memoirs, p. 30. Coote's cruelties are admitted on all sides to
have been most fearful. Leland speaks of "his ruthless and indiscriminate carnage."--History
of Ireland, vol. iii. p. 146. Warner says "he was a stranger to mercy."--History of the Irish
Rebellion, p. 135. "And yet this was the man," says Lord Castlehaven, "whom the Lords Justices
picked out to entrust with a commission of martial-law, which he performed with delight, and
with a wanton kind of cruelty."

[477] Granted.--This most important and interesting document may be seen in O'Sullivan's Hist.
Cath. p. 121. It is headed: "Gregory XIII., to the Archbishops, Bishops, and other prelates,
as also to the Catholic Princes, Earls, Barons, Clergy, Nobles, and People of Ireland, health
and apostolic benediction." It is dated: "Given at Rome, the 13th day of May, 1580, the eighth
of our pontificate."

[478] Cause.--See illustration at head of this chapter.

[479] Rinuccini,--A work was published in Florence, 1844, entitled Nunziatura in Irlanda, di
M. Gio. Battista Rinuccini, &c. This work, which only forms a portion of the Rinuccini MS.,
throws much valuable light upon the history of the period. It is supposed to have been written
by the Dean of Fermo, who attended the Nuncio during his official visit to Ireland. This volume
also contains, in the original Italian, the report presented by Rinuccini to the Pope on his
return from Ireland. Burke has given some extracts from the MS. in his Hibernia Dominicana,
and Carte mentions it also; but otherwise these very important documents appear to have been
quite overlooked.

Since the publication of the first edition of this work, I have obtained a copy of a translation
of the Nuncio's narrative, which appeared in the Catholic Miscellany for 1829. This translation
was made by a Protestant clergyman, from a Latin translation of the original, in the possession
of Mr. Coke, of Holham, Norfolk. The Nuncio's account is one of great importance, but it would
demand considerable space if treated of in detail. There was a very able article on the subject
in the Dublin Review for March, 1845.

[480] Hut.--Some extracts from a curious and interesting letter, describing the voyage from
France and the landing in Ireland of Rinuccini and his party, were published in the Dublin
Review for March, 1845. It is addressed to Count Thomas Rinuccini, but the writer is supposed
to have been the Dean of Fermo. He gives a graphic description of their arrival at Kenmare--"al
porto di Kilmar" and of the warm reception they met from the poor, and their courtesy--"La
cortesia di quei poveri popoli dove Monsignor capito, fu incomparabile." He also says: "Gran
cosa, nelle montagne e luoghi rozzi, e gente povera per le devastazioni fatte dei nemici eretici,
trovai pero la nobilta della S. fede Catolica, giaché auro vi fu uomo, o donna, o ragazzo,
ancor che piccolo, che non me sapesse recitar il Pater, Ave, Credo, e i commandamenti della
Santa Chiesa." "It is most wonderful that in this wild and mountainous place, and a people
so impoverished by the heretical enemy, I found, nevertheless, the noble influence of the holy
Catholic faith; for there was not a man or woman, or a child however young, who could not repeat
the Our Father, Hail Mary, Creed, and the commands of Holy Church." We believe the same might
be said at the present day of this part of Ireland. It is still as poor, and the people are
still as well instructed in and as devoted to their faith now as in that century.

[481] Freemen.--Confederation of Kilkenny, p. 117.

[482] Army,--Nunziatura in Irlanda, p. 391.

CHAPTER XXX.

Cromwell arrives in Ireland--He marches to Drogheda--Cruel Massacre of the Inhabitants after
promise of Quarter--Account of an Eyewitness--Brutality of the Cromwellian Soldiers--Ladies
are not spared--Cromwell's Letters--He boasts of his Cruelties--Massacre and Treachery at Drogheda--Brave
Resistance at Clonmel--Charles II. arrives in Scotland--The Duplicity of his Conduct towards
the Irish--Siege of Limerick--Ireton's Cruelties and Miserable Death--The Banishment to Connaught--The
Irish are sold as Slaves to Barbadoes--General Desolation and Misery of the People.

[A.D. 1649-1655.]

Cromwell was now master of England, and ruled with all that authority which is so freely granted
to a revolutionary leader, and so often denied to a lawful monarch. The great body of the English
stood aghast with horror when they discovered that regicide, and the substitution of an illegal
tyranny for one which at least was legal, was the end of all their hopes. The new ruler was
aware of the precariousness of his position. The safety of his head, as well as the continuance
of his power, depended on the caprice of the multitude; and he saw that the sword alone could
maintain him in the elevated position to which he had risen, and the still more elevated position
to which he aspired. We scarcely imagine him to have been more religious or less humane than
many of his contemporaries, though it is evident that he required a great show of the kind
of religion then fashionable to support his character as a reformer, and that he considered
himself obliged to exercise wholesale cruelties to consolidate his power.

The rightful heir to the English throne was then at the Hague, uncertain how to act and whither
he should turn his steps. He wished to visit Ireland, where he would have been received with
enthusiastic loyalty by the Catholics; but Ormonde persuaded him, from sinister motives, to
defer his intention. Ormonde and Inchiquin now took the field together. The former advanced
to Dublin, and the latter to Drogheda. This town was held by a Parliamentary garrison, who
capitulated on honorable terms. Monck and Owen O'Neill, in the meantime, were acting in concert,
and Inchiquin captured supplies which the English General was sending to the Irish chief. Newry,
Dundalk, and the often-disputed and famous Castle of Trim[483] surrendered to him, and he marched
back to Ormonde in triumph. As there appeared no hope of reducing Dublin except by famine,
it was regularly blockaded; and the Earl wrote to Charles to inform him that his men were so
loyal, he could "persuade half his army to starve outright for his Majesty."

Ormonde now moved his camp from Finglas to Rathmines, and at the same time reinforcements arrived
for the garrison, under the command of Colonels Reynolds and Venables. The besiegers made an
attempt to guard the river, and for this purpose, Major-General Purcell was sent to take possession
of the ruined Castle of Bagotrath, about a mile from the camp. Ormonde professed to have expected
an attack during the night, and kept his men under arms; but just as he had retired to rest,
an alarm was given. Colonel Jones had made a sortie from the city; the sortie became for a
brief moment an engagement, and ended in a total rout. The Earl was suspected; and whether
he had been guilty of treachery or of carelessness, he lost his credit, and soon after left
the kingdom.

Cromwell had been made Lieutenant-General of the English army in Ireland, but as yet he had
been unable to take the command in person. His position was precarious; and he wished to secure
his influence still more firmly in his own country, before he attempted the conquest of another.
He had succeeded so far in the accomplishment of his plans that his departure and his journey
to Bristol were undertaken in royal style. He left the metropolis early in June, in a coach
drawn by six gallant Flanders' mares, and concluded his progress at Milford Haven, where he
embarked, reaching Ireland on the 14th of August, 1649. He was attended by some of the most
famous of the Parliamentary Generals--his son, Henry, the future Lord Deputy; Monk, Blake,
Ireton, Waller, Ludlow and others. He brought with him, for the propagation of the Gospel and
the Commonwealth, £200,000 in money, eight regiments of foot, six of horse, several troops
of dragoons, a large supply of Bibles,[484] and a corresponding provision of ammunition and
scythes. The Bibles were to be distributed amongst his soldiers, and to be given to the poor
unfortunate natives, who could not understand a word of their contents. The scythes and sickles
were to deprive them of all means of living, and to preach a ghastly commentary on the conduct
of the men who wished to convert them to the new Gospel, which certainly was not one of peace.
Cromwell now issued two proclamations: one against intemperance, for he knew well the work
that was before him, and he could not afford to have a single drunken soldier in his camp.
The other proclamation prohibited plundering the country people: it was scarcely less prudent.
His soldiers might any day become his masters, if they were not kept under strict control;
and there are few things which so effectually lessen military discipline as permission to plunder:
he also wished to encourage the country people to bring in provisions. His arrangements all
succeeded.

Ormonde had garrisoned Drogheda with 3,000 of his choicest troops. They were partly English,
and were commanded by a brave loyalist, Sir Arthur Aston. This was really the most important
town in Ireland; and Cromwell, whose skill as a military general cannot be disputed, at once
determined to lay siege to it. He encamped before the devoted city on the 2nd of September,
and in a few days had his siege guns posted on the hill shown in the accompanying illustration,
and still known as Cromwell's Fort. Two breaches were made on the 10th, and he sent in his
storming parties about five o'clock in the evening. Earthworks had been thrown up inside and
the garrison resisted with undiminished bravery. The besieged at last wavered; quarter[485]
was promised to them, and they yielded; but the promise came from men who knew neither how
to keep faith or to show mercy. The brave Governor, Sir Arthur Aston, retired with his staff
to an old mill on an eminence, but they were disarmed and slain in cold blood. The officers
and soldiers were first exterminated, and then men, women, and children were put to the sword.
The butchery occupied five entire days; Cromwell has himself described the scene, and glories
in his cruelty. Another eyewitness, an officer in his army, has described it also, but with
some faint touch of remorse.

.

A number of the townspeople fled for safety to St. Peter's Church, on the north side of the
city, but every one of them was murdered, all defenceless and unarmed as they were; others
took refuge in the church steeple, but it was of wood, and Cromwell himself gave orders that
it should be set on fire, and those who attempted to escape the flames were piked. The principal
ladies of the city had sheltered themselves in the crypts. It might have been supposed that
this precaution should be unnecessary, or, at least, that English officers would respect their
sex; but, alas for common humanity! it was not so. When the slaughter had been accomplished
above, it was continued below. Neither youth nor beauty was spared. Thomas Wood, who was one
of these officers, and brother to Anthony Wood, the Oxford historian, says he found in these
vaults "the flower and choicest of the women and ladies belonging to the town; amongst whom,
a most handsome virgin, arrayed in costly and gorgeous apparel, kneeled down to him with tears
and prayer to save her life." Touched by her beauty and her entreaties he attempted to save
her, and took her out of the church; but even his protection could not save her. A soldier
thrust his sword into her body; and the officer, recovering from his momentary fit of compassion,
"flung her down over the rocks," according to his own account, but first took care to possess
himself of her money and jewels. This officer also mentions that the soldiers were in the habit
of taking up a child, and using it as a buckler, when they wished to ascend the lofts and galleries
of the church, to save themselves from being shot or brained. It is an evidence that they knew
their victims to be less cruel than themselves, or the expedient would not have been found
to answer.

Cromwell wrote an account of this massacre to the "Council of State." His letters, as his admiring
editor observes, "tell their own tale;"[486] and unquestionably that tale plainly intimates
that whether the Republican General were hypocrite or fanatic--and it is probable he was a
compound of both--he certainly, on his own showing, was little less than a demon of cruelty.
Cromwell writes thus: "It hath pleased God to bless our endeavours at Drogheda. After battery
we stormed it. The enemy were about 3,000 strong in the town. They made a stout resistance.
I believe we put to the sword the whole number of defendants. I do not think thirty of the
whole number escaped with their lives. Those that did are in safe custody for the Barbadoes.
This hath been a marvellous great mercy." In another letter he says that this "great thing"
was done "by the Spirit of God."

These savage butcheries had the intended effect. The inhabitants of all the smaller towns fled
at his approach, and the garrisons capitulated. Trim, Dundalk, Carlingford, and Newry, had
yielded; but Wexford still held out. The garrison amounted to about 3,000 men, under the command
of Colonel Sinnot, a brave loyalist. After some correspondence on both sides, a conference
took place between four of the royalists and Cromwell, at which he contrived to bribe Captain
Stafford, the Governor of the Castle. The conditions asked, preparatory to surrender, were
liberty of conscience, and permission to withdraw in safety and with military honours. Cromwell's
idea of liberty of conscience was as peculiar as his idea of honour. He wrote to the Governor
of Ross to say that he would not "meddle with any man's conscience;" but adds: "If by liberty
of conscience you mean a liberty to exercise the Mass, I judge it best to use plain dealing,
and to tell you now, where the Parliament of England have power, that will not be allowed of;"[487]
which, in plain English, meant that he professed liberty of conscience, but allowed it only
to such as agreed with himself. Of his estimation of honour, his dealings at Wexford afford
a fair sample. As soon as he had found that Stafford could be bribed, he denounced the proposals
of the garrison as abominable and impudent. The traitor opened the castle-gates, and the Parliamentary
troops marched in. The besieged were amazed and panic-struck; yet, to their eternal credit,
they made what even Cromwell admits to have been a "stiff resistance." The massacre of Drogheda
was renewed with all its horrors, and the treacherous General held in his hand all the time
the formal offer of surrender which had been made by the townspeople and his own reply. He
informs the Parliament that he did not intend to destroy the town, but his own letter reveals
his treachery; and he congratulates his correspondents on the "unexpected providence" which
had befallen them. He excuses the massacre on the plea of some outrages which had been offered
to the "poor Protestants," forgetting what incomparably greater cruelties had been inflicted
by the Protestants on the Catholics, both for their loyalty and for their religion.

MacGeoghegan mentions the massacre of two hundred women, who clung round the market-cross for
protection.[488] His statement is not corroborated by contemporary authority; but there appears
no reason to doubt that it may have taken place, from what has already been recorded at Drogheda
on unquestionable authority. Owen Roe and Ormonde now leagued together for the royal cause,
but their union was of short duration, for the Irish chieftain died almost immediately, and
it was said, not without suspicion of having been poisoned by wearing a "pair of russet boots,"
sent to him by one Plunket, of Louth, who afterwards boasted of his exploit. His death was
an irreparable loss to the Irish cause; for his noble and upright conduct had won him universal
esteem, while his military prowess had secured him the respect even of his enemies. New Ross
surrendered to Cromwell on the 18th of October and Luke Taaffe, the Commander, joined Ormonde
at Kilkenny. The garrisons of Cork, Youghal, Kinsale, and Bandon, revolted to Cromwell, through
the intervention of Lord Broghill, son of the Earl of Cork, who became one of the leading Parliamentary
officers. On the 24th of November, Cromwell attempted to take Waterford; but finding the place
too strong for him, he marched on to Dungarvan. Here the garrison surrendered at discretion,
and his troops proceeded to Cork through Youghal.

The Irish had now begun to distrust Ormonde thoroughly; even the citizens of Waterford refused
to admit his soldiers into their town. Indeed, the distrust was so general, that he had considerable
difficulty in providing winter quarters for his troops, and he wrote to ask permission from
the exiled King to leave the country. The month of January, 1650, was spent by Cromwell in
continuing his victorious march. He set out from Youghal on the 29th, and approached as near
Limerick as he dared, taking such castles as lay in his way, and accepting the keys of Cashel
and other towns, where the authorities surrendered immediately. On the 22nd of March he arrived
before Kilkenny, to meet a resistance as hopeless as it was heroic. A fearful pestilence had
reduced the garrison from 1,200 men to about 400, yet they absolutely refused to obey the summons
to surrender, but, after a brave resistance, they were obliged to yield; and Cromwell hastened
on to Clonmel, where he had to encounter the most formidable resistance he experienced in his
Irish campaigns. The garrison was commanded by Hugh Dubh O'Neill. The Bishop of Ross attempted
to raise the siege, but was taken and hanged by Broghill, because he would not desire the defenders
of Carrigadrohid to surrender. The first attack on Clonmel took place on the 9th of May, and
O'Neill determined to resist with the energy of despair, and the full knowledge of the demon
vengeance with which the Puritans repaid such deeds of valour. When the place was no longer
tenable, he withdrew his troops under cover of darkness; and the English General found next
morning that he had been outwitted, and that nothing remained for his vengeance but the unfortunate
townspeople.

Pressing demands were now made by the Parliament for his return to England, where the royalists
had also to be crushed and subdued; and after committing the command of his army to Ireton,
he sailed from Youghal, on the 20th of May, leaving, as a legacy to Ireland, a name which was
only repeated to be cursed, and an increase of miseries which already had seemed incapable
of multiplication. In the meantime the Irish clergy held frequent conferences, and made every
effort in their power to obtain peace for their unfortunate country. Ormonde became daily more
and more distrusted; the people of Limerick and of Galway had both refused to receive him;
and on the 6th of August the clergy met in synod at Jamestown, in the county Leitrim, and sent
him a formal message, requesting his withdrawal from the kingdom, and asking for the appointment
of some one in whom the people might have confidence. His pride was wounded, and he refused
to retire until he should be compelled to do so; but the bishops published a declaration, denouncing
his government, and threatening to impeach him before the King. They were yet to learn that
the King, whom they served so faithfully, and in whom, despite all past disappointments, they
confided so loyally, could be guilty of the greatest duplicity and the basest subterfuge.

Charles II. landed in Scotland on the 28th of June, 1650, and soon after signed the Covenant,
and a declaration in which he stated the peace with Ireland to be null and void, adding, with
equal untruthfulness and meanness, that "he was convinced in his conscience of the sinfulness
and unlawfulness of it, and of allowing them [the Catholics] the liberty of the Popish religion;
for which he did from his heart desire to be deeply humbled before the Lord." Ormonde declared,
what was probably true, that the King had been obliged to make these statements, and that they
meant nothing; but neither his protestations nor his diplomacy could save him from general
contempt; and having appointed the Marquis of Clanrickarde to administer the Government of
Ireland for the King, he left the country, accompanied by some of the leading royalists, and,
after a stormy passage, arrived at St. Malo, in Brittany, early in the year 1651. The Irish
again sacrificed their interests to their loyalty, and refused favourable terms offered to
them by the Parliamentary party; they even attempted to mortgage the town of Galway, to obtain
money for the royal cause, and an agreement was entered into with the Duke of Lorraine for
this purpose; but the disasters of the battle of Worcester, and the triumphs of the republican
faction, soon deprived them of every hope.

It will be remembered that Cromwell had passed by Limerick at a respectful distance; but the
possession of that city was none the less coveted. Ireton now prepared to lay siege to it.
To effect this, Coote made a feint of attacking Sligo; and when he had drawn off Clanrickarde's
forces to oppose him, marched back hastily, and took Athlone. By securing this fortress he
opened a road into Connaught; and Ireton, at the same time, forced the passage of the river
at O'Briensbridge, and thus was enabled to invest Limerick. Lord Muskerry marched to its relief;
but he was intercepted by Lord Broghill, and his men were routed with great slaughter. The
castle at the salmon weir was first attacked; and the men who defended it were butchered in
cold blood, although they had surrendered on a promise of quarter. At length treachery accomplished
what valour might have prevented. The plague was raging in the city, and many tried to escape;
but were either beaten back into the town, or killed on the spot by Ireton's troopers. The
corporation and magistrates were in favour of a capitulation; but the gallant Governor, Hugh
O'Neill, opposed it earnestly. Colonel Fennell, who had already betrayed the pass at Killaloe,
completed his perfidy by seizing St. John's Gate and Tower, and admitting Ireton's men by night.
On the following day the invader was able to dictate his own terms. 2,500 soldiers laid down
their arms in St. Mary's Church, and marched out of the city, many dropping dead on road of
the fearful pestilence. Twenty-four persons were exempted from quarter. Amongst the number
were a Dominican prelate, Dr. Terence O'Brien, Bishop of Emly, and a Franciscan, Father Wolfe.
Ireton had special vengeance for the former, who had long encouraged the people to fight for
their country and their faith, and had refused a large bribe[489] which the Cromwellian General
had offered him if he would leave the city. The ecclesiastics were soon condemned; but, ere
the Bishop was dragged to the gibbet, he turned to the dark and cruel man who had sacrificed
so many lives, and poured such torrents of blood over the land, summoning him, in stern and
prophetic tones, to answer at God's judgment-seat for the evils he had done. The Bishop and
his companion were martyred on the Eve of All Saints, October 31st, 1651. On the 26th of November
Ireton was a corpse. He caught the plague eight days after he had been summoned to the tribunal
of eternal justice; and he died raving wildly of the men whom he had murdered, and accusing
everyone but himself of the crime he had committed.

Several of the leading gentry of Limerick were also executed; and the traitor Fennell met the
reward of his treachery, and was also hanged. Hugh O'Neill was saved through the remonstrances
of some of the Parliamentary officers, who had the spirit to appreciate his valour and his
honorable dealing.

Ludlow now took the command, and marched to assist Coote, who was besieging Galway. This town
surrendered on the 12th of May, 1652. The few Irish officers who still held out against the
Parliament, made the best terms they could for themselves individually; and there was a brief
peace, the precursor of yet more terrible storms.

I have already given such fearful accounts of the miseries to which the Irish were reduced
by confiscations, fines, and war, that it seems useless to add fresh details; yet, fearful
as are the records given by Spenser of 1580, when neither the lowing of a cow nor the voice
of a herdsman could be heard from Dunquin, in Kerry, to Cashel, in Munster, there seems to
have been a deeper depth of misery after Cromwell's massacres. In 1653 the English themselves
were nearly starving, even in Dublin; and cattle had to be imported from Wales. There was no
tillage, and a licence was required to kill lamb.[490] The Irish had fled into the mountains,
the only refuge left to them now; and the Parliamentary officers were obliged to issue proclamations
inviting their return, and promising them safety and protection. But the grand object of the
revolutionary party was still to carry out the wild scheme of unpeopling Ireland of the Irish,
and planting it anew with English--a scheme which had been so often attempted, and had so signally
failed, that one marvels how it could again have been brought forward. Still there were always
adventurers ready to fight for other men's lands, and subjects who might be troublesome at
home, whom it was found desirable to occupy in some way abroad. But a grand effort was made
now to get rid of as many Irishmen as possible in a peaceable manner. The valour of the Irish
soldier was well known abroad;[491] and agents from the King of Spain, the King of Poland,
and the Prince de Condé, were contending for those brave fellows, who were treated like slaves
in their native land; and then, if they dared resist, branded with the foul name of rebels.
If a keen had rung out loud and long when O'Donnell left his native land never to return, well
might it ring out now yet more wildly. In May, 1652, Don Ricardo White shipped 7,000 men for
the King of Spain; in September, Colonel Mayo collected 3,000 more; Lord Muskerry took 5,000
to Poland; and, in 1654, Colonel Dwyer went to serve the Prince de Condé with 3,500 men. Other
officers looked up the men who had served under them, and expatriated themselves in smaller
parties; so that, between 1651 and 1654, 34,000 Irishmen had left their native land; and few,
indeed, ever returned to its desolate shores.

But their lot was merciful compared with the fate of those who still remained. In 1653 Ireland
was considered sufficiently depopulated by war and emigration to admit of a commencement of
the grand planting. The country was again portioned out; again the ruling powers selected the
best portion of the land for themselves and their favourites; again the religion of the country
was reformed, and Protestant prelates were condemned as loudly, though they were not hunted
as unmercifully, as Popish priests; again the wild and lawless adventurer was sent to eject
the old proprietor, who might starve or beg while the intruder held his lands, and sheltered
himself in his mansion, while a new cruelty was enacted, a new terror devised, a new iniquity
framed, and this by rulers who talked so loudly of political and religious liberty. It was
not convenient, more probably, it was not possible, to massacre all the native population who
still survived; so they were to be banished--banished to a corner of their own land, imprisoned
there safely by their ruthless conquerors, and there, without hope or help, it was supposed
they must soon die out quietly.

We may imagine the dismay and anguish which this announcement caused. The old Irish chieftain
and the Anglo-Irish lord still had some kind of home and shelter on their own estate--it might
be but an outhouse or a barn; it was certainly on the worst and least cultivated portion of
their land, for the old castle had long since been taken from them, and their broad acres transferred
to others. Yet, though they tilled the soil of which they so lately had been the lords, this
little spot was home: there the wife and mother loved her little ones as tenderly as in the
stately halls which her husband or his fathers had so lately possessed. It was home, and if
not the dear old home, it was, perhaps, loved all the more for its sorrowful proximity to the
ancestral castle--for the faint hope that the rightful owner might still be restored. But the
trumpet had sounded the nation's doom. Confiscation and banishment, wholesale plunder and untold
iniquity, reigned supreme. The name of the God of justice was invoked to sanction[492] the
grossest outrages upon justice; and men who professed to have freed their own nation from the
tyranny of kingcraft and of Popery, perpetrated a tyranny on another nation, which has made
the name of their leader a byword and a curse.

The majority of the Catholic nobility and gentry were banished; the remainder of the nation,
thus more than decimated, were sent to Connaught. On the 26th of September, 1653, all the property
of the Irish people was declared to belong to the English army and adventurers, "and it was
announced that the Parliament had assigned Connaught [America was not then accessible] for
the habitation of the Irish nation, whither they must transplant, with their wives, and daughters,
and children, before 1st May following, under the penalty of death, if found on this side of
the Shannon after that day."[493] It must not be supposed that this death penalty was a mere
threat; I shall give instances to prove the contrary. Any man, woman, or child who had disobeyed
this order, no matter from what cause, could be instantly executed in any way, by any of these
soldiers or adventurers, without judge, jury, or trial. It was in fact constituting a special
commission for the new comers to murder[494] all the old inhabitants.

Connaught was selected for two reasons: first, because it was the most wasted province of Ireland;
and secondly, because it could be, and in fact was, most easily converted into a national prison,
by erecting a cordon militaire across the country, from sea to sea. To make the imprisonment
more complete, a belt four miles wide, commencing one mile to the west of Sligo, and thence
running along the coast and the Shannon, was to be given to the soldiery to plant. Thus, any
Irishman who attempted to escape, would be sure of instant capture and execution.

The Government, as it has been already remarked, reserved the best part of the land for themselves.
They secured the towns, church-lands, and tithes, and abolished the Protestant Church, with
all its officers, which had been so recently declared the religion of the country. A "Church
of Christ" was now the established religion, and a Mr. Thomas Hicks was approved by the "Church
of Christ" meeting at Chichester House, as one fully qualified to preach and dispense the Gospel
as often as the Lord should enable him, and in such places as the Lord should make his ministry
most effectual. The Parliament also reserved for themselves the counties of Dublin, Kildare,
Carlow, and Cork; and from these lands and the church property they were to enrich themselves,
and, with what they could spare, to reward the leading regicides and rebels. The adventurers
were next provided for. They claimed £960,000. This was divided into three lots, to be paid
in lands in Munster, Leinster, and Ulster. All these were to be drawn by lot; and a lottery
was held at Grocers' Hall, London, which commenced at eight o'clock in the morning, on the
20th of July, 1653, at which time and place men who professed the advancement of the Christian
religion to be the business of their lives, openly and flagrantly violated the most solemn
and explicit commands of that very belief which they declared themselves so zealous in upholding.
The soldiers and officers were to obtain whatever was left after the adventurers had been satisfied.

A book was written by a Franciscan father, called Threnodia Hiberno-Catholica, sive Planctus
Universalis totius Cleri et Populi Regni Hiberniæ,[495] in which the writer states he had heard
a great Protestant statesman give three reasons why this transplantation was confined to the
gentry, and why the poor, who had not been either transported or hanged, were allowed to remain:
(1) because the English wanted them to till the ground; (2) they hoped they would become Protestants
when deprived of their priests; (3) because the settlers required servants, or else they should
have worked for themselves.

But the fatal day at length arrived, and those who had dared to linger, or to hope that so
cruel a sentence would not be finally executed, were at once undeceived. The commissioners
had been in trouble all the winter: the people who were to be driven out of their farms refused
to sow for those who were to succeed them; and the very plotters of the iniquity began to tremble
for the consequences which might accrue to themselves. They fasted, they prayed, and they wrote
pages of their peculiar cant, which would be ludicrous were it not profane. They talked loudly
of their unworthiness for so great a service, but expressed no contrition for wholesale robbery.
Meanwhile, however, despite cant, fasts, and fears, the work went on. The heads of each family
were required to proceed to Loughrea before the 31st of January, 1654, to receive such allotments
as the commissioners pleased to give them, and that they might erect some kind of huts on these
allotments, to shelter their wives and daughters when they arrived. The allotment of land was
proportioned to the stock which each family should bring; but they were informed that, at a
future day, other commissioners were to sit at Athlone, and regulate even these regulations,
according to their real or supposed affection or disaffection to the Parliament. All this was
skilfully put forward, that the unfortunate people might transplant the more quietly, in the
hope of procuring thereby the good-will of their tyrants; but the tyrants were quite aware
that the stock would probably die from the fatigue of transportation and the want of food;
then the land could be taken from the victim, and, as a last favour, he might be allowed to
remain in the poor hut he had erected, until misery and disease had terminated his life also.

Remonstrances and complaints were sent to the faction who governed England, but all was in
vain. The principal petitioners were the descendants of the English nobles; they were now,
by a just retribution, suffering themselves the very miseries which they had so ruthlessly
inflicted on the native Irish. The petitioners, says Mr. Prendergast,[496] were the noble and
the wealthy, men of ancient English blood, descendants of the invaders--the FitzGeralds, the
Butlers, the Plunkets, the Barnwalls, Dillons, Cheevers, Cusacks, names found appended to various
schemes for extirpating or transplanting the Irish, after the subduing of Lord Thomas FitzGerald's
rebellion in 1535--who were now to transplant as Irish. The native Irish were too poor to pay
scriveners and messengers to the Council, and their sorrows were unheard; though under their
rough coats beat hearts that felt as great pangs at being driven from their native homes as
the highest in the land.

One of these English families demands special mention. Edmund Spenser's grandson was now commanded
to transplant, as though he to had been "mere Irish" and the very estate near Fermoy, which
had been confiscated from the FitzGeralds seventy years before, and which the poet had obtained
thus fraudulently, was now confiscated anew, and granted to Cromwell's soldiers. William Spenser
protested; he pleaded his grandfather's name, he pleaded his grandfather's services, especially
the odium he had incurred amongst the Irish by the way in which he had written of them; and
lastly, William Spenser declares of himself that he had utterly renounced Popery since he came
to years of discretion. But even Cromwell's interference could not save him; the soldiers were
determined to have his lands, and they had them.

The commissioners appointed to conduct the transplanting had a busy time. They were overwhelmed
with petitions: the heads of families demanding permission to return and save their crops;
the women requesting to remain a few months longer for a similar purpose, when the men were
not permitted to return. Hundreds of petitions were sent from aged and bedridden persons, to
obtain leave to die in peace where they were. Then there were complaints from the officers
who had charge of driving the people into the plantation; and above all, there was a charge,
a grave charge, against the Irish people--they were as stiff-necked, wicked, and rebellious[497]
as ever, and could not be brought to see that they were created for no other end than to be
sacrificed for the benefit of English adventurers; and, moreover, they were declared to be
a most treacherous race, for, years after, they might revenge all this kindness, by murdering
the men who had taken possession of their lands and farms; and some had absolutely refused
to transplant, and preferred death.

The manner in which these difficulties were met is thus recorded in a letter which was written
for publication in London:--

     "Athy, March 4, 1664-5.

So examples were made. Mr. Edward Hetherington was hanged in Dublin, on the 3rd of April, 1655,
with placards on his breast and back, on which were written, "For not transplanting;" and at
the summer assizes of 1658, hundreds were condemned to death for the same cause, but were eventually
sent as slaves to Barbadoes. The miseries of those who did transplant was scarcely less than
those of the persons who were condemned to slavery. Some committed suicide, some went mad,
all were reduced to the direst distress. The nobles of the land were as cruelly treated and
as much distrusted as the poorest peasant. The very men who had laid down their arms and signed
articles of peace at Kilkenny, were not spared; and the excuse offered was, that the Act of
Parliament overrode the articles. One of the gentlemen thus betrayed was Lord Trimbleston,
and his tomb may still be seen in the ruined Abbey of Kilconnell, with the epitaph:--

"HERE LIES MATHEW, LORD BARON OF TRIMBLESTON, ONE OF THE TRANSPLANTED."

FOOTNOTES:

[483] Trim For an illustration of this castle, see p. 560.

[484] Bibles.--See The Cromwellian Settlement of Ireland, by John P. Prendergast, Esq.--a most
important work, and one which merits the careful consideration of all who wish to understand
this period of Irish history, and one of the many causes of Irish disaffection. The scythes
and sickles were to the corn, that the Irish might be starved if they could not be conquered.

[485] Quarter.--Cromwell says, in his letters, that quarter was not promised; Leland and Carte
say that it was.

[486] Tale.--Cromwell's Letters and Speeches, vol. i. p. 456. The simplicity with which Carlyle
attempts to avert the just indignation of the Irish, by saying that the garrison "consisted
mostly of Englishmen," coupled with his complacent impression that eccentric phrases can excuse
crime, would be almost amusing were it not that he admits himself to be as cruel as his hero.--vol.
i. p. 453. A man who can write thus is past criticism. If the garrison did consist mainly of
Englishmen, what becomes of the plea, that this barbarity was a just vengeance upon the Irish
for the "massacre."

[487] Allowed of.--Letters and Speeches, vol. i. p. 477.

[488] Protection.--Dr. French, the Catholic Bishop of Ferns, has given an account of the storming
of Wexford, in a letter to the Papal Nuncio, in which he states that the soldiers were not
content with simply murdering their victims, but used "divers sorts of torture." As he was
then in the immediate neighbourhood, he had every opportunity of being correctly informed.
Cromwell must have sanctioned this, if he did not encourage it.

[489] Bribe.--40,000 golden crowns, and free leave to emigrate where he chose.--Hib. Dom. p. 448.

[490] Lamb..--Cromwellian Settlement, p. 16. See also Petty's Political Anatomy of Ireland.

[491] Abroad.--The Prince of Orange declared they were born soldiers. Sir John Norris said
that he "never beheld so few of any country as of Irish that were idiots or cowards," Henry
IV. of France said that Hugh O'Neill was the third soldier of the age; and declared that no
nation had such resolute martial men.--Cromwellian Settlement, p. 22.

[492] Sanction.--See Cromwellian Settlement, p. 61, for a specimen of the "Bible stuff with
which they crammed their heads and hardened their hearts."

[493] Day.--Cromwellian Settlement, p. 163.

[494] Murder.--"Whenever any unwary person chanced to pass these limits he was knocked on the
head by the first officer or soldier who met him. Colonel Astell killed six women in this way."--Ibid.
p. 164.

[495] Hiberniæ.--The Wail of the Irish Catholics; or, Groans of the Whole Clergy and People,
&c. By Father Maurice Morison, of the Minors of Strict Observance, an eyewitness of these cruelties.
Insbruck, A.D. 1659. This religious had remained in Ireland, like many of his brethren, in
such complete disguise, that their existence was not even suspected. In order to minister the
more safely to their afflicted people, they often hired as menials in Protestant families and
thus, in a double sense, became the servants of all men. Father Maurice was in the household
of Colonel Ingolsby, the Parliamentary Governor of Limerick.

[496] Prendergast.--Cromwellian Settlement, p. 34. We can only recommend this volume to the
consideration of our readers. It would be impossible, in anything less than a volume, to give
the different details which Mr. Prendergast has brought together with so much judgment, and
at the expense of years of research. We might have selected some cases from his work, but,
on the whole, we think it will be more satisfactory to the reader to peruse it in its entirety.
It may be obtained from our publishers, Messrs. Longmans and Co., Paternoster-row, London.

[497] Rebellious.--If the subject were not so serious, the way in which the officials wrote
about the feelings of the Irish would almost provoke a smile. Surely they could not be expected
to be anything else but rebellious and exasperated!

CHAPTER XXXI.

The Irish transported as Slaves to Barbadoes--The Three Beasts who were to be hunted: the Wolf,
the Priest, and the Tory--Origin and Causes of Agrarian Outrages--Cases of Individual Wrongs--Lord
Roche--Mr. Luttrel Accession of Charles II.--His Base Conduct towards the Irish Loyalists--Gross
Injustice towards the Irish Catholic Landowners--The Remonstrance opposed by the Clergy--A
Quarrel in the House of Lords The Popish Plot--Ormonde's Difficulties--Seizure and Imprisonment
of the Archbishop of Dublin--Imprisonment and Execution of the Most Rev. Dr. Plunkett, Archbishop
of Armagh.

[A.D.-1655-1681.]

Many of the Irish soldiers who had entered into the service of foreign princes, were obliged
to leave their wives and families behind. When we recall the number of those who were thus
expatriated, it will not seem surprising that thousands of young children were left utterly
destitute. These boys and girls, however, were easily disposed of by the Government; and Sir
William Petty states, that 6,000 were sent out as slaves to the West Indies. The Bristol sugar
merchants traded in these human lives, as if they had been so much merchandize; and merchandize,
in truth, they were, for they could be had for a trifle, and they fetched a high price in the
slave-market. Even girls of noble birth were subjected to this cruel fate. Morison mentions
an instance of this kind which came to his own knowledge. He was present when Daniel Connery,
a gentleman of Clare, was sentenced to banishment, by Colonel Ingoldsby, for harbouring a priest.
Mrs. Connery died of destitution, and three of his daughters, young and beautiful girls, were
transported as slaves to Barbadoes.[498]

A court was established for the punishment of "rebels and malignants;" the former consisting
of persons who refused to surrender their houses and lands, and the latter being those who
would not act contrary to their conscientious convictions in religious matters. These courts
were called "Cromwell's Slaughter-houses." Donnellan, who had acted as solicitor to the regicides,
at the trial of Charles I., held the first court at Kilkenny, October 4, 1652. Lord Louther
held a court in Dublin, in February, 1653, for the special purpose of trying "all massacres
and murders committed since the 1st day of October, 1641." The inquiries, however, were solely
confined to the accused Catholics; and the result proved the falsehood of all the idle tales
which had been circulated of their having intended a great massacre of Protestants, for convictions
could only be obtained against 200 persons, and even these were supported by forged and corrupt
evidence.[499] Sir Phelim O'Neill was the only person convicted in Ulster, and he was offered
his life again and again, and even on the very steps of the scaffold, if he would consent to
criminate Charles I.

As the majority of the nation had now been disposed of, either by banishment, transportation,
or hanging, the Government had time to turn their attention to other affairs. The desolation
of the country was such, that the smoke of a fire, or the sign of a habitation, was considered
a rare phenomenon. In consequence of this depopulation, wild beasts had multiplied on the lands,
and three "beasts" were especially noted for destruction. Public hunts were ordered, and every
effort made to keep down beasts of prey. But the whole blame was thrown on the second beast.
It was declared solemnly that if there had been no priests there would have been no wolves.[501]
The syllogism ran somewhat in this fashion:--

The Popish priests are the cause of every misery in Ireland;

The wolves are a misery:

Therefore the priests are to blame for the existence of the wolves.

"By a similar process of reasoning," observes Mr. Prendergast, "it is proved that the Irish
have caused the ruin, the plundering, and the desolation of the country, from the first invasion,
for so many ages." And this is undoubtedly true; for if there had been no Irish, no Irish could
have been plundered; and if there had been no plunder, there could not have been the misery
of the plundered. The number of wolves to be destroyed may be estimated from the fact, that
some lands valued at a high rate were let for a stipulated number of wolves' heads in lieu
of rent. But the wolves were more easily got rid of than the priests. The priests were accustomed
to be persecuted, and accustomed to be hunted. They came to Ireland, as a general rule, with
the full knowledge that this would be their fate, and that if they ended their lives, after
a few years' ministration, by hanging, without any extra torture, it was the best they could
hope for, as far as this world was concerned. Some, however, would have preferred the torture,
expecting an additional recompense for it in the next. But there were parts of the country
where it was incomparably more difficult to hunt out a priest than a wolf; so the Government
gave notice, on the 6th of January, 1653, that all priests and friars who were willing to transport
themselves, should have liberty to do so for twenty days. But the priests and friars had no
idea of leaving the country. They had gone abroad, at the risk of their lives, to fit themselves
in some of the splendid continental colleges for their duties, and to obtain authority to administer
the sacraments; they returned, at the risk of their lives, to fulfil their mission; and they
remained, at the risk of their lives, to devote them to their own people, for whose sakes they
had renounced, not only earthly pleasures and joys, but even that quiet and peaceful life,
which, as Christian priests, they might have had in foreign lands. The people for whom they
suffered were not ungrateful. Poor as they were, none could be found to take the proffered
bribe. Long lists may be found of priests who were captured and executed, and of the men who
received the rewards for their capture; but you will not see a real Irish name amongst them;
you will perceive that the priest-catchers were principally English soldiers; and you will
remark that the man in whose house the priest was discovered generally shared his fate. But
it was useless. They were hung, they were tortured, they were transported to Barbadoes, and,
finally, such numbers were captured, that it was feared they would contaminate the very slaves,
and they were confined on the island of Innisboffin, off the coast of Connemara. Yet more priests
came to take the place of those who were thus removed, and the "hunt" was still continued.

The number of secular priests who were victims to this persecution cannot be correctly estimated.
The religious orders, who were in the habit of keeping an accurate chronicle of the entrance
and decease of each member, furnish fuller details. An official record, drawn up in 1656, gives
the names of thirty Franciscans who had suffered for the faith; and this was before the more
severe search had commenced. The martyrdom of a similar number of Dominicans is recorded almost
under the same date; and Dr. Burgat[502] states that more than three hundred of the clergy
were put to death by the sword or on the scaffold, while more than 1,000 were sent into exile.

The third "beast" was the Tory. The Tory was the originator of agrarian outrages in Ireland,
or we should rather say, the English planters were the originators, and the Tories the first
perpetrators of the crime. The Irish could scarcely be expected to have very exalted ideas
of the sanctity and inviolable rights of property, from the way in which they saw it treated.
The English made their will law, and force their title-deed. The Anglo-Normans dispossessed
the native Irish, the followers of the Tudors dispossessed the Anglo-Normans, and the men of
the Commonwealth dispossessed them all. Still the Celt, peculiarly tenacious of his traditions,
had a very clear memory of his ancient rights, and could tell you the family who even then
represented the original proprietor, though that proprietor had been dispossessed five or six
hundred years. The ejectments from family holdings had been carried out on so large a scale,
that it can scarcely be a matter of surprise if some of the ejected resented this treatment.
There were young men who preferred starving in the woods to starving in Connaught; and after
a time they formed into bands in those vast tracts of land which had been wholly depopulated.
The men were desperate. It is difficult to see how they could have been anything else, when
driven to desperation. They were called robbers; but there was a general confusion about meum
and tuum which they could not understand. Strangers had taken possession of their cattle, and
they did not comprehend why they should not try to obtain it again in any possible way. Young
men, whose fathers had landed estates of £2,000 a-year, which were quietly divided amongst
Cromwell's Life-Guards, while the proprietor was sent out to beg, and his daughters compelled
to take in washing or do needlework, could scarcely be expected to take such a change in their
circumstances very calmly. A man who had been transplanted from an estate worth £2,500 a year
near Dublin, which his family had owned for four hundred years, and whose daughters were given
the munificent gratuity of £10 a-piece by the Council Board, and forbidden for the future to
ask for any further assistance, might certainly plead extenuating circumstances[503] if he
took to highway robbery. Such circumstances as these were common at this period; and it should
be borne in mind that the man whose holding was worth but £40 a-year felt the injustice, and
resented the inhumanity of his expulsion, quite as much as the nobleman with £4,000. So the
Tories plundered their own property; and, if they could be captured, paid the penalty with
their lives; but, when they were not caught, the whole district suffered, and some one was
made a scapegoat for their crime, though it did not seem much to matter whether the victim
could be charged with complicity or not. After some years, when even the sons of the proprietors
had become old inhabitants, and the dispossessed generation had passed away, their children
were still called Tories. They wandered from village to village, or rather from hovel to hovel,
and received hospitality and respect from the descendants of those who had been tenants on
the estates of their forefathers, and who still called them gentlemen and treated them as such,
though they possessed nothing but the native dignity, which could not be thrown off, and the
old title-deeds, which were utterly worthless, yet not the less carefully treasured. Yet, these
men were condemned by their oppressors because they did not work for their living, and because
they still remembered their ancient dignity, and resented their ancient wrongs. To have worked
and to have forgotten might have been wiser; but those who are accustomed to ease are slow
to learn labour, even with the best intentions; and those who had inflicted the wrongs were
scarcely the persons who should have taunted the sufferers with the miseries they had caused.

Charles II. commenced his reign de facto in 1660, under the most favourable auspices. People
were weary of a Commonwealth which had promised so much and performed so little; of the name
of liberty without the reality; of the exercise of kingly power without the appurtenances or
right of majesty. But the new monarch had been educated in a bad school. Surrounded with all
the prestige of royalty without its responsibilities, and courted most ardently by followers
whose only object was their own future advancement, which they hoped to secure by present flattery,
it is scarcely a matter of surprise that Charles should have disappointed the hopes of the
nation. In England public affairs were easily settled. Those who had been expelled from their
estates by the Cromwellian faction, drove out[504] by the new proprietors; but in Ireland the
case was very different. Even the faithful loyalists, who had sacrificed everything for the
King, and had so freely assisted his necessities out of their poverty, were now treated with
contempt, and their claims silenced by proclamation; while the men who had been most opposed
to the royal interest, and most cruel in their oppression of the natives, were rewarded and
admitted into favour. Coote and Broghill were of this class. Each tried to lessen the other
in opinion of their royal master as they ran the race for favour, and each boasted of services
never accomplished, and of loyalty which never existed. The two enemies of each other and of
the nation were now appointed Lord Justices of Ireland; and a Parliament was assembled on the
8th of May, 1661, the first meeting of the kind which had been held for twenty years.

The Catholic, or national interest, was certainly not represented; for there were present seventy-two
Protestant peers, and only twenty-one Catholics; while the House of Commons comprised two hundred
and sixty members, all of whom were burgesses except sixty-four, and the towns had been so
entirely peopled by Cromwell's Puritan followers, that there could be no doubt what course
they would pursue. An attempt was now made to expel the few Catholics who were present, by
requiring them to take the oath of supremacy. The obsequious Parliament voted £30,000 to the
Duke of Ormonde, whose career of duplicity was crowned with success. It is almost amusing to
read his biographer's account[505] of the favours bestowed on him, and the laudations he bestows
on his master for his condescension in accepting them. Carte would have us believe that Ormonde
was a victim to his king and his country, and that the immense sums of money he received did
not nearly compensate him for his outlays. Posterity will scarcely confirm the partiality of
the biographer.

The Bill of Settlement was opposed by the Irish Catholics through their counsel, but their
claims were rejected and treated with contempt. Charles had told his Parliament, on his restoration,
that he expected they would have a care of his honour and of the promise he had made. This
promise had been explicitly renewed by Ormonde for the King, before he left for Breda; but
the most solemn engagements were so regularly violated when Irish affairs were concerned, that
nothing else could have been expected. A Court of Claims was at length established, to try
the cases of ejectment which had occurred during the Commonwealth; but this excited so much
indignation and alarm amongst the Protestants, that all hope of justice was quickly at an end,
and the time-serving Ormonde closed the court. The grand occupation of each new reign, for
the last few centuries, appears to have been to undo what had been done in the preceding reigns.
An Act of Explanation was now passed, and a Protestant militia raised, to satisfy that party.
It was provided by the new Act that the Protestants were, in the first place, and especially,
to be settled; that any doubt which arose should be decided in their favour; and that no Papist,
who, by the qualifications of the former Act, had not been adjudged innocent should at any
future time be reputed innocent, or entitled to claim any lands or settlements. It will be
remembered that Ormonde had cut short the sittings of the court to satisfy Protestant clamour;
in consequence of this, more than 8,000 Catholic claimants were condemned to forfeit their
estates, without even the shadow of an inquiry, but with the pretence of having justice done
to them, or, as Leland has expressed it, "without the justice granted to the vilest criminal--that
of a fair and equal trial."[506]

Although it would seem to the ordinary observer that the Catholics had been dealt with severely,
the dominant faction were still dissatisfied; and Ormonde was obliged to threaten a dissolution,
and to expel some members for complicity in a plot to overthrow the English Government, which
had just been discovered, and of which the ringleader was a man named Blood. It was now ascertained
that the Cromwellian distribution of lands had been carried out with the most shameful injustice
towards the very Government which had sanctioned it; and that the soldiers, who went with texts
of Scripture on their lips, and swords in their hands, to destroy Popery, had cheated[507]
their officers and self-elected rulers with shameless audacity.

The famous Remonstrance was drawn up about this time. It was prepared by Peter Walsh, a Franciscan
friar, who was a protégé of Ormonde's, and who devoted more attention to politics than to his
religious duties. The Remonstrance contained expressions which were by no means consonant with
that pure Catholic feeling for which the Irish had been always remarkable; but it suited the
Duke's purpose all the better, and he induced a considerable number of the nobility, and some
of the clergy, to affix their signatures to it. They were little aware, in giving expression
to the loyalty they so sincerely felt, that they were supposed to countenance disrespect to
the Church which they so deeply revered. A synod of the Irish bishops and clergy was therefore
held in Dublin, to consider the document, June 11th, 1666. Although ecclesiastics were then
under the penal laws, and liable to suffer at any moment, Ormonde connived at the meeting,
hoping that his ends would be thereby attained. He has himself left his object on record. It
was to "sow divisions among the clergy;" and Lord Orrery had written to him, being well aware
of his plans, suggesting that this was a fitting time for their accomplishment. But the clergy
were not so easily deceived; and even the miserable friar has left it on record, that out of
1,850 ecclesiastics, regular and secular, only sixty-nine signed the Remonstrance. The synod
now prepared another document; and if the expression of loyalty was all that Ormonde required,
he should have been fully satisfied; but, unfortunately, this was not the case, and he bided
his time to avenge himself bitterly on the men who refused to sacrifice their conscience to
his will.

During the same year (1660), the Irish sent over a contribution of 15,000 bullocks, to relieve
the distress which occurred in London after the Great Fire. In return for their charity, they
were assured that this was a mere pretence to keep up the cattle trade with England; and accordingly
an Act was passed in which the importation of Irish cattle was forbidden, and termed a "nuisance,"
and language was used which, in the present day, would be considered something like a breach
of privilege. The Duke of Buckingham, whose farming interests were in England, declared "that
none could oppose the Bill, except such as had Irish estates or Irish understandings." Lord
Ossory protested that "such virulence became none but one of Cromwell's counsellors;" and he
being the eldest of the Duke of Ormonde, and having Irish interests, opposed it. Several noble
lords attempted to draw their swords. Ossory challenged Buckingham; Buckingham declined the
challenge. Ossory was sent to the Tower; the word "nuisance" remained; some members of the
"Cabal" said it should have been "felony;" and the Irish trade was crushed. Even the Puritan
settlers in Ireland began to rebel at this, for they, too, had begun to have "Irish interests,"
and could not quite see matters relative to that country in the same light as they had done
when at the other side of the Channel. At last they became openly rebellious. Some soldiers
mutinied for arrears of pay, and seized Carrickfergus Castle--ten of them were executed, and
peace was restored; but the old Cromwellians, both in England and Ireland, gave considerable
anxiety to the Government; and, indeed, it seems marvellous that they should not have revolted
more openly and in greater force.

So many complaints were made of Ormonde's administration, that he was now removed for a time.
He was succeeded by Lord Berkeley, in May, 1670, a nobleman whose honest and impartial government
earned him the respect of all who were not interested in upholding a contrary line of conduct.
The Catholics offered him an address, which was signed by two prelates, who held a prominent
position, not only in their Church, but also in the history of the period; these were Dr. Plunkett,
Archbishop of Armagh, and Dr. Talbot, Archbishop of Dublin. Colonel Richard Talbot, who was
afterwards created Earl of Tyrconnel by James II., had been, for some time, the accredited
agent of the Irish Catholics at the English court; he now (A.D. 1671) attempted to obtain some
examination into the claims of those who had been ejected from their estates during the Commonwealth.
After some delay and much opposition, a commission was appointed; but although the "Popish
Plot" had not yet made its appearance, a wild "no Popery" cry was raised, and the King was
obliged to recall Lord Berkeley, and substitute the Earl of Essex. Even this did not quiet
the storm. On the 9th of March, 1673, an address was presented to the King by the Commons in
England, demanding the persecution of Papists in Ireland; and the weak monarch, all the more
afraid of appearing to show partiality, because of his apprehension that Popery might be the
true religion, and his still more serious apprehensions that his people might find out his
opinion, at once complied, and even recalled the Commission of Enquiry.

In 1677 Ormonde was again appointed Viceroy, and he held the office during the ensuing seven
years, at an advanced age, and a period of extraordinary political excitement. The "Popish
treason" was the first and the most fearful of these panics. Ormonde was at Kilkenny when he
received the first intimation of the conspiracy, October 3, 1678; but he had too much knowledge
of the world to credit it for a moment. Like other politicians of that, and indeed of other
ages, he was obliged to keep up his reputation by appearing to believe it in public, while
in private[508] he treated the whole affair with the contempt it merited. It was soon reported
that the plot had extended to Ireland, and Archbishop Talbot was selected as the first victim.
The prelate then resided with his brother, Colonel Talbot, at Carton, near Maynooth. But the
Colonel was quite as imaginary as the plot. No such person existed, and a non est inventis
was all the return that could be made to the most active inquiries. There was one illustrious
victim, however, who was found, who was executed, and who was not guilty, even in thought,
of the crime of which he was accused.

Oliver Plunkett had been Archbishop of Armagh since the death of Dr. O'Reilly, in 1669. He
belonged to the noble family of Fingall; but he was more respected for his virtues and his
office than even for his rank. He was now accused of being in correspondence with the French;
it was a favourite charge against Catholics at that time, and one which could be easily brought
forward by men who did not mind swearing to a lie, and not easily disproved by men who could
only assert their innocence. Lord Shaftesbury was the great patron of Titus Oates, the concocter
of the plot, and the perjured murderer of scores of innocent men. It was a serious disappointment
to find that no evidence of a conspiracy could be found in Ireland. Carte, who certainly cannot
be suspected of the faintest shadow of preference for an Irishman or a Catholic, says that
every effort was made to drive the people into rebellion. He gives the reason for this, which,
from former experience, one fears must be true. "There were," he says, "too many Protestants
in Ireland who wanted another rebellion, that they might increase their estates by new forfeitures."
"It was proposed to introduce the Test Act and all the English penal laws into Ireland; and
that a proclamation should be forthwith issued for encouraging all persons that could make
any further discoveries of the horrid Popish plot, to come in and declare the same."

Unfortunately for the credit of our common humanity, persons can always be found who are ready
to denounce their fellow-creatures, even when guiltless, from mere malice. When, to the pleasure
of gratifying a passion, there is added the prospect of a reward, the temptation becomes irresistible;
and if the desire of revenge for an injury, real or imaginary, be superadded, the temptation
becomes overwhelming. In order to satisfy the clamours of the "no Popery" faction, an order
had been issued, on the 16th of October, 1677, for the expulsion of all ecclesiastics from
Ireland; and a further proclamation was made, forbidding Papists to enter into the Castle of
Dublin, or any fort or citadel; and so far, indeed, did this childish panic exceed others of
its kind, that orders were sent to the great market-towns, commanding the markets to be held
outside the walls, to prevent the obnoxious Catholics from entering into the interior. Rewards
were offered of £10 for an officer, £5 for a trooper, and £4 for a soldier, if it could be
proved that he attended Mass; and how many were sworn away by this bribery it would be difficult
to estimate. On the 2nd of December, a strict search was ordered for the Catholic ecclesiastics
who had not yet transported themselves. Dr. Plunkett had not left the country. At the first
notice of the storm he withdrew, according to the apostolic example, to a retired situation,
where he remained concealed, more in hope of martyrdom than in fear of apprehension.

The prelate had never relaxed in his duties towards his flock, and he continued to fulfil those
duties now with equal vigilance. One of the most important functions of a chief shepherd is
to oversee the conduct of those who govern the flock of Christ under him. There was a Judas
in the college of the Apostles, and many Judases have been found since then. The Archbishop
had been obliged to excommunicate two of his priests and two friars, who had been denounced
by their superiors for their unworthy lives. The unhappy men resented the degradation, without
repenting of the crimes which had brought it upon them. They were ready for perjury, for they
had renounced truth; and the gratification of their malice was probably a far stronger motive
than the bribe for the capture of a bishop. The holy prelate was seized on the 6th December,
1679. Even Ormonde wished to have spared him, so inoffensive and peaceful had been his life.
He was arraigned at the Dundalk assizes; but although every man on the grand jury was a Protestant,
from whom, at least, less partiality might be expected towards him than from members of his
own Church, the perjured witnesses refused to come forward. Indeed, the prelate himself had
such confidence in his innocence, and in the honorable dealing of his Protestant fellow-countrymen,
when their better judgment was not bewildered by fanaticism, that he declared in London he
would put himself on trial in Ireland before any Protestant jury who knew him, and who knew
the men who swore against him, without the slightest doubt of the result.

Jones, the Protestant Bishop of Meath, was, unfortunately for himself, influenced by fanaticism.
He had served in Cromwell's army,[510] and had all that rancorous hatred of the Catholic Church
so characteristic of the low class from whom the Puritan soldiery were drawn. He was determined
that the Archbishop should be condemned; and as men could not be found to condemn him in Ireland,
he induced Lord Shaftesbury to have him taken to London. The Archbishop was removed to Newgate,
about the close of October, 1680, and so closely confined, that none of his friends could have
access to him. He spent his time in prayer, and his gaolers were amazed at his cheerfulness
and resignation. His trial took place on the 8th of June, 1681; but he was not allowed time
to procure the necessary witnesses, and the court would not allow certain records to be put
in, which would have proved the character of his accusers. Six of the most eminent English
lawyers were arrayed against him. The legal arrangements of the times deprived him of the assistance
of counsel, but they did not require the judges to help out the men who swore against him:
this, however, they did do.

The prelate was condemned to die. The speech of the judge who pronounced sentence was not distinguished
by any very special forensic acumen. Dr. Plunkett had been charged by the witnesses with political
crimes; the judge sentenced[511] him for his religious convictions; and, by a process of reasoning
not altogether peculiar to himself, insisted that his supposed treason was a necessary result
of the faith he professed. The Archbishop suffered at Tyburn, on Friday, July 11, 1681. He
went to his death rejoicing, as men go to a bridal. His dying declaration convinced his hearers
of his innocence; and, perhaps, the deep regret for his martyrdom, which was felt by all but
the wretches who had procured his doom, tended to still the wild storm of religious persecution,
or, at least, to make men see that where conscience was dearer than life, conscientious convictions
should be respected. It is at least certain, that his name was the last on the long roll of
sufferers who had been executed at Tyburn for the faith. Blood was no longer exacted there
as the price which men should pay for liberty of belief. It were well had that liberty been
allowed by men to their fellow-men in after years, without fines or confiscations--without
those social penalties, which, to a refined and sensitive mind, have in them the bitterness
of death, without the consolations of martyrdom.

FOOTNOTES:

[498] Barbadoes.--Threnodia Hib. p. 287.

[499] Evidence.--In a work written expressly to excite feeling in England against the Irish,
it is stated that they [the Irish] failed in the massacre.--See Cromwellian Settlement, p.
5, for further evidence.

[500] Tory.--Cromwellian Settlement, p. 150.

[501] No wolves--Declaration printed at Cork, 1650.

[502] Dr. Burgat.--Brevis Relatio. Presented to the Sacred Congregation in 1667. Dr. Moran's
little work, Persecution of the Irish Catholics, gives ample details on this subject; and every
statement is carefully verified, and the authority given for it.

[503] Circumstances.--Lord Roche and his daughters were compelled to go on foot to Connaught,
and his property was divided amongst the English soldiers. His wife, the Viscountess Roche,
was hanged without a shadow of evidence that she had committed the crime of which she was accused.
Alderman Roche's daughters had nothing to live on but their own earnings by washing and needlework;
and Mr. Luttrell, the last case mentioned above, was allowed as a favour to occupy his own
stables while preparing to transplant.

[504] Drove out.--Carte's Ormonde, vol ii. p. 398.

[505] Accounts--Carte's Ormonde, vol. ii. pp. 398, 399. He considers all "bounties" to him
as mere acts of justice.

[506] Trial.--Chief Justice Nugent, afterwards Lord Riverston, in a letter, dated Dublin, June
23rd, 1686, and preserved in the State Paper Office, London, says: "There are 5,000 in this
kingdom who were never outlawed."

[507] Cheated.--Books were found in the office of the surveyor for the county Tipperary alone,
in which only 50,000 acres were returned as unprofitable, and the adventurers had returned
245,207.--Carte's Ormonde, vol. ii. p. 307. "These soldiers," says Carte, "were for the most
part Anabaptists, Independents, and Levellers." Equal roguery was discovered in other places.

[508] Private.--For full information on this subject, see Carte's Ormonde, vol. ii. pp. 476-482.
I will give one extract to verify the statement above. "The Duke of Ormonde had, in truth,
difficulties enough to struggle with in the government of Ireland, to preserve that kingdom
in peace, and yet to give those who wished to imbroil it no handle of exception to the measures
he took for that end."--vol. ii. p. 477.

[509] Royalty.--D'Arcy M'Gee's History of Ireland, vol ii p. 560.

[510] Army.--Carte says "he was Scout-Master-General."--Ormonde, vol. ii. p. 473.

[511] Sentenced.--See Dr. Moran's Memoir of the Most Rev. Dr. Plunkett. This interesting work
affords full details of the character of the witnesses, the nature of the trial, and the Bishop's
saintly end.

CHAPTER XXXII.

Glimpses of Social Life in the Seventeenth Century--Literature and Literary Men--Keating--the
Four Masters--Colgan--Ward--Usher--Ware-- Lynch--Trade--Commerce depressed by the English--Fairs--Waterford
Rugs--Exportation of Cattle forbidden--State of Trade in the Principal Towns--Population--Numbers
employed in different Trades--Learned Professions--Physicians--Establishment of their College
in Dublin--Shopkeepers--Booksellers--Coffee-houses--Clubs--Newspapers-- Fashionable Churches--Post-houses
and Post-offices established-- Custom-house--Exchange--Amusements--Plays at the Castle--The
First Theatre set up in Werburgh-street--Domestics Manners and Dress-- Food-A Country Dinner
Party in Ulster.

[A.D. 1600-1700.]

Notwithstanding the persecutions to which the Irish had been subjected for so many centuries,
they preserved their love of literature, and the cultivated tastes for which the Celt has been
distinguished in all ages. Indeed, if this taste had not existed, the people would have sunk
into the most degraded barbarism; for education was absolutely forbidden, and the object of
the governing powers seems to have been to reduce the nation, both intellectually and morally,
as thoroughly as possible. In such times, and under such circumstances, it is not a little
remarkable to find men devoting themselves to literature with all the zest of a freshman anticipating
collegiate distinctions, while surrounded by difficulties which would certainly have dismayed,
if they did not altogether crush, the intellects of the present age. I have already of the
mass of untranslated national literature existing country and in continental libraries. These
treasures of mental labour are by no means confined to one period of our history; but it could
scarcely be expected that metaphysical studies or the fine arts could flourish at a period
when men's minds were more occupied with the philosophy of war than with the science of Descartes,
and were more inclined to patronize a new invention in the art of gunnery, than the chef d'oeuvre
of a limner or sculptor. The Irish language was the general medium of conversation in this
century. No amount of Acts of Parliament had been able to repress its use, and even the higher
classes of English settlers appear to have adopted it by preference. Military proclamations
were issued in this language;[512] or if the Saxon tongue were used, it was translated for
the general benefit into the vernacular. During the Commonwealth, however, the English tongue
made some way; and it is remarkable that the English-speaking Irish of the lower classes, in
the present day, have preserved the idioms and the accentuation used about this period. Many
of the expressions which provoke the mirth of the modern Englishman, and which he considers
an evidence of the vulgarity of the uneducated Irish, may be found in the works of his countrymen,
of which he is most justly proud.

The language of Cromwell's officers and men, from whom the Celt had such abundant opportunities
of learning English, was (less the cant of Puritanism) the language of Shakspeare, of Raleigh,
and of Spenser. The conservative tendencies of the Hibernian preserved the dialect intact,
while causes, too numerous for present detail, so modified it across the Channel, that each
succeeding century condemned as vulgarism what had been the highest fashion with their predecessors.
Even as Homeric expressions lingered for centuries after the blind bard's obit had been on
record, so the expressions of Chaucer, Spenser, and Shakspeare, may still be discovered in
provincial dialects in many parts of the British Isles. I do not intend to quote Tate and Brady
as models of versification and of syntax; but if the best poets of the age did not receive
the commission to translate the Psalms into verse, it was a poor compliment to religion. We
find the pronunciation of their rhymes corresponding with the very pronunciation which is now
condemned as peculiarly Irish. Newton also rhymes way and sea, while one can scarcely read
a page of Pope[513] without finding examples of pronunciation now supposed to be pure Hibernicism.
In the Authorized Protestant version of the Bible, learn is used in the sense of to teach,
precisely as it is used in Ireland at the present day: "If thy children shall keep my covenant
and my testimonies that I shall learn them" and their use of the term forninst is undoubtedly
derived from an English source, for we find it in Fairfax's Tasso.[514]

History and theology were the two great studies of the middle ages, and to these subjects we
find the literati of Ireland directing special attention. The importance and value of Latin
as a medium of literary intercommunication, had been perceived from an early period: hence
that language was most frequently employed by Irish writers after it had become known in the
country. It is unquestionably a national credit, that no amount of suffering, whether inflicted
for religious or political opinions, deprived the Irish of historians.[515] Some of their works
were certainly compiled under the most disadvantageous circumstances.

None of the writers whom we shall presently enumerate, worked for hope of gain, or from any
other motive save that of the purest patriotism. Keating, whose merits are becoming more and
more recognized since modern research has removed Celtic traditions from the region of fable
to the tableland of possibility, wrote his History principally in the Galtee Mountains, where
he had taken refuge from the vengeance of Carew,[516] Lord President of Munster. Although he
had received a high education in the famous College of Salamanca, for the sake of his people
he preferred suffering persecution, and, if God willed it, death, to the peaceful life of literary
quiet which he might have enjoyed there. He wrote in his mother-tongue, although master of
many languages; and in consequence of this choice his work remained in MS. for many years.
When it came to light, those who were ignorant of the MS. materials of ancient Irish history,
were pleased to suppose that he had invented a considerable portion, and supplied the remainder
from the viva voce traditions of the country people. Unfortunately, he was not sufficiently
master of the science of criticism to give the authorities which he had used so carefully,
and to prove their value and authenticity. But truth has at length triumphed. Several of the
works from which he has quoted have been discovered; and it has been shown that, wild as some
of his legends may read in the garb in which he has given them, there is proof that important
facts underlie the structure, though it has been somewhat overembellished by a redundant fancy.

Keating was also a poet. Many of his pieces are still well known and highly popular in Munster,
and copies of nearly all of them are preserved by the Royal Irish Academy. One of his ballads
has been "coaxed" into verse by D'Arcy M'Gee, in his Gallery of Irish Writers. It is entitled
"Thoughts on Innisfail." I shall give one verse as a specimen, and as an illustration of the
popular feelings of the time:

    "And the mighty of Naas are mighty no more,
    Like the thunders that boomed 'mid the banners of yore;
    And the wrath-ripened fields, 'twas they who could reap them;
    Till they trusted the forsworn, no foe could defeat them."

The poet-priest must have died at an advanced age, though the precise date of his demise has
not been ascertained. He has also left some religious works; and his "Shaft of Death" is well
known and much admired both by divines and Celtic scholars.[517]

O'Sullivan Beare's history is too well known to require more than a passing mention. It was
said that he wrote as fiercely as he fought. Archbishop Usher, with whom he had many a literary
feud, appears to have been of this opinion; for, after having described O'Sullivan as an "egregious
liar," he was so sensitive to any counter abuse he might receive in return, that he carefully
cut out every disparaging epithet which the historian used from the copy of his reply, which
at present lies, with Usher's other works, in the Library of Trinity College, Dublin.

The Four Masters are included amongst the Irish writers of this century, but I have already
given ample details of their labours. The Acta Sanctorum of Colgan, and Ward's literary efforts
in a foreign land for his country, are beyond all praise. Usher and Ware were also amongst
the giants of these days; and, considering the state of political and religious excitement
amongst which they lived and wrote, it is incomparably marvellous that they should not have
dipped their pens still deeper into the gall of controversy and prejudice. Usher was one of
the Hibernis ipsis Hiberniores, for his family came to Ireland with King John; but he admired
and wrote Celtic history with the enthusiasm of a Celt, and he gathered materials for other
men's work with patient industry, however he may have allowed party spirit to influence and
warp his own judgment in their use. Usher was Ware's most ardent patron. Habits of indefatigable
research did for him, in some degree, what natural genius has done for others. Nor was he slow
to recognize or avail himself of native talent; and there can be no doubt, if he had lived
a few years longer after his acquaintance with MacFirbis, that Irish literature would have
benefited considerably by the united efforts of the man of power, who was devoted to learning,
and the man of gifts, who had the abilities which neither position nor wealth can purchase.
John Lynch, the Bishop of Killala, and the indefatigable and successful impugner of Cambrensis,
was another literary luminary of the age. His career is a fair sample of the extraordinary
difficulties experienced by the Irish in their attempts to cultivate intellectual pursuits,
and of their undaunted courage in attaining their end. Usher has himself recorded his visit
to Galway, where found Lynch, then a mere youth, teaching a school of humanity (A.D. 1622).
"We had proofe," he says, "during our continuance in that citie, how his schollars profitted
under him, by the verses and orations which they brought us."[518] Usher then relates how he
seriously advised the young schoolmaster to conform to the popular religion; but, as Lynch
declined to comply with his wishes, he was bound over, under sureties of £400 sterling, to
"forbear teaching." The tree of knowledge was, in truth, forbidden fruit, and guarded sedulously
by the fiery sword of the law. I cannot do more than name a few of the other distinguished
men of this century. There was Florence Conry, Archbishop of Tuam, and founder of the Irish
College of Louvain. He was one of the first to suggest and to carry out the idea of supplying
Irish youth with the means of education on the Continent, which they were denied at home. It
is a fact, unexampled in the history of nations, that a whole race should have been thus denied
the means of acquiring even the elements of learning, and equally unexampled is the zeal with
which the nation sought to procure abroad the advantages from which they were so cruelly debarred
at home. At Louvain some of the most distinguished Irish scholars were educated. An Irish press
was established within its halls, which was kept constantly employed, and whence proceeded
some of the most valuable works of the age, as well as a scarcely less important literature
for the people, in the form of short treatises on religion or history. Colleges were also established
at Douay, Lisle, Antwerp, Tournay, and St. Omers, principally through the exertions of Christopher
Cusack, a learned priest of the diocese of Meath. Cardinal Ximenes founded an Irish College
at Lisbon, and Cardinal Henriquez founded a similar establishment at Evora. It is a remarkable
evidence of the value which has always been set on learning by the Catholic Church, that even
in times of persecution, when literary culture demanded such sacrifices, she would not admit
uneducated persons to the priesthood. The position which the proscribed Catholic priesthood
held in Ireland at this period, compared with that which the favoured clergy of the Established
Church held in England, is curious and significant. In 1623 Dr. Blair was invited to Ireland
by Lord Clannaboy, to take the living of Bangor, vacated by the death of the Rev. John Gibson,
"sence Reformacione from Popary the first Deane of Down." Dr. Blair objected both to episcopal
government and to use the English Liturgy; yet he "procured a free and safe entry to the holy
ministry," which, according to his own account, was accomplished thus. His patron, Lord Clannaboy,
informed "the Bishop Echlin how opposite I was to episcopacy and their liturgy, and had the
influence to procure my admission on easy and honorable terms." At his interview with the Bishop,
it was arranged that Dr. Blair was to receive ordination from Mr. Cunningham and the neighbouring
clergy, and the Bishop was "to come in among them in no other relation than a presbyter." These
are the Bishop's own words; and his reason for ordaining at all was: "I must ordain you, else
neither I nor you can answer the law nor brook the land." In 1627 Blair had an interview with
Archbishop Usher, and he says "they were not so far from agreeing as he feared." "He admitted
that all those things [episcopacy and a form of prayer] ought to have been removed, but the
constitution and laws of the place and time would not permit that to be done." A few years
later Mr. John Livingstone thus relates his experience on similar subjects. He had been appointed
also by Lord Clannaboy to the parish of Killinchy; and, "because it was needful that he should
be ordained to the ministry, and the Bishop of Down, in whose diocese Killinchy was, being
a corrupt and timorous man, and would require some engagement, therefore my Lord Clannaboy
sent some with me, and wrote to Mr. Andrew Knox, Bishop of Raphoe, who told me he knew my errand,
and that I came to him because I had scruples against episcopacy and ceremonies, according
as Mr. Josiah Welsh and some others had done before; and that he thought his old age was prolonged
for little other purpose than to perform such ceremonies." It was then arranged that he should
be ordained as Dr. Blair and others had been. The Bishop gave him the book of ordination, and
said, "though he durst not answer it to the State," that he might draw a line over anything
he did not approve of, and that it should not be read. "But," concludes Mr. Livingstone, "I
found that it had been so marked by some others before, that I needed not mark anything; so
the Lord was pleased to carry that business far beyond anything that I have thought, or almost
ever desired."[520]

Such facts as these were well known to the people; and we can scarcely be surprised that they
increased their reverence for the old clergy, who made such sacrifices for the attainment of
the learning necessary for their ministry, and who could not minister, even if they would,
without having received the office and authority of a priest by the sacrament of orders.

But literary efforts in Ireland were not confined to the clergy; O'Flaherty and MacFirbis devoted
themselves with equal zeal to the dissemination and preservation of knowledge; and we envy
not the man who can read without emotion the gentle complaint of the former, in his Ogygia:
"I live a banished man within the bounds of my native soil--a spectator of others enriched
by my birthright." And again: "The Lord hath wonderfully recalled the royal heir to his kingdom,
with the applause of all good men; but He hath not found me worthy to be restored to the kingdom
of my cottage. Against Thee, O Lord, have I sinned: may the Lord be blessed for ever!"

The customs and dress of the upper classes in Ireland were probably much the same as those
of a similar rank in England.[521] Commerce was so constantly restricted by English jealousy,
that it had few opportunities of development. In a curious old poem, called the Libel of English
Policie, the object of which was to impress on the English the necessity of keeping all trade
and commerce in their own hands, we find Irish exports thus enumerated:--

    "Hides and fish, salmon, hake, herring,
    Irish wool and linen cloth, falding
    And masternes good be her marchandie;
    Hertes, birds, and others of venerie,
    Skins of otter, squirrel and Irish hare,
    Of sheep, lambe, and fore is her chaffere,
    Felles of kids, and conies great plentie."

It will be observed that this list contains only the natural produce of the country; and had
any attempt been made to introduce or encourage manufactures, some mention would have been
made of them. The silver and gold mines of the country are alluded to further on, and the writer
very sensibly observes, that if "we [the English] had the peace and good-will of the wild Irish,
the metal might be worked to our advantage." In the sixteenth century the Irish sent raw and
tanned hides, furs, and woollens to Antwerp,[522] taking in exchange sugar, spices, and mercery.
The trade with France and Spain for wines was very considerable; fish was the commodity exchanged
for this luxury; and even in 1553, Philip II. of Spain paid[523] £1,000 yearly--a large sum
for that period--to obtain liberty for his subjects to fish upon the north coast of Ireland.
Stafford, in speaking of the capture of Dunboy Castle, says that O'Sullivan made £500 a-year
by the duties which were paid to him by foreign fishermen, "although the duties they paid were
very little."[524]

Stanihurst has described a fair in Dublin, and another in Waterford, where he says the wares
were "dog-cheap." These fairs continued for six days, and merchants came to them from Flanders
and France, as well as from England. He gives the Waterford people the palm for commerce, declares
they are "addicted to thieving," that they distil the best aqua vitæ, and spin the choicest
rugs in Ireland. A friend of his, who took a fancy to one of these "choice rugs," being "demurrant
in London, and the weather, by reason of a hard hoar frost, being somewhat nipping, repaired
to Paris Garden, clad in one of the Waterford rugs. The mastiffs had no sooner espied him,
but deeming he had been a bear, would fain have baited him; and were it not that the dogs were
partly muzzled and partly chained, he doubted not he should have been well tugged in this Irish
rug."

After the plantation of Ulster, Irish commerce was allowed to flourish for a while; the revenue
of the crown doubled; and statesmen should have been convinced that an unselfish policy was
the best for both countries. But there will always be persons whose private interests clash
with the public good, and who have influence enough to secure their own advantage at the expense
of the multitude. Curiously enough, the temporary prosperity of Ireland was made a reason for
forbidding the exports which had produced it. A declaration was issued by the English Government
in 1637, which expressly states this, and places every possible bar to its continuance. The
Cromwellian settlement, however, acted more effectually than any amount of prohibitions or
Acts of Parliament, and trade was entirely ruined by it for a time. When it again revived,
and live cattle began to be exported in quantities to England, the exportation was strictly
forbidden. The Duke of Ormonde, who possessed immense tracts of land in Ireland, presented
a petition, with his own hands, against the obnoxious measure, and cleverly concluded it with
the very words used by Charles himself, in the declaration for the settlement of Ireland at
the Restoration, trusting that his Majesty "would not suffer his good subjects to weep in one
kingdom when they rejoiced in another." Charles, however, wanted money; so Ireland had to wait
for justice. A vote, granting him £120,000, settled the matter; and though for a time cattle
were smuggled into England, the Bill introduced after the great fire of London, which we have
mentioned in the last chapter, settled the matter definitively. The Irish question eventually
merged into an unseemly squabble about prerogative, but Charles was determined "never to kiss
the block on which his father lost his head."[525] He overlooked the affront, and accepted
the Bill, "nuisance" and all. One favour, however, was granted to the Irish; they were graciously
permitted to send contributions of cattle to the distressed Londoners in the form of salted
beef. The importation of mutton, lamb, butter, and cheese, were forbidden by subsequent Acts,
and salted beef, mutton, and pork were not allowed to be exported from Ireland to England until
the general dearth of 1757.

The commercial status of the principal Irish towns at this period (A.D. 1669), is thus given
by Mr. Bonnell, the head collector of Irish customs in Dublin: "Comparing together the proceeds
of the duties for the six years ending December, 1669, received from the several ports of Ireland,
they may be thus ranked according to their worth respectively, expressed in whole numbers,
without fractions, for more clearness of apprehension:----

"Rate.     Ports.    Proportion      Rate.   Ports      Proportion
                      per cent.                          per cent.
  1       Dublin         40                 { Drogheda       3
  2       Cork           10            5    { Londonderry    3
        { Waterford      7                  { Carrickfergus  3
  3     { Galway         7                  { Ross           1
        { Limerick       5                  { Wexford        1
  4     { Kinsale        5             6    { Dundalk        1
        { Youghal        5                  { Baltimore      1
                                            { Sligo          1"

"Killybeg, Dungarvan, Donaghadee, Strangford, Coleraine, and Dingle, are mentioned as "under rate."

The linen trade had been encouraged, and, indeed, mainly established in Ireland, by the Duke
of Ormonde. An English writer[526] says that 200,000 pounds of yarn were sent annually to Manchester,
a supply which seemed immense in that age; and yet, in the present day, would hardly keep the
hands employed for forty-eight hours. A political economist of the age gives the "unsettledness
of the country" as the first of a series of reasons why trade did not flourish in Ireland,
and, amongst other remedies, suggests sumptuary laws and a tax upon celibacy, the latter to
weigh quite equally on each sex.[527] Sir William Petty does not mention the trade but he does
mention the enormous amount of tobacco[528] consumed by the natives. It is still a disputed
question whether the so-called "Danes' pipes," of which I give an illustration, were made before
the introduction of tobacco by Sir Walter Raleigh, or whether any other narcotizing indigenous
plant may have been used. Until one, at least, of these pipes shall have been found in a position
which will indicate that they must have been left there at an earlier period than the Elizabethan
age, the presumption remains in favour of their modern use.

I shall now give some brief account of the domestic life of our ancestors 200 years ago, and
of the general state of society, both in the upper and lower classes. Petty estimates the population
of Ireland at 1,100,000, or 200,000 families. Of the latter he states that 160,000 have no
fixed hearths; these, of course, were the very poorest class, who lived then, as now, in those
mud hovels, which are the astonishment and reprobation of foreign tourists. There were 24,000
families who had "one chimney," and 16,000 who had more than one. The average number appears
to be four. Dublin Castle had 125, and the Earl of Heath's house, twenty-seven. There were,
however, 164 houses in Dublin which had more than ten.

Rearing and tending cattle was the principal employment of the people, as, indeed, it always
has been. There were, he estimates, 150,000 employed in this way, and 100,000 in agriculture.
"Tailors and their wives" are the next highest figure--45,000. Smiths and apprentices, shoemakers
and apprentices, are given at the same figure--22,500. Millers and their wives only numbered
1,000, and the fishery trade the same. The woolworkers and their wives, 30,000; but the number
of alehouse-keepers is almost incredible. In Dublin, where there were only 4,000 families,
there was, at one time, 1,180 alehouses and ninety-one public brewhouses. The proportion was
equally great throughout the country; and if we may judge from the Table of Exports from Belfast
before-mentioned, the manufacture was principally for home consumption, as the returns only
mention three barrels of beer to Scotland, 124 ditto to the Colonies, 147 to France and Flanders,
nineteen to Holland, and forty-five to Spain and the Mediterranean. There are considerable
imports of brandy and wines, but no imports of beer. We find, however, that "Chester ale" was
appreciated by the faculty as a medicament, for Sir Patrick Dun, who was physician to the army
during the wars of 1688, sent two dozen bottles of Chester ale, as part of his prescription,
to General Ginkles, Secretary-at-War, in the camp at Connaught, in 1691. He added two dozen
of the best claret, and at the same time sent a "lesser box," in which there was a dozen and
a-half potted chickens in an earthen pot, and in another pot "foure green geese." "This," writes
the doctor, "is the physic I advise you to take; I hope it will not be nauseous or disagreeable
to your stomach-a little of it upon a march."[529] It is to be supposed such prescriptions
did not diminish the doctor's fame, and that they were appreciated as they deserved.

A century previous (A.D. 1566), Thomas Smyth seems to have been the principal, if not the only
English practitioner in Dublin; and although he sold his drugs with his advice, his business
did not pay. However, Thomas was "consoled" and "comforted," and "induced to remain in the
country," by the united persuasions of the Lord Deputy, the Counsellors of State, and the whole
army. The consolation was administered in the form of a concordat, dated April 25th, 1566,
by which an annual stipend was settled on him, the whole army agreeing to give him one day's
pay, and every Counsellor of State twenty shillings, "by reason of his long contynuance here,
and his often and chardgeable provision of druggs and other apothecarie wares, which have,
from tyme to tyme, layen and remained in manner for the most part unuttered; for the greater
part of this contray folke ar wonted to use the mynisterie of their leeches and such lyke,
and neglecting the apothecarie's science, the said Thomas thereby hath been greatly hyndered,
and in manner enforced to abandon that his faculty."[530] It was only natural that the English
settler should distrust the leeche who gathered his medicines on the hillside by moonlight,
"who invoked the fairies and consulted witches;" and it was equally natural that the native
should distrust the Saxon, who could kill or cure with those magical little powders and pills,
so suspiciously small, so entirely unlike the traditionary medicants of the country. In a list
still preserved of the medicines supplied for the use of Cromwell's army, we may judge of the
"medicants" used in the seventeenth century. They must have been very agreeable, for the allowance
of sugar, powder and loaf, of "candie," white and brown, of sweet almonds and almond cakes,
preponderates wonderfully over the "rubarcke, sarsaparill, and aloes."[531] Mr. Richard Chatham
was Apothecary-General, and had his drugs duty free by an order, dated at "ye new Customs'
House, Dublin, ye 24th of June, 1659."

Dr. William Bedell was the first who suggested the foundation of a College of Physicians. On
the 15th of April, 1628, he wrote to Usher thus: "I suppose it hath been an error all this
while to neglect the faculties of law and physic, and attend only to the ordering of one poor
college of divines." In 1637 a Regius Professor of Physic was nominated. In 1654 Dr. John Stearne
was appointed President of Trinity Hall, which was at this time set apart "for the sole and
proper use of physicians;" and, in 1667, the physicians received their first charter from Charles
II. The new corporation obtained the title of "The President and College of Physicians." It
consisted of fourteen Fellows, including the President, Dr. Stearne. Stearne was a grand-nephew
of Archbishop Usher, and was born in his house at Ardbraccan, county Meath. He was a man of
profound learning; and although he appears to have been more devoted to scholastic studies
than to physic, the medical profession in Ireland may well claim him as an ornament and a benefactor
to their faculty. The College of Physicians was without a President from 1657 until 1690, when
Sir Patrick Dun was elected. The cause of this was the unfortunate illiberality of the Provost
and Fellows of Trinity College, who refused to confirm the election of Dr. Crosby, simply because
he was a Roman Catholic. In 1692 the College received a new charter and more extended privileges;
and these, with certain Acts of Parliament, form its present constitution.

In medieval cities the castle was the centre round which the town extended itself. Dublin was
no exception to this rule, and in this century we find High-street and Castle-street the fashionable
resorts. The nobility came thither for society, the tradesmen for protection. Castle-street
appears to have been the favourite haunt of the bookselling fraternity, and Eliphud Dobson
(his name speaks for his religious views) was the most wealthy bookseller and publisher of
his day. His house was called the Stationers' Arms, which flourished in the reign of James
II. The Commonwealth was arbitrary in its requirements, and commanded that the printer (there
was then only one) should submit any works he printed to the Clerk of the Council, to receive
his imprimatur before publishing the same. The Williamites were equally tyrannical, for Malone
was dismissed by them from the office of State Printer, and tried in the Queen's Bench, with
John Dowling, in 1707, for publishing "A Manuall of Devout Prayers," for the use of Roman Catholics.[532]

There were also a great number of taverns and coffee-houses in this street; the most noted
was the Rose Tavern, which stood nearly opposite to the present Castle steps. Swift alludes
to this in the verses which he wrote on his own death, in 1731:--

    "Suppose me dead; and then suppose
    A club assembled at the Rose."

Political clubs, lawyers' clubs, and benevolent clubs, all assembled here; and the Friendly
Brothers of St. Patrick had their annual dinner at the Rose, at the primitive hour of four
o'clock, annually, on the 17th of March, having first transacted business and heard a sermon
at St. Patrick's.

The first Dublin newspaper was published in this century, by Robert Thornton, bookseller, at
the sign of the Leather Bottle, in Skinner's-row, A.D. 1685. It consisted of a single leaf
of small folio size, printed on both sides, and written in the form of a letter, each number
being dated, and commencing with the word "sir." The fashionable church was St. Michael's in
High-street. It is described, in 1630, as "in good reparacion; and although most of the parishioners
were recusants, it was commonly full of Protestants, who resorted thither every Sunday to hear
divine service and sermon." This church had been erected originally for Catholic worship. Meanwhile
the priests were obliged to say Mass wherever they could best conceal themselves; and in the
reign of James I. their services were solemnized in certain back rooms in the houses of Nicholas
Quietrot, Carye, and the Widow O'Hagan, in High-street.[533] Amongst the fashionables who lived
in this locality we find the Countess of Roscommon, Sir P. Wemys, Sir Thady Duff, and Mark
Quin, the Lord Mayor of Dublin in 1667. Here, too, was established the first Dublin post-house,
for which the nation appears to have been indebted indirectly to Shane O'Neill, of whose proceedings
her Majesty Queen Elizabeth was anxious to be cognizant with as little delay as possible. In
1656, it having been found that the horses of the military, to whom postal communications had
been confided previously, were "much wearied, and his Highness' affayres much prejudiced for
want of a post-office to carry publique letters," Evan Vaughan was employed to arrange postal
communications, and was made Deputy Postmaster. Major Swift was the Postmaster at Holyhead,
and he was allowed £100 a-year for the maintenance of four boatmen, added to the packet boats,
at the rate of 8d. per diem and 18s. per month for wages. Post-houses were established in the
principal towns in Ireland about the year 1670, by means of which, for 8d. or 12d., letters
could be conveyed, twice a week, to the "remotest parts of Ireland," and which afforded "the
conveniency of keeping good correspondence."

The Dublin Philosophical Society held their first meetings on Cork-hill, at the close of this
century, and it is evident that there were many men in that age who had more than ordinary
zeal for scientific research. Dr. Mullen has left a detailed account of the difficulties under
which he dissected an elephant, which had been burned to death in the booth where it was kept
for exhibition on the 17th June, 1682. According to Haller, oculists are indebted to him for
some important discoveries connected with the organs of vision.[534]

The old Custom-house stood on the site of houses now comprised in that part of Dublin known
as Wellington-quay. Here a locality was selected, in the reign of James I., for the purpose
of "erecting cranes and making wharves." This street, now so busy and populous, was then in
the suburbs, and is described in the lease, A.D. 1620, as "a certain parcel of ground, lying
in or near Dame-street, street, in the suburbs of the city of Dublin." A new Custom-house was
erected about the period of the Restoration, with the addition of a council-chamber, where
the Privy Council and Committees of the House of Commons were accustomed to assemble. By an
order of the Privy Council, 19th September, 1662, the Custom-house-quay was appointed the sole
place for landing and lading the exports and imports of the city of Dublin. In 1683 the public
Exchange of Dublin was transferred from Cork House to the Tholsel, a building erected early
in the reign of Edward II., and described by Camden as built of hewn stone. Here the Mayor
was elected on Michaelmas Day, and the citizens held their public meetings. A clock was set
up in 1560, no doubt very much to the admiration of the citizens. A new Tholsel or City Hall
was erected in 1683, on the same site, and there was a "'Change," where merchants met every
day, as in the Royal Exchange in London. Public dinners were given here also with great magnificence;
but from the marshy nature of the ground on which the building had been set up, it fell to
decay in 1797, and a new Sessions-house was erected in Greenstreet.

Nor did the good people of Dublin neglect to provide for their amusements. Private theatricals
were performed in the Castle at the latter end of the reign of Queen Elizabeth, if not earlier.
The sum of one-and-twenty shillings and two groats was expended on wax tapers for the play
of "Gorbodne," "done at the Castle," in September, 1601. Miracle and mystery plays were enacted
as early as 1528, when the Lord Deputy was "invited to a new play every day in Christmas;"
where the Tailors acted the part of Adam and Eve, it is to be supposed because they initiated
the trade by introducing the necessity for garments; the Shoemakers, the story of Crispin and
Crispianus; the Vintners, Bacchus and his story; the Carpenters, Mary and Joseph; the Smiths
represented Vulcan; and the Bakers played the comedy of Ceres, the goddess of corn. The stage
was erected on Hogges-green, now College-green; and probably the entertainment was carried
out al fresco. The first playhouse established in Dublin was in Werburgh-street, in 1633. Shirley's
plays were performed here soon after, and also those of "rare Ben Jonson." Ogilvy, Shirley's
friend, and the promoter of this enterprise, was appointed Master of the Revels in Ireland
in 1661; and as his first theatre was ruined during the civil war, he erected a "noble theatre,"
at a cost of £2,000, immediately after his new appointment, on a portion of the Blind-quay.
Dunton describes the theatres, in 1698, as more frequented than the churches, and the actors
as "no way inferior to those in London." The Viceroys appear to have been very regular in their
patronage of this amusement; and on one occasion, when the news reached Dublin of the marriage
of William of Orange and Mary, the Duke of Ormonde, after "meeting the nobility and gentry
in great splendour at the play, passed a general invitation to all the company to spend that
evening at the Castle."[535]

The inventory of the household effects of Lord Grey, taken in 1540, affords us ample information
on the subject of dress and household effects. The list commences with "eight tun and a pype
of Gaskoyne wine," and the "long board in the hall." A great advance had been made since we
described the social life of the eleventh century; and the refinements practised at meals was
not the least of many improvements. A bord-clothe was spread on the table, though forks were
not used until the reign of James I. They came from Italy, to which country we owe many of
the new fashions introduced in the seventeenth century. In The Boke of Curtosye there are directions
given not to "foule the bord-clothe wyth the knyfe;" and Ben Jonson, in his comedy of "The
Devil is an Ass," alludes to the introduction of forks, and the consequent disuse of napkins:

         "The laudable use of forks,
    Brought into custom here as they are in Italy,
    To th' sparing o' napkins."

The English edition of the Janua Linguarum of Comenius, represents the fashion of dining in
England during the Commonwealth. The table was simply a board placed on a frame or trestles,
which was removed after the meal to leave room for the dancers. Old Capulet's hall was prepared
thus:

    "A hall! a hall! give room, and foot it, girls!
     More light, ye knaves, and turn the table up."

The head of the table, where the principal person sat, was called the "board-end;" and as one
long table was now used instead of several smaller ones, the guests of higher and lower degree
were divided by the massive saltcellar, placed in the centre of the table. Thus, in Ben Jonson,
it is said of a man who treats his inferiors with scorn, "He never drinks below the salt."
The waiters, after settling the cloth, placed the spoons, knives, forks, bread, and napkins
beside the trenchers. The butler served out the drink from the cupboard, the origin of our
modern sideboard. The "cobbord," erroneously supposed to have been like our modern cupboard,
is specially mentioned amongst Lord Grey's effects. Lord Fairfax, in his directions to his
servants, written about the middle of the seventeenth century, says: "No man must fill beer
or wine the cupboard keeper," and he should know which of his "cups for beer and which for
wine, for it were a foul thing to mix them together." There was another reason, however, for
this arrangement--much "idle tippling" was cut off thereby; for as the draught of beer or wine
had to be asked for when it was needed, demand was not likely to be so quick as if it were
always at hand. There were also cups of "assaye," from which the cupbearer was obliged to drink
before his master, to prove that there was no poison in the liquor which he used. The cupboard
was covered with a carpet, of which Lord Grey had two. These carpets, or tablecovers, were
more or less costly, according to the rank and state of the owner. His Lordship had also "two
chares, two fformes, and two stooles." Chairs were decidedly a luxury at that day. Although
the name is of Anglo-Norman origin, they did not come into general use until a late period;
and it was considered a mark of disrespect to superiors, for young persons to sit in their
presence on anything but hard benches or stools. The Anglo-Saxons called their seats sett and
stol, a name which we still preserve in the modern stool. The hall was ornamented with rich
hangings, and there was generally a traves, which could be used as a curtain or screen to form
a temporary partition. The floor was strewn with rushes, which were not removed quite so frequently
as would have been desirable, considering that they were made the repository of the refuse
of the table. Perfumes were consequently much used, and we are not surprised to find "a casting
bottel, dooble gilte, for rose-water," in the effects of a Viceroy of the sixteenth century.
Such things were more matters of necessity than of luxury at even a later period. Meat and
pudding were the staple diet of the upper classes in 1698. Wright[536] gives a long and amusing
extract from a work published by a foreigner who had been much in England at this period, and
who appears to have marvelled equally at the amount of solid meat consumed, the love of pudding,
and the neglect of fruit at dessert.

We are able, fortunately, to give a description of the fare used during the same period in
Ireland, at least by the upper classes, who could afford to procure it. Captain Bodley, a younger
brother of the founder of the famous Bodleian Library in Oxford, has left an account of a journey
into Lecale, in Ulster, in 1603, and of the proceedings of his companions-in-arms, and the
entertainment they met with. His "tour" is full of that gossiping, chatty, general information,
which gives an admirable idea of the state of society. This is his description of a dinner:
"There was a large and beautiful collar of brawn, with its accompaniments, to wit, mustard
and Muscatel wine; there were well-stuffed geese (such as the Lord Bishop is wont to eat at
Ardbraccan), the legs of which Captain Caulfield always laid hold of for himself; there were
pies of venison and various kinds of game; pasties also, some of marrow, with innumerable plums;
others of it with coagulated milk, such as the Lord Mayor and Aldermen of London almost always
have at their feasts; others, which they call tarts, of divers shapes, materials, and colours,
made of beef, mutton, and veal." Then he relates the amusements. After dinner they rode, and
in the evening they played cards, and had, "amongst other things, that Indian tobacco of which
I shall never be able to make sufficient mention." Later in the evening "maskers" came to entertain
them; and on one occasion, their host gave them up his own "good and soft bed, and threw himself
upon a pallet in the same chamber."[537]

The large stand-bed, or four-post, was then coming into use, and was, probably, the "good and
soft bed" which the host resigned to the use of the officers, and which, if we may judge by
the illustration of this piece of furniture, would conveniently hold a considerable number
of persons. The pallet was placed on the truckle-bed, which rolled under the large bed, and
was generally used by a servant, who slept in his master's room. The reader will remember the
speech of Mine Host of the Garter, in the "Merry Wives of Windsor," who says of Falstaff's
room: "There's his chamber, his house, his castle, his standing-bed and truckle-bed."

However interesting the subject may be, there is not space to go into further details. The
inventory of Lord Grey's personal effects can scarcely be given as a picture of costume in
this century, for even a few years produced as considerable changes in fashion then as now.
Dekker, in his Seven Deadly Sinnes of London, describes an Englishman's suit as being like
a traitor's body that had been hanged, drawn, and quartered, and set up in several places;
and says: "We that mock every nation for keeping one fashion, yet steal patches from every
one of them to piece out our pride, and are now laughing-stocks to them. The block for his
head alters faster than the feltmaker can fit him, and hereupon we are called in scorn block-heads."
The courtiers of Charles II. compensated themselves for the stern restraints of Puritanism,
by giving way to the wildest excesses in dress and manners. Enormous periwigs were introduced,
and it became the fashion for a man of ton to be seen combing them on the Mall or at the theatre.
The hat was worn with a broad brim, ornamented with feathers; a falling band of the richest
lace adorned the neck; the short cloak was edged deeply with gold lace; the doublet was ornamented
in a similar manner--it was long, and swelled out from the waist; but the "petticoat breeches"
were the glory of the outer man, and sums of money were spent on ribbon and lace to add to
their attractions.

The ladies' costume was more simple, at least at this period; they compensated themselves,
however, for any plainness in dress, by additional extravagances in their head-dresses, and
wore "heart-breakers," or artificial curls, which were set out on wires at the sides of the
face. Patching and painting soon became common, and many a nonconformist divine lifted up his
voice in vain against these vanities. Pepys has left ample details of the dress in this century;
and, if we may judge from the entry under the 30th of October, 1663, either he was very liberal
in his own expenditure, and very parsimonious towards his wife, or ladies' attire was much
less costly than gentlemen's, for he murmurs over his outlay of about £12 for Mrs. Pepys and
£55 for himself. The country people, however, were attired more plainly and less expensively,
while many, probably--

    "Shook their heads at folks in London,"

and wondered at the follies of their superiors.

The arms and military accoutrements of the period have already been mentioned incidentally,
and are illustrated by the different costumes in our engravings, which Mr. Doyle has rendered
with the minutest accuracy of detail. This subject, if treated at all, would require space
which we cannot afford to give it. The Life Guards were embodied by Charles II, in 1681, in
imitation of the French "Gardes des Corps." The Coldstream were embodied by General Monk, in
1660, at the town from whence they obtained their name.

From an account in the Hamilton MSS., published in the Ulster Archæological Journal, it would
appear that it was usual, or, at least not uncommon, for young men of rank to go abroad for
some time, attended by a tutor, to perfect themselves in continental languages. It need scarcely
be said that travelling was equally tedious and expensive. A journey from Dublin to Cork occupied
several days; postchaises are a comparatively modern invention; and Sir William Petty astonished
the good people of Dublin, in the seventeenth century, by inventing some kind of carriage which
could be drawn by horses. With his description of the condition of the lower classes in Ireland
at this period, I shall conclude this chapter. The accompanying figure represents the costume
of the Irish peasant about the fifteenth century. The dress was found on the body of a male
skeleton, in the year 1824, which was preserved so perfectly, that a coroner was called to
hold an inquest on it. The remains were taken from a bog in the parish of Killery, co. Sligo.
The cloak was composed of soft brown cloth; the coat of the same material, but of finer texture.
The buttons are ingeniously formed of the cloth. The trowsers consists of two distinct parts,
of different colours and textures; the upper part is thick, coarse, yellowish-brown cloth;
the lower, a brown and yellow plaid.

"The diet of these people is milk, sweet and sour, thick and thin; but tobacco, taken in short
pipes seldom burned, seems the pleasure of their lives. Their food is bread in cakes, whereof
a penny serves a week for each; potatoes from August till May; muscles, cockles, and oysters,
near the sea; eggs and butter, made very rancid by keeping in bogs. As for flesh they seldom
eat it. Their fuel is turf in most places." The potatoe, which has brought so many national
calamities on the country, had been then some years in the country, but its use was not yet
as general as it has become since, as we find from the mention of "bread in cakes" being an
edible during a considerable part of the year.

FOOTNOTES:

[512] Language--A proclamation in Irish, issued by Tyrone in 1601, is still extant, with a
contemporary English translation.--See Ulster Arch. Jour. vol. vi. p. 57.

[513] Pope.--He rhymes spirit and merit; fit and yet; civil and devil; obey and tea.

[514] Tasso.--

"The land fornenst the Greekish shore he held."

Chaucer, too, uses faute for fault in the Canterbury Tales.

[515] Historians.--Max Müller--Lectures on the Science of Language, p. 271--states, that labourers
in country parishes in England do not use more than 300 words. A friend of mine, who is an
excellent Irish scholar, assures me the most illiterate Irish-speaking peasant would use at
least 500.

[516] Carew.--The tradition of the country says that this vengeance was excited by the complaints
of a lady, with whom the Lord President had some gallantries, and whose conduct Keating had
reproved publicly.

[517] Scholars.--We have been favoured with an accurate photograph of this inscription, by
William Williams, Esq., of Dungarvan, from which the engraving given above has been made. The
view of Tubrid Churchyard is also engraved from a sketch with which he has favoured us. It
is hoped that many Irishmen in distant lands will look with no little interest on these beautifully
executed engravings, and breathe a blessing on the memory of the good and gifted priest. A
Keating Society was established a few years ago, principally through the exertions of Mr. Williams
and the Rev. P. Meany, C.C. A Catechism in Irish has already appeared, and other works will
follow in due time.

[518] Brought us.--Regal Visitation Book. A.D. 1622, MS., Marsh's Library, Dublin.

[519] Excluded.--History of England, People's Edition, part ii. p. 156.

[520] Desired.--See the Hamilton Manuscripts, Ulster Arch. Jour. vol. iii. pp. 155-147. Blair
complains also that his patron "would receive the sacrament kneeling."

[521] England.--"The diet, housing, and clothing of the 16,000 families above-mentioned [those
were the middle class] is much the same as in England; nor is the French elegance unknown in
many of them, nor the French and Latin tongues. The latter whereof is very frequent among the
poorest Irish, and chiefly in Kerry, most remote from Dublin."--Political Anatomy of Ireland,
Petty, p. 58.

[522] Antwerp.--Descrittione dei Paesi Bassi: Anvers, 1567.

[523] Paid.--The Sovereignly of the British Seas: London, 1651.

[524] Little.--Hib. Pac.

[525] Head.--The tract entitled Killing no Murder, which had disturbed Cromwell's "peace and
rest," and obliged him to live almost as a fugitive in the country over which he had hoped
to reign as a sovereign, still left its impression on English society. The miserable example
of a royal execution was a precedent which no amount of provocation should have permitted.

[526] Writer.--Merchant's Map of Commerce: London, 1677.

[527] Sex.--The Interest of Ireland in its Trade and Wealth, by Colonel Lawrence: Dublin, 1682.

[528] Tobacco.--A Table of the Belfast Exports and Imports for the year 1683, has been published
in the Ulster Arch. Jour. vol. iii. p. 194, which fully bears out this statement, and is of
immense value in determining the general state of Irish commerce at this period. There are,
however, some mistakes in the quotations of statistics, probably misprints.

[529] March.--Gilbert's Dublin, vol. i. p. 178.

[530] Faculty.--Document in the State Paper Office, Dublin, entitled Smyth's Information for
Ireland.

[531] Aloes.--Ulster Arch. Jour. vol. iii. p. 163.

[532] Roman Catholics.--The noisy and violent opposition which was made to a Catholic if he
attempted to enter either a trade or a profession, would scarcely be credited at the present
day; yet it should be known and remembered by those who wish to estimate the social state of
this country accurately and fairly. After the Revolution, the Protestant portion of the Guild
of Tailors petitioned William III. to make their corporation exclusively Protestant, and their
request was granted.

[533] High-street.--Gilbert's Dublin, vol. i. p. 220.

[534] Vision.--Gilbert's Dublin, vol. ii. p. 149.

[535] Castle.--Gilbert's Dublin, vol. ii. p. 69. There is a curious account in the Quarterly
Journal of the Kilkenny Archæological Society, July, 1862, p. 165, of a comic playbill, issued
for a Kilkenny theatre, in May, 1793. The value of the tickets was to be taken, if required,
in candles, bacon, soap, butter, and cheese, and no one was to be admitted into the boxes without
shoes and stockings; which leads one to conclude that the form of admission and style of attire
were not uncommon, or there would have been no joke in the announcement.

[536] Wright.--Domestic Manners, pp. 465, 466: "Oh! what an excellent thing is an English pudding!
Make a pudding for an Englishman, and you will regale him, be he where he will."

[537] Chamber.--This most interesting and amusing journal is published in the Ulster Arch.
Jour. vol. iii. p. 73, with a translation and notes. The original is in Latin.

CHAPTER XXXIII.

Accession of James II.--Position of Public Affairs--Birth of an Heir--Landing of William of
Orange--Arrival of King James in Ireland--The Siege of Derry--Cruelties of the Enniskilleners--Disease
in Schomberg's Camp--The Battle of the Boyne--James' Defeat and Disgraceful Plight--The Siege
of Athlone--The Siege of Limerick--Marlborough appears before Cork--William raises the Siege
of Limerick and returns to England--The Siege of Athlone, Heroic Valour of its Defenders--The
Battle of Aughrim--Surrender of Limerick.

[A.D. 1688-1691.]

King James' accession again raised the hopes of the Catholics, and again they were doomed to
disappointment; while the Protestants, who had their fears also, soon learned that policy would
bend itself to popularity. Colonel Richard Talbot was now raised to the peerage as Earl of
Tyrconnel, and appointed Commander-in-Chief of the forces, with an authority independent of
the Lord Lieutenant. His character, as well as that of his royal master, has been judged rather
by his political opinions than by facts, and both have suffered considerably at the hands of
a modern historian, who has offered more than one holocaust to the manes of his hero, William
of Orange.

The moderate and cautious Clarendon was appointed Viceroy, and did his best to appease the
fears of the Protestants; but he was soon succeeded by Tyrconnel, whose zeal for Irish interests
was not always tempered by sufficient moderation to conciliate English politicians. He had
fought against O'Neill; he had opposed Rinuccini; he had served in the Duke of Ormonde's army;
he had helped to defend Drogheda against the Republicans, and had lain there apparently dead,
and thus escaped any further suffering; he was of the Anglo-Irish party, who were so faithfully
loyal to the crown, and whose loyalty was repaid with such cold indifference; yet his virtues
have been ignored, and Macaulay accuses him of having "adhered to the old religion, like the
Celts," which was true, and of "having taken part with them in the rebellion of 1641," which
was not true.

James commenced his reign by proclaiming his desire for religious liberty. Individually he
may not have been much beyond the age in opinion on this subject, but liberty of conscience
was necessary for himself. He was a Catholic, and he made no secret of his religion; he was,
therefore, obliged from this motive, if from no other, to accord the same boon to his subjects.
The Quakers were set free in England, and the Catholics were set free in Ireland. But the Puritan
faction, who had commenced by fighting for liberty of conscience for themselves, and who ended
by fighting to deny liberty of conscience to others, were quite determined that neither Quakers
nor Catholics should worship God as they believed themselves bound to do. Such intolerance,
unhappily, was not altogether confined to the illiterate. Coke, in a previous generation, had
declared that it was felony even to counsel the King to tolerate Catholics; and Usher, that
it was a deadly sin. The King had neither the good sense nor the delicacy of feeling to guide
him through these perils. His difficulties, and the complications which ensued, belong to the
province of the English historian, but they were not the less felt in Ireland.

The Protestants professed to be afraid of being massacred by the Catholics; the Catholics apprehended
a massacre from the Protestants. Catholics were now admitted to the army, to the bar, and to
the senate. Protestants declared this an infringement of their rights, and forgot how recently
they had expelled their Catholic fellow-subjects, not merely from honours and emoluments, but
even from their altars and their homes.

An event now occurred which brought affairs to a crisis. The King's second wife, Mary of Modena,
gave him an heir, and the heir appeared likely to live (A.D. 1688). William of Orange, who
had long flattered himself that he should one day wear the crown of England, saw that no time
should be lost if he intended to secure the prize, and commenced his preparations with all
the ability and with all the duplicity for which his career has been admired by one party,
and denounced by the other, according as political and religious opinions viewed the deceit
under the strong light of the ability, or the ability under the glare of the deceit. The Protestant
party could not but see all that was to be apprehended if a Catholic heir should succeed to
the throne, and they sacrificed their loyalty to their interests, if not to their principles.

William arrived in England on the 5th of November, 1688. He professed to have come for the
purpose of investigating the rumours which had been so industriously circulated respecting
the birth of the heir who had barred his pretensions, and to induce the King to join the league
which had been just formed against France; but he took care to come provided with an armament,
which gave the lie to his diplomatic pretensions; and as soon as he had been joined by English
troops, of whose disaffection he was well aware, his real motive was no longer concealed. James
fled to France, whither he had already sent his Queen and heir. Still there was a large party
in England who had not yet declared openly for the usurper; and had not James entirely alienated
the affection of his subjects by his tyrannical treatment of the Protestant bishops, his conduct
towards the University of Oxford, and the permission, if not the sanction, which he gave to
Jeffreys in his bloody career, there can be little doubt that William should have fought for
the crown on English ground as he did on Irish.

Ulster was principally peopled by Protestant Presbyterians, from the north of Scotland. They
were not likely to be very loyal even to a Stuart, for the Irish had been called over to Scotland
before now to defend royal rights; they had not very defined religious opinions, except on
the subject of hatred of Popery and Prelacy. It cannot be a matter of surprise, therefore,
that these men hailed the prospect of a new sovereign, whose opinions, both religious and political,
coincided with their own. If he, too, had very general views as to the rights of kings, and
no very particular view as to rights of conscience being granted to any who did not agree with
him, he was none the less acceptable.

Tyrconnel had neither men, money, nor arms, to meet the emergency. He had to withdraw the garrison
from Derry to make up the contingent of 3,000 men, which he sent to assist the King in England;
but they were immediately disarmed, and the young men of Derry closed their gates, and thus
were the first to revolt openly against their lawful King. The native Irish had been loyal
when loyalty cost them their lives, without obtaining for them any increased liberty to exercise
their religion; they were, therefore, not less likely to be loyal now, when both civil and
religious liberty might depend upon their fealty to the crown. The Enniskilleners revolted;
and the whole of Ulster, except Charlemont and Carrickfergus, declared for William of Orange.

James determined to make an effort to regain his throne; and by this act rendered the attempt
of his son-in-law simply a rebellion. Had the King declined the contest, had he violated the
rules of government so grossly as no longer to merit the confidence of his people, or had there
been no lawful heir to the throne, William's attempt might have been legitimate; under the
circumstances, it was simply a successful rebellion. The King landed at Kinsale, on the 12th
of March, 1689, attended by some Irish troops and French officers. He met Tyrconnel in Cork,
created him a duke, and then proceeded to Bandon, where he received the submission of the people
who had joined the rebellion. On his arrival in Dublin, he summoned a Parliament and issued
proclamations, after which he proceeded to Derry, according to the advice of Tyrconnel. Useless
negotiations followed; and James returned to Dublin, after having confided the conduct of the
siege to General Hamilton. If that officer had not been incomparably more humane than the men
with whom he had to deal, it is probable that the 'Prentice Boys of Derry would not have been
able to join in their yearly commemoration of victory. The town was strongly fortified, and
well supplied with artillery and ammunition; the besiegers were badly clad, badly provisioned,
and destitute of almost every thing necessary to storm a town. Their only resource was to starve
out the garrison; but of this resource they were partly deprived by the humanity of General
Hamilton, who allowed a considerable number of men, women, and children to leave Derry, and
thus enabled its defenders to hold out longer. Lundy, who urged them to capitulate to King
James, was obliged to escape in disguise; and Major Baker, assisted by the Rev. George Walker,
a Protestant clergyman, then took the command. According to the statements of the latter, the
garrison amounted to 7,500 men, and they had twenty-two cannon, which alone gave them an immense
advantage over the royal army. So much has been already said and written, and sung of the bravery
of the Derry men, that nothing more remains to say. That they were brave, and that they bravely
defended the cause which they had adopted, there is no doubt; but if polemics had not mingled
with politics in the encounter, it is quite possible that we should have heard no more of their
exploits than of those other men, equally gallant and equally brave. The Enniskilleners, who
have obtained an unenviable notoriety for their merciless cruelty in war, occupied the King's
troops so as to prevent them from assisting the besiegers. Several encounters took place between
the Derry men and the royalists, but with no other result than loss of lives on each side.
On the 13th of June, a fleet of thirty ships arrived from England with men and provisions;
but the Irish had obtained the command of the river Foyle, and possession of Culmore Fort at
the entrance, so that they were unable to enter. De Rosen was now sent by James to assist Hamilton.
He proposed and carried out the barbarous expedition of driving all the Protestants whom he
could find before the walls, and threatening to let them starve there to death unless the garrison
surrendered. His plan was strongly disapproved by the King, it disgusted the Irish, and exasperated
the besieged. The next day they erected a gallows on the ramparts, and threatened to hang their
prisoners then and there if the unfortunate people were not removed. It is to the credit of
the Derry men that they shared their provisions to the last with their prisoners, even while
they were dying themselves of starvation. Perhaps the example of humanity set to them by General
Hamilton was not without its effect, for kindness and cruelty seem equally contagious in time
of war. Kirke's squadrons at last passed the forts, broke the boom, and relieved the garrison,
who could not have held out forty-eight hours longer. It was suspected that English gold had
procured their admittance, and that the officers who commanded the forts were bribed to let
them pass unscathed. The siege was at once raised; the royal army withdrew on the 5th of August;
and thus terminated the world-famed siege of Derry.

James now held his Parliament in Dublin, repealed the Act of Settlement, passed the Act of
Attainder, and issued an immense quantity of base coin. He has been loudly condemned by some
historians for these proceedings; but it should be remembered (1) that the Act of Settlement
was a gross injustice, and, as such, it was but justice that it should be repealed. Had the
measure been carried out, however severely it might have been felt by the Protestant party,
they could not have suffered from the repeal as severely as the Catholics had suffered from
the enactment. (2) The Act of Attainder simply proclaimed that the revolutionists were rebels
against their lawful King, and that they should be treated as such. (3) The utterance of base
coin had already been performed by several Governments, and James only availed himself of the
prerogatives exercised by his predecessors.

The day on which the siege of Derry was raised, the royalists met with a severe reverse at
Newtownbutler. They were under the command of Lord Mountcashel, when attacked by the Enniskilleners.
The dragoons had already been dispirited by a reverse at Lisnaskea; and a word of command[538]
which was given incorrectly, threw the old corps into confusion, from which their brave leader
in vain endeavoured to rally them. Colonel Wolseley, an English officer, commanded the Enniskilleners;
and the cruelties with which they hunted down the unfortunate fugitives, has made the name
almost a byword of reproach. Five hundred men plunged into Lough Erne to escape their fury,
but of these only one was saved. Lord Mountcashel was taken prisoner, but he escaped eventually,
and fled to France. Sarsfield, who commanded at Sligo, was obliged to retire to Athlone; and
the victorious Williamites remained masters of that part of the country.

Schomberg arrived[539] at Bangor, in Down, on the 13th of August, 1689, with a large army,
composed of Dutch, French Huguenots, and new levies from England. On the 17th he marched to
Belfast, where he met with no resistance; and on the 27th Carrickfergus surrendered to him
on honorable terms, after a siege of eight days, but not until its Governor, Colonel Charles
MacCarthy More, was reduced to his last barrel of powder. Schomberg pitched on Dundalk for
his winter quarters, and entrenched himself there strongly; but disease soon broke out in his
camp, and it has been estimated that 10,000 men, fully one-half of the force, perished of want
and dysentery. James challenged him to battle several times, but Schomberg was too prudent
to risk an encounter in the state of his troops; and the King had not the moral courage to
make the first attack. Complaints soon reached England of the condition to which the revolutionary
army was reduced. If there were not "own correspondents" then in camp, it is quite clear there
were very sharp eyes and very nimble pens. Dr. Walker, whose military experience at Derry appears
to have given him a taste for campaigning, was one of the complainants. William sent over a
commission to inquire into the matter, who, as usual in such cases, arrived too late to do
any good. The men wanted food, the horses wanted provender, the surgeons and apothecaries wanted
medicines for the sick.[540] In fact, if we take a report of Crimean mismanagement, we shall
have all the details, minus the statement that several of the officers drank themselves to
death, and that some who were in power were charged with going shares in the embezzlement of
the contractor, Mr. John Shales, who, whether guilty or not, was made the scapegoat on the
occasion, and was accused, moreover, of having caused all this evil from partiality to King
James, in whose service he had been previously. Mr. John Shales was therefore taken prisoner,
and sent under a strong guard to Belfast, and from thence to London. As nothing more is heard
of him, it is probable the matter was hushed up, or that he had powerful accomplices in his frauds.

Abundant supplies arrived from England, which, if they could not restore the dead, served at
least to renovate the living; and Schomberg was ready to take the field early in the year 1690,
notwithstanding the loss of about 10,000 men. James, with the constitutional fatuity of the
Stuarts, had lost his opportunity. If he had attacked the motley army of the revolutionary
party while the men were suffering from want and disease, and while his own troops were fresh
and courageous, he might have conquered; the most sanguine now could scarcely see any other
prospect for him than defeat. He was in want of everything; and he had no Englishmen who hoped
for plunder, no French refugees who looked for a new home, no brave Dutchmen who loved fighting
for its own sake, to fall back upon in the hour of calamity. His French counsellors only agreed
to disagree with him. There was the ordinary amount of jealousy amongst the Irish officers--the
inevitable result of the want of a competent leader in whom all could confide. The King was
urged by one party (the French) to retire to Connaught, and entrench himself there until he
should receive succours from France; he was urged by another party (the Irish) to attack Schomberg
without delay. Louvais, the French Minister of War, divided his hatred with tolerable impartiality
between James and William: therefore, though quite prepared to oppose the latter, he was by
no means so willing to assist the former; and when he did send men to Ireland, under the command
of the Count de Lauzan, he took care that their clothing and arms should be of the worst description.
He received in exchange a reinforcement of the best-equipped and best-trained soldiers of the
Irish army. Avaux and De Rosen were both sent back to France by James; and thus, with but few
officers, badly-equipped troops, and his own miserable and vacillating counsel, he commenced
the war which ended so gloriously or so disastrously, according to the different opinions of
the actors in the fatal drama. In July, 1690, some of James' party were defeated by the Williamites
at Cavan, and several of his best officers were killed or made prisoners. Another engagement
took place at Charlemont; the Governor, Teigue O'Regan, only yielded to starvation. He surrendered
on honorable terms; and Schomberg, with equal humanity and courtesy, desired that each of his
starving men should receive a loaf of bread at Armagh.

William had intended for some time to conduct the Irish campaign in person. Schomberg met him
half-way between Carrickfergus and Belfast. William, who had ridden so far, now entered the
General's carriage, and drove to Belfast, where he was received with acclamations, and loud
shouts of "God bless the Protestant King!" There were bonfires and discharges of cannon at
the various camps of the Williamites. The officers of several regiments paid their respects
to him in state. On the 22nd the whole army encamped at Loughbrickland, near Newry. In the
afternoon William came up and reviewed the troops, pitching his tent on a neighbouring eminence.[541]
The army comprised a strange medley of nationalities. More than half were foreigners; and on
these William placed his principal reliance, for at any moment a reaction might take place
in favour of the lawful King. The Williamite army was well supplied, well trained, admirably
commanded, accustomed to war, and amounted to between forty and fifty thousand. The Jacobite
force only consisted of twenty thousand,[542] and of these a large proportion were raw recruits.
The officers, however, were brave and skilful; but they had only twelve field-pieces, which
had been recently received from France. On the 22nd, news came that James had encamped near
Dundalk; on the 23rd he marched towards Drogheda. On the same day William went to Newry; he
was thoroughly aware of the movements of his hapless father-in-law, for deserters came into
his camp from time to time. James obtained his information from an English officer, Captain
Farlow, and some soldiers whom he made prisoners at a trifling engagement which took place
between Newry and Dundalk.

James now determined on a retreat to the Boyne through Ardee. His design was to protract the
campaign as much as possible,--an arrangement which suited his irresolute habits; but where
a kingdom was to be lost or won, it only served to discourage the troops and to defer the decisive
moment.

The hostile forces confronted each other for the first time on the banks of the Boyne, June
30, 1689. The Jacobite army was posted on the declivity of the Hill of Dunore--its right wing
towards Drogheda, its left extending up the river. The centre was at the small hamlet of Oldbridge.
Entrenchments were hastily thrown up to defend the fords, and James took up his position at
a ruined church on the top of the Hill of Dunore. The Williamite army approached from the north,
their brave leader directing every movement, and inspiring his men with courage and confidence.
He obtained a favourable position, and was completely screened from view until he appeared
on the brow of the hill, where his forces debouched slowly and steadily into the ravines below.
After planting his batteries on the heights, he kept up an incessant fire on the Irish lines
during the afternoon of the 30th. But James' officers were on the alert, even if their King
were indifferent. William was recognized as he approached near their lines to reconnoitre.
Guns were brought up to bear on him quietly and stealthily; "six shots were fired at him, one
whereof fell and struck off the top of the Duke Wurtemberg's pistol and the whiskers of his
horse, and another tore the King's coat on his shoulder."[543]

William, like a wise general as he was, took care that the news of his accident should not
dispirit his men. He showed himself everywhere, rode through the camp, was as agreeable as
it was in his nature to be; and thus made capital of what might have been a cause of disaster.
In the meantime James did all that was possible to secure a defeat. At one moment he decided
to retreat, at the next he would risk a battle; then he sent off his baggage and six of his
field-pieces to Dublin, for his own special protection; and while thus so remarkably careful
of himself, he could not be persuaded to allow the most necessary precaution to be taken for
the safety of his army. Hence the real marvel to posterity is, not that the battle of the Boyne
should have been lost by the Irish, but that they should ever have attempted to fight at all.
Perhaps nothing but the inherent loyalty of the Irish, which neither treachery nor pusillanimity
could destroy, and the vivid remembrance of the cruel wrongs always inflicted by Protestants
when in power, prevented them from rushing over en masse to William's side of the Boyne. Perhaps,
in the history of nations, there never was so brave a resistance made for love of royal right
and religious freedom, as that of the Irish officers and men who then fought on the Jacobite side.

The first attack of William's men was made at Slane. This was precisely what the Jacobite officers
had anticipated, and what James had obstinately refused to see. When it was too late, he allowed
Lauzan to defend the ford, but even Sir Nial O'Neill's gallantry was unavailing. The enemy
had the advance, and Portland's artillery and infantry crossed at Slane. William now felt certain
of victory, if, indeed, he had ever doubted it. It was low water at ten o'clock; the fords
at Oldbridge were passable; a tremendous battery was opened on the Irish lines; they had not
a single gun to reply, and yet they waited steadily for the attack. The Dutch Blue Guards dashed
into the stream ten abreast, commanded by the Count de Solmes; the Londonderry and Enniskillen
Dragoons followed, supported by the French Huguenots. The English infantry came next, under
the command of Sir John Hanmer and the Count Nassau. William crossed at the fifth ford, where
the water was deepest, with the cavalry of his left wing. It was a grand and terrible sight.
The men in the water fought for William and Protestantism; the men on land fought for their
King and their Faith. The men were equally gallant. Of the leaders I shall say nothing, lest
I should be tempted to say too much. James had followed Lauzan's forces towards Slane. Tyrconnel's
valour could not save the day for Ireland against fearful odds. Sarsfield's horse had accompanied
the King. The Huguenots were so warmly received by the Irish at the fords that they recoiled,
and their commander, Caillemont, was mortally wounded. Schomberg forgot his age, and the affront
he had received from William in the morning; and the man of eighty-two dashed into the river
with the impetuosity of eighteen. He was killed immediately, and so was Dr. Walker, who headed
the Ulster Protestants. William may have regretted the brave old General, but he certainly
did not regret the Protestant divine. He had no fancy for churchmen meddling in secular affairs,
and a rough "What brought him there?" was all the reply vouchsafed to the news of his demise.
The tide now began to flow, and the battle raged with increased fury. The valour displayed
by the Irish was a marvel even to their enemies. Hamilton was wounded and taken prisoner. William
headed the Enniskilleners, who were put to flight soon after by the Irish horse, at Platten,
and were now rallied again by himself. When the enemy had crossed the ford at Oldbridge, James
ordered Lauzan to march in a parallel direction with Douglas and young Schomberg to Duleek.
Tyrconnel followed. The French infantry covered the retreat in admirable order, with the Irish
cavalry. When the defile of Duleek had been passed, the royalist forces again presented a front
to the enemy. William's horse halted. The retreat was again resumed; and at the deep defile
of Naul the last stand was made. The shades of a summer evening closed over the belligerent
camps. The Williamites returned to Duleek; and eternal shadows clouded over the destinies of
the unfortunate Stuarts--a race admired more from sympathy with their miseries, than from admiration
of their virtues.

Thus ended the famous battle of the Boyne. England obtained thereby a new governor and a national
debt; Ireland, fresh oppression, and an intensification of religious and political animosity,
unparalleled in the history of nations.

James contrived to be first in the retreat which he had anticipated, and for which he had so
carefully prepared. He arrived in Dublin in the evening, and insulted Lady Tyrconnel by a rude
remark about the fleetness of her husband's countrymen in running away from the battle; to
which she retorted, with equal wit and truth, that his Majesty had set them the example. He
left Dublin the next morning, having first insulted the civil and military authorities, by
throwing the blame of the defeat on the brave men who had risked everything in his cause. Having
carefully provided for his own safety by leaving two troops of horse at Bray to defend the
bridge, should the enemy come up, he hastened towards Duncannon, where he arrived at sunrise.
Here he embarked in a small French vessel for Kinsale, and from thence he sailed to France,
and was himself the bearer of the news of his defeat. The command in Ireland was intrusted
to Tyrconnel, who gave orders that the Irish soldiery should march at once to Limerick, each
under the command of his own officer. William entered Dublin on Sunday, July 7th. He was received
with acclamations by the Protestants, who were now relieved from all fear lest the Catholics
should inflict on them the sufferings they had so remorselessly inflicted on the Catholics.
Drogheda, Kilkenny, Duncannon, and Waterford, capitulated to the victorious army, the garrisons
marching to Limerick, towards which place William now directed his course. Douglas was sent
to besiege Athlone; but the Governor, Colonel Grace, made such brave resistance there, he was
obliged to withdraw, and join William near Limerick.

The French officers, who had long since seen the hopelessness of the conflict, determined to
leave the country. Lauzan, after having surveyed Limerick, and declared that it might be taken
with "roasted apples," ordered all the French troops to Galway, where they could await an opportunity
to embark for France. But the brave defenders of the devoted city were not deterred. The Governor
consulted with Sarsfield, Tyrconnel, and the other officers; and the result was a message to
William, in reply to his demand for a surrender, to the effect, that they hoped to merit his
good opinion better by a vigorous defence of the fortress, which had been committed to them
by their master, than by a shameful capitulation. By a skilfully executed and rapid march,
Sarsfield contrived to intercept William's artillery on the Keeper Mountains, and after killing
the escort, bursting the guns, and blowing up the ammunition, he returned in triumph to Limerick.
His success animated the besieged, and infuriated the besiegers. But the walls of Limerick
were not as stout as the brave hearts of its defenders. William sent for more artillery to
Waterford; and it was found that two of the guns which Sarsfield had attempted to destroy,
were still available.

The trenches were opened on the 17th of August. On the 20th the garrison made a vigorous sortie,
and retarded the enemy's progress; but on the 24th the batteries were completed, and a murderous
fire of red-hot shot and shells was poured into the devoted city. The trenches were carried
within a few feet of the palisades, on the 27th; and a breach having been made in the wall
near St. John's Gate, William ordered the assault to commence. The storming party were supported
by ten thousand men. For three hours a deadly struggle was maintained. The result seemed doubtful,
so determined was the bravery evinced on each side. Boisseleau, the Governor, had not been
unprepared, although he was taken by surprise, and had opened a murderous cross-fire on the
assailants when first they attempted the storm. The conflict lasted for nearly three hours.
The Brandenburg regiment had gained the Black Battery, when the Irish sprung a mine, and men,
faggots, and stones were blown up in a moment. A council of war was held; William, whose temper
was not the most amiable at any time, was unusually morose. He had lost 2,000 men between the
killed and the wounded, and he had not taken the city, which a French General had pronounced
attainable with "roasted Apples." On Sunday, the 31st of August, the siege was raised. William
returned to England, where his presence was imperatively demanded. The military command was
confided to the Count de Solmes, who was afterwards succeeded by De Ginkell; the civil government
was intrusted to Lord Sidney, Sir Charles Porter, and Mr. Coningsby.

Lauzan returned to France with Tyrconnel, and the Irish forces were confided to the care of
the Duke of Berwick, a youth of twenty, with a council of regency and a council of war to advise
him. Under these circumstances it was little wonder that there should We been considerable
division of opinion, and no little jealousy, in the royal camp; and even then the seeds were
sowing of what eventually proved the cause of such serious misfortune to the country.

The famous Marlborough appeared before Cork with an army of 1,500 men, on the 22nd of September,
and the garrison were made prisoners of war after a brief and brave resistance; but the conditions
on which they surrendered were shamefully violated. Kinsale was next attacked; but with these
exceptions, and some occasional skirmishes with the "Rapparees," the winter passed over without
any important military operations.

Tyrconnel returned to Ireland in January, with a small supply of money and some provisions,
notwithstanding the plots made against him by Luttrell and Purcell. He brought a patent from
James, creating Sarsfield Earl of Lucan. A French fleet arrived in May, with provisions, clothing,
and ammunition. It had neither men nor money; but it brought what was supposed to be a fair
equivalent, in the person of St. Ruth, a distinguished French officer, who was sent to take
the command of the Irish army. In the meantime Ginkell was organizing the most effective force
ever seen in Ireland: neither men nor money was spared by the English Parliament. And this
was the army which the impoverished and ill-provisioned troops of the royalists were doomed
to encounter.

Hostilities commenced on 7th June, with the siege of Ballymore Castle, in Westmeath. The Governor
surrendered, and Athlone was next attacked. This town is situated on the river Shannon. Its
position must be thoroughly understood, to comprehend the heroic bravery with which it was
defended. It will be remembered that Athlone was one of the towns which the English of the
Pale had fortified at the very commencement of their invasion of Ireland. That portion of the
city which lay on the Leinster or Pale side of the river, had never been strongly fortified,
and a breach was made at once in the wall. Ginkell assaulted it with 4,000 men, and the defenders
at once withdrew to the other side; but they held the bridge with heroic bravery, until they
had broken down two of the arches, and placed the broad and rapid Shannon between themselves
and their enemies. St. Ruth had arrived in the meantime, and posted his army, amounting to
about 15,000 horse and foot, at the Irish side of the river. The English had now raised the
works so high on their side, that they were able to keep up an incessant fire upon the town.
According to their own historian, Story, they threw in 12,000 cannon balls and 600 bombs, and
the siege cost them "nigh fifty tons of powder." The walls opposite to the batteries were soon
broken down, and the town itself reduced to ruins. The besiegers next attempted to cross in
a bridge of boats, but the defenders turned their few field-pieces on them. They then tried
to mend the broken bridge; huge beams were flung across, and they had every hope of success.
But they knew not yet what Irish valour could dare. Eight or ten devoted men dashed into the
water, and tore down the planks, under a galling fire; and, as they fell dead or dying into
the river, others rushed to take the places of their fallen comrades, and to complete the work.

St. Ruth now ordered preparations to be made for an assault, and desired the ramparts on the
Connaught side of the town to be levelled, that a whole battalion might enter abreast to relieve
the garrison when it was assailed. But the Governor, D'Usson, opposed the plan, and neglected
the order. All was now confusion in the camp. There never had been any real head to the royalist
party in Ireland; and to insure victory in battle, or success in any important enterprise where
multitudes are concerned, it is absolutely essential that all should act with union of purpose.
Such union, where there are many men, and, consequently, many minds, can only be attained by
the most absolute submission to one leader; and this leader, to obtain submission, should be
either a lawfully constituted authority, or, in cases of emergency, one of those master-spirits
to whom men bow with unquestioning submission, because of the majesty of intellect within them.
There were brave men and true men in that camp at Athlone, but there was not one who possessed
these essential requisites.

According to the Williamite historian, Ginkell was informed by traitors of what was passing,
and that the defences on the river side were guarded by two of the "most indifferent Irish
regiments." He immediately chose 2,000 men for the assault, distributed a gratuity of guineas
amongst them, and at a signal from the church bell, at six in the evening, on the 30th of June,
the assault was made, and carried with such rapidity, that St. Ruth, who was with the cavalry
at a distance, was not aware of what had happened until all was over. St. Ruth at once removed
his army to Ballinasloe, twelve miles from his former post, and subsequently to Aughrim. Tyrconnel
was obliged to leave the camp, the outcry against him became so general.

St. Ruth's ground was well chosen. He had placed his men upon an eminence, and each wing was
protected by a morass or bog. The Williamites came up on Sunday, July 11th, while the Irish
were hearing Mass. In this instance, as in so many others, it is impossible to ascertain correctly
the numerical force of each army. The historians on either side were naturally anxious to magnify
the numbers of their opponents, and to lessen their own. It is at least certain, that on this,
as on other occasions, the Irish were miserably deficient in all the appliances of the art
of war, while the English were admirably supplied. The most probable estimate of the Irish
force appears to be 15,000 horse and foot; and of the English 20,000. Ginkell opened fire on
the enemy as soon as his guns were planted. Some trifling skirmishes followed. A council of
war was held, and the deliberation lasted until half-past four in the evening, at which time
a general engagement was decided on. A cannonade had been kept up on both sides, in which the
English had immensely the advantage, St. Ruth's excellently chosen position being almost useless
for want of sufficient artillery. At half-past six Ginkell ordered an advance on the Irish
right centre, having previously ascertained that the bog was passable. The defenders, after
discharging their fire, gradually drew the Williamites after them by an almost imperceptible
retreat, until they had them face to face with their main line. Then the Irish cavalry charged
with irresistible valour, and the English were thrown into total disorder. St. Ruth, proud
of the success of his strategies and the valour of his men, exclaimed, "Le jour est a nous,
mes enfans." But St. Ruth's weak point was his left wing, and this was at once perceived and
taken advantage of by the Dutch General. Some of his infantry made good their passage across
the morass, which St. Ruth had supposed impassable; and the men, who commanded this position
from a ruined castle, found that the balls with which they had been served did not suit their
fire-arms, so that they were unable to defend the passage. St. Ruth at once perceived his error.
He hastened to support them with a brigade of horse; but even as he exclaimed, "They are beaten;
let us beat them to the purpose," a cannon-ball carried off his head, and all was lost. Another
death, which occurred almost immediately after, completed the misfortunes of the Irish. The
infantry had been attended and encouraged by Dr. Aloysius Stafford, chaplain to the forces;
but when "death interrupted his glorious career,"[544] they were panic-struck; and three hours
after the death of the general and the priest, there was not a man of the Irish army left upon
the field. But the real cause of the failure was the fatal misunderstanding which existed between
the leaders. Sarsfield, who was thoroughly able to have taken St Ruth's position, and to have
retrieved the fortunes of the day, had been placed in the rear by the jealousy of the latter,
and kept in entire ignorance of the plan of battle. He was now obliged to withdraw without
striking a single blow. The cavalry retreated along the highroad to Loughrea; the infantry
fled to a bog, where numbers were massacred, unarmed and in cold blood.

The loss on both sides was immense, and can never be exactly estimated. Harris says that "had
not St. Ruth been taken off, it would have been hard to say what the consequences of this day
would have been."[545] Many of the dead remained unburied, and their bones were left to bleach
in the storms of winter and the sun of summer. There was one exception to the general neglect.
An Irish officer, who had been slain, was followed by his faithful dog. The poor animal lay
beside his master's body day and night; and though he fed upon other corpses with the rest
of the dogs, he would not permit them to touch the treasured remains. He continued his watch
until January, when he flew at a soldier, who he feared was about to remove the bones, which
were all that remained to him of the being by whom he had been caressed and fed. The soldier
in his fright unslung his piece and fired, and the faithful wolf-dog laid down and died by
his charge.[546]

Ginkell laid siege to Galway a week after the battle of Aughrim. The inhabitants relied principally
upon the arrival of Balldearg O'Donnell for their defence; but, as he did not appear in time,
they capitulated on favourable terms, and the Dutch General marched to Limerick.

Tyrconnel died at Limerick, of apoplexy, while he was preparing to put the city into a state
of defence. He was a faithful and zealous supporter of the royal cause, and devoted to the
Irish nation. His loyalty has induced one party to blacken his character; his haughty and unconciliatory
manner prevented his good qualities from being fully appreciated by the other.

The real command now devolved on M. D'Usson, the Governor of Limerick. Active preparations
for the siege were made on both sides. Ginkell contrived to communicate with Henry Luttrell,
but his perfidy was discovered, and he was tried by court-martial and imprisoned. Sixty cannon
and nineteen mortars were planted against the devoted city, and on the 30th the bombardment
commenced. The Irish horse had been quartered on the Clare side of the Shannon; but, through
the treachery or indifference of Brigadier Clifford, who had been posted, with a strong body
of dragoons, to prevent such an attempt, Ginkell threw across a pontoon-bridge, and sent over
a large detachment of horse and foot, on the morning of the 16th, which effectually cut off
communication between the citizens and their camp. On the 22nd he made a feint of raising the
siege, but his real object was to lull suspicion, while he attacked the works at the Clare
end of Thomond-bridge. The position was bravely defended by Colonel Lacy, but he was obliged
to yield to overpowering numbers; and the Town-Major, fearing that the enemy would enter in
the mêlee with the Irish, drew up the bridge. The English gave no quarter, and, according to
their own account, 600 men were slaughtered on the spot. This was the last engagement. Sarsfield
recommended a surrender. Resistance was equally hopeless and useless; it could only end in
a fearful sacrifice of life on both sides. A parley took place on the 23rd, and on the 24th
a three days' truce was arranged. Hostages were exchanged, and a friendly intercourse was established.
On the 3rd of October, 1691, the Treaty was signed. The large stone is still shown which was
used as a table on the occasion. What that Treaty contained, and how it was violated, are matters
which demand a careful and impartial consideration.

FOOTNOTES:

[538] Command.--Mountcashel gave the word "right face;" it was repeated "right about face."
Colonel Hamilton and Captain Lavallin were tried in Dublin by court-martial for the mistake,
and the latter was shot.

[539] Arrived.--The journals of two officers of the Williamite army have been published in
the Ulster Arch. Jour., and furnish some interesting details of the subsequent campaign. One
of the writers is called Bonnivert, and was probably a French refugee; the other was Dr. Davis,
a Protestant clergyman, who obtained a captaincy in William's army, and seemed to enjoy preaching
and fighting with equal zest.

[540] Sick.--Harris' Life of King William, p. 254, 1719. Macaulay's account of the social state
of the camp, where there were so many divines preaching, is a proof that their ministrations
were not very successful, and that the lower order of Irish were not at all below the English
of the same class in education or refinement. "The moans of the sick were drowned by the blasphemy
and ribaldry of their companions.

[541] Eminence.--Journal of Captain Davis, published in the Ulster Archæological Journal, vol. iv.

[542] Twenty thousand.--Captain Davis' Journal.

[543] Shoulder.--Davis' Journal The coat was exhibited at the meeting of the British Association
in Belfast, in 1852. It had descended as an heirloom through Colonel Wetherall, William's aide-de-camp,
who took it off him after the accident.

[544] Career.--History of the King's Inns, p. 239.

[545] Been.--Life of William III. p. 327.

[546] Charge.--See the Green Book, p. 231, for some curious stories about this engagement,
and for a detailed account of St. Ruth's death.

CHAPTER XXXIV.

Formation of the Irish Brigade--Violation of the Treaty of Limerick--Enactment of the Penal
Laws--Restrictions on Trade--The Embargo Laws--The Sacramental Test introduced--The Palatines--The
Irish forbidden to enlist in the Army--Dean Swift and the Drapier's Letters--Attempts to form
a Catholic Association--Irish Emigrants defeat the English in France, Spain, and America--The
Whiteboys--An Account of the Cause of these Outrages, by an English Tourist--Mr. Young's Remedy
for Irish Disaffection--The Peculiar Position and Difficulties of Irish Priests--The Judicial
Murder of Father Nicholas Sheehy--Grattan's Demand for Irish Independence--The Volunteers--A
Glimpse of Freedom.

[A.D. 1691-1783.]

St. John's Gate and the Irish outworks were surrendered to the English; the English town was
left for the Irish troops to occupy until their departure for France. The men were to have
their choice whether they would serve under William III. or under the French. A few days after
they were mustered on the Clare side of the Shannon, to declare which alternative they preferred.
An Ulster battalion, and a few men in each regiment, in all about 1,000, entered the service
of Government; 2,000 received passes to return home; 11,000, with all the cavalry, volunteered
for France, and embarked for that country in different detachments, under their respective
officers. They were warmly received in the land of their adoption; and all Irish Catholics
to France were granted the privileges of French citizens, without the formality of naturalization.
And thus was formed the famous "Irish Brigade," which has become a household word for bravery
and the glory of the Irish nation.

The Treaty, as I have said, was signed on the 3rd of October, 1691. The preamble states that
the contracting parties were Sir Charles Porter and Thomas Coningsby, Lords Justices, with
the Baron de Ginkell as Commander-in-Chief, on the part of William and Mary; Sarsfield, Earl
of Lucan, Viscount Galmoy, Colonel Purcell, Colonel Cusack, Sir J. Butler, Colonel Dillon,
and Colonel Brown, on the part of the Irish nation. The articles were fifty-two in number.
They guaranteed to the Catholics (1) the free exercise of their religion; (2) the privilege
of sitting in Parliament; (3) freedom of trade; (4) the safety of the estates of those who
had taken up arms for King James; (5) a general amnesty; (6) all the honours of war to the
troops, and a free choice for their future destination. The articles run to considerable length,
and cannot, therefore, be inserted here; but they may be seen in extenso in MacGeoghegan's
History of Ireland, and several other works. So little doubt had the Irish that this Treaty
would be solemnly observed, that when the accidental omission of two lines was discovered in
the clean copy, they refused to carry out the arrangements until those lines had been inserted.
Two days after the signing of the Treaty, a French fleet arrived in the Shannon, with 3,000
soldiers, 200 officers, and 10,000 stand of arms. Sarsfield was strongly urged to break faith
with the English; but he nobly rejected the temptation. How little did he foresee how cruelly
that nation would break faith with him!

Two months had scarcely elapsed after the departure of the Irish troops, when an English historian
was obliged to write thus of the open violation of the articles: "The justices of the peace,
sheriffs, and other magistrates, presuming on their power in the country, dispossessed several
of their Majesties' Catholic subjects, not only of their goods and chattels, but also of their
lands and tenements, to the great reproach of their Majesties' Government."[547] These complaints
were so general, that the Lords Justices were at last obliged to issue a proclamation on the
subject (November 19, 1691), in which they state that they had "received complaints from all
parts of Ireland of the ill-treatment of the Irish who had submitted; and that they [the Irish]
were so extremely terrified with apprehensions of the continuance of that usage, that some
of those who had quitted the Irish army and went home, with the resolution not to go to France,
were then come back again, and pressed earnestly to go thither, rather than stay in Ireland,
where, contrary to the public faith, as well as law and justice, they were robbed in their
persons and abused in their substance." Let it be remembered that this was an official document,
and that it emanated from the last persons who were likely to listen to such complaints, or
relieve them if they could possibly have been denied.

The men who had hoped for confiscations that they might share the plunder, now began to clamour
loudly. It was necessary to get up a popular cry against Papists, as the surest means of attaining
their end. Individuals who had as little personal hatred to the Pope as they had to the Grand
Turk, and as little real knowledge of the Catholic Faith as of Mahometanism, uttered wild cries
of "No Popery!" and "No Surrender!" William, whose morals, if not his professions, proclaimed
that he was not troubled with any strong religious convictions, was obliged to yield to the
faction who had set him on the throne. Probably, he yielded willingly; and was thus able, in
some measure, to make a pretence of doing under pressure what he really wished to do of his
own will.

On the 28th of October, 1692, the Parliament in Dublin rejected a Bill which had been sent
from England, containing restrictions on certain duties, solely to proclaim their independence.
A few days after they were taught a lesson of obedience. Lord Sidney came down to the House
unexpectedly, and prorogued Parliament, with a severe rebuke, ordering the Clerk to enter his
protest against the proceedings of the Commons on the journals of the House of Lords. The hopes
of the English were raised, and the Parliament brought forward the subject of the Limerick
articles, with torrents of complaints against the Irish in general, and the Irish Catholics
in particular. William received their remonstrance coolly, and the matter was allowed to rest
for a time. In 1695 Lord Capel was appointed Viceroy. He at once summoned a Parliament, which
sat for several sessions, and in which some of the penal laws against Catholics were enacted.
As I believe the generality even of educated persons, both in England and Ireland, are entirely
ignorant of what these laws really were, I shall give a brief account of their enactments,
premising first, that seven lay peers and seven Protestant bishops had the honorable humanity
to sign a protest against them.

(1) The Catholic peers were deprived of their right to sit in Parliament. (2) Catholic gentlemen
were forbidden to be elected as members of Parliament. (3) It denied all Catholics the liberty
of voting, and it excluded them from all offices of trust, and indeed from all remunerative
employment, however insignificant.[548] (4) They were fined £60 a-month for absence from the
Protestant form of worship. (5) They were forbidden to travel five miles from their houses,
to keep arms, to maintain suits at law, or to be guardians or executors. (6) Any four justices
of the peace could, without further trial, banish any man for life if he refused to attend
the Protestant service. (7) Any two justices of the peace could call any man over sixteen before
them, and if he refused to abjure the Catholic religion, they could bestow his property on
the next of kin. (8) No Catholic could employ a Catholic schoolmaster to educate his children;
and if he sent his child abroad for education, he was subject to a fine of £100, and the child
could not inherit any property either in England or Ireland. (9) Any Catholic priest who came
to the country should be hanged. (10) Any Protestant suspecting any other Protestant of holding
property[549] in trust for any Catholic, might file a bill against the suspected trustee, and
take the estate or property from him. (11) Any Protestant seeing a Catholic tenant-at-will
on a farm, which, in his opinion, yielded one-third more than the yearly rent, might enter
on that farm, and, by simply swearing to the fact, take possession. (12) Any Protestant might
take away the horse of a Catholic, no matter how valuable, by simply paying him £5. (13) Horses
and wagons belonging to Catholics, were in all cases to be seized for the use of the militia.
(14) Any Catholic gentleman's child who became a Protestant, could at once take possession
of his father's property.

I have only enumerated some of the enactments of this code, and I believe there are few persons
who will not be shocked at their atrocity. Even if the rights of Catholics had not been secured
to them by the Treaty of Limerick, they had the rights of men; and whatever excuse, on the
ground of hatred of Popery as a religion, may be offered for depriving men of liberty of conscience,
and of a share in the government of their country, there can be no excuse for the gross injustice
of defrauding them of their property, and placing life and estate at the mercy of every ruffian
who had an interest in depriving them of either or of both. Although the seventeenth century
has not yet been included in the dark ages, it is possible that posterity, reading these enactments,
may reverse present opinion on this subject.

But though the Parliament which sat in Dublin, and was misnamed Irish, was quite willing to
put down Popery and to take the property of Catholics, it was not so willing to submit to English
rule in other matters. In 1698 Mr. Molyneux, one of the members for the University of Dublin,
published a work, entitled The Case of Irelands being bound by Acts of Parliament in England,
stated. But Mr. Molyneux's book was condemned by the English Parliament; and after a faint
show of resistance, the Irish members succumbed. The next attention which the English Houses
paid to this country, was to suppress the woollen trade. In 1698 they passed a law for the
prevention of the exportation of wool and of manufactures from Ireland, "under the forfeiture
of goods and ship, and a penalty of £500 for every such offence." The penal laws had made it
"an offence" for a man to practise his religion, or to educate his children either in Ireland
or abroad; the trade laws made it "an offence" for a man to earn[550] his bread in an honest
calling. The lower class of Protestants were the principal sufferers by the destruction of
the woollen trade; it had been carried on by them almost exclusively; and it is said that 40,000
persons were reduced to utter destitution by this one enactment. In addition to this, navigation
laws were passed, which prohibited Irish merchants from trading beyond seas in any ships except
those which were built in England. The embargo laws followed, of which twenty-two were passed
at different periods during forty years. They forbade Irish merchants, whether Protestant or
Catholic, to trade with any foreign nation, or with any British colony, direct-to export or
import any article, except to or from British merchants resident in England. Ireland, however,
was allowed one consolation, and this was the permission to import rum duty free. I am certain
that none of the honorable members who voted such laws had the deliberate intention of making
the Irish a nation of beggars and drunkards; but if the Irish did not become such, it certainly
was not the fault of those who legislated for their own benefit, and, as far as they had the
power to do so, for her ruin, politically and socially.

William had exercised his royal prerogative by disposing, according to his own inclination,
of the estates forfeited by those who had fought for the royal cause. His favourite, Mrs. Villiers,
obtained property worth £25,000 per annum. In 1799 the English Parliament began to inquire
into this matter, and the Commons voted that "the advising and passing of the said grants was
highly reflecting upon the King's honour." William had already began to see on what shifting
sands the poor fabric of his popularity was erected. He probably thought of another case in
which his honour had been really pledged, and in which he had been obliged to sacrifice it
to the clamours of these very men. He had failed in the attempt to keep his Dutch Guards; his
last days were embittered; and had not his death occurred soon after, it is just possible that
even posterity might have read his life in a different fashion.

Anne succeeded to the throne in 1702; and the following year the Duke of Ormonde was sent to
Ireland as Lord Lieutenant. The House of Commons waited on him with a Bill "to prevent the
further growth of Popery." A few members, who had protested against this Act, resigned their
seats, but others were easily found to take their places, whose opinions coincided with those
of the majority. The Queen's Tory advisers objected to these strong measures, and attempted
to nullify them, by introducing the clause known as the "Sacramental Test," which excludes
from public offices all who refused to receive the sacrament according to the forms of the
Established Church. As dissenters from that Church had great influence in the Irish Parliament,
and as it was well known that their abhorrence of the Church which had been established by
law was little short of their hatred of the Church which had been suppressed by law, it was
hoped that they would reject the bill; but they were assured that they would not be required
to take the test, and with this assurance they passed the Act. It seems to those who look back
on such proceedings, almost a marvel, how men, whose conscience forbade them to receive the
sacrament according to certain rites, and who, in many cases, certainly would have resigned
property, if not life, sooner than act contrary to their religious convictions, should have
been so blindly infatuated as to compel other men, as far as they had power to do so, to violate
their conscientious convictions. The whole history of the persecutions which Catholics have
endured at the hands of Protestants of all and every denomination, is certainly one of the
most curious phases of human perversity which the philosopher can find to study.

Two of the gentlemen, Sir Toby Butler and Colonel Cusack, who had signed the Treaty of Limerick,
petitioned to be heard by counsel against the Bill. But appeals to honour and to justice were
alike in vain, when addressed to men who were destitute of both. The petitioners were dismissed
with the insulting remark, that if they suffered from the Act it was their own fault, since,
if they complied with its requirements, honours and wealth were at their command. But these
were men who would not violate the dictates of conscience for all that the world could bestow
on them, and of this one should think they had already given sufficient proof. The Bill was
passed without a dissentient voice; and men who would themselves have rebelled openly and violently
if the Sacramental Test had been imposed on them, and who would have talked loudly of liberty
of conscience, and the blasphemy of interfering with any one's religious convictions, now,
without a shadow of hesitation, imposed this burden upon their fellow-men, and were guilty
of the very crime of persecution, with which they so frequently charged their Catholic fellow-subjects.

One Act followed another, each adding some new restriction to the last, or some fresh incentive
for persecution. In 1709 an attempt was made to plant some Protestant families from Germany
in various parts of the country. These settlements obtained the name of Palatines. But it was
labour lost. Sir John Chichester once observed, that it was useless to endeavour to root Popery
out of Ireland, for it was impregnated in the very air. A few of the Palatines, like other
settlers, still kept to their own religion; but the majority, as well as the majority of other
settlers, learned to understand and then to believe the Catholic faith--learned to admire,
and then to love, and eventually to amalgamate with the long-suffering and noble race amongst
whom they had been established.

It would appear that Queen Anne wished her brother to succeed her on the throne; but he had
been educated a Catholic, and he resolutely rejected all temptations to renounce his faith.
Her short and troubled reign ended on the 1st of August, 1714. Before her death the Parliament
had chosen her successor. Her brother was proscribed, and a reward of £50,000 offered for his
apprehension. The rebellion in favour of James III., as he was called on the Continent, or
the Pretender, as he was called by those who had no resource but to deny his legitimacy, was
confined entirely to Scotland; but the Irish obtained no additional grace by their loyalty
to the reigning monarch. A new proclamation was issued, which not only forbid them to enlist
in the army, but offered rewards for the discovery of any Papist who had presumed to enlist,
in order that "he might be turned out, and punished with the utmost severity of the law." In
the next reign we shall see how the suicidal effect of this policy was visited on the heads
of its promoters.

The Irish Parliament now came into collision with the English on a case of appellate jurisdiction,
but they were soon taught their true position, and with becoming submission deferred to their
fate. The Irish Parliament had long been such merely in name; and the only power they were
allowed to exercise freely, was that of making oppressive and unjust enactments against their
Catholic fellow-subjects. It is a poor consolation, but one which is not unfrequently indulged,
when those who are oppressed by others become themselves in turn the oppressors of those who
are unfortunate enough to be in their power.

A new phase in Irish history was inaugurated by the versatile talents, and strong will in their
exercise, which characterized the famous Dr. Jonathan Swift. The quarrels between Whigs and
Tories were at their height. Swift is said to have been a Whig in politics and a Tory in religion.
He now began to write as a patriot; and in his famous "Drapier's Letters" told the Government
of the day some truths which were more plain than palatable.[551] An Englishman named Wood
had obtained a patent under the Broad Seal, in 1723, for the coinage of copper halfpence. Even
the servile Parliament was indignant, and protested against a scheme[552] which promised to
flood Ireland with bad coin, and thus to add still more to its already impoverished condition.
There was reason for anxiety. The South Sea Bubble had lately ruined thousands in England,
and France was still suffering from the Mississippi Scheme. Speculations of all kinds were
afloat, and a temporary mania seemed to have deprived the soberest people of their ordinary
judgment. Dr. Hugh Boulter, an Englishman, was made Archbishop of Armagh, and sent over mainly
to attend to the English interests in Ireland. But he was unable to control popular feeling;
and Swift's letters accomplished what the Irish Parliament was powerless to effect. Although
it was well known that he was the author of these letters, and though a reward of £300 was
offered for the discovery of the secret, he escaped unpunished. In 1725 the patent was withdrawn,
and Wood received £3,000 a year for twelve years as an indemnification--an evidence that he
must have given a very large bribe for the original permission, and that he expected to make
more by it than could have been made honestly. One of the subjects on which Swift wrote most
pointedly and effectively, was that of absentees. He employed both facts and ridicule; but
each were equally in vain. He describes the wretched state of the country; but his eloquence
was unheeded. He gave ludicrous illustrations of the extreme ignorance of those who governed
in regard to those whom they governed. Unfortunately the state of things which he described
and denounced has continued, with few modifications, to the present day; but on this subject
I have said sufficient elsewhere.

George I. died at Osnaburg, in Germany, on the 10th of June, 1727. On the accession of his
successor, the Catholics offered an address expressing their loyalty, but the Lords Justices
took care that it should never reach England. The next events of importance were the efforts
made by Dr. Boulter, the Protestant Primate, to establish Charter Schools, where Catholic children
might be educated; and his equally zealous efforts to prevent Catholics, who had conformed
exteriorly to the State religion, from being admitted to practise at the Bar. It may be observed
in passing, that these men could scarcely have been as degraded in habits and intellect as
some historians have been pleased to represent them, when they could at once become fit for
forensic honours, and evinced such ability as to excite the fears of the Protestant party.
It should be remarked that their "conversion" was manifestly insincere, otherwise there would
have been no cause for apprehension.

The country was suffering at this period from the most fearful distress. There were many causes
for this state of destitution, which were quite obvious to all but those who were interested
in maintaining it. The poorer classes, being almost exclusively Catholics, had been deprived
of every means of support. Trade was crushed, so that they could not become traders; agriculture
was not permitted, so that they could not become agriculturists. There was, in fact, no resource
for the majority but to emigrate, to steal, or to starve. To a people whose religion always
had a preponderating influence on their moral conduct, the last alternative only was available,
as there was not the same facilities for emigration then as now. The cultivation of the potato
had already become general; it was, indeed, the only way of obtaining food left to these unfortunates.
They were easily planted, easily reared; and to men liable at any moment to be driven from
their miserable holdings, if they attempted to effect "improvements," or to plant such crops
as might attract the rapacity of their landlords, they were an invaluable resource. The man
might live who eat nothing but potatoes all the year round, but he could scarcely be envied
or ejected for his wealth. In 1739 a severe frost destroyed the entire crop, and a frightful
famine ensued, in which it was estimated that 400,000 persons perished of starvation.

In 1747 George Stone succeeded Dr. Hoadley as Primate of Ireland. His appointment was made
evidently more in view of temporals than spirituals, and he acted accordingly. Another undignified
squabble took place in 1751 and 1753, between the English and Irish Parliaments, on the question
of privilege. For a time the "patriot" or Irish party prevailed; but eventually they yielded
to the temptation of bribery and place. Henry Boyle, the Speaker, was silenced by being made
Earl of Shannon; Anthony Malone was made Chancellor of the Exchequer; and the opposition party
was quietly broken up.

An attempt was now made to form a Catholic Association, and to obtain by combination and quiet
pressure what had been so long denied to resistance and military force. Dr. Curry, a physician
practising in Dublin, and the author of the well-known Historical and Critical Review of the
Civil Wars of Ireland; Charles O'Connor, of Belanagar, the Irish antiquary, and Mr. Wyse, of
Waterford, were the projectors and promoters of this scheme. The clergy stood aloof from it,
fearing to lose any liberty they still possessed if they demanded more; the aristocracy held
back, fearing to forfeit what little property yet remained to them, if they gave the least
excuse for fresh "settlements" or plunderings. A few Catholic merchants, however, joined the
three friends; and in conjunction they prepared an address to the Duke of Bedford, who was
appointed Lord Lieutenant in 1757. The address was favourably received, and an answer returned
after some time. The Government already had apprehensions of the French invasion, and it was
deemed politic to give the Catholics some encouragement, however faint. It is at least certain
that the reply declared, "the zeal and attachment which they [the Catholics] professed, would
never be more seasonably manifested than at the present juncture."

Charles Lucas now began his career of patriotism; for at last Irish Protestants were beginning
to see, that if Irish Catholics suffered, Irish interests would suffer also; and if Irish interests
suffered, they should have their share in the trial. A union between England and Ireland, such
as has since been carried out, was now proposed, and violent excitement followed. A mob, principally
composed of Protestants, broke into the House of Lords; but the affair soon passed over, and
the matter was dropped.

George II. died suddenly at Kensington, and was succeeded by his grandson, George III. But
I shall request the attention of the reader to some remarks of considerable importance with
regard to foreign events, before continuing the regular course of history. The predilections
of the late King for his German connexions, had led him into war both with France and Spain;
the imprudence of ministers, if not the unwise and unjust policy of colonial government, involved
the country soon after in a conflict with the American dependencies. In each of these cases
expatriated Irishmen turned the scale against the country from which they had been so rashly
and cruelly ejected. In France, the battle of Fontenoy was won mainly by the Irish Brigade,
who were commanded by Colonel Dillon; and the defeat of England by the Irish drew from George
II. the well-known exclamation: "Cursed be the laws that deprive me of such subjects!" In Spain,
where the Irish officers and soldiers had emigrated by thousands, there was scarcely an engagement
in which they did not take a prominent and decisive part. In Canada, the agitation against
British exactions was commenced by Charles Thompson, an Irish emigrant, and subsequently the
Secretary of Congress; Montgomery, another Irishman, captured Montreal and Quebec; O'Brien
and Barry, whose names sufficiently indicate their nationality, were the first to command in
the naval engagements; and startled England began to recover slowly and sadly from her long
infatuation, to discover what had, indeed, been discovered by the sharp-sighted Schomberg[553]
and his master long before, that Irishmen, from their habits of endurance and undaunted courage,
were the best soldiers she could find, and that, Celts and Papists as they were, her very existence
as a nation might depend upon their co-operation.

The agrarian outrages, the perpetrators of which were known at first by the name of Levellers,
and eventually by the appellation of Whiteboys, commenced immediately after the accession of
George III. An English traveller, who carefully studied the subject and who certainly could
have been in no way interested in misrepresentation, has thus described the cause and the motive
of the atrocities they practised. The first cause was the rapacity of the landlords, who, having
let their lands far above their value, on condition of allowing the tenants the use of certain
commons, now enclosed the commons, but did not lessen the rent. The bricks were to be made,
but the straw was not provided; and the people were told that they were idle. The second cause
was the exactions of the tithemongers, who were described by this English writer as "harpies
who squeezed out the very vitals of the people, and by process, citation, and sequestration,
dragged from them the little which the landlord had left them." It was hard for those who had
been once owners of the soil, to be obliged to support the intruders into their property in
affluence; while they, with even the most strenuous efforts, could barely obtain what would
keep them from starvation. It was still harder that men, who had sacrificed their position
in society, and their worldly prospects, for the sake of their religion, should be obliged
to support clergymen and their families, some of whom never resided in the parishes from which
they obtained tithes, and many of whom could not count above half-a-dozen persons as regular
members of their congregation.

Mr. Young thus suggests a remedy for these crimes, which, he says, were punished with a "severity
which seemed calculated for the meridian of Barbary, while others remain yet the law of the
land, which would, if executed, tend more to raise than to quell an insurrection. From all
which it is manifest, that the gentlemen of Ireland never thought of a radical cure, from overlooking
the real cause of disease, which, in fact, lay in themselves, and not in the wretches they
doomed to the gallows. Let them change their own conduct entirely, and the poor will not long
riot. Treat them like men, who ought to be as free as yourselves; put an end to that system
of religious persecution, which, for seventy years, has divided the kingdom against itself--in
these two circumstances lies the cure of insurrection; perform them completely, and you will
have an affectionate poor, instead of oppressed and discontented vassals."[554]

How purely these outrages were the deeds of desperate men, who had been made desperate by cruel
oppression, and insensible to cruelty by cruel wrongs, is evident from the dying declaration
of five Whiteboys, who were executed, in 1762, at Waterford and who publicly declared, and
took God to witness, "that in all these tumults it never did enter into their thoughts to do
anything against the King or Government."[555]

It could not be expected that the Irish priest would see the people exposed to all this misery--and
what to them was far more painful to all this temptation to commit deadly sin--without making
some effort in their behalf. There may have been some few priests, who, in their zeal for their
country, have sacrificed the sacredness of their office to their indignation at the injury
done to their people--who have mixed themselves up with feats of arms, or interfered with more
ardour than discretion in the arena of politics; but such instances have been rare, and circumstances
have generally made them in some degree excusable. The position of the Irish priest in regard
to his flock is so anomalous, that some explanation of it seems necessary in order to understand
the accusations made against Father Nicholas Sheehy, and the animosity with which he was hunted
to death by his persecutors. While the priest was driven from cave to mountain and from mountain
to cave, he was the consoler of his equally persecuted people. The deep reverence which Catholics
feel for the office of the priesthood, can scarcely be understood by those who have abolished
that office, as far as the law of the land could do so; but a man of ordinary intellectual
attainments ought to be able to form some idea of the feelings of others, though he may not
have experienced them personally; and a man of ordinary humanity should be able to respect
those feelings, however unwise they may seem to him. When education was forbidden to the Irish,
the priest obtained education in continental colleges; and there is sufficient evidence to
show that many Irish priests of that and of preceding centuries were men of more than ordinary
abilities. The Irish, always fond of learning, are ever ready to pay that deference to its
possessors which is the best indication of a superior mind, however uncultivated. Thus, the
priesthood were respected both for their office and for their erudition. The landlord, the
Protestant clergyman, the nearest magistrate, and, perhaps, the tithe-proctor, were the only
educated persons in the neighbourhood; but they were leagued against the poor peasant; they
demanded rent and tithes, which he had no means of paying; they refused justice, which he had
no means of obtaining. The priest, then, was the only friend the peasant had. His friendship
was disinterested--he gained nothing by his ministration but poor fare and poor lodging; his
friendship was self-sacrificing, for he risked his liberty and his life for his flock. He it was--

    "Who, in the winter's night,
    When the cold blast did bite,
    Came to my cabin door,
    And, on the earthen floor,
    Knelt by me, sick and poor;"

and he, too, when the poor man was made still poorer by his sickness,

    "Gave, while his eyes did brim,
    What I should give to him."[556]

But a time came when the priest was able to do more. Men had seen, in some measure, the absurdity,
if not the wickedness, of persecuting the religion of a nation; and at this time priests were
tolerated in Ireland. Still, though they risked their lives by it, they could not see their
people treated unjustly without a protest. The priest was independent of the landlord; for,
if he suffered from his vengeance, he suffered alone, and his own sufferings weighed lightly
in the balance compared with the general good. The priest was a gentleman by education, and
often by birth; and this gave him a social status which his uneducated people could not possess.[557]
Such, was the position of Father Nicholas Sheehy, the parish priest of Clogheen. He had interfered
in the vain hope of protecting his unfortunate parishioners from injustice; and, in return,
he was himself made the victim of injustice. He was accused of encouraging a French invasion--a
fear which was always present to the minds of the rulers, as they could not but know that the
Irish had every reason to seek for foreign aid to free them from domestic wrongs. He was accused
of encouraging the Whiteboys, because, while he denounced their crimes, he accused those who
had driven them to these crimes as the real culprits. He was accused of treason, and a reward
of £300 was offered for his apprehension. Conscious of his innocence, he gave himself up at
once to justice, though he might easily have fled the country. He was tried in Dublin and acquitted.
But his persecutors were not satisfied. A charge of murder was got up against him; and although
the body of the man could never be found, although it was sworn that he had left the country,
although an alibi was proved for the priest, he was condemned and executed. A gentleman of
property and position came forward at the trial to prove that Father Sheehy had slept in his
house the very night on which he was accused of having committed the murder; but the moment
he appeared in court, a clergyman who sat on the bench had him taken into custody, on pretence
of having killed a corporal and a sergeant in a riot. The pretence answered the purpose. After
Father Sheehy's execution Mr. Keating was tried; and, as there was not even a shadow of proof,
he was acquitted. But it was too late to save the victim.

At the place of execution, Father Sheehy most solemnly declared, on the word of a dying man,
that he was not guilty either of murder or of treason; that he never had any intercourse, either
directly or indirectly, with the French; and that he had never known of any such intercourse
being practised by others. Notwithstanding this solemn declaration of a dying man, a recent
writer of Irish history says, "there can be no doubt" that he was deeply implicated in treasonable
practices, and "he seems to have been" a principal in the plot to murder Lord Carrick. The
"no doubt" and "seems to have been" of an individual are not proofs, but they tend to perpetuate
false impressions, and do grievous injustice to the memory of the dead. The writer has also
omitted all the facts which tended to prove Father Sheehy's innocence.

In 1771 a grace was granted to the Catholics, by which they were allowed to take a lease of
fifty acres of bog, and half an acre of arable land for a house; but this holding should not
be within a mile of any town. In 1773 an attempt was made to tax absentees; but as they were
the principal landowners, they easily defeated the measure. A pamphlet was published in 1769,
containing a list of the absentees, which is in itself sufficient to account for any amount
of misery and disaffection in Ireland. There can be no doubt of the correctness of the statement,
because the names of the individuals and the amount of their property are given in full. Property
to the amount of £73,375 belonged to persons who never visited Ireland. Pensions to the amount
of £371,900 were paid to persons who lived out of Ireland. Property to the amount of £117,800
was possessed by persons who visited Ireland occasionally, but lived abroad. Incomes to the
amount of £72,200 were possessed by officials and bishops, who generally lived out of Ireland.
The state of trade is also treated in the same work, in which the injustice the country has
suffered is fully and clearly explained.

The American war commenced in 1775, and the English Parliament at once resolved to relieve
Ireland of some of her commercial disabilities. Some trifling concessions were granted, just
enough to show the Irish that they need not expect justice except under the compulsion of fear,
and not enough to benefit the country. Irish soldiers were now asked for and granted; but exportation
of Irish commodities to America was forbidden, and in consequence the country was reduced to
a state of fearful distress. The Irish debt rose to £994,890, but the pension list was still
continued and paid to absentees. When the independence of the American States was acknowledged
by France, a Bill for the partial relief of the Catholics passed unanimously through the English
Parliament. Catholics were now allowed a few of the rights of citizens. They were permitted
to take and dispose of leases, and priests and schoolmasters were no longer liable to prosecution.

Grattan had entered Parliament in the year 1775. In 1779 he addressed the House on the subject
of a free trade[558] for Ireland; and on the 19th of April, 1780, he made his famous demand
for Irish independence. His address, his subject, and his eloquence were irresistible. "I wish
for nothing," he exclaimed, "but to breathe in this our land, in common with my fellow-subjects,
the air of liberty.

The country was agitated to the very core. A few links of the chain had been broken. A mighty
reaction set in after long bondage. The newly-freed members of the body politic were enjoying
all the delicious sensations of a return from a state of disease to a state o partial health.
The Celt was not one to be stupefied or numbed by long confinement; and if the restraint were
loosened a little more, he was ready to bound into the race of life, joyous and free, too happy
to mistrust, and too generous not to forgive his captors. But, alas! the freedom was not yet
granted, and the joy was more in prospect of what might be, than in thankfulness of what was.

The Volunteer Corps, which had been formed in Belfast in 1779, when the coast was threatened
by privateers, had now risen to be a body of national importance. They were reviewed in public,
and complimented by Parliament. But they were patriots. On the 28th of December, 1781, a few
of the leading members of the Ulster regiments met at Charlemont, and convened a meeting of
delegates from all the Volunteer Associations, at Dungannon, on the 15th of February, 1782.
The delegates assembled on the appointed day, and Government dared not prevent or interrupt
their proceedings. Colonel William Irvine presided, and twenty-one resolutions were adopted,
demanding civil rights, and the removal of commercial restraints. One resolution expresses
their pleasure, as Irishmen, as Christians, and as Protestants, at the relaxation of the penal
laws. This resolution was suggested by Grattan to Mr. Dobbs, as he was leaving Dublin to join
the assembly. It was passed with only two dissentient votes.

The effect of this combined, powerful, yet determined agitation, was decisive. On the 27th
of May, 1782, when the Irish Houses met, after an adjournment of three weeks, the Duke of Portland
announced the unconditional concessions which had been made to Ireland by the English Parliament.
Mr. Grattan interpreted the concession in the fullest sense, and moved an address, "breathing
the generous sentiments of his noble and confiding nature." Mr. Flood and a few other members
took a different and more cautious view of the case. They wished for something more than a
simple repeal of the Act of 6 George I., and they demanded an express declaration that England
would not interfere with Irish affairs. But his address was carried by a division of 211 to
2; and the House, to show its gratitude, voted that 20,000 Irish seamen should be raised for
the British navy, at a cost of £100,000, and that £50,000 should be given to purchase an estate
and build a house for Mr. Grattan, whose eloquence had contributed so powerfully to obtain
what they hoped would prove justice to Ireland.

FOOTNOTES:

[547] Government.--Harris' Life of William III. p. 357.

[548] Insignificant.--A petition was sent in to Parliament by the Protestant porters of Dublin,
complaining of Darby Ryan for employing Catholic porters. The petition was respectfully received,
and referred to a "Committee of Grievances."--Com. Jour. vol. ii. f. 699. Such an instance,
and it is only one of many, is the best indication of the motive for enacting the penal laws,
and the cruelty of them.

[549] Property.--It will be remembered that at this time Catholics were in a majority of at
least five to one over Protestants. Hence intermarriages took place, and circumstances occurred,
in which Protestants found it their interest to hold property for Catholics, to prevent it
from being seized by others. A gentleman of considerable property in the county Kerry, has
informed me that his property was held in this way for several generations.

[550] Earn.--One of the articles of the "violated Treaty" expressly provided that the poor
Catholics should be allowed to exercise their trade. An Act to prevent the further growth of
Popery was passed afterwards, which made it forfeiture of goods and imprisonment for any Catholic
to exercise a trade in Limerick or Galway, except seamen, fishermen, and day labourers, and
they were to be licensed by the Governor, and not to exceed twenty.--Com. Jour. vol. iii. f. 133.

[552] Scheme.--The very bills of some of the companies were so absurd, that it is marvellous
how any rational person could have been deceived by them. One was "for an undertaking which
shall be in due time revealed." The undertaker was as good as his word. He got £2,000 paid
in on shares one morning, and in the afternoon the "undertaking" was revealed, for he had decamped
with the money. Some wag advertised a company "for the invention of melting down sawdust and
chips, and casting them into clean deal boards, without cracks or knots."

[553] Schomberg.--He wrote to William of Orange, from before Dundalk, that the English nation
made the worst soldiers he had ever seen, because they could not bear hardships; "yet," he
adds, "the Parliament and people have a prejudice, that an English new-raised soldier can beat
above six of his enemies."--Dalrymple's Memoirs, vol. ii. p. 178. According to the records
of the War Office in France, 450,000 Irishmen died in the service of that country from 1691
to 1745, and, in round numbers, as many more from 1745 to the Revolution.

[554] Vassals.--Young's Tour, vol. ii. pp. 41, 42. It should be remembered that Mr. Young was
an Englishman and a Protestant, and that he had no property in Ireland to blind him to the truth.

[555] Government,--Curry's Historical Review, vol. ii. p. 274, edition of 1786. This work affords
a very valuable and accurate account of the times, written from personal knowledge.

[556] Him.--The ballad of Soggarth Aroon (priest, dear) was written by John Banim, in 1831.
It is a most true and vivid expression of the feelings of the Irish towards their priests.

[557] Possess.--While these pages were passing through the press, a circumstance has occurred
which so clearly illustrates the position of the Irish priest, that I cannot avoid mentioning
it. A gentleman has purchased some property, and his first act is to give his three tenants
notice to quit. The unfortunate men have no resource but to obey the cruel mandate, and to
turn out upon the world homeless and penniless. They cannot go to law, for the law would be
against them. They are not in a position to appeal to public opinion, for they are only farmers.
The parish priest is their only resource and their only friend. He appeals to the feelings
of their new landlord in a most courteous letter, in which he represents the cruel sufferings
these three families must endure. The landlord replies that he has bought the land as a "commercial
speculation," and of course he has a right to do whatever he considers most for his advantage;
but offers to allow the tenants to remain if they consent to pay double their former rent--a
rent which would be double the real value of the land. Such cases are constantly occurring,
and are constantly exposed by priests; and we have known more than one instance in which fear
of such exposure has obtained justice. A few of them are mentioned from time to time in the
Irish local papers. The majority of cases are entirely unknown, except to the persons concerned;
but they are remembered by the poor sufferers and their friends. I believe, if the people of
England were aware of one-half of these ejectments, and the sufferings they cause, they would
rise up as a body and demand justice for Ireland and the Irish; they would marvel at the patience
with which what to them would be so intolerable has been borne so long.

[558] Free trade,--A very important work was published in 1779, called The Commercial Restraints
of Ireland Considered. It is a calm and temperate statement of facts and figures. The writer
shows that the agrarian outrages of the Whiteboys were caused by distress, and quotes a speech
Lord Northumberland to the same effect.--Com. Res., p. 59.

CHAPTER XXXV.

Celebrated Irishmen of the Eighteenth Century--BURKE--- His School and College Life--Early
Hatred of Oppression--Johnson's Estimate of Burke--Essay on the Sublime and Beautiful--Commencement
of his Political Career--Opinions on the American Question-English Infatuation and Injustice--Irishmen
Prominent Actors in the American Revolution--Its Causes and Effects--Burke on Religious Toleration--Catholic
Emancipation--His Indian Policy--MOORE--His Poetry and Patriotism--CURRAN--SWIFT--LUCAS--FLOOD--GRATTAN--EARL
OF CHARLEMONT--Irish Artists, Authors, and Actors--SHERIDAN--Scene in the House of Lords during
the Impeachment of Warren Hastings--GOLDSMITH.

[A.D. 1700-1800.]

Each century of Irish history would require a volume of its own, if the lives of its eminent
men were recorded as they should be; but the eighteenth century may boast of a host of noble
Irishmen, whose fame is known even to those who are most indifferent to the history of that
country. It was in this century that Burke, coming forth from the Quaker school of Ballitore,
his mind strengthened by its calm discipline, his intellect cultivated by its gifted master,
preached political wisdom to the Saxons, who were politically wise as far as they followed
his teaching, and politically unfortunate when they failed to do so. His public career demands
the most careful consideration from every statesman who may have any higher object in view
than the mere fact of having a seat in the cabinet; nor should it be of less interest or value
to those whose intellectual capacities are such as to enable them to grasp any higher subject
than the plot of a sensational novel. It was in this century also that Moore began to write
his world-famed songs, to amaze the learned by his descriptions of a country which he had never
seen, and to fling out those poetical hand grenades, those pasquinades and squibs, whose rich
humour and keenly-pointed satire had so much influence on the politics of the day. It was in
this century that Sheridan, who was the first to introduce Moore to London society, distinguished
himself at once as dramatist, orator, and statesman, and left in his life and death a terrible
lesson to his nation of the miseries and degradations consequent on indulgence in their besetting
sin. It was in this century that Steele, the bosom friend of Addison, and his literary equal,
contributed largely to the success and popularity of the Spectator, the Guardian, and the Tatler,
though, as usual, English literature takes the credit to itself of what has been accomplished
for it by Irish writers.[559]

Burke is, however, unquestionably both the prominent man of his age and of his nation in that
age; and happily we have abundant material for forming a correct estimate of his character
and his works. Burke was born in Dublin, on the 1st of January, 1730. His father was an attorney
in good business, and of course a Protestant, as at that period none, except those who professed
the religion of a small minority, were permitted to govern the vast majority, or to avail themselves
of any kind of temporal advancement. The mother of the future statesman was a Miss Nagle, of
Mallow, a descendant of whose family became afterwards very famous as the foundress of a religious
order.[560] The family estate was at Castletown-Roche, in the vicinity of Doneraile; this property
descended to Garrett, Edmund's elder brother. A famous school had been founded by a member
of the Society of Friends at Ballitore, and thither young Burke and his brother were sent for
their education The boys arrived there on the 26th May, 1741. A warm friendship soon sprang
up between Edmund and Richard Shackleton, the son of his master, a friendship which only terminated
with death. We have happily the most ample details of Burke's school-days in the Annals of
Ballitore, a work of more than ordinary interest written by Mrs. Leadbeater, the daughter of
Burke's special friend. His native talent was soon developed under the care of his excellent
master, and there can be little doubt that the tolerant ideas of his after life were learned,
or at least cultivated, at the Quaker school.

One instance of the early development of his talent for humour, and another of his keen sense
of injustice, must find record here. The entrance of the judges to the county town of Athy
was a spectacle which had naturally special attraction for the boys. All were permitted to
go, but on condition that each of the senior pupils should write a description of what he had
seen in Latin verse. Burke's task was soon accomplished--not so that of another hapless youth,
whose ideas and Latinity were probably on a par. When he had implored the help of his more
gifted companion, Edmund determined at least that he should contribute an idea for his theme,
but for all reply as to what he had noticed in particular on the festal occasion, he only answered,
"A fat piper in a brown coat." However Burke's ideas of "the sublime" may have predominated,
his idea of the ludicrous was at this time uppermost; and in a few moments a poem was composed,
the first line of which only has been preserved--

    "Piper erat fattus, qui brownum tegmen habebat."

"He loved humour," writes Mrs. Leadbeater,[561] "and my father was very witty. The two friends
sharpened their intellect and sported their wit till peals of laughter in the schoolroom often
caused the reverend and grave master to implore them, with suppressed smiles, to desist, or
he should have to turn them out, as their example might be followed, where folly and uproar
would take the place of humour and wisdom."

His hatred of oppression and injustice was also manifested about this time. A poor man was
compelled to pull down his cabin, because the surveyor of roads considered that it stood too
near the highway. The boy watched him performing his melancholy task, and declared that, if
he were in authority, such scenes should never be enacted. How well he kept his word, and how
true he was in manhood to the good and holy impulses of his youth, his future career amply
manifests.

Burke entered Trinity College, Dublin, in 1744; Goldsmith entered college the following year,
and Flood was a fellow-commoner; but these distinguished men knew little of each other in early
life, and none of them were in any way remarkable during their academic career. In 1753 Burke
arrived in London, and occupied himself in legal studies and the pursuit of literature. His
colloquial gifts and his attractive manner won all hearts, while his mental superiority commanded
the respect of the learned. Even Johnson, who was too proud to praise others, much as he loved
flattery himself, was fain to give his most earnest word of commendation to the young Irishman,
and even admitted that he envied Burke for being "continually the same," though he could not
refrain from having a fling at him for not being a "good listener"--a deadly sin in the estimation
of one who seldom wished to hear any other voice but his own. Burke, sir, he exclaimed to the
obsequious Boswell--Burke is such a man, that if you met him for the first time in the street,
and conversed with him for not five minutes, he'd talk to you in such a manner, that, when
you parted, you would say that is an extraordinary man.[562]

Some essays in imitation of Dr. Charles Lucas, and a translation of part of the second Georgic
of Virgil, which, in finish of style, is, at least, not inferior to Dryden, were among the
earliest efforts of his gifted pen; and, no doubt, these and other literary occupations gave
him a faculty of expressing thought in cultivated language, which was still further developed
by constant intercourse with Johnson, ever ready for argument, and his club, who were all equally
desirous to listen when either spoke. His Essay on the Sublime and Beautiful, unfortunately
better known in the present day by its title than by its contents, at once attracted immense
attention, and brought considerable pecuniary help to the author. But the constant pressure
of intellectual labour soon began to tell upon a constitution always delicate. His health gave
way entirely, and he appeared likely to sink into a state of physical debility, entirely incompatible
with any mental exertion. He applied for advice to Dr. Nugent; the skilful physician saw at
once that something more was required than medicine or advice. It was one of those cases of
suffering to which the most refined and cultivated minds are especially subjected--one of those
instances which prove, perhaps, more than any others, that poor humanity has fallen low indeed.
The master-mind was there, the brilliant gems of thought, the acute power of reasoning, that
exquisitely delicate sense of feeling, which has never yet been accurately defined, and which
probably never can be--which waits for some unseen mystic sympathy to touch it, and decide
whether the chord shall be in minor or major key--which produces a tone of thought, now sublime,
and now brimming over with coruscations of wit from almost the same incidents; and yet all
those faculties of the soul, though not destroyed, are held in abeyance, because the body casts
the dull shadow of its own inability and degradation over the spirit--because the spirit is
still allied to the flesh, and must suffer with it.

There was something more than perfect rest required in such a case. Rest would, indeed, recruit
the body, worn out by the mind's overaction, but the mind also needed some healing process.
Some gentle hand should soothe the overstrained chords of thought, and touch them just sufficiently
to stimulate their action with gentlest suasion, while it carefully avoided all that might
irritate or weary. And such help and healing was found for Burke, or, haply, from bodily debility,
mental weakness might have developed itself into mental malady; and the irritability of weakness,
to which cultivated minds are often most subjected, might have ended, even for a time, if not
wisely treated, in the violence of lunacy. It was natural that the doctor's daughter should
assist in the doctor's work; and, perhaps, not less natural that the patient should be fascinated
by her. In a short time the cure was perfected, and Burke obtained the greatest earthly blessing
for which any man can crave--a devoted wife, a loving companion, a wise adviser, and, above
all, a sympathizing friend, to whom all which interested her husband, either in public or private,
was her interest as much as, and, if possible, even more than his. Burke's public career certainly
opened with happy auspices. He was introduced by the Earl of Charlemont to Mr. Hamilton in
1759, and in 1761 he returned to Ireland in the capacity of private secretary to that gentleman.
Mr. Hamilton has acquired, as is well known, the appellation of "single speech," and it is
thought he employed Burke to compose his oration; it is probable that he required his assistance
in more important ways. But the connexion was soon dissolved, not without some angry words
on both sides. Hamilton taunted Burke with having taken him out of a garret, which was not
true, for Burke's social position was scarcely inferior to his own; Burke replied with ready
wit that he regretted having descended to know him.

In the year 1765, when Lord Grenville was driven from office by the "American Question," the
Marquis of Rockingham succeeded him, appointed Burke his private secretary, and had him returned
for the English borough of Wendover. His political career commenced at this period. Then, as
now, Reform, Ireland, and America were the subjects of the day; and when one considers and
compares the politics of the eighteenth and the nineteenth centuries, the progress of parliamentary
intellectual development is not very encouraging. The speeches of honorable members, with some
few very honorable exceptions, seem to run in the same groove, with the same utter incapacity
of realizing a new idea, or a broad and cosmopolitan policy. There were men then, as there
are men now, who talked of toleration in one breath, and proclaimed their wooden determination
to enforce class ascendency of creed and of station in the next. There were men who would tax
fresh air, and give unfortunate wretches poisonous drinks on the cheapest terms. There were
men whose foreign policy consisted in wringing all that could be wrung out of dependencies,
and then, when the danger was pointed out, when it was shown that those dependencies were not
only likely to resist, but were in a position to resist--to a position in which neither shooting
nor flogging could silence, if it did not convince--they hid their heads, with ostrich-like
fatuity, in the blinding sands of their own ignorance, and declared there could be no danger,
for they could not discern it.

I have said that there were three great political questions which occupied the attention of
statesmen at that day. I shall briefly glance at each, as they form a most important standpoint
in our national history, and are subjects of the first interest to Irishmen and to Irish history;
and as Burke's maiden speech in the House of Commons was made in favour of conciliating America,
I shall treat that question first. The facts are brief and significant but by no means as thoroughly
known or as well considered as they should be, when we remember their all-important results--results
which as yet are by no means fully developed.[563] The actual contest between the English nation
and her American colonies commenced soon after the accession of George III.; but, as early
as the middle of the eighteenth century, Thomas Pownal, Governor and Commander-in-Chief of
Massachusetts, South Carolina, and New Jersey came to England, and published a work on the
administration of the colonies. He seems even then to have had a clear view of the whole case.
There is an old proverb about the last grain of rice breaking the back of the camel, but we
must remember that the load was made up of many preceding grains. The Stamp Act and Tea Duty
were unquestionably the last links of an attempted chain of slavery with which England ventured
to fetter the noblest of her colonies, but there were many preceding links. Pownal's work affords
evidence of the existence of many. The crown, he said, in theory considered the lands and plantations
of the colonists its own, and attempted a far greater control over the personal liberty of
the subject than it dared to claim in England. The people, on the other hand, felt that they
had by no means forfeited the rights of Englishmen because they had left England; and that,
if they submitted to its laws, they should at least have some share in making them. A series
of petty collisions, which kept up a state of constant irritation, prepared the way for the
final declaration, which, flung aside the bonds of allegiance, and freed the people from the
galling chains by which that allegiance was sought to be maintained. A wise policy at home
might have averted the fatal disruption for a time, but it is doubtful that it could have been
averted for many years, even if the utter incapacity of an obstinate sovereign, and the childish
vindictiveness of a minister, had not precipitated the conclusion.

The master intellect of Burke at once grasped the whole question, and his innate sense of justice
suggested the remedy. Unfortunately for England, but happily for America, Burke was beyond
his age in breadth of policy and in height of honour. Englishmen of the nineteenth century
have very freely abused Englishmen of the eighteenth century for their conduct on this occasion;
and more than one writer has set down the whole question as one in which "right" was on the
side of England, but he argues that there are circumstances under which right should be sacrificed
to policy. I cannot agree with this very able writer.[564] The question was not one of right,
but of justice; and the English nation, in the reign of George III., failed to see that to
do justice was both morally and politically the wisest course. The question of right too often
develops itself into the question of might. A man easily persuades himself that he has a right
to do what he has the power and the inclination to do; and when his inclination and his opportunities
are on the same side, his moral consciousness becomes too frequently blinded, and the question
of justice is altogether overlooked.

It was in vain that Burke thundered forth denunciations of the childish policy of the Treasury
benches, and asked men to look to first principles, who could hardly be made comprehend what
first principles were. He altogether abandoned the question of right, in which men had so puzzled
themselves as almost to lose sight of the question of policy. The King would tax the colony,
because his nature was obstinate, and what he had determined to do he would do. To such natures
reasoning is much like hammering on iron--it only hardens the metal. The minister would tax
the colony because the King wished it; and he had neither the strength of mind nor the conscientiousness
to resist his sovereign. The Lords stood on their dignity, and would impose the tax if only
to show their power. The people considered the whole affair one of pounds shillings, and pence,
and could not at all see why they should not wring out the last farthing from a distant colony--could
not be taught to discern that the sacrifice of a few pounds at the present moment, might result
in the acquisition of a few millions at a future day.

Burke addressed himself directly to the point on all these questions. He laid aside the much-abused
question of right; he did not even attempt to show that right and justice should not be separated,
and that men who had no share in the government of a country, could not be expected in common
justice to assist in the support of that country. He had to address those who could only understand
reasons which appealed to their self-interest, and he lowered himself to his audience.

The common idea about the separation of the States from England, is simply that they resisted
a stamp duty and a tax on tea; the fact is, as I have before hinted, that this was simply the
last drop in the cup. Previous to this period, the American colonies were simply considered
as objects of English aggrandizement. They were treated as states who only existed for the
purpose of benefiting England. The case was in fact parallel to the case of Ireland, and the
results would probably have been similar, had Ireland been a little nearer to America, or a
little further from England. For many years the trade of America had been kept under the most
vexatious restrictions. The iron found there must be sent to England to be manufactured; the
ships fitted out there must be at least partly built in England; no saw-mills could be erected,
no colony could trade directly with another colony, nor with any nation except England. This
selfish, miserable policy met with a well-deserved fate. Even Pitt exclaimed indignantly, in
the House of Commons: "We are told that America is obstinate--that America is almost in open
rebellion. I rejoice that she has resisted. Three millions of people, so dead to all sentiments
of liberty as voluntarily to become slaves, would have been fit instruments to enslave their
fellow-subjects."

In 1765 an agitation was commenced in Philadelphia, by Mr. Charles Thompson, an Irishman, who,
after ten years devoted to the cause of his adopted country, was appointed the Secretary of
Congress. It has been well remarked, that the Irish, and especially the Irish Catholics, were,
of the three nationalities, the most devoted to forwarding the Revolution; and we cannot wonder
that it was so, since the Government which had driven them from their native land, ceased not
to persecute them in the land of their exile.[565] The first naval engagement was fought under
the command of Jeremiah O'Brien, an Irishman.[566] John Barry, also an Irishman, took the command
of one of the first American-built ships of war. The first Continental Regiment was composed
almost exclusively of Irish-born officers and men, and was the first Rifle Regiment ever organized
in the world. Thompson, its first, and Hand, its second colonel, were natives of Ireland. At
the siege of Boston the regiment was particularly dreaded by the British.

In 1764 Franklin came to England[567] for the second time, and was examined before the House
of Commons on the subject of the Stamp Act. He was treated with a contemptuous indifference,
which he never forgot; but he kept his court suit, not without an object; and in 1783, when
he signed the treaty of peace, which compelled England to grant humbly what she had refused
haughtily, he wore the self-same attire. Well might the immortal Washington say to Governor
Trumbull: "There was a day, sir, when this step from our then acknowledged parent state, would
have been accepted with gratitude; but that day is irrevocably past."

In 1774, Burke was called upon by the citizens of Bristol to represent them in Parliament,
and he presented a petition from them to the House in favour of American independence; but,
with the singular inconsistency of their nation, they refused to re-elect him in 1780, because
he advocated Catholic Emancipation.

The same principle of justice which made Burke take the side of America against England, or
rather made him see that it would be the real advantage of England to conciliate America, made
him also take the side of liberty on the Catholic question. The short-sighted and narrow-minded
politicians who resisted the reasonable demands of a colony until it was too late to yield,
were enabled, unfortunately, to resist more effectually the just demands of several millions
of their own people.

It is unquestionably one of the strangest of mental phenomena, that persons who make liberty
of conscience their boast and their watchword, should be the first to violate their own principles,
and should be utterly unable to see the conclusion of their own favourite premises. If liberty
of conscience mean anything, it must surely mean perfect freedom of religious belief for all;
and such freedom is certainly incompatible with the slightest restraint, with the most trifling
penalty for difference of opinion on such subjects. Again, Burke had recourse to the argumentum
ad hominum, the only argument which those with whom he had to deal seemed capable of comprehending.

"After the suppression of the great rebellion of Tyrconnel by William of Orange," writes Mr.
Morley,[568] "ascendency began in all its vileness and completeness. This is in fact an epitome
of Irish history since the so-called Reformation in England, and this was the state of affairs
which Burke was called to combat. On all grounds the more powerful party was entirely against
him. The merchants of Manchester and Bristol, for whose supposed benefit Irish trade had been
ruined, wished to keep up the ascendency, conceiving it to be the surest way of replenishing
their coffers. The majority of Irish landlords, who looked always to their own immediate interest,
and had none of the far-sighted policy which would enable them to see that the prosperity of
the tenant would, in the end, most effectively secure the prosperity of the landlord, were
also in favour of ascendency, which promised to satisfy their land hunger, and their miserable
greed of gain. The Protestant Church was in favour of ascendency: why should it not be, since
its ministers could only derive support from a people who hated them alike for their creed
and their oppressions, at the point of the sword and by the "brotherly agency of the tithe-procter,"
who, if he did not assist in spreading the Gospel, at least took care that its so-called ministers
should lack no luxury which could be wrung from a starving and indignant people?[569]

There were but two acts of common justice required on the part of England to make Ireland prosperous
and free. It is glorious to say, that Burke was the first to see this, and inaugurate the reign
of concession; it is pitiful, it is utterly contemptible, to be obliged to add, that what was
then inaugurated is not yet fully accomplished. Burke demanded for Ireland political and religious
freedom. Slowly some small concessions of both have been made when England has feared to refuse
them. Had the grant been made once for all with manly generosity, some painful chapters of
Irish history might have been omitted from this volume--some moments, let us hope, of honest
shame might have been spared to those true-hearted Englishmen who deplore the fatuity and the
folly of their countrymen. In 1782 the Irish Volunteers obtained from the fears of England
what had been vainly asked from her justice. Burke's one idea of good government may be summed
up in the words, "Be just, and fear not." In his famous Letter to Sir Hercules Langrishe, written
in 1792, upon the question of admitting the Catholics to the elective franchise, he asks: "Is
your government likely to be more secure by continuing causes of grounded discontent to two-thirds
of its subjects? Will the constitution be made more solid by depriving this large part of the
people of all concern or share in the representation?"

His Indian policy was equally just. "Our dealings with India," says an English writer, "originally
and until Burke's time, so far from being marked with virtue and wisdom, were stained with
every vice which can lower and deprave human character. How long will it take only to extirpate
these traditions from the recollections of the natives? The more effectually their understandings
are awakened by English efforts, the more vividly will they recognize, and the more bitterly
resent, the iniquities of our first connexion with them." The Indian policy of England and
her Irish policy might be written with advantage in parallel columns. It would, at least, have
the advantage of showing Irishmen that they had been by no means worse governed than other
dependencies of that professedly law and justice loving nation.

I have treated, briefly indeed, and by no means as I should wish, of two of the questions of
the day, and of Burke's policy thereon; of the third question a few words only can be said.
Burke's idea of Reform consisted in amending the administration of the constitution, rather
than in amending the constitution itself. Unquestionably a bad constitution well administered,
may be incomparably more beneficial to the subject than a good constitution administered corruptly.
Burke's great leading principle was: Be just--and can a man have a nobler end? To suppress
an insurrection cruelly, to tax a people unjustly, or to extort money from a nation on false
pretences, was to him deeply abhorrent. His first object was to secure the incorruptibility
of ministers and of members of parliament. When the post of royal scullion could be confided
to a member of parliament, and a favourable vote secured by appointing a representative of
the people to the lucrative post of turnspit in the king's kitchen, administration was hopelessly
corrupt. There were useless treasurers for useless offices. Burke gave the example of what
he taught; and having fixed the Paymaster's salary at four thousand pounds a year, was himself
the first person to accept the diminished income.

He has been accused of forsaking his liberal principles in his latter days, simply and solely
from his denunciations of the terrible excesses of the French Revolution. Such reprobation
was rather a proof that he understood the difference between liberty and licentiousness, and
that his accusers had neither the intellect nor the true nobility to discriminate between the
frantic deeds of men, whose bad passions, long indulged, had led them on to commit the crimes
of demons, and those noble but long-suffering patriots, who endured until endurance became
a fault, and only resisted for the benefit of mankind as well as for their own.

So much space has been given to Burke, that it only remains to add a few brief words of the
other brilliant stars, who fled across the Channel in the vain pursuit of English patronage--in
the vain hope of finding in a free country the liberty to ascend higher than the rulers of
that free country permitted in their own.

Moore was born in the year 1780, in the city of Dublin. His father was in trade, a fact which
he had the manliness to acknowledge whenever such acknowledgment was necessary. He was educated
for the bar, which was just then opened for the first time to the majority of the nation, so
long governed, or misgoverned, by laws which they were neither permitted to make or to administer.
His poetical talents were early manifested, and his first attempts were in the service of those
who are termed patriots or rebels, as the speaker's opinion varies. That he loved liberty and
admired liberators can scarcely be doubted, since even later in life he used to boast of his
introduction to Thomas Jefferson, while in America, exclaiming: "I had the honour of shaking
hands with the man who drew up the Declaration of American Independence." His countryman, Sheridan
introduced him to the Prince of Wales. His Royal Highness inquired courteously if he was the
son of a certain baronet of the same name. "No, your Royal Highness," replied Moore; "I am
the son of a Dublin grocer." He commenced writing his immortal Melodies in 1807, soon after
his marriage. But he by no means confined himself to such subjects. With that keen sense of
humour almost inseparable from, and generally proportionate to, the most exquisite sensibility
of feeling, he caught the salient points of controversy in his day, and no doubt contributed
not a little to the obtaining of Catholic Emancipation by the telling satires which he poured
forth on its opposers. His reflections, addresed to the Quarterly Review, who recommended an
increase of the Church Establishment as the grand panacea of Irish ills, might not be an inappropriate
subject of consideration at the present moment. It commences thus:

    "I'm quite of your mind: though these Pats cry aloud,
      That they've got too much Church, tis all nonsense and stuff;
    For Church is like love, of which Figaro vowed,
      That even too much of it's not quite enough."

Nor was his letter to the Duke of Newcastle, who was an obstinate opposer of Catholic Emancipation,
less witty, or less in point at the present time, for the Lords would not emancipate, whatever
the Commons might do:

    "While intellect, 'mongst high and low,
      Is hastening on, they say,
    Give me the dukes and lords, who go,
      Like crabs, the other way."

Curran had been called to the bar a few years earlier. He was the son of a poor farmer in the
county of Cork, and won his way to fame solely by the exercise of his extraordinary talent.
Curran was a Protestant; but he did not think it necessary, because he belonged to a religion
which professed liberty of conscience, to deny its exercise to every one but those of his own
sect. He first distinguished himself at a contested election. Of his magnificent powers of
oratory I shall say nothing, partly because their fame is European, and partly because it would
be impossible to do justice to the subject in our limited space. His terrible denunciations
of the horrible crimes and cruelties of the soldiers, who were sent to govern Ireland by force,
for those who were not wise enough or humane enough to govern it by justice--his scathing denunciations
of crown witnesses and informers, should be read at length to be appreciated fully.[570]

Swift's career is also scarcely less known. He, too, was born in Dublin of poor parents, in
1667. Although he became a minister of the Protestant Church, and held considerable emoluments
therein, he had the honesty to see, and the courage to acknowledge, its many corruptions. The
great lesson which he preached to Irishmen was the lesson of nationality; and, perhaps, they
have yet to learn it in the sense in which he intended to teach it. No doubt, Swift, in some
way, prepared the path of Burke; for, different as were their respective careers and their
respective talents, they had each the same end in view. The "Drapier" was long the idol of
his countrymen, and there can be little doubt that the spirit of his writings did much to animate
the patriots who followed him--Lucas, Flood, and Grattan. Lucas was undoubtedly one of the
purest patriots of his time. His parents were poor farmers in the county Clare, who settled
in Dublin, where Lucas was born, in 1713; and in truth patriotism seldom develops itself out
of purple and fine linen. Flood, however, may be taken in exception to this inference; his
father was a Chief Justice of the Irish King's Bench. When elected a member of the Irish House,
his first public effort was for the freedom of his country from the atrocious imposition of
Poyning's Law. Unfortunately, he and Grattan quarrelled, and their country was deprived of
the immense benefits which might have accrued to it from the cordial political union of two
such men.

But a list of the great men of the eighteenth century, however brief, would be certainly most
imperfect if I omitted the name of the Earl of Charlemont, who, had his courage been equal
to his honesty of purpose, might have been enrolled not merely as an ardent, but even as a
successful patriot. He was one of the Hibernis ipsis Hiberniores,--one of those who came to
plunder, and who learned to respect their victims, and to repent their oppressions. It is probable
that the nine years which the young Earl spent in travelling on the Continent, contributed
not a little to his mental enlargement. On his return from countries where freedom exists with
boasting, to a country where boasting exists without a corresponding amount of freedom, he
was amazed and shocked at the first exhibition of its detestable tyranny of class. A grand
procession of peers and peeresses was appointed to receive the unfortunate Princess Caroline;
but, before the Princess landed, the Duchess of Bedford was commanded to inform the Irish peeresses
that they were not to walk, or to take any part in the ceremonial. The young Earl could not
restrain his indignation at this utterly uncalled-for insult. He obtained a royal audience,
and exerted himself with so much energy, that the obnoxious order was rescinded. The Earl's
rank, as well as his patriotism, naturally placed him at the head of his party; and he resolutely
opposed those laws which Burke had designated as a "disgrace to the statute-books of any nation,
and so odious in their principles, that one might think they were passed in hell, and that
demons were the legislators." In 1766, his Lordship brought a bill into the House of Lords
to enable a poor Catholic peasant to take a lease of a cabin and a potato-garden; but, at the
third reading, the Lords rushed in tumultuously, voted Lord Charlemont out of the chair, and
taunted him with being little better than a Papist. The failure and the taunt bewildered an
intellect never very clear; and, perhaps, hopelessness quenched the spirit of patriotism, which
had once, at least, burned brightly. In fear of being taunted as a Papist, like many a wiser
man, he rushed into the extreme of Protestant loyalty, and joined in the contemptible outcry
for Protestant ascendency.

The eighteenth century was also rife in Irishmen whose intellects were devoted to literature.
It claims its painters in Barrett, who was actually the founder of the Royal Academy in England,
and in Barry, the most eminent historical painter of his age; its poets in Parnell, Goldsmith,
Wade, O'Keeffe, Moore, and many others; its musician in Kelly, a full list of whose operatic
music would fill several pages; its authors in Steele, Swift, Young, O'Leary, Malone, Congreve,
Sheridan, and Goldsmith; and its actors in Macklin, Milliken, Barry, Willis, and Woffington.

Sheridan was born in Dublin, in the year 1757. He commenced his career as author by writing
for the stage; but his acquaintance with Fox, who soon discerned his amazing abilities, led
him in another direction. In 1786 he was employed with Burke in the impeachment of Warren Hastings.
The galleries of the House of Lords were filled to overflowing; peers and peeresses secured
seats early in the day; actresses came to learn declamation, authors to learn style. Mrs. Siddons,
accustomed as she was to the simulation of passion in herself and others, shrieked and swooned
while he denounced the atrocities of which Hastings had been guilty. Fox, Pitt, and Byron,
were unanimous in their praise. And on the very same night, and at the very same time, when
the gifted Celt was thundering justice to India into the ears of Englishmen, his School for
Scandal, one of the best comedies on the British stage, was being acted in one theatre, and
his Duenna, one of its best operas, was being performed in another.

Sheridan died in 1816, a victim to intemperance, for which he had not even the excuse of misfortune.
Had not his besetting sin degraded and incapacitated him, it is probable he would have been
prime-minister on the death of Fox. At the early age of forty he was a confirmed drunkard.
The master mind which had led a senate, was clouded over by the fumes of an accursed spirit;
the brilliant eyes that had captivated a million hearts, were dimmed and bloodshot; the once
noble brain, which had used its hundred gifts with equal success and ability, was deprived
of all power of acting; the tongue, whose potent spell had entranced thousands, was scarcely
able to articulate. Alas, and a thousand times alas! that man can thus mar his Maker's work,
and stamp ruin and wretchedness where a wealth of mental power had been given to reign supreme.

Goldsmith's father was a Protestant clergyman. The poet was born at Pallas, in the county Longford.
After a series of adventures, not always to his credit, and sundry wanderings on the Continent
in the most extreme poverty, he settled in London. Here he met with considerable success as
an author, and enjoyed the society of the first literary men of the day. After the first and
inevitable struggles of a poor author, had he possessed even half as much talent for business
as capacity for intellectual effort, he might soon have obtained a competency by his pen; but,
unfortunately, though he was not seriously addicted to intemperance, his convivial habits,
and his attraction for the gaming table, soon scattered his hard-won earnings. His "knack of
hoping," however, helped him through life. He died on the 4th April, 1774. His last words were
sad indeed, in whatever sense they may be taken. He was suffering from fever, but his devoted
medical attendant, Doctor Norton, perceiving his pulse to be unusually high even under such
circumstances, asked, "Is your mind at ease?" "No, it is not," was Goldsmith's sad reply; and
these were the last words he uttered.

FOOTNOTES:

[559] Writers.--As a general rule, when Irishmen succeed either in literature, politics, or
war, the credit of their performances is usually debited to the English; when they fail, we
hear terrible clamours of Irish incapacity. Thackeray commences his "English Humourists of
the Eighteenth Century" with Swift, and ends them with Goldsmith! I do not suppose he had any
intention of defrauding the Celtic race; he simply followed the usual course. Irishmen are,
perhaps, themselves most to blame, for much of this is caused by their suicidal deference to
a dominant race.

[560] Order.--The Presentation Order was founded by Miss Nano Nagle, of Cork.

[561] Leadbeater.--Annals of Ballitore, vol. i. p. 50, second edition, 1862. I shall refer
to this interesting work again. Foster's version is as above.

[563] Developed.--Since this sentence was penned, I find, with great satisfaction, that a similar
view has been taken by a recent writer. See Secularia; or, Surveys on the Main Stream of History,
by S. Lucas, p. 250. He opens a chapter on the revolt of the American States thus: "The relations
of Great Britain to its colonies, past and present, are an important part of the history of
the world; and the form which these relations may hereafter take, will be no small element
in the political future. Even our Professors of History ... abstain from noticing their system
of government, or the predisposing motives to their subsequent revolt.." The italics are our
own. Neglect of the study of Irish history is, I believe, also, one of the causes why Irish
grievances are not remedied by the English Government. But grievances may get settled in a
way not always satisfactory to the neglecters of them, while they are waiting their leisure
to investigate their cause.

[564] Writer.--Morley. Edmund Burke, an Historical Study: Macmillan and Co., 1867. A masterly
work, and one which every statesman, and every thinker would do well to peruse carefully. He
says: "The question to be asked by every statesman, and by every citizen, with reference to
a measure that is recommended to him as the enforcement of a public right, is whether the right
is one which it is to the public advantage to enforce."--p. 146.

[565] Exile.--Maguire's Irish in America, p. 355: "It would seem as if they instinctively arrayed
themselves in hostility to the British power; a fact to be explained alike by their love of
liberty, and their vivid remembrance of recent or past misgovernment." The italics are our
own. The penal laws were enacted with the utmost rigour against Catholics in the colonies,
and the only place of refuge was Maryland, founded by the Catholic Lord Baltimore. Here there
was liberty of conscience for all, but here only. The sects who had fled to America to obtain
"freedom to worship God," soon manifested their determination that no one should have liberty
of conscience except themselves, and gave the lie to their own principles, by persecuting each
other for the most trifling differences of opinion on religious questions, in the cruelest
manner. Cutting off ears, whipping, and maiming were in constant practice. See Maguire's Irish
in America, p. 349; Lucas' Secularia, pp. 220-246.

[566] Irishman.--See Cooper's Naval History.

[567] England.--He wrote to Thompson, from London, saying that he could effect nothing: "The
sun of liberty is set; we must now light up the candles of industry." The Secretary replied,
with Celtic vehemence: "Be assured we shall light up torches of a very different kind."

[568] Morley.--Edmund Burke, an Historical Study, p. 181.

[569] People.--Chesterfield said, in 1764, that the poor people in Ireland were used "worse
than negroes."

[570] Fully.--See Curran's Letters and Speeches: Dublin, 1865.

CHAPTER XXXVI.

The Volunteers deserted by their Leaders--Agrarian Outrages and their Cause--Foundation of
the United Irishmen--Cruelties of the Orangemen--Government Spies and Informers--Lord Moira
exposes the Cruelty of the Yeomanry in Parliament--Mr. Orr's Trial and Death--Details of the
Atrocities enacted by the Military from a Protestant History--Tom the Devil--Cruelties practised
by Men of Rank--Licentiousness of the Army--Death of Lord Edward FitzGerald--The Rising--Martial
Law in Dublin--The Insurrection in Wexford--Massacres at Scullabogue House and Wexford-bridge
by the Insurgents--How the Priests were rewarded for saving Lives and Property--The Insurrection
in Ulster--The State Prisoners--The Union.

[A.D. 1783-1800.]

Parliament was dissolved on the 15th of July, 1783, and summoned to meet in October. The Volunteers
now began to agitate on the important question of parliamentary reform, which, indeed, was
necessary, for there were few members who really represented the nation. The close boroughs
were bought and sold openly and shamelessly, and many members who were returned for counties
were not proof against place or bribes. But the Volunteers had committed the fatal mistake
of not obtaining the exercise of the elective franchise for their Catholic fellow-subjects:
hence the Irish Parliament obtained only a nominal freedom, as its acts were entirely in the
hands of the Government through the venality of the members. On the 10th of November, one hundred
and sixty delegates assembled at the Royal Exchange, Dublin. They were headed by Lord Charlemont,
and marched in procession to the Rotundo. The Earl of Bristol, an eccentric, but kind and warm-hearted
character, who was also the Protestant Bishop of Derry, took a leading part in the deliberations.
Sir Boyle Roche, an equally eccentric gentleman, brought a message from Lord Kenmare to the
meeting, assuring them that the Catholics were satisfied with what had been granted to them.
He had acted under a misapprehension; and the Bishop of Derry, who was in fact the only really
liberal member of the corps, informed the delegates that the Catholics had held a meeting,
with Sir Patrick Bellew in the chair, in which they repudiated this assertion. Several plans
of reform were now proposed; and a Bill was introduced into the House by Mr. Flood, on the
29th of November, and warmly opposed by Mr. Yelverton, who was now Attorney-General, and had
formerly been a Volunteer. A stormy scene ensued, but bribery and corruption prevailed. The
fate of the Volunteers was sealed. Through motives of prudence or of policy, Lord Charlemont
adjourned the convention sine die; and the flame, which had shot up with sudden brilliancy,
died out even more rapidly than it had been kindled. The Volunteers were now deserted by their
leaders, and assumed the infinitely dangerous form of a democratic movement. Such a movement
can rarely succeed, and seldom ends without inflicting worse injuries on the nation than those
which it has sought to avert.

The delegates were again convened in Dublin, by Flood and Napper Tandy. They met in October,
1784, and their discussions were carried on in secret. Everywhere the men began to arm themselves,
and to train others to military exercises. But the Government had gained a victory over them
in the withdrawal of their leaders, and the Attorney-General attempted to intimidate them still
further by a prosecution. In 1785 a Bill was introduced for removing some of the commercial
restraints of the Irish nation; it passed the Irish House, but, to satisfy popular clamours
in England, it was returned with such additions as effectually marred its usefulness. Grattan
now saw how grievously he had been mistaken in his estimate of the results of all that was
promised in 1782, and he denounced the measure with more than ordinary eloquence. It was rejected
by a small majority, after a debate which lasted till eight o'clock in the morning; and the
nationality of the small majority purchased the undying hatred of the English minister, William
Pitt. The people were still suffering from the cruel exactions of landlords and tithe-proctors.
Their poverty and misery were treated with contempt and indifference, and they were driven
to open acts of violence, which could not be repressed either by the fear of the consequences,
or the earnest exhortations of the Catholic bishops and clergy.[571]

In the north some disturbances had originated as early as 1775, amongst the Protestant weavers,
who suffered severely from the general depression of trade, and the avariciousness of commercial
speculators. Their association was called "Hearts of Steel." The author of the United Irishman
mentions one instance as a sample of many others, in which the ruling elder of a Presbyterian
congregation had raised the rents on a number of small farms, and excited in consequence severe
acts of retaliation from them.[572] In 1784 two parties commenced agrarian outrages in Ulster,
called respectively Peep-o'-Day Boys and Defenders. As the Catholics sided with one party,
and the Protestants with another, it merged eventually into a religious feud. The former faction
assumed the appellation of Protestant Boys, and at last became the Orange Society, whose atrocities,
and the rancorous party-spirit which they so carefully fomented, was one of the principal causes
of the rebellion of 1798. The Catholics had assumed the name of Defenders, from being obliged
to band in self-defence; but when once a number of uneducated persons are leagued together,
personal feeling and strong passions will lead to acts of violence, which the original associates
would have shrunk from committing.

Pitt was again thwarted by the Irish Parliament on the Regency question, when the insanity
of George III. required the appointment of his heir as governor of England. The Marquis of
Buckingham, who was then Lord Lieutenant, refused to forward their address; but the members
sent a deputation of their own. This nobleman was open and shameless in his acts of bribery,
and added £13,000 a-year to the pension list, already so fatally oppressive to the country.
In 1790 he was succeeded by the Earl of Westmoreland, and various clubs were formed; but the
Catholics were still excluded from them all. Still the Catholics were an immense majority nationally;
the French Revolution had manifested what the people could do; and the rulers of the land,
with such terrible examples before their eyes, could not for their own sakes afford to ignore
Catholic interests altogether. But the very cause which gave hope was itself the means of taking
hope away. The action of the Irish Catholics was paralyzed through fear of the demonlike cruelties
which even a successful revolution might induce; and the general fear which the aristocratic
party had of giving freedom to the uneducated classes, influenced them to a fatal silence.
Again the middle classes were left without leaders, who might have tempered a praiseworthy
nationality with a not less praiseworthy prudence, and which might have saved both the nation
and some of its best and bravest sons from fearful suffering. A Catholic meeting was held in
Dublin, on the 11th of February, 1791, and a resolution was passed to apply to Parliament for
relief from their disabilities. This was in truth the origin of the United Irishmen. For the
first time Catholics and Protestants agreed cordially and worked together harmoniously. The
leading men on the Catholic committee were Keogh, M'Cormic, Sweetman, Byrne, and Branghall;
the Protestant leaders were Theobald Wolfe Tone and the Hon. Simon Butler. Tone visited Belfast
in October, 1791, and formed the first club of the Society of United Irishmen. He was joined
there by Neilson, Simms, Russell, and many others. A club was then formed in Dublin, of which
Napper Tandy became a leading member. The fundamental resolutions of the Society were admirable.
They stated: "1. That the weight of English influence in the government of this country is
so great, as to require a cordial union among all the people of Ireland, to maintain that balance
which is essential to the preservation of our liberties and the extension of our commerce.
2. That the sole constitutional mode by which this influence can be opposed, is by a complete
and radical reform of the representation of the people in Parliament. 3. That no reform is
just which does not include every Irishman of every religious persuasion."

Tone had already obtained considerable influence by his political pamphlets, which had an immense
circulation. There can be no doubt that he was tinctured with republican sentiments; but it
was impossible for an Irish Protestant, who had any real sympathy with his country, to feel
otherwise: it had endured nothing but misery from the monarchical form of government. The Catholics,
probably, were only prevented from adopting similar opinions by their inherent belief in the
divine right of kings. In 1791 the fears of those who thought the movement had a democratic
tendency, were confirmed by the celebration of the anniversary of the French Revolution in
Belfast, July, 1791; and in consequence of this, sixty-four Catholics of the upper classes
presented a loyal address to the throne. The Catholic delegates met in Dublin in December,
1792, and prepared a petition to the King representing their grievances. It was signed by Dr.
Troy, the Catholic Archbishop of Dublin, and Dr. Moylan, on behalf of the clergy. Amongst the
laity present were Lords Kenmare, Fingall, Trimbleston, Gormanstown, and French. Five delegates
were appointed to present the petition, and they were provided with a very large sum of money,
which induced those in power to obtain them an audience. They were introduced to George III.
by Edmund Burke. His Majesty sent a message to the Irish Parliament, requesting them to remove
some of the disabilities; but the Parliament treated the message with contempt, and Lord Chancellor
FitzGibbon brought in a Bill to prevent any bodies from meeting by delegation for the future.

In 1793 a Relief Bill was passed, in consequence of the war with France; a Militia Bill, and
the Gunpowder and Convention Bills, were also passed, the latter being an attempt to suppress
the Volunteers and the United Irishmen. A meeting of the latter was held in February, 1793,
and the chairman and secretary were brought before the House of Lords, and sentenced to six
months' imprisonment and a fine of £500 each. The following year, January, 1794, Mr. Rowan
was prosecuted for an address to the Volunteers, made two years before. Even Curran's eloquence,
and the fact that the principal witness was perjured, failed to obtain his acquittal. He was
sentenced to two years' imprisonment and a fine of £500. His conviction only served to increase
the popular excitement, as he was considered a martyr to his patriotism. An address was presented
to him in Newgate by the United Irishmen, but he escaped on the 1st of May, and got safely
to America, though £1,000 was offered for his apprehension.

The English minister now appears to have tried the old game of driving the people into a rebellion,
which could be crushed at once by the sword, and would spare the necessity of making concessions;
or of entangling the leaders in some act of overt treason, and quashing the movement by depriving
it of its heads. An opportunity for the latter manoeuvre now presented itself. A Protestant
clergyman, who had resided many years in France, came to the country for the purpose of opening
communications between the French Government and the United Irishmen. This gentleman, the Rev.
William Jackson, confided his secret to his solicitor, a man named Cockayne. The solicitor
informed Mr. Pitt, and by his desire continued to watch his victim, and trade on his open-hearted
candour, until he had led him to his doom. The end of the unfortunate clergyman was very miserable.
He took poison when brought up for judgment, and died in the dock. His object in committing
this crime was to save his property for his wife and children, as it would have been confiscated
had his sentence been pronounced.

The Viceroyalty of Earl FitzWilliam once more gave the Irish nation some hope that England
would grant them justice. But he was soon recalled; Lord Camden was sent in his stead; and
the country was given up to the Beresford faction, who were quite willing to co-operate in
Mr. Pitt's plan of setting Protestants and Catholics against each other, of exciting open rebellion,
and of profiting by the miseries of the nation to forge new chains for it, by its parliamentary
union with England. Everything was done now that could be done to excite the Catholics to rebellion.
The Orangemen, if their own statement on oath[573] is to be trusted, were actually bribed to
persecute the Catholics; sermons[574] were preached by Protestant ministers to excite their
feelings; and when the Catholics resisted, or offered reprisals, they were punished with the
utmost severity, while their persecutors always escaped. Lord Carhampton, grandson of the worthless
Henry Luttrell, who had betrayed the Irish at the siege of Limerick, commanded the army, and
his cruelty is beyond description. An Insurrection Act was passed in 1796; magistrates were
allowed to proclaim counties; suspected persons were to be banished the country or pressed
into the fleet, without the shadow of trial; and Acts of Indemnity[575] were passed, to shield
the magistrates and the military from the consequences of any unlawful cruelties which fanaticism
or barbarity might induce them to commit.

Grattan appealed boldly and loudly against these atrocities. "These insurgents," he said, "call
themselves Protestant Boys--that is, a banditti of murderers, committing massacre in the name
of God, and exercising despotic power in the name of liberty." The published declaration of
Lord Gosford and of thirty magistrates, who attempted to obtain some justice for the unfortunate
subjects of these wrongs, is scarcely less emphatic. It is dated December 28, 1795: "It is
no secret that a persecution, accompanied with all the circumstances of ferocious cruelty which
have in all ages distinguished this calamity, is now raging in this country; neither age, nor
sex, nor even acknowledged innocence, is sufficient to excite mercy or afford protection. The
only crime which the unfortunate objects of this persecution are charged with, is a crime of
easy proof indeed; it is simply a profession of the Roman Catholic faith. A lawless banditti
have constituted themselves judges of this species of delinquency, and the sentence they pronounce
is equally concise and terrible; it is nothing less than a confiscation of all property and
immediate banishment--a prescription that has been carried into effect, and exceeds, in the
number of those it consigns to ruin and misery, every example that ancient or modern history
can supply. These horrors are now acting with impunity. The spirit of justice has disappeared
from the country; and the supineness of the magistracy of Armagh has become a common topic
of conversation in every corner of the kingdom."

One should have supposed that an official declaration from such an authority, signed by the
Governor of Armagh and thirty magistrates, would have produced some effect on the Government
of the day; but the sequel proved that such honorable exposure was as ineffective as the rejected
petition of millions of Catholics. The formation of the yeomanry corps filled up the cup of
bitterness. The United Irishmen, seeing no hope of constitutional redress, formed themselves
into a military organization. But, though the utmost precautions were used to conceal the names
of members and the plans of the association, their movements were well known to Government
from an early period. Tone, in the meantime, came to France from America, and induced Carnot
to send an expedition to Ireland, under the command of General Hoche. It ended disastrously.
A few vessels cruised for a week in the harbour of Bantry Bay; but, as the remainder of the
fleet, which was separated by a fog, did not arrive, Grouchy, the second in command, returned
to France.

Meanwhile, the Society of United Irishmen spread rapidly, and especially in those places where
the Orangemen exercised their cruelties. Lord Edward FitzGerald now joined the movement; and
even those who cannot commend the cause, are obliged to admire the perfection of his devoted
self-sacrifice to what he believed to be the interests of his country. His leadership seemed
all that was needed to secure success. His gay and frank manner made him popular; his military
bearing demanded respect; his superior attainments gave him power to command; his generous
disinterestedness was patent to all. But already a paid system of espionage had been established
by Government. A set of miscreants were found who could lure their victims to their doom--who
could eat and drink, and talk and live with them as their bosom friends, and then sign their
death-warrant with the kiss of Judas. There was a regular gang of informers of a low class,
like the infamous Jemmy O'Brien, who were under the control of the Town-Majors, Sirr and Swan.
But there were gentlemen informers also, who, in many cases, were never so much as suspected
by their dupes. MacNally, the advocate of the United Irishmen, and Mr. Graham, their solicitor,
were both of that class. Thomas Reynolds, of Killeen Castle, entered their body on purpose
to betray them. Captain Armstrong did the same. John Hughes, a Belfast bookseller, had himself
arrested several times, to allay their suspicions. John Edward Nevill was equally base and
treacherous. However necessary it may be for the ends of government to employ spies and informers,
there is no necessity for men to commit crimes of the basest treachery. Such men and such crimes
will ever be handed down to posterity with the reprobation they deserve.

Attempts were now made to get assistance from France. Mr. O'Connor and Lord Edward FitzGerald
proceeded thither for that purpose; but their mission was not productive of any great result.
The people were goaded to madness by the cruelties which were committed on them every day;
and it was in vain that persons above all suspicion of countenancing either rebels or Papists,
protested against these enormities in the name of common humanity. In 1797 a part of Ulster
was proclaimed by General Lalor, and Lord Moira described thus, in the English House of Lords,
the sufferings of the unhappy people: "When a man was taken up on suspicion, he was put to
the torture; nay, if he were merely accused of concealing the guilt of another, the punishment
of picketing, which had for some years been abolished as too inhuman even in the dragoon service,
was practised. I have known a man, in order to extort confession of a supposed crime, or of
that of some of his neighbours, picketed until he actually fainted; picketed a second time,
until he fainted again; picketed a third time, until he once more fainted; and all upon mere
suspicion. Nor was this the only species of torture; many had been taken and hung up until
they were half dead, and then threatened with a repetition of this cruel treatment unless they
made confession of the imputed guilt. These," continued his Lordship, "were not particular
acts of cruelty, exercised by men abusing the power committed to them, but they formed part
of a system. They were notorious; and no person could say who would be the next victim of this
oppression and cruelty." As redress was hopeless, and Parliament equally indifferent to cruelties
and to remonstrances, Mr. Grattan and his colleagues left the Irish House to its inhumanity
and its fate.

In the autumn of this year, 1797, Mr. Orr, of Antrim, was tried and executed, on a charge of
administering the oath of the United Irishmen to a soldier. This gentleman was a person of
high character and respectability. He solemnly protested his innocence; the soldier, stung
with remorse, swore before a magistrate that the testimony he gave at the trial was false.
Petitions were at once sent in, praying for the release of the prisoner, but in vain; he was
executed on the 14th of October, though no one doubted his innocence; and "Orr's fate" became
a watchword of and an incitement to rebellion. Several of the jury made a solemn oath after
the trial that, when locked up for the night to "consider" their verdict, they were supplied
abundantly with intoxicating drinks, and informed one and all, that, if they did not give the
required verdict of guilty, they should themselves be prosecuted as United Irishmen. Mr. Orr
was offered his life and liberty again and again if he would admit his guilt; his wife and
four young children added their tears and entreaties to the persuasions of his friends; but
he preferred truth and honour to life and freedom. His end was worthy of his resolution. On
the scaffold he turned to his faithful attendant, and asked him to remove his watch, as he
should need it no more. Mr. Orr was a sincere Protestant; his servant was a Catholic. His last
words are happily still on record. He showed the world how a Protestant patriot could die;
and that the more sincere and deep his piety, the less likely he would be to indulge in fanatical
hatred of those who differed from him. "You, my friend," he said to his weeping and devoted
servant--"you, my friend, and I must now part. Our stations here on earth have been a little
different, and our mode of worshipping the Almighty Being that we both adore. Before His presence
we shall stand equal. Farewell! Remember Orr!"[576]

Alas! there was more to remember than the fate of this noble victim to legal injustice. I have
before alluded to that strange phenomenon of human nature, by which men, who, at least, appear
to be educated and refined, can, under certain circumstances, become bloodthirsty and cruel.
The demon enters into the man, and make him tenfold more demoniacal than himself. But fearful
as the deeds of officers and men have been in India, where the unhappy natives were shattered
to atoms from the cannons' mouths: or, in more recent times, when men, and even women, have
all but expired under the lash; no deeds of savage vengeance have ever exceeded those which
were perpetrated daily and hourly in Ireland, before the rebellion of 1798. For the sake of
our common humanity I would that they could be passed over unrecorded; for the sake of our
common humanity I shall record them in detail, for it may be that the terror of what men can
become when they give way to unrestrained passions, may deter some of my fellow-creatures from
allowing themselves to participate in or to enact such deeds of blood. Historical justice,
too, demands that they should be related. Englishmen have heard much of the cruelties of Irish
rebels at Wexford, which I shall neither palliate nor excuse. Englishmen have heard but little
of the inhuman atrocities which excited that insurrection, and prompted these reprisals. And
let it be remembered, that there are men still living who saw these cruelties enacted in their
childhood, and men whose fathers and nearest relations were themselves subjected to these tortures.
To the Celt, so warm of heart and so tenacious of memory, what food this is for the tempter,
who bids him recall, and bids him revenge, even now, these wrongs! What wonder if passion should
take the place of reason, and if religion, which commands him to suffer patiently the memory
of injuries inflicted on others, often harder to bear than one's own pain, should sometimes
fail to assert its sway![577]

I shall give the account of these atrocities in the words of a Protestant historian first.
The Rev. Mr. Gordon writes thus, in his narrative of these fearful times: "The fears of the
people became so great at length, that they forsook their houses in the night, and slept (if,
under such circumstances, they could sleep) in the ditches and the women were even delivered
in that exposed condition, These facts were notorious at the time.... Some abandoned their
house from fear of being whipped; and this infliction many persons appeared to fear more than
death itself. Many unfortunate men were strung up as it were to be hanged, but were let down
now and then, to try if strangulation would oblige them to become informers." He then goes
on to relate at length how the magistrates tortured smiths and carpenters at once, because
it was supposed from their trade they must have made pikes; and how they, at last, professed
to know a United Irishman by his face, and "never suffered any person whom they deigned to
honour with this distinction, to pass off without convincing proof of their attention." He
also mentions the case of a hermit named Driscoll, whose name and the same details of his sufferings
are given in Clancy's account of the insurrection. This man was strangled three times, and
flogged four times, because a Catholic prayer-book was found in his possession, on which it
was supposed that he used to administer oaths of disloyalty.

I shall now give the account of another historian. Plowden writes thus; "These military savages
[the yeomanry corps--it will be remembered what Lord Moira said of them in Parliament] were
permitted, both by magistrates and officers, in open day, to seize every man they wished or
chose to suspect as a Croppy, and drag him to the guardhouse, where they constantly kept a
supply of coarse linen caps, besmeared inside with pitch; and when the pitch was well heated,
they forced the cap on his head; and sometimes the melted pitch, running into the eyes of the
unfortunate victim, superadded blindness to his other tortures. They generally detained him
till the pitch had so cooled, that the cap could not be detached from the head without carrying
with it the hair and blistered skin; they then turned him adrift, disfigured, often blind,
and writhing with pain. They enjoyed with loud bursts of laughter the fiendlike sport--the
agonies of their victim. At other times, they rubbed moistened gunpowder into the hair, in
the form of a cross, and set fire to it; and not unfrequently sheared off the ears and nose
of the unfortunate Croppy." Plowden then details the atrocities of a sergeant of the Cork Militia,
who was called Tom the Devil. He concludes: "It would be uncandid to detail only instances
of the brutality of the lower orders, whilst evidence is forthcoming of persons of fortune
and education being still more brutalized by its deleterious spirit." He then mentions an instance,
on the authority of both an eyewitness and the victim, in which Lord Kingsborough, Mr. Beresford,
and an officer whose name he did not know, tortured two respectable Dublin tradesmen, one named
John Fleming, a ferryman, the other Francis Gough, a coachmaker. The nobleman superintended
the flagellation of Gough, and at every stroke insulted him with taunts and inquiries how he
liked it. The unfortunate man was confined to his bed in consequence, for six months after
the infliction. On Whit-Sunday, 1798, these men were again tortured with pitchcaps by the gentlemen.
Other instances might be added, but these will suffice to show the feeling which actuated the
rulers who permitted, and the men who perpetrated, these deeds of blood. "With difficulty,"
says Mr. Plowden, "does the mind yield reluctant consent to such debasement of the human species.
The spirit which degrades it to that abandonment is of no ordinary depravity. The same spirit
of Orangeism moved the colonel in Dublin, and his sergeant at Wexford. The effect of that spirit
can only be faintly illustrated by facts. Those have been verified to the author by the spectator
and the sufferer."[578]

From a letter of Lady Napier's, never intended for publication, and above all suspicion of
any sympathy with the lower order of Irish, it will be seen how the tenantry of the Duke of
Leinster were driven to revolt. It is dated Castletown, 27th June, 1798, and addressed to the
Duke of Richmond. "The cruel hardships put on his tenants preferably to all others, has driven
them to despair, and they join the insurgents, saying: 'It is better to die with a pike in
my hand, than be shot like a dog at my work, or to see my children faint for want of food before
my eyes.'"

Sir Ralph Abercrombie was appointed to command the army in Ireland, in 1797; but he threw up
his charge, disgusted with atrocities which he could not control, and which he was too humane
even to appear to sanction.[579] He declared the army to be in a state of licentiousness, which
made it formidable to every one but the enemy. General Lake, a fitting instrument for any cruelty,
was appointed to take his place; and Lord Castlereagh informs us that "measures were taken
by Government to cause a premature explosion." It would have been more Christian in the first
place, and more politic in the second place, if Government had taken measures to prevent any
explosion at all.[580]

On the 12th of March, 1798, the Leinster delegates, who had been long since betrayed, were
seized by Major Swan, in Dublin. Fifteen persons were present, the greater number of whom were
Protestants. Emmet, MacNevin, Jackson, and Sweetman, were seized the same day. Arthur O'Connor
had already been arrested on his way to France, with Father Coigley. The latter was convicted
on May 22, at Maidstone, and hanged on evidence so inconclusive, that Lord Chancellor Thurlow
said: "If ever a poor man was murdered, it was Coigley!" The arrest of Lord Edward FitzGerald
occurred soon after. The room in which he was arrested and the bed on which he lay is still
shown, for the brave young noble had won for himself the heart's love of every true Irishman.
The story of his life would occupy more space than can be given to it. To abridge it would
be to destroy more than half of its real interest. A severe wound which he received in the
struggle with his captors, combined with the effects of excitement and a cruel imprisonment,
caused his death. He was a chevalier sans peur et sans reproche. Even his enemies, and the
enemies of his country, could find no word to say against him. With him died the best hopes
of the United Irishmen, and with his expiring breath they lost their best prospect of success.[581]

Lord Edward died on the 4th of June. The 23rd of May had been fixed for the rising; but informations
were in the hands of the Government. Captain Armstrong had betrayed the Sheares, two brothers
who had devoted themselves to the cause of their country with more affection than prudence.
The base traitor had wound himself into their confidence, had dined with them, and was on the
most intimate social relations with their family. On the 12th of July he swore their lives
away; and two days after they were executed, holding each other's hands as they passed into
eternity.

The rising did take place, but it was only partial. The leaders were gone, dead, or imprisoned;
and nothing but the wild desperation, which suggested that it was better to die fighting than
to die inch by inch, under inhuman torture, could have induced the people to rise at all. The
ferocity with which the insurrection was put down, may be estimated by the cruelties enacted
before it commenced. Lord Cornwallis, in his Government report to the Duke of Portland, declared
that "murder was the favourite pastime" of the militia. He declared that the principal persons
in the country and the members of Parliament were averse to all conciliation, and "too much
heated to see the effects which their violence must produce." To General Ross he writes: "The
violence of our friends, and their folly in endeavouring to make it a religious war, added
to the ferocity of our troops, who delight in murder, must powerfully counteract all plans
of conciliation; and the conversation, even at my table, where you will suppose I do all I
can to prevent it, always turns on hanging, shooting, burning, &c.; and if a priest has been
put to death, the greatest joy is expressed by the whole company."

On the 23rd of May, Dublin was placed under martial law; the citizens were armed, the guard
was trebled, the barristers pleaded with regimentals and swords, and several of the lamplighters
were hung from their own lamp-posts for neglecting to light the lamps. The country people were
prepared to march on the city, but Lord Roden and his Foxhunters soon put down their attempt.
The next morning the dead were exhibited in the Castle-yard, and the prisoners were hanged
at Carlisle-bridge. Sir Watkins Wynn and his Ancient Britons distinguished themselves by their
cruelties. The Homsperg Dragoons and the Orange Yeomanry equalled them in deeds of blood. The
fighting commenced in Kildare, on the 24th, by an attack on Naas, which was repelled by Lord
Gosport. Two of his officers and thirty men were killed, and the people were shot down and
hanged indiscriminately. "Such was the brutal ferocity of some of the King's troops," says
Plowden, "that they half roasted and eat the flesh of one man, named Walsh, who had not been
in arms." At Prosperous the insurgents attacked and burned the barracks, and piked any of the
soldiers who attempted to escape from the flames. This regiment, the North Cork Militia, had
been specially cruel in their treatment of the people, who were only too willing to retaliate.
A troop of dragoons, commanded by Captain Erskine, was almost annihilated at Old Kilcullen.
But reverses soon followed. At Carlow the insurgents met with a severe defeat; and the defenceless
and innocent inhabitants, who fled into their houses for shelter from the fire, were cruelly
and ruthlessly burned to death in their own habitations by the military.

A body of 2,000 men, under a leader named Perkins, encamped on the Hill of Allan, and agreed
with General Douglas to lay down their arms. The General was honorable and humane, but his
subordinates were not so. Major-General Duff, to whom the arms were to have been delivered
up, ordered his troops to fire on the people, when they had assembled for that purpose. Lord
Roden's cavalry cut them down, and an immense number were slaughtered in cold blood. Another
attack took place at Tara, where the Irish were again defeated. The insurrection now broke
out in Wexford. The people in this part of the country had not joined the movement in any way,
until the arrival of the North Cork Militia, commanded by Lord Kingsborough. The men paraded
in orange ribbons, fired at the peaceful country people, and employed pitchcaps and torture,
until their victims were driven to desperation. The county was proclaimed on the 27th of April,
by the magistrates; and before any riot had taken place, Mr. Hunter Gowan paraded through Gorey
at the head of his yeomanry, with a human finger on the point of his sword, which was subsequently
used to stir their punch in the evening.

On Whit-Sunday, the 27th of May, the yeomen burned the Catholic Chapel of Boulavogue. Father
John Murphy, the parish priest, who had hitherto tried to suppress the insurrection, placed
himself at the head of the insurgents. The men now rose in numbers, and marched to Enniscorthy,
which they took after some fighting. Vinegar Hill, a lofty eminence overlooking the town, was
chosen for their camp. Some of the leading Protestant gentlemen of the county had either favoured
or joined the movement; and several of them had been arrested on suspicion, and were imprisoned
at Wexford. The garrison of this place, however, fled in a panic, caused by some successes
of the Irish troops, and probably from a very clear idea of the kind of retaliation they might
expect for their cruelties. Mr. Harvey, one of the prisoners mentioned above, was now released,
and headed the insurgents; but a powerful body of troops, under General Loftus, was sent into
the district, and eventually obtained possession of New Ross, which the Irish had taken with
great bravery, but which they had not been able to hold for want of proper military discipline
and command. They owed their defeat to insubordination and drunkenness. A number of prisoners
had been left at Scullabogue House, near Carrickburne Hill. Some fugitives from the Irish camp
came up in the afternoon, and pretended that Mr. Harvey had given orders for their execution,
alleging, as a reason, what, indeed, was true, that the royalists massacred indiscriminately.
The guard resisted, but were overpowered by the mob, who were impatient to revenge without
justice the cruelties which had been inflicted on them without justice. A hundred were burned
in a barn, and thirty-seven were shot or piked. This massacre has been held up as a horrible
example of Irish treachery and cruelty. It was horrible, no doubt, and cannot be defended or
palliated; but, amid these contending horrors of cruel war, the question still recurs: Upon
whom is the original guilt of causing them to be charged?

Father Murphy[582] was killed in an attack on Carlow, and his death threw the balance strongly
in favour of the Government troops, who eventually proved victorious. After the battle of Ross,
the Wexford men chose the Rev. Philip Roche as their leader, in place of Mr. Bagenal Harvey,
who had resigned the command. The insurgents were now guilty of following the example of their
persecutors, if not with equal cruelty, at least with a barbarity which their leaders in vain
reprobated. The prisoners whom they had taken were confined in the jail, and every effort was
made to save them from the infuriated people. But one savage, named Dixon, would not be content
without their blood; and while the army and their leaders were encamped on Vinegar Hill, he
and some other villains as wicked as himself found their way into the jail, and marched the
prisoners to the bridge, held a mock trial, and then piked thirty-five of their victims, and
flung them into the water. At this moment a priest, who had heard of the bloody deed, hastened
to the spot; and after in vain commanding them to desist, succeeded at last in making them
kneel down, when he dictated a prayer that God might show them the same mercy which they would
show to the surviving prisoners. This had its effect; and the men who waited in terror to receive
the doom they had so often and so mercilessly inflicted on others, were marched back to prison.

The camp on Vinegar Hill was now beset on all sides by the royal troops. An attack was planned
by General Lake, with 20,000 men and a large train of artillery. General Needham did not arrive
in time to occupy the position appointed for him; and after an hour and a-half of hard fighting,
the Irish gave way, principally from want of gunpowder. The soldiers now indulged in the most
wanton deeds of cruelty. The hospital at Enniscorthy was set on fire, and the wounded men shot
in their beds. At Wexford, General Moore prevented his troops from committing such outrages;
but when the rest of the army arrived, they acted as they had done at Enniscorthy. Courts-martial
were held, in which the officers were not even sworn, and victims were consigned to execution
with reckless atrocity. The bridge of Wexford, where a Catholic priest had saved so many Protestant
lives, was now chosen for the scene of slaughter; and all this in spite of a promise of amnesty.
Father Roche and Mr. Keogh were the first victims of the higher classes; Messrs. Grogan, Harvey,
and Colclough were hanged the following day. A mixed commission was now formed of the magistrates,
who were principally Orangemen, and the military, whose virulence was equally great. The Rev.
Mr. Gordon, the Protestant clergyman whose account I have principally followed, as above all
suspicion, declares that "whoever could be proved to have saved an Orangeman or royalist from
assassination, his house from burning, or his property from plunder, was considered as having
influence amongst the revolters, and consequently as a rebel commander." The reward for their
charity now was instant execution. The Rev. John Redmond, the Catholic priest of Newtownbarry,
had saved Lord Mountmorris and other gentlemen from the fury of the exasperated people, and
had preserved his house and property from plunder. He was now sent for by this nobleman; and,
conscious of his innocence, and the benefits he had rendered him, he at once obeyed the summons.
On his arrival, he was seized, brought before the court, and executed on the pretence of having
been a commander in the rebel army. He had, indeed, commanded, but the only commands he ever
uttered were commands of mercy. Well might Mr. Gordon sorrowfully declare, that he had "heard
of hundreds of United Irishmen, during the insurrection, who have, at the risk of their lives,
saved Orangemen; but I have not heard of a single Orangeman who encountered any danger to save
the life of a United Irishman." With equal sorrow he remarks the difference in the treatment
of females by each party. The Irish were never once accused of having offered the slightest
insult to a woman; the military, besides shooting them indiscriminately with the men, treated
them in a way which cannot be described, and under circumstances which added a more than savage
inhumanity to their crime.

The next act of the fatal drama was the execution of the State prisoners. The rising in Ulster
had been rendered ineffective, happily for the people, by the withdrawal of some of the leaders
at the last moment. The command in Antrim was taken by Henry McCracken, who was at last captured
by the royalists, and executed at Belfast, on the 17th of June. At Saintfield, in Down, they
were commanded by Henry Monroe, who had been a Volunteer, and had some knowledge of military
tactics. In an engagement at Ballinahinch, he showed considerable ability in the disposal of
his forces, but they were eventually defeated, and he also paid the forfeit of his life. A
remnant of the Wexford insurrection was all that remained to be crushed. On the 21st of June,
Lord Cornwallis was sent to Ireland, with the command both of the military forces and the civil
power. On the 17th of July an amnesty was proclaimed; and the majority of the State prisoners
were permitted eventually to leave the country, having purchased their pardon by an account
of the plans of the United Irishmen, which were so entirely broken up that their honour was
in no way compromised by the disclosure.

Several men, however, were executed, in whose fate the country had, for many reasons, more
than ordinary interest. To have pardoned them would have been more humane and better policy.
These were the two Sheares, M'Cann, and Mr. William Byrne. Their history will be found in the
Lives of the United Irishmen, by Dr. Madden, a work of many volumes, whose contents could not
possibly be compressed into the brief space which the limits of this work demands.

Some painfully interesting details of this fearful period may be found in the Annals of Ballitore,
a work already referred to in this volume. The writer being a member of the Society of Friends,
must be beyond all suspicion of partiality for rebels or Papists; yet, happily, like many members
of that Society, was distinguished for humanity and toleration for the opinions of others.
Her account of '98, being the annals of a family and a village, is, perhaps, almost better
calculated to give an exact idea of the state of the times than a work comprising a more extended
range of observation; and yet what was suffered in Ballitore was comparatively trifling when
compared with the sufferings of other villages and towns. The first trial was the quartering
of the yeomen, "from whose bosom," writes this gentle lady, "pity seemed banished." The Suffolk
Fencibles and the Ancient Britons were next quartered on the unfortunate inhabitants. Then
commenced the cruel torturing, for which the yeomen and militia obtained an eternal reprobation;
the public floggings, of which she writes thus--"the torture was excessive, and the victims
were long in recovering, and in almost every case it was applied fruitlessly;" yet these demons
in human form never relaxed their cruelty. "The village, once so peaceful, exhibited a scene
of tumult and dismay; and the air rang with the shrieks of the sufferers, and the lamentations
of those who beheld them suffer."[583] Then follow fearful details, which cannot be given here,
but which prove how completely the people were driven into rebellion, and how cruelly they
were punished. Reprisals, of course, were made by the unfortunate victims; and on one occasion,
Mrs. Leadbeater relates how Priest Cullen begged the life of a young man on his knees, and,
as a reward of his humanity, was apprehended soon after, and condemned to death. The most cruel
scene of all was the murder of the village doctor, a man who had devoted himself unweariedly
to healing the wounds of both parties; but because he attended the "rebels," and showed them
any acts of common humanity, he was taken before a court-martial, and "hacked to death" by
the yeomen with their swords. "He was alone and unarmed when seized," writes Mrs. Leadbeater,
"and I believe had never raised his hand to injure any one."

The French allies of Irish insurgents appear to have a fatality for arriving precisely when
their services are worse than useless. On the 22nd of August, 1798, Humbert landed at Killala
with a small French force, who, after a number of engagements, were eventually obliged to surrender
at discretion.

Ireland having been reduced to the lowest state of misery and servitude, the scheme for which
much of this suffering had been enacted was now proposed and carried out. The first parliamentary
intimation was given in a speech from the throne, on the 22nd of January, 1799; a pamphlet
was published on the subject by Mr. Cooke, the Under-Secretary; but it required more cogent
arguments than either speeches from the throne or pamphlets to effect the object of Government.
Mr. Pitt had set his heart upon the Union, and Mr. Pitt had determined that the Union should
be carried out at any expense of honour. The majority of the Irish lawyers protested against
it. The Irish people, as far as they dared do so, opposed it. At a meeting of the Irish bar,
on the 9th of December, there were 166 votes against the Union and only thirty-two in favour
of it. The published correspondence of Lord Cornwallis and Lord Castlereagh has revealed an
amount of nefarious corruption and treachery at which posterity stands aghast. "These noblemen,"
writes Sir Jonah Barrington, "seemed to have been created for such a crisis, and for each other.
An unremitting perseverance, an absence of all political compunctions, an unqualified contempt
of public opinion, and a disregard of every constitutional principle, were common to both."
But Lord Cornwallis had some compunctions; for he wrote to General Ross, describing his office
as "the most cursed of all situations," and expressing, in language more forcible than gentlemanly,
his ardent desire to "kick those whom his public duty obliged him to court."

The immediate arrangements made for carrying out the Union were extremely simple. A scale of
"compensation" was arranged--a word which could, by a slight perversion of the ordinary meaning
of the English language, be used as a new form of expressing what was formerly called bribery.
Every one was promised everything that he wished for, if he would only consent to the measure.
The Catholics were to have emancipation, the Protestants ascendency, the bar promotion, the
people higher wages, the boroughmongers magnificent compensation. FitzGibbon, who had been
made Lord Clare, and was then Chancellor, bribed, threatened, and cajoled the Upper House;
Mr. Secretary Cooke employed himself with equal ability in the Lower House. Grattan had left
Ireland; Flood was in retirement; the members of the bar who had voted against the Union were
dismissed from office, and the Prime Serjeant, Mr. FitzGerald, was the first victim. The thirty-two
who formed the minority were at once removed. I have not space for the details of the various
attempts which were made to pass the unpopular measure. Barrington has given a list of the
members for the Union, and the rewards they received. His description of the last night of
the Irish Parliament is too graphic to be omitted:--

     "The Commons' House of Parliament, on the last evening, afforded
     the most melancholy example of a fine, independent people,
     betrayed, divided, sold, and, as a State, annihilated. British
     clerks and officers were smuggled into her Parliament, to vote away
     the constitution of a country to which they were strangers, and in
     which they had neither interest nor connexion. They were employed
     to cancel the royal charter of the Irish nation, guaranteed by the
     British Government, sanctioned by the British Legislature, and
     unequivocally confirmed by the words, the signature, and the Great
     Seal of their monarch.

     "The situation of the Speaker on that night was of the most
     distressing nature. A sincere and ardent enemy of the measure, he
     headed its opponents; he resisted with all the power of his mind,
     the resources of his experience, his influence, and his eloquence.
     It was, however, through his voice that it was to be proclaimed and
     consummated. His only alternative (resignation) would have been
     unavailing, and could have added nothing to his character. His
     expressive countenance bespoke the inquietude of his feeling;
     solicitude was perceptible in every glance, and his embarrassment
     was obvious in every word he uttered.

FOOTNOTES:

[571] Clergy.--Barrington says, in his Rise and Fall of the Irish Nation, p. 67, the Catholic
clergy had every inclination to restrain their flocks within proper limits, and found no difficulty
in effecting that object. The first statement is unquestionably true; the second statement
is unfortunately disproved by many painful facts.

[572] Them.--Vol. ii. p. 93.

[573] Oath.--I give authority for these details. In the spring of 1796, three Orangemen swore
before a magistrate of Down and Armagh, that the Orangemen frequently met in committees, amongst
whom were some members of Parliament, who gave them money, and promised that they should not
suffer for any act they might commit, and pledged themselves that they should be provided for
by Government. The magistrate informed the Secretary of State, and asked how he should act;
but he never received any answer, for further details on this head, see Plowden's History of
the Insurrection.

[574] Sermons.--On the 1st of July, 1795, the Rev. Mr. Monsell, a Protestant clergyman of Portadown,
invited his flock to celebrate the anniversary of the battle of the Boyne by attending church,
and preached such a sermon against the Papists that his congregation fell on every Catholic
they met going home, beat them cruelly, and finished the day by murdering two farmer's sons,
who were quietly at work in a bog.--Mooney's History of Ireland, p. 876.

[575] Indemnity.--Lord Carhampton sent 1,300 men on board the fleet, on mere suspicion. They
demanded a trial in vain. An Act of Indemnity was at once passed, to free his Lordship from
any unpleasant consequences.

[576] Remember Orr.--Lives and Times of the United Irishmen, second series, vol. ii. p. 380.

[577] Sway.--An important instance of how the memory or tradition of past wrongs excites men
to seize the first opportunity of revenge, if not of redress, has occurred in our own times.
It is a circumstance which should be very carefully pondered by statesmen who have the real
interest of the whole nation at heart. It is a circumstance, as a sample of many other similar
cases, which should be known to every Englishman who wishes to understand the cause of "Irish
disturbances." One of the men who was shot by the police during the late Fenian outbreak in
Ireland, was a respectable farmer named Peter Crowley. His history tells the motive for which
he risked and lost his life. His grandfather had been outlawed in the rebellion of '98. His
uncle, Father Peter O'Neill, had been imprisoned and flogged most barbarously, with circumstances
of peculiar cruelty, in Cork, in the year 1798. The memory of the insult and injury done to
a priest, who was entirely guiltless of the crimes with which he was charged, left a legacy
of bitterness and hatred of Saxon rule in the whole family, which, unhappily, religion failed
to eradicate. Peter Crowley was a sober, industrious, steady man, and his parish priest, who
attended his deathbed, pronounced his end "most happy and edifying." Three clergymen and a
procession of young men, women, and children, scattering flowers before the coffin, and bearing
green boughs, attended his remains to the grave. He was mourned as a patriot, who had loved
his country, not wisely, but too well; and it was believed that his motive for joining the
Fenian ranks was less from a desire of revenge, which would have been sinful, than from a mistaken
idea of freeing his country from a repetition of the cruelties of '98, and from her present
grievances.

[578] Sufferer.--Plowden, Hist. p. 102.

[579] Sanction.--His son says: "His estimate of the people led him to appreciate justly the
liveliness of their parts. But while he knew their vices, and the origin of them, he knew that
there was in their character much of the generosity and warmth of feeling which made them acutely
sensitive when they were treated considerately and kindly. His judgment of the upper classes
of society, and of the purity and wisdom of the government, was less favorable. He saw that
the gentry were imperfectly educated; that they were devoted to the pursuits of pleasure and
political intrigue; and that they were ignorant or neglectful of the duties imposed on them
as landlords, and as the friends and protectors of those who depended on them for their existence."--Memoir
of Sir Ralph Abercrombie, p. 72.

[580] All.--Lord Holland says, in his Memoirs of the Whig Party: "The fact is incontestable
that the people of Ireland were driven to resistance, which, possibly, they meditated before,
by the free quarters and excesses of the soldiery, which are not permitted in civilized warfare,
even in an enemy's country." The state prisoners declared the immediate cause of the rising
was "the free quarters, the house-burnings, the tortures, and the military executions."

[581] Success.--The real betrayer of this brave but unfortunate nobleman has only been discovered
of late years. Dr. Madden was the first to throw light upon the subject. He discovered the
item of £1,000 entered in the Secret Service Money-book, as paid to F.H. for the discovery
of L.E.F. The F.H. was undoubtedly Francis Higgins, better known as the Sham Squire, whose
infamous career has been fully exposed by Mr. Fitzpatrick. In the fourth volume of the United
Irishmen, p. 579, Dr. Madden still expresses his doubt as to who was the person employed by
Higgins as "setter." It evidently was some one in the secrets of Lord Edward's party. The infamous
betrayer has been at last discovered, in the person of Counsellor Magan, who received at various
times large sums of money from Government for his perfidy. See the Sham Squire, p. 114. Higgins
was buried at Kilbarrack, near Clontarf. In consequence of the revelations of his vileness,
which have been lately brought before the public, the tomb was smashed to pieces, and the inscription
destroyed. See Mr. Fitzpatrick's Ireland before the Union, p. 152.

[582] Murphy.--Rev. Mr. Gordon says: "Some of the soldiers of the Ancient British regiment
cut open the dead body of Father Michael Murphy, after the battle of Arklow, took out his heart,
roasted his body, and oiled their boots with the grease which dropped from it."--History of
the Rebellion, p. 212.

[583] Suffer.--Annals of Ballitore, vol. i. p. 227.

CHAPTER XXXVII.

The State of Ireland before and after the Union--Advancement of Trade before the Union--Depression
after it--Lord Clare and Lord Castlereagh in the English Parliament--The Catholic Question
becomes a Ministerial Difficulty--The Veto--The O'Connell Sept--Early Life of Daniel O'Connell--The
Doneraile Conspiracy--O'Connell as Leader of the Catholic Party--The Clare Election--O'Connell
in the English House of Parliament--Sir Robert Peel--George IV. visits Ireland--Disturbances
in Ireland from the Union to the year 1834, and their Causes--Parliamentary Evidence--The "Second
Reformation"--Catholic Emancipation--Emigration, its Causes and Effects--Colonial Policy of
England--Statistics of American Trade and Population--Importance of the Irish and Catholic
Element in America--Conclusion.

[A.D. 1800-1868.]

It is both a mistake and an injustice to suppose that the page of Irish history closed with
the dawn of that summer morning, in the year of grace 1800, when the parliamentary union of
Great Britain and Ireland was enacted. I have quoted Sir Jonah Barrington's description of
the closing night of the Irish Parliament, because he writes as an eyewitness, and because
few could describe its "last agony" with more touching eloquence and more vivid truthfulness;
but I beg leave, in the name of my country, to protest against his conclusion, that "Ireland,
as a nation, was extinguished." There never was, and we must almost fear there never will be,
a moment in the history of our nation, in which her independence was proclaimed more triumphantly
or gloriously, than when O'Connell, the noblest and the best of her sons, obtained Catholic
Emancipation.

The immediate effects of the dissolution of the Irish Parliament were certainly appalling.
The measure was carried on the 7th of June, 1800. On the 16th of April, 1782, another measure
had been carried, to which I must briefly call your attention. That measure was the independence
of the Irish Parliament. The very effects of a reaction from conditions under which commerce
was purposely restricted and trade paralyzed by law, to one of comparative freedom, could not
fail to produce such a result. If the Parliament had been reformed when it was freed, it is
probable that Ireland at this moment would be the most prosperous of nations. But the Parliament
was not reformed. The prosperity which followed was rather the effect of reaction, than of
any real settlement of the Irish question. The land laws, which unquestionably are the grievance
of Ireland, were left untouched, an alien Church was allowed to continue its unjust exactions;
and though Ireland was delivered, her chains were not all broken; and those which were, still
hung loosely round her, ready for the hand of traitor or of foe. Though nominally freed from
English control, the Irish Parliament was not less enslaved by English influence. Perhaps there
had never been a period in the history of that nation when bribery was more freely used, when
corruption was more predominant. A considerable number of the peers in the Irish House were
English by interest and by education; a majority of the members of the Lower House were their
creatures. A man who ambitioned a place in Parliament, should conform to the opinions of his
patron; the patron was willing to receive a "compensation" for making his opinions, if he had
any, coincide with those of the Government. Many of the members were anxious for preferment
for themselves or their friends; the price of preferment was a vote for ministers. The solemn
fact of individual responsibility for each individual act, had yet to be understood. Perhaps
the lesson has yet to be learned.

One of the first acts of the Irish independent Parliament, was to order the appointment of
a committee to inquire into the state of the manufactures of the kingdom, and to ascertain
what might be necessary for their improvement. The hearts of the poor, always praying for employment,
which had been so long and so cruelly withheld from them, bounded with joy. Petitions poured
in on every side. David Bosquet had erected mills in Dublin for the manufacture of metals;
he prayed for help. John and Henry Allen had woollen manufactories in the county Dublin; they
prayed for help. Thomas Reilly, iron merchant, of the town of Wicklow, wished to introduce
improvements in iron works. James Smith, an Englishman, had cotton manufactories at Balbriggan;
he wished to extend them. Anthony Dawson, of Dundrum, near Dublin, had water mills for making
tools for all kinds of artisans; this, above all, should be encouraged, now that there was
some chance of men having some use for tools. Then there were requests for aid to establish
carpet manufactories, linen manufactories, glass manufactories, &c.; and Robert Burke, Esq.,
of the county Kildare, prayed for the loan of £40,000 for seven years, that he might establish
manufactories at Prosperous. These few samples of petitions, taken at random from many others,
will enable the reader to form some faint idea of the state of depression in which Ireland
was kept by the English nation--of the eagerness of the Irish to work if they were only permitted
to do so.

The Irish revenue for the year 1783 was, in round numbers, £900,000, which amounted to a tax
of about six shillings per annum on each person. It was distributed thus:

For the interest of the National Debt,       £120,000
Army and Ordnance, Civil Government, and
other funds,                                  450,000
Pensions, grants, bounties, and aids to
manufacturers,                                250,000
Surplus unappropriated,                        80,000
                                             --------
Total,                                       £900,000

More than £200,000 was spent during that year in erecting forts, batteries, and other public
buildings, which gave employment to the people in certain districts. Large sums were granted
to the poor of Cork and Dublin for coals; and large grants were made to encourage manufactures.
I have observed, however, in carefully examining these grants, which are by far too numerous
for insertion, that they were principally, and, indeed, I might say exclusively, made to persons
in Dublin and its neighbourhood, in the north of Ireland, and in the cities of Cork and Limerick.
Hence, the prosperity of Ireland was only partial, and was confined exclusively, though, probably,
not intentionally, to certain districts. This will explain why the misery and starvation of
the poor, in the less favoured parts of the country, were a principal cause of the fearful
insurrection which occurred within a few short years.

Lord Clare proclaimed, in the House of Parliament, that "no nation on the habitable globe had
advanced in cultivation, commerce, and manufactures, with the same rapidity as Ireland, from
1782 to 1800." The population increased from three millions to five. There were 5,000 carpenters
fully employed in Dublin; there were 15,000 silk-weavers. Nor should we be surprised at this;
for Dublin possesses at the present day substantial remains of her former prosperity, which
are even now the admiration of Europe. All her great public buildings were erected at this
period. The Custom-house was commenced, and completed in ten years, at a cost of a quarter
of a million sterling. The Rotundo was commenced in 1784. The Law Courts, the most elegant
and extensive in the British Empire, were begun in 1786. In 1788 there were 14,327 dwelling-houses
in Dublin, and 110,000 inhabitants. Two hundred and twenty peers and three hundred commoners
had separate residences. Dublin was fashionable, and Dublin prospered.[584]

I have already said that corruption soon did its fatal work. It sanctioned, nay, it compelled,
the persecution of the majority of the nation for their religious creed; and with this persecution
the last flame of national prosperity expired, and the persecutors and the persecuted shared
alike in the common ruin. In 1792 Lord Edward FitzGerald denounced the conduct of the House
in these ever-memorable words: "I do think, sir, that the Lord Lieutenant and the majority
of this House are the worst subjects the King has;" and when a storm arose, the more violent
from consciousness that his words were but too true, for all retraction he would only say:

"I am accused of having said that I think the Lord Lieutenant and the majority of this House
are the worst subjects the King has. I said so; 'tis true; and I am sorry for it."

On the 1st of January, 1801, a new imperial standard was exhibited on London Tower, and on
the Castles of Dublin and Edinburgh.

Strangely enough, from the very day on which the Union was proclaimed, the Catholic question
became a ministerial difficulty. Pitt's administration failed on this very point, although
it had seemed invincible a few weeks before. The obstinacy of the King, which, indeed, almost
amounted to a monomania, was the principal cause. He made it a personal matter, declared it
the "most jacobinical thing he had ever heard of;" and he informed the world at large that
he would consider any man who proposed it his personal enemy. Pitt resigned. Opinions varied
as to his motives. He returned to office in 1804, having promised that he would not again press
the subject; and he adhered to his determination until his death. The Irish nobles, who had
worked hardest to carry the Union, were somewhat disappointed as to the result. Lord Clare
was told by the Duke of Bedford, that the Union had not transferred his dictatorial powers
to the Imperial Parliament. He retired to Ireland deeply chagrined, and was soon borne to his
grave, amid the revilings of the people whom he had betrayed. Lord Castlereagh, who had been
less accustomed to command, and had less difficulty in stooping to conquer, succeeded better
with his English friends, and in a few years he ruled the cabinets of Europe; while the Iron
Duke, another Irishman, dictated to their armies.

In 1803 the flame of insurrection again broke out, and again French aid was expected, and the
expedition ended in disappointment. Napoleon himself regretted that he had turned his armies
towards Egypt, instead of towards Ireland. Emmet's career was brief, and would probably have
been almost forgotten, but for his famous speech at the moment of receiving sentence, and for
the history of his love and her devoted attachment to his memory.

In 1805 Grattan entered the Imperial Parliament, at the request of Fox. An English constituency
was found for him. At the same time, Plunket was brought into the house by Pitt; and thus these
two famous men, the one so full of the brilliant, and the other so full of the powerful, gifts
of mental science, again pleaded their country's cause together, and in perfect harmony, though
differing on some political points. When Grattan first rose to address the British Senate,
there was a hushed attention to his every word; as his eloquence kindled with his subject,
there were suppressed murmurs of approbation; when he had concluded, there were thunders of
applause. His subject was a petition from the Irish Catholics, which was presented to both
Houses in 1805. The division gave 339 to 124 against going into committee; still it was something
gained, when Englishmen even listened to Irish grievances, or made some effort to understand them.

The Veto was now suggested. The object of this was to allow the crown a passive voice, if not
an active one, in the nomination of Catholic bishops. Happily for the Catholic Church in Ireland,
the proposal was steadily rejected, though with a determination which brought even members
of the same Church into collision. Connexion with the State might have procured temporal advantages,
but they would have been in truth a poor compensation for the loss of that perfect freedom
of action so essential to the spiritual advancement of the Church.

The Duke of Richmond came to Ireland in 1807, with Sir Arthur Wellesley as Chief Secretary.
The young man, whose fame was yet unattained, showed himself as clearheaded in the cabinet
as in the camp. He made every attempt to suppress the party demonstrations which have been
the curse of Ireland, and induced the Wexford people to discontinue their annual celebration
of the battle of Vinegar Hill. If he could have suppressed a few other anniversaries in the
north, it would have been a blessing to the United Kingdom. In 1806 Mr. Grattan was returned
for Dublin, and generously refused the sum of £4,000, which his constituents had collected
to pay his expenses. The Catholic question was now constantly coming up, and more than one
cabinet was formed and dissolved according to the views of the different members on that matter.
A new element of vitality had been introduced by the relaxation of the penal laws. Men were
no longer afraid to ask for a grace which they wanted, lest they should lose a grace which
they had. The people found that they might speak their real opinions without apprehensions
of attempts at conversion in the shape of pitchcaps and half-hangings; and when the people
were ready for a leader, the leader was ready for the people; and Daniel O'Connell took the
place in the guidance of the Irish nation, which he will never lose in their memory and in
their affections.

The history of Ireland and the life of O'Connell are convertible terms for five-and-forty years.
O'Connell represented Ireland, and Ireland was represented by O'Connell. We have had our great
men and our good men, our brave men and our true men; but, to my poor thinking, the greatest
of our men was O'Connell--for who ever approached him in his mighty power of ruling a nation
by moral suasion only? the best of our men was O'Connell, for who dare assert that he was ever
unfaithful to his country or to his country's faith? the bravest of our men was O'Connell,
equally fearless in every danger, moral or physical; and the truest of our men was O'Connell,
dying of a broken heart in a faraway land, because he saw his country's cause all but ruined--because
he knew that with his failing breath one of his country's surest helpers would pass from her
for ever. A thoughtfully written "History of the life and Times of O'Connell," by some one
really competent to do justice to the subject, is much wanted. I believe that posterity will
do justice to his memory as one of the best and noblest patriots which the world has ever seen--a
justice which as yet has been scarcely accorded to him as fully as he has merited. Had O'Connell
accomplished no other work for Ireland than this--the giving of a tone of nationality and manliness
to the people--he had accomplished a most glorious work. He taught Irishmen that chains do
not make the slave, but rather the spirit in which the chains are worn. He awoke, in the hearts
of his countrymen, that love of freedom, which is the first step towards making a successful
effort to obtain it. He showed them how they might intimidate their oppressors without injuring
themselves--a lesson eminently necessary where the oppressors are incomparably more powerful
than the oppressed.

The sept of O'Connell, from which this noble man was descended held a prominent position among
the early Milesian clans. Pure Celtic blood ran in his veins; the fire of Celtic wit sparkled
in his utterances; the lighthearted happiness of a Celtic spirit guided his actions; and the
undaunted bravery of a Celtic warrior's courage looked out of his clear beaming eye. A nobleman,
in truth, was Daniel O'Connell--a nobleman of whom any nation might justly be proud--a nobleman
to whom we must hope that Ireland will yet raise some monument of enduring fame. The O'Connell
sept were driven from their ancestral homes, in 1172, by Raymond, Strongbow's son-in-law. Their
territory lay along the Shannon. They were now compelled to take refuge in a wild and desolate
part of Kerry, too wild and too desolate to attract English cupidity. A MS. is still preserved
in the British Museum, written by one of the O'Connell family; it is in the Irish language,
and bears date 1245. In this document mention is made of a Daniel O'Connell, who proceeded
to the north of Ireland, at the head of a large body of men, to resist an invading force. The
Celts were successful; and when they had won the day, the chieftain and his vanquished foes
feasted together. In 1586 Richard O'Connell was High Sheriff of Kerry; but, from the accession
of William III., until the illustrious Liberator obtained some degree of freedom for his country,
all the O'Connells were prescribed from positions of emolument, for having held with unswerving
fidelity to the old faith.

O'Connell was born on the 6th of August, 1775, "the very year," as he himself says, in a letter
to the Dublin Evening Post, "in which the stupid obstinacy of British oppression forced the
reluctant people of America to seek for security in arms, and to commence that bloody struggle
for national independence, which has been in its results beneficial to England, whilst it has
shed glory, and conferred liberty, pure and sublime, on America." He was educated at St. Omers,
and it is said manifested some inclination for the priesthood; but there can be no doubt that
his vocation lay in another direction, as he was incomparably too deeply religious and too
thoroughly honest not to have obeyed the call of God at any cost, had such a favour been vouchsafed
to him. It is said, whatever his dislike of physical force may have been in after-life, that
he unquestionably knew how to use the argumentum baculinum in his early days; and that more
than one student was made to feel the effects thereof, when attempting ill-natured jokes on
the herculean Celt. During his residence abroad he had some opportunities of witnessing the
fearful effects of the French Revolution; and it is probable that a remembrance of these scenes,
added to his own admirably keen common sense, saved him from leading his countrymen on to deeds
of open violence. He was called to the Irish bar in the memorable year of 1798. For some time
he failed to obtain practice; for who would confide their case to a young Catholic lawyer,
when the fact of his creed alone would be sufficient to condemn his client in the eyes of Protestant
juries, judges, and attorneys? His maiden speech was made in opposition to the Union, even
as his life was spent in the most strenuous efforts to obtain the reversal of that most fatal
measure. A meeting was held in the Royal Exchange, Dublin, at the close of the year 1799, to
petition against it; but even as O'Connell was denouncing, in his most eloquent language, the
new attempt at national degradation, Major Sirr and his file of military rushed into the apartment,
and separated the assembly. O'Connell now retired into private life, and, with the marvellous
foresight of true genius, devoted himself to storing up that forensic knowledge which he felt
sure he should one day use for the benefit of his countrymen.

One of the most important instances in which O'Connell's legal acumen saved the lives of his
countrymen, is known as the "Doneraile Conspiracy;" and as all the facts are eminently illustrative
of the history of Ireland at that period, and of the character and abilities of one of her
most distinguished sons, I shall relate the circumstances. Several Protestant gentlemen in
the neighbourhood of Doneraile, had been making those abortive efforts to "convert" their tenants
from Popery, which usually end in no small amount of ill-feeling on both sides; another of
these gentlemen, with equal zeal and equal want of common sense and common humanity, had devoted
himself to hunting out real or supposed rebels. This gentleman had at last brought on himself
an armed attack, for which he deserved little pity. He contrived, however, to capture one of
his assailants, who, of course, was hung. The gentlemen having thus excited the unfortunate
peasantry, pointed to the results of their own folly as though these results had been the cause
of it; and an informer came forward, who, with the usual recklessness of his atrocious class,
accused some of the most respectable farmers of the district of having entered into a conspiracy
to murder the Protestant gentlemen,--a cruel return certainly had it been true, for their earnest
efforts to convert the natives from "the errors of Popery to those of the Protestant Church."
A special commission was sent down; the wildest excitement prevailed on all sides; and, as
was usual in such cases, the bitterest prejudice against the unfortunate accused. The Solicitor-General
led for the crown: the defence was a simple denial. In such cases the examination of the approvers
is the great point for the accused, and should be confided to the ablest counsel. One of the
unfortunate prisoners was a respectable farmer, aged seventy, of whom the highest character
was given. But it was all in vain; after five minutes' deliberation, the jury gave in the verdict
of guilty. As the men were to be made an "example of," they were sentenced to be hanged in
six days. This was on Saturday. The next lot of prisoners was to be tried at nine o'clock on
Monday morning. There was one universal cry for "O'Connell," from the great multitude who knew
these poor victims were perfectly innocent. On Saturday night a farmer mounted the best horse
that could be found in Cork, and, after a night of incessant riding, he reached Derrynane Abbey
on Sunday morning at nine o'clock. His name was William Burke: let it be transmitted with all
honour to posterity! He told his errand to one who never listened unmoved to the tale of his
country's sorrows and wrongs; and he assured O'Connell that, unless he were in Cork by nine
next morning, the unfortunate prisoners, "though innocent as the child unborn," would all be
hanged. The great man at once prepared for his journey; and so wild was the joy of Burke, so
sure was he that there would now be a hope, if not a certainty, of justice, that only the earnest
entreaties of O'Connell could induce him to remain a few hours to rest his weary horse. On
the same good horse he set out again, and reached Cork at eight o'clock on Monday morning,
having travelled 180 miles in thirty-eight hours. Scouts had been posted all along the road
to watch the man's return: even as he passed through each little village, there was an anxious
crowd waiting the word of life or death. "O'Connell's coming, boys!" was enough; and a wild
cheer, which rent the very mountains, told how keenly an act of justice could be appreciated
by the most justice-loving people upon earth. And O'Connell did come. He has himself described
the sensations of that midnight journey, through all the autumn beauties of the most beautiful
scenery in the United Kingdom. And then he exclaims: "After that glorious feast of soul, I
found myself settled down amid all the rascalities of an Irish court of justice."

The Solicitor-General was actually addressing the jury, when the shouts of the excited crowd
announced the arrival of one who, by this act of his life alone, deserves, par excellence,
the proud and glorious title of the LIBERATOR. He entered the courthouse, apologized for his
unprofessional attire; and as he had no refreshment, and there was no time to lose, he requested
permission of the judges to have a bowl of milk and some sandwiches sent to him. The Solicitor-General
resumed his address, but had not proceeded far before the stentorian voice of O'Connell was
heard exclaiming: "That's not law." The bench decided in his favour. He was rapidly swallowing
as much food as was necessary to sustain nature, and once more, with his mouth full, he exclaims:
"That's no longer law; the Act is repealed." Again the mortified counsel proceeded with his
case, and once more O'Connell's knowledge of law served him in good stead. "The learned Solicitor,"
he exclaimed, "has no right to make such a statement; the crown cannot give such matters in
evidence." For the third time the ruling was in favour of the Liberator. Then came the all-important
cross-examination of the approvers; and the men who had lied so well and so boldly on Saturday,
prevaricated, cursed, and howled under the searching questions of their new examiner; Nowlan,
the vilest of the lot, exclaiming at last: "It's little I thought I'd have to meet you, Counsellor
O'Connell." Alas! thrice-wretched man, who thought still less of another Court and another
Judgment. O'Connell won the day. He threatened the very Solicitor-General with impeachment
before the House of Commons, for the way he conducted the case. He taunted him, bewildered
him, scolded him, laughed at him, as he only could do; and when at last the unfortunate man
came out with some observation about "false facts," O'Connell threw the whole court into a
roar of laughter by directing attention to the bull, and by his inimitable imitation of his
English accent. The jury could not agree, and the men were acquitted. Another trial came on
next day, and it was then discovered that one of the approvers differed in most important matters
from his statements on oath before the magistrates of Doneraile, and in what he now stated.
This was enough; and the jury brought in a verdict of not guilty, though, on the very same
evidence, a verdict of guilty had been given on Saturday. As an act, however, of great clemency,
the men who had been sentenced to be hanged in six days, were now only transported.

During the time of O'Connell's retirement and study, he had but too many opportunities of knowing
how little justice was likely to be meted out to Irishmen accused, justly or unjustly, of political
crimes; and, doubtless, he directed his studies to those special points most likely to be helpful
hereafter. Robert Emmet's execution took place in October, 1803; and from that hour, until
the accession of the Whigs to office, in 1806, Ireland was ruled by martial law. The Habeas
Corpus Act and trial by jury were suspended, and the jails and transport ships were crowded
with the victims of military ferocity and magisterial vengeance. In the debate of 1805, when
the Catholic petition was brought into the House of Commons by Mr. Fox, and treacherously opposed
by Pitt, Mr. Ponsonby exclaimed, speaking of the Irish Catholics: "I know them well; and I
know, at the same time, that whatever is good in them, they owe to themselves; whatever is
bad in them, they owe to you, and to your bad government." Mr. Grattan accused the English
Tories of "running about like old women in search of old prejudices; preferring to buy foreign
allies by subsidies, rather than to subsidize fellow-subjects by privileges." He might have
said by justice, for the Irish have never asked for privileges; they ask simply for the same
justice as is shown to English subjects. Mr. Foster, the last Speaker of the Irish House of
Commons, declared that, "under the Union Act, by compact, the Protestant boroughs were suppressed,
and a compensation of £1,400,000 paid to Protestant owners, and not one shilling to the Catholics."

O'Connell came prominently forward as a leader of the Catholic party in 1810. A meeting was
held in the Royal Exchange, Dublin, to petition for Repeal of the Union, at which the High
Sheriff of that city presided, and many distinguished men were present--a proof that, however
corrupted Irish Parliaments may have been by English gold, there was still some advantage to
be gained to the country by possessing even a partial independence. O'Connell's speech was
published, and circulated widely. To give the full details of his career as a leader of the
people, would require a volume the size of the present work; to give even a sufficiently comprehensive
outline, would require several chapters: I can but hope that some able hand will take up the
subject, and with equal earnestness do I hope that it may be some one really capable of doing
justice to it. One who would write the "Life and Times of O'Connell" as such a work should
be written, would require to bring more than ordinary abilities to the task, and would deserve,
at the hands of his countrymen, the highest expression of gratitude which they could give.
Such a work would be incomparably the noblest monument which could be dedicated to his memory.

The Clare election is undoubtedly the culminating point in O'Connell's career. Men stood aghast
in amazement at the boldness of the man who presumed to make such an attempt. Even his friends
could scarcely believe that he was in earnest, or that he was wise. His success was a splendid
example of what the energy and determination of one single man could accomplish. Well might
the Lord Chancellor declare that "this business must bring the Roman Catholic question to a
crisis and a conclusion." The words were prophetic; the prophecy was realized. On the 15th
of May, 1829, O'Connell appeared in the House to take his seat. He was introduced by Lords
Ebrington and Dungannon. The House was thronged. The very peeresses came to gaze upon the arch-agitator,
expecting to see a demagogue, and to hear an Irish brogue. There were whispers of surprise
when they saw a gentleman, and a man who could speak, with the versatility of true talent,
to suit his audience.

Again he sought the votes of the electors of Clare, and again he was returned by them. On the
13th of April, 1829, the royal signature was affixed to the Act of Emancipation, and Irishmen
were no longer refused the rights of citizens because they respected the rights of conscience.

In the year 1812, the late Sir Robert Peel came to Ireland as Chief Secretary, unfortunately
destitute of the enlargement of mind and the native genius of his predecessor, Sir Arthur Wellesley.
His abilities, however great, were not such as to enable him to understand a nationality distinct
from his own; and hence he could not deal with the Irish, either to his credit, or for their
advantage. From the year 1815 to 1817 the conduct of the English Parliament towards Ireland
was regulated with the nicest attention to the movements of the General who ruled the Continent.
In 1817 an Act was passed, which, with admirable policy, excused Catholic officers, naval and
military, from forswearing transubstantiation. In 1821 George IV. visited Ireland. It was the
first time that an English King had come to Ireland as the acknowledged sovereign of the people.
Their hopes were high; and the deference for royalty, so eminently characteristic of the Celt,
had at last found an opportunity of expressing itself. All that loyalty could do was done;
all that the warmest heart could say was said. The King appeared impressed by demonstrations
so entirely new to him; he wore a large bunch of shamrocks constantly during his brief stay;
but before the shamrocks were faded, Irish wants and Irish loyalty were alike forgotten.

In the year 1824 the subject of Irish disturbances was carefully inquired into by Select Committees
of both Houses of Parliament. Some extracts from their reports will give the best and most
correct idea of the state of the country from the Union to the year 1834, when another investigation
was made. In 1807 the county Limerick was alarmingly disturbed. In 1812 the counties of Tipperary,
Waterford, Kilkenny, Limerick, Westmeath, Roscommon, and the King's county, were the theatre
of the same sanguinary tumults. Limerick and Tipperary remained under the Insurrection Act
until 1818. In 1820 there were serious disturbances in Galway, and in 1821, in Limerick.

These disturbances are thus accounted for Maxwell Blacker, Esq., Barrister, who was appointed
to administer the Insurrection Act, in 1822, in the counties of Cork and Tipperary: "The immediate
cause of the disturbance I consider to be the great increase of population, and the fall in
the price of produce after the war; the consequence of which was, that it was impossible to
pay the rent or the tithes that had been paid when the country was prosperous." Sir Matthew
Barrington, Crown Solicitor of the Munster Circuit for seventeen years, was asked: "Do you
attribute the inflammable state of the population to the state of misery in which they generally
are?" "I do, to a great extent; I seldom knew any instance when there was sufficient employment
for the people that they were inclined to be disturbed; if they had plenty of work and employment,
they are generally peaceable." John Leslie Foster, Esq., M.P., in his examination, states:
"I think the proximate cause [of the disturbances] is the extreme physical misery of the peasantry,
coupled with their liability to be called upon for the payment of different charges, which
it is often perfectly impossible for them to meet." Matthew Singleton, Esq., Chief Magistrate
of Police in the Queen's county, said, on his examination: "I have seen, and I know land to
be set one-third above its value."

It would be useless to give more of this evidence, for the details are always the same. The
people were almost starving. They could scarcely get a sufficiency of the poorest food, yet
they were compelled to pay rent and tithes far above the value of their land. If they were
unable, they were thrown out upon the wayside to die like dogs.

There can be no doubt that the outrages thus perpetrated were very fearful. Every man's hand
was against them, and their hand was against every man. They shot their landlords, and they
"carded" the tithe-proctors. Gentlemen's houses were barricaded, even in the daytime. Many
families of the higher classes lived in a state of siege. The windows were made bullet-proof;
the doors were never opened after nightfall. It was a fearful state of society for a Christian
country, and the guilt and disgrace of it was surely on those who had caused it. Yet we do
not find that the knowledge of these facts produced any effect upon the men who heard them,
and who alone had it in their power to apply the remedy. Still something was done; and although
it is one of the stern facts of history, one can scarcely choose but smile at the simplicity
of those who planned and carried out such a scheme for the improvement of Ireland.

The "second reformation" was commenced in 1827. The Catholic priests were challenged to controversy;
even laymen interfered. Theology and theological differences became the town and table-talk
of Ireland. Bibles and tracts were distributed in all directions amongst the starving poor,
food and clothing were occasionally added; yet, notwithstanding these powerful inducements,
the people starved and remained Catholics. Writs of ejectment were then tried; and the Irish
poor had their choice between the Bible and beggary--but they chose beggary.

So far did the Bible craze go, that it almost amounted to a monomania. One noble lord, to show
his reverence for that book, and to convince his tenantry of the estimation in which he held
it, flung every volume of his library into the lake of his demesne, and with the Bible in his
hand, which commanded him to feed the hungry, refused to feed them unless they complied with
his commands. Moore's satires were, unquestionably, the best weapons against such fanaticism.
Sheil wrote in the Gazette de France, and hundreds of pens wrote in the American papers. A
loud cry of "Shame!" arose in every quarter of the world; the echo reached the ears of the
promoters of the movement; and the force of public opinion succeeded in suppressing the futile
attempt.

The influence of Irish emigrants in America was already beginning to be felt. Large sums of
money poured in from that country to swell the Catholic rent, and a considerable portion of
the funds were employed by O'Connell in providing for men who had been ejected by their landlords,
for refusing either to believe a creed, or to give a vote contrary to their conscience. He
even threatened to buy up the incumbrances on some of these gentlemen's estates, to foreclose
their mortgages, and to sell them out. His threat, added to his well-known determination, was
not without its effect.

The whole subject of Irish emigration may be safely predicted to be the key which will unlock
the future fate of Great Britain. It is true that, at this moment, every effort is being made
by the English nation to conciliate America; it remains to be seen how Americans will be disposed
to accept present flattery as a compensation for past injustice, and scarcely past contempt.
A better knowledge of Irish history might prevent some fatal mistakes on both sides of the
Atlantic. I have, therefore, felt it a duty to devote the concluding pages of this History
to this important subject.

The great tide of western emigration was undoubtedly caused, in part, by the sufferings of
the famine year; but these sufferings were in themselves an effect, rather than a cause; and
we must look to more remote history for the origin of the momentous exodus. It has, indeed,
been well observed, that "when a man leaves his country for one subject to foreign rule, it
must, in general, be that he does not care for it, or that it does not care for him; it must
either be that he is so little attached to the institutions of his own country, that he is
willing to submit to those of another; or that he despises the latter sufficiently to look
forward to replacing them by those of his own."[585] No unprejudiced person can for a moment
doubt which of these causes has been most active in producing Irish emigration. The Irishman's
love of home and of his native land, is a fact beyond all dispute: his emigration, then, can
have no other cause than this, that his country, or the country which governs his native land,
does not care for him; and when we find noble lords and honorable members suggesting "the more
emigration the better," we cannot doubt that he is the victim to indifference, if not to absolute
dislike. Undoubtedly, if the Irishman did not care for his country, and if the Englishman,
when planted in Ireland, did not become equally discontented and rather more indignant than
his predecessors under English rule in Ireland, the arrangement might be a very admirable one;
but Irishmen, to the third and fourth generation, do not forget their country, neither do they
forget why they have been compelled to leave it. A work has been published lately on the subject
of the Irish in America. It is much to be regretted, that the very able writer did not give
statistics and facts, as well as inferences and anecdotes. A history of the Irish in America,
should include statistics which could not be disputed, and facts which could not be denied.
The facts in the work alluded to are abundant, and most important; but they should have been
prefaced by an account of the causes which have led to emigration, and as accurate statistics
as possible of its results.

Some few English writers have had the honesty to admit that their colonial policy has not been
the most admirable; "nor should we forget," says the author of the History of the United States,
"that the spirit in which these colonies were ruled from England was one, in the main, of intense
selfishness. The answer of Seymour, an English Attorney-General under William and Mary, or
towards the close of the seventeenth century, to the request of Virginia, for a college, when
her delegate begged him to consider that the people of Virginia had souls to be saved as well
as the people of England: Souls! damn your souls! plant tobacco!" is scarcely an unfair exponent
of that spirit.[586] Another writer says: "Historians, in treating of the American rebellion,
have confined their arguments too exclusively to the question of internal taxation, and the
right or policy of exercising this prerogative. The true source of the rebellion lay deeper--in
our traditional colonial policy."[587] One more quotation must suffice: "The legal rights of
those colonies have been perpetually violated. Those which were strong enough were driven to
separation; those which adhered to us in that great contest, or which we have subsequently
acquired or founded, are either denied constitutions, or, if the local authorities oppose the
will of the Imperial Parliament, find their constitutions changed, suspended, or annulled."[588]
It will be remembered that the original colonists of America were principally Englishmen, who
were driven from their own country by religious intolerance; yet no sooner had they established
themselves in their new home, than they commenced to practise even more fearful persecutions
on others than those from which they had fled. There was one honorable exception; the Roman
Catholics who fled from persecution in England, never, even in the plenitude of their power,
attempted the slightest persecution, religious, social, or legal.

It will be seen, then, that the first emigrants to America from the British dominions, could
not have had any special attachment to the country they had left; that, on the contrary, their
feelings were embittered against the mother country before their departure from her shores;
and after that departure she did nothing to allay the irritation, but much to increase it.
For several centuries after the arrival of the "May Flower," the number of emigrants from England
and Ireland were, probably, tolerably equal, and by no means numerous. It was not an age of
statistics, and no accurate statistics can be given.

The disruption between the States and England, or rather the causes which led to it, re-opened
whatever feelings there may have been against the mother country, and at the same time increased
its bitterness a hundredfold. The tide of Irish emigration had set in even then--slowly, indeed,
but surely; and it will be remembered that the Irish in America, few though they were, became
the foremost to fan the flame of rebellion, and were amongst the first to raise the standard
of revolt. The States obtained a glorious freedom--a freedom which, on the whole, they have
used wisely and well; and even their bitterest enemies cannot deny that they have formed a
powerful nation--a nation which may yet rule the destinies of the world. Let us endeavour now
to estimate in some degree the influence of Irish emigration on American society. If the history
of Ireland were written in detail up to the present day, fully one-fourth the detail should
comprise a history of the Irish in America. Never in the world's history has an emigration
been so continuous or so excessive; never in the world's history have emigrants continued so
inseparably united, politically and socially, to the country which they have left. The cry
of "Ireland for the Irish," is uttered as loudly on the shores of the Mississippi as on the
shores of the Shannon. It is almost impossible to arrive at accurate statistics of the number
of Irish in America, but a fair approximation may be obtained. The population of America, according
to a recent writer, was, in 1840, 17,063,353; in 1850, it had risen to 23,191,876; it is now
[1868], 35,000,000. In 1842, the imports were in value, $100,162,087; the exports, $104,691,534;
and the tonnage was 2,092,391. In 1859, the imports were $383,768,130; the exports were $356,789,462;
and the tonnage was 5,146,037. This increase is beyond all historical precedence, and a future
historian, who found such amazing statistics of increase, and knew nothing of emigration, would
be strangely puzzled to account for it. But if he searched the files of an old English or Irish
newspaper office, whatever might have been the creed or politics of its proprietors, he would
soon arrive at a satisfactory solution. In the Irish Times, the leading Irish paper of the
day, he would find the following reference to the present history of Ireland: "The Emigration
Commissioners notice with some surprise the fact, that, during the past year [1867], the emigrants
from Ireland were better clothed, and carried with them better furnished kits, than either
the English or foreign emigrants. During the past year, 51,000 Irish emigrants left Liverpool
alone--a regiment nearly one thousand strong every week. The loss of 100,000 persons annually,
chiefly of the labouring classes, and generally strong, active, well-built men, affords matter
for serious consideration. If the Government be contented that 100,000 yearly of the Irish
population should, increase the power of America [the italics are our own], they have but to
refuse those generous and considerate measures which alone can keep our people at home, by
giving them a chance of progressing as they do in America."

This is the honestly avowed opinion of a Protestant paper, whose editors are beyond all suspicion
of writing to encourage "Popery," or preach Fenianism. An admirable parliamentary comment has
just occurred in the rejection of the Protestant Church Suspension Bill by the House of Lords,
though there is no doubt that the good sense and the native justice of the English nation will
at length compel its acceptance.

The fact is, that at this moment nearly one-half the population of America are Irish and Catholics.
The writer lately quoted, cannot refrain from a sneer at the "low Irish" in America, to whom
he attributes the "insult and injury" which he is pleased to consider that Americans manifest
to foreign nations, and especially to England; he forgets the old sources of injury, which
no American can forget; and he forgets, also, how easily the same "low Irish" might have been
prevented from exhibiting the feeling which he attributes to them.

Let those who wish to understand the present history of Ireland, read Mr. Maguire's Irish in
America, carefully and thoughtfully. If they do so, and if they are not blinded by wilful prejudices,
they must admit that the oft-repeated charges against Irishmen of being improvident and idle
are utterly groundless, unless, indeed, they can imagine that the magic influence of a voyage
across the Atlantic can change a man's nature completely. Let them learn what the Irishman
can do, and does do, when freed from the chains of slavery, and when he is permitted to reap
some reward for his labour. Let him learn that Irishmen do not forget wrongs; and if they do
not always avenge them, that is rather from motives of prudence, than from lack of will. Let
him learn that the Catholic priesthood are the true fathers of their people, and the true protectors
of their best interests, social and spiritual. Let him read how the good pastor gives his life
for his sheep, and counts no journey too long or too dangerous, when even a single soul may
be concerned. Let him judge for himself of the prudence of the same priests, even as regards
the temporal affairs of their flocks, and see how, where they are free to do so, they are the
foremost to help them, even in the attainment of worldly prosperity. Let him send for Sadlier's
Catholic Directory for the United States and Canada, and count over the Catholic population
of each diocese; read the names of priests and nuns, and see how strong the Irish element is
there. Nay, let him send for one of the most popular and best written of the Protestant American
serials, and he will find an account of Catholics and the Catholic religion, which is to be
feared few English Protestants would have the honesty to write, and few English Protestant
serials the courage to publish, however strong their convictions. The magazine to which I refer,
is the Atlantic Monthly; the articles were published in the numbers for April and May, 1868,
and are entitled "Our Roman Catholic Brethren." Perhaps a careful perusal of them would, to
a thoughtful mind, be the best solution of the Irish question. The writer, though avowing himself
a Protestant, and declaring that under no circumstances whatever would he be induced to believe
in miracles, has shown, with equal candour and attractiveness, what the Catholic Church is,
and what it can do, when free and unfettered. He shows it to be the truest and best friend
of humanity; he shows it to care most tenderly for the poor and the afflicted; and he shows,
above all, how the despised, exiled Irish are its best and truest supports; how the "kitchen
often puts the parlour to the blush;" and the self-denial of the poor Irish girl assists not
a little in erecting the stately temples to the Almighty, which are springing up in that vast
continent from shore to shore, and are only lessened by the demands made on the same willing
workers for the poor father and mother, the young brother or sister, who are supported in their
poverty by the alms sent them freely, generously, and constantly by the Irish servant-girl.

Nor have the Catholics of America overlooked the importance of literary culture. A host of
cheap books and serials are in circulation, and are distributed largely and freely in convent
schools, collegiate establishments, and country parishes; and with a keen appreciation of the
religious necessities of the great mass of non-Catholics, of which, unfortunately, English
Catholics are oblivious, tracts are published in thousands for general reading, and given to
travellers in the railcars, and steamboats. Nor has a higher class of literature been overlooked.
The gifted superior of the Congregation of St. Paul has been mainly instrumental in getting
up and superintending the labours of the Catholic Publication Society, which, in addition to
the multitude of valuable works it has published, sends forth its monthly magazine, well entitled
The Catholic World, which is unquestionably the best serial of its kind, and may vie with those
conducted by the most gifted Protestant writers of the day, while it is far superior to anything
which has as yet been published by the Catholics of this country.

Such is a brief outline, and scarcely even an outline, of the present history of Ireland, in
which the hearts of so many of our people are in one country, while their bodies are in another.
There is another phase of this present history on which I could have wished to have dwelt much
longer; I mean the political union between America and Ireland. So long as Irish emigration
continues--I should rather say, so long as real Irish grievances are permitted to continue--so
long will this state of things be dangerous to England. Justice to Ireland may be refused with
impunity just so long as there is peace between England and America; but who shall dare predict
how long that peace will continue, when, as must assuredly happen in a few short years, the
Irish in America, or their direct descendants, shall form the preponderating class, and therefore
guide the political affairs of that mighty people?

The maps which are appended to this edition of the Illustrated History of Ireland, will, it
is hoped, be found not only interesting, but important. Irishmen in America will see, by a
glance at the map of family names, the territories in Ireland formerly held by their ancestors.
Statistics showing the fearful depopulation of the country, which, notwithstanding all the
boasts of those who advocated it, has not benefited those who remain, will be found in another
map. The third map is not less important; by that will be seen the immense preponderance of
Catholics to Protestants; and it will suggest, no doubt, to thoughtful minds, the injustice
of sacrificing the multitude to the individual few.

A few words must also be said about the two full-page illustrations which have been added to
this Edition. One of the most important events in the life of O'Connell has been chosen for
the one; and, alas! one of the most frequent occurrences in Irish history, from the first English
invasion to the present day, has been chosen for the other. In the engraving of O'Connell,
it was impossible to preserve the likeness, as the expression demanded by the incident could
not be produced from any of the portraits extant; with regard to the eviction scene, it is
unfortunately true to the life. Those who have read Mr. Maguire's Irish in America, will recognize
the special subject represented. Those who read the Irish local papers of the day, may continually
peruse accounts of evictions; but only an eyewitness can describe the misery, and despair of
the unfortunate victims. When shall the picture be reversed? When will Irishmen return from
America, finding it possible to be as free and as prosperous here? Finding that a man who is
willing to toil may obtain a fair remuneration for his labour, and that a man may have the
rights of men;--then, and not till then, may we hope that Irish history will, for the future,
be a record of past injustice, amply compensated for by present equity.

FOOTNOTES:

[584] Prospered.--This gives an average of about eight persons to each house. There were 22,276
inhabited houses in Dublin in 1861, and the population was 254,480. This would leave an average
of eleven persons to each house. There are only seventy-five carpenters in Thom's Directory,
and sixty-four cabinet makers: if we give them an average of ten men each in their employment,
it would not give more than 680 at the trade in all.

[585] Own.--History of the United States, p. 3. Ludlow and Hughes; Macmillan, London, 1862.
The title of this work is singularly infelicitous, for it is merely a sketchy and not very
clear account of the late war in America.

[586] Spirit.--History of the United States, p. 7.

[587] Policy.--Morley's Burke, p. 153.

[588] Annulled.--Historical and Philosophical Essays, Senior, vol. i. p. 197.

APPENDIX.

The letter given below, which is from the pen of a distinguished Protestant clergyman, appears
to me of such importance, that I place it here to be a permanent record for the future historian
of Ireland, as an important opinion on the present history of this country, but too well supported
by facts.

INDEX.

A.

Abbey, the Black, Kilkenny, 318.
  of Mellifont, 231.
  of St. Mary, 317.
  of Holy Cross, 317.
  of Dunbrody, 289.
  of Tintern, 317.
  of St. Saviour's, Dublin, 318.
  of St. Thomas the Martyr, 287.
  of Boyle, 316.
Abercrombie, Sir Ralph, 623.
Act of Emancipation passed, 647.
Adamnan, St., 172.
Adrian's Bull, 274.
Aedh, St., 221.
Aengus, St., 179
  his Festology, 180
  his Chronicle, 41.
Aengus Grove, Synod at, 227.
Aengus, King, baptism of, 123
  his death, 130
  ancestor of the O'Keeffes, O'Sullivans, O'Callahans, and MacCarthys, 130.
Africa, Phoenician circumnavigation of, 69.
Agrarian outrages and their causes, 613.
Agricola, 95.
Aideadh Chonchobair, legend of, 127.
Ailbhé, Princess, 105.
Ainmire, Hugh, 167.
All Hallows Eve, 88n.
Altan, St., 177.
Amalgaidh, King, and his seven sons, 123.
Amato, prelate who consecrated St. Patrick, 115.
Amlaff the Dane, 195
  in Dublin, 191.
Ancient pitcher, 240.
  fireplaces, 240.
  shoes, 252.
  brooch, 270.
  boot, 251.
Andrew, St., Church of, in Henry II.'s time, 272.
Anglo-Irish and old Irish, their differences at Kilkenny, 487.
Annals of Ulster, 39
  compiled by Four Masters, 51
  accounts in, confirmed ab extra, 68
  poetry from, 198
  kept with great care, 233
  dedication of, 53
  quotations from, 58, 59, 75, 88, 90, 94, 132, 144, 198, 199, 218,
    232n, 265, 283, 388, 307, 312n. 313.
  of Tighernach, 48.
  of Innis MacNerinn, 39.
  of Innisfallen, 39.
  of Boyle, 39.
  of Clonmacnois, 60n.
  of Loch Cé, 115.
  of Ballitore, 630.
  preserved by Celtic Race, 67.
Anselm, St., commends the Irish prelates, 229.
Antiquities of pre-Christian Erinn, 148.
Antwerp, Irish soldiers in, 478.
Aqua vini and aqua vitæ, 245.
Architecture of Tara, 167.
Ardmore round tower, 237.
Armagh, See of, 114
  founded, 120
  streets of, 187n.
Arnold on pedigree, 85n.
  on history taught by verse, 86n.
Athlone, siege of, 568
  castle of, 314
  bridge built, 308n.
Attacotti, revolt of the, 96.
Augustinians, Order of, 316.

B.

Bachall Isu, St. Patrick's, 114
  its wanton destruction, 115.
Ballitore, sufferings in, 630.
Balor of the Evil Eye, 64.
Banbha, the Lady, 43.
Banqueting hall at Tara, 160.
Baptism, ceremonies at, 229.
Baraid, a Scandinavian chief, 195.
Barbadoes, the Irish seat as slaves to, 515.
Bards of Erinn, or filés, 40.
Barretts, feud between Cusacks and, 332.
Barrington, Sir Jonah, on the last night of Irish Parliament, 639.
Barry, an Irishman, 601.
Barrys and Roches, 445.
Battle of Magh Tuireadh, 61.
  of Sliabh Mis, 75.
  at Taillten, 75.
  between the Firbolgs and Tuatha Dé Dananns, 62.
  Connor, 343.
  of Géisill, 78n.
  of Bealagh Mughna (Ballaghmoon), Kildare, 193.
  of Dundalk, 201.
  of Sulcoit, near Tipperary, 205.
  of Belach-Lechta, near Macroom, co. Cork, 207.
  of Glen-Mama (Glen of the Gap), near Dunlavin, 208.
  of Clontarf, 214.
  of Downpatrick, 325.
  of Benburb, 493.
  of the Boyne, 563.
  of Aughrim, 570.
  of the Ford of Comar, Westmeath, 160.
  of Magh-Rath, 171.
  of Almhain (near Kildare), 186.
  of Desertcreaght, 332.
  of St. Callixtus' day, 352.
  of Ford of the Biscuits, 451.
Beare, O'Sullivan, his History, 534.
Beasts, the three, to be hunted, 517.
Bede's account of Ireland, 79
  on Irish saints, 173.
Belgium, MSS. preserved in, 46.
Beltinne, or fire of Baal, 119
  origin of, 164.
Benignus, St., St. Patrick's successor in the See of Armagh. 116.
Berchau, St., 162.
Beresford faction, 616.
Bill, curious, of a play, 547n.
Bishops, Protestant, indifferent about regular ordination, 536.
Black Death. 86.
Blefed or pestilence, 162.
Bog butter and cheese, 246.
Bohun, Humphrey de, 270.
Bonnell, his statistics, 540.
Book, a, given for a ransom, 377.
Books preserved, list of, 39, 44
  list of lost, 39, 40.
Book of Chronicum Scotorum, 39.
  of Laws, 40.
  of Ballymote, 37.
  of Leinster, 40.
  of Lecain, 37
    when written, 50n.
  Annals of Ulster, 39.
    of Innisfallen, 39.
    of Boyle, 39.
    of Four Masters, 51.
    of Tighernach, 39.
    of Inis MacNerinn, 39.
    of Clonmacnois, 60n.
  Speckled, 37.
  Cuilmenn, 40.
  Saltair of Tara, 39
    when written 40.
  of Uachongbhail, 39.
  Cin Droma Snechta, 39
    when compiled, 43.
  Saltair of Cashel, 39
    when compiled, 44.
  Saltair of Cormac, 41.
  of St. Mochta, 44.
  of Cuana, 44.
  of Dubhdaleithe, 44.
  Saltair of Temair, 43.
  Saltair-na-Rann, 41.
  of Leabhar buidhe Sláine, 44.
  of Leabhar na h-Uidhre, 44.
  of Eochaidh O'Flannagain, 44.
  of Inis an Duin, 44.
  Short, of St. Buithe's Monastery, 44.
  of Flann of St. Buithe's Monastery, 44.
  of Flann of Dungeimhin (Dungiven, co. Derry), 44.
  of Dun da Leth Ghlas (Downpatrick), 44.
  of Doiré (Derry), 44.
  of Sabhall Phatraic (co. Down), 44.
  of Uachongbhail (Navan), 44.
  Leabhar dubh Molaga, 44.
  Leabhar buidhe Moling, 44.
  Leabhar buidhe Mhic Murchadha, 44.
  Leabhar Arda Macha. 44.
  Leabhar ruadh Mhic Aedhagain, 44.
  Leabhar breac Mhic Aedhagain, 44.
  of O'Scoba of Cluain Mhic Nois (or Clonmacnois), 44.
  of Leabhar fada Leithghlinne, 44.
Book of Invasions, 54.
  of Duil Droma Ceata, 44
  of Clonsost, (Queen's county), 44.
  of Trias Thaumaturgas, 52.
  of Hispania Illustrata, 70,
  of Acaill, 104.
  of Armagh, 109.
  of Rights, 253n.
Boromean Tribute, the origin of, 98
  remitted, 185.
Boulter, Dr., 581.
Bran Dubh, bravery and stratagem of, 168.
Bravery of the Dalcassians, 218.
Breas, the warrior, 62.
Brehon laws, 147
  by whom compiled, 144.
Brendan, St. and his voyages, 169.
Brian Boroimhé, 205
  avenges the death of Mahoun, 207
  deposes Malachy, 209
  his wife, 211
  his death, 217
  romantic ballad of the lady, 209
  originator of surnames, 210n.
Brigid, St., her birthplace, 131.
Briton, origin of name, 60.
Brodir, the apostate Dane, 212
  kills Brian Boroimhé, 217.
Browne, Dr., 395.
Bruce, invasion of, 350.
Bruce's, Edward, campaign, 342
  his death, 345.
Brunehalt, Queen, 173.
Burke, MacWilliam, 299
  head of the Burke family in Ireland, 299.
Burke, MacWilliam, 326
  wars of, with the FitzGeralds, 326
  defeat of, by O'Connor, 328.
Burke, celebrated statesman of 18th century, 593
  his school days, 594
  his hatred of oppression, 595
  his marriage, 596
  becomes secretary, 597
  his maiden speech, 598
  on Indian policy, 604.
Burkes and Geraldines, 333.
Burgat, Dr., his Brevis Relatio, 518n.
Burgo, Richard de, 309.
Burnt Njal, quotations from, 217.
Butlers, the, their history, 354.

C.

Cæsar, his accounts of the Druids, 138.
Cairbré, Satire of, 63.
Cairbré, Cinn-Cait, 97.
Cairbrés, the three, 102.
Caligraphy, Irish skilled in, 185.
Callaghan of Cashel, 196.
Cambridge, treatise on origin of, 71.
Camden on Ogygia, 72.
Cannibalism, charge of, refuted, 74.
Cannon-balls first used, 381n.
Canons, St. Patrick's, 117.
Carew's, Sir P., claim, 428.
Carhampton, Lord, cruelties of, 617n.
Carmelite monasteries, 323.
Cashel, the Saltair of, 44.
  the Synod of, 275.
  massacre at, 496.
Castlehaven Memoirs, 482n.
Casts for celts, 246.
Cataldus, St., 178.
Catalogue of lost books, 44.
Cathair Crofinn, a circular fort, 165.
Cathal Carragh, 296.
Cathal Crovderg, 296.
Catholic Emancipation, 647.
  worship publicly restored, 411,
  Association, 583.
  priests, their peculiar position and difficulties, 586.
  question, a ministerial difficulty, 639.
  delegates met in Dublin, 615.
Catholics, Orangemen bribed to persecute, 616n
  penal laws against, 576.
Cauldrons as tribute, 241.
Cavalry, 309n.
Ceann Cruach, great ancient idol of the Irish, 121.
Ceasair, taking of Erinn by, 54
  landing in Ireland of, 57.
Celedabhaill, his quatrains, 198.
Celestine, Pope, sends St. Patrick to Ireland, 115.
Celsus, St., 227
  when buried, 227.
Celtic language, antiquity of, 147
  remains of, 46.
Celtic literature, 37.
Celtic and Roman history, 81.
Celts, description of, 160.
Chariots used in Ireland, 167.
Charlemont, Earl of, his life, 607.
Charles I., reign of, 473
  his "faith," 475.
Charles II., reign of, 520
  his treatment of the loyalists, 521.
Chesterfield and Adam Smith on Ireland, 603.
Chichester, Sir John, 580.
Chichester's Parliament, 471.
Chieftains, Irish, 303.
Child, interment of a, 157n.
Christ, the age of, 94.
Christian missions, 108.
Christianity, introduction of, 112.
Chronicle of Cormac MacCullinan, 41.
  of Aengus Ceilé Dé, 41.
  of Richard of Cirencester, 139.
Chronicum Scotorum, 58
  compiled by, 50
  account in, 57
  on Partholan's landing in Ireland, 58.
Chronology, difficulties of, 44
  Irish, 80.
Cin Droma Snechta, 39
  quotations from, 43
  on Irish immigration, 58.
Circular forts, 165.
Cistercians, Order of, 316.
Cities and Cemeteries of Etruria, 155.
Clanrickarde, Earl of, 356.
Clare, Lord, on Irish cultivation, 638.
Clare election, the, 649.
Clarence, Duke of, 371.
Clergy, state of the Catholic, in the reign of Elizabeth, 426.
Clonmacnois, the Annals of, 60n.
Clubs in the seventeenth century, 545
Clynn, the annalist, 319.
Cobhthach Cael, 90.
Codex, containing Venerable Bede's works, 47.
Coigley, Father, arrested and hanged, 624.
Colgan, his labours, 52
  mention of, 534.
College of Physicians, establishment of, in Dublin, 543.
Colleges, continental, established for Irish students, 535.
Colonists--Scythians, Greeks, 68.
Colonization, proofs of our early, 55
  the last, 75.
Columba, St., and the Bards, 168.
Columbanus, St., his rule, 173
  on papal supremacy, 176.
Commercial status of Irish towns, 540.
Comyn, John, Archbishop of Dublin, 291
  his imprisonment, 295.
Conchessa, 112.
Confessions, St. Patrick's, 113.
Conairé II., 103
  collects laws, 104.
Conn of the Hundred Battles, 101.
Conn's half of Ireland, 102.
Connaught, ancient, 64
  massacre in, 297
  three claimants for, 307
  rising of the men, 323
  plantation of, 475.
Conor Mac Nessa, legend of, 127
  death of, 128.
Controversy, theological, of the "Three Chapters," 175.
Cooke, Mr., publishes a pamphlet, 631.
Coote's cruelties, 482.
Cork Militia, cruelties of the, 626.
Cormac, author of Saltair of Tara, 104.
Council at Tara, 172.
Courcy, John de, in Ulster, 286
  his valour, 286
  his defeat in Antrim, 288
  his death. 298.
Craftiné, the poet, 91.
Crannoges, 159.
Cranmer, Archbishop, 410.
Cremation not usual in Erinn, 155.
Crom Chonaill, the, 162.
Cromlechs, 155
  in the Phoenix Park, 161.
Cromwell arrives in Ireland, 500
  marches to Drogheda, 500
  massacre at Drogheda. 501
  letters, 502
  his cruelties, 503
  brutality of his soldiers, 503
  his massacre at Wexford, 503.
Cromwellian settlement in Ireland, 512n.
Crovderg, Hugh, 307
  his death, 308.
Cruelties of English officers, 417.
Crystède, his account of Ireland, 363.
Cuilmenn, the, 40.
Culdees, the, 182
  question on the 179n.
Curia Regis, held at Lismore, 273.
Curragh of Kildare, 255.
Curran, his life, 606.
Cusack, Sir Thomas. 409
  favours O'Neill, 421.
Custom-house built, 638.

D.

Dá Derga, destruction of the court of, 91.
Dagges, 413n.
Dalriada, the Irish, 131.
Danes, Malachy's exploits against the, 207
  in Ireland, 204
  cruelties of the, 190
  divided into Black and White Gentiles, 191
  found sea-port towns, 200
  supposed conversion of, 204
  pipes, 241
  the Dalcassians fight the, 205.
Danish fortress in Dublin, 278n
  the first invasion, 188
  attempted second invasion, 224
  pirates, first raid of the, 188
  valour, battle of Clontarf, 215.
Dante, 385.
D'Alton on the Round Towers, 163
  on History, Religion, &c., of Ancient Ireland, 68n.
Dathi, 107.
Defective Titles, Commission of, 475.
Derry, siege of, 558.
Dervorgil, the Lady, 234.
Desmond, Earls of, their ancestors and descendants, 282n.
  Castle, 221.
  Earl of, his witty reply, 384.
Destruction of the idols, 121.
Details of the atrocities of the military, 621.
Diarmaid, Princess, pursuit of, 106.
Diarmaid's reign, misfortunes of, 167.
Dicho, St. Patrick's first convert, 116.
Dinnseanchus, a topographical work, 164.
Dog, story of a faithful, 571.
Domhnach, Gaedhilic term for Sunday, 121.
Domhnach Airgid, 134n.
Dominican Order in Ireland, 318.
Donatus, St., 178.
Doneraile Conspiracy, 643.
Dowdall, Dr., opposition of, 410.
Downpatrick, battle of, 325.
Drapier's Letters, the, 581.
Dress of the poorer classes in Ireland in seventeenth century, 552.
Drink of the ancient Irish, 243.
Drinking vessels of different kinds, 243.
Druids and their teaching, 137.
Drumceat, first convention held at, 167.
Drury, his cruelties, 443
  his death, 443
Dubhdaleithe, Book of, 44.
Dublin in the seventeenth century, 544.
Dublin, fashionable and prosperous, 638.
Dubtach salutes St. Patrick at Tara, 121.
Duke of Clarence, Viceroy, 371.
Duke of York, viceroyalty of, 375.
Dunboy, siege of, 460.
Duncheadh, St., 221.
Dundalk, battle of, 201.

E.

Early missionaries. 108.
Eber, 84.
Ecclesiastics, cruelties practised on, 452.
Ecclesiastical property, confiscation of, 403.
Edward I., reign of, 329.
Elizabeth, Queen, accession of, 412
  martyrs in the reign of, 416.
Emania, Palace of, 89.
Embargo laws, 578.
Emmet's career, 640.
Enda, St., 169.
English, invasion of the, 257.
  come to Ireland for instruction, 178.
  quarrels of, barons, 300.
  law refused to Ireland, 362.
  writers, mistakes of, 361.
  schism, real cause of, 394.
  Irish emigrants defeat the, 584.
Enniskilleners, cruelties of the, 559.
Eras, three, in Irish history, 387.
Eremon, reign of, 77
  his death, 78
  families descended from, 84.
Eric, or compensation for murder, 146.
Erinn, St. Patrick's mission to, 112.
  ancient chronicles of, 48n.
  pre-Noahacian colonization of, 55.
  takings of, 57.
  early geographical accounts of, 72.
  social accounts of, 73.
  ancient laws of, 144.
  religion of, 137.
  customs of, 139.
  language of, 147.
  antiquities of, 153.
  five great roads of ancient, 101.
Essex, Earl of, tries to colonize Ulster, 432
  his interview with O'Neill, 456
  his death, 433.
Ethnea, Princess, 123.
Eva, her marriage with Strongbow, 264.
Exchequer of the King of England in Dublin, fourteenth century, 339.
Exiled Irishmen, 478.

F.

Fairs, Irish, seventeenth century, 538.
Falkland, Lord, suspected of favouring the Catholics, 473.
Fauna, description of, 253.
Fené-men, the, 42n.
Fenian poems and tales, 87
  ascribed to, 105.
Fes, or triennial assembly, 163.
Fethlimia, Princess, 122.
Fiacc's Hymn, Scholiast on, 111.
Fidh Aengussa, the Synod of, 227.
Fifth taking of Ireland, 62,
Fiacre, St., 177.
Finnachta Fleadhach, the Hospitable, 171.
Finnen, St., 162,
Fintan, son of Bochra, the Irish historian, 40.
Firbolg chiefs, division of Ireland by, 60
  battles of, 62.
Fish in Ireland, 80n
  anecdote on, 72n.
FitzAldelm, his viceroyalty, 285
  his death, 299.
FitzGerald, war between De Burgo and, 326.
FitzGerald, war between De Vesci and, 333.
FitzGerald, Lord Edward, joins the United Irishmen, 618
  arrest of, 624
  his death, 624.
Fithil, the poet, 40.
FitzMaurice obtains foreign aid, 441
  his death, 443.
FitzStephen, 260.
FitzWilliam, Earl, viceroyalty, of 616.
Flahertach, Abbot, and King of Munster, 194
Flann, his Synchronisms, 49
  synchronizes the chiefs and monarchs with the kings of Erinn, 50.
Flann, King, his reign, 192.
Flint used to make weapons of defence, 160.
Flood, his life, 607.
Flora, description of, 253.
Foillan, St., 177.
Fomorians, the, 60-64.
Food of the ancient Irish, 241
  of poorer classes in seventeenth century, 553.
Ford of the Biscuits, battle of, 451.
Fothadh of the Canons, 180.
Franciscan Order in Ireland, 319
  their patriotism, 344
  their convents, 312
  remarkable spring, 319
  persecution of, 474.
Friars Preachers, Order of, 318.
Fridolin, St., 178.
Froude's History of England,
  quotations from his account of the English clergy, 440.
Fursey, St., 177.

G.

Gall, St., 177. Galls, description of, 187n.

Gallic Church, labours of the Irish in 177.
Gaul, the Celts of, 73.
  Irish saints venerated in, 183.
Géisill, battle of, 78n.
Genealogies, differences between, and pedigrees, 80-82.
  Milesian, 79.
  peculiar historical value of, 80.
  and pedigrees, 51.
General Assembly at Kilkenny, 485.
Geographical accounts of Ireland, 72
George I., 582.
Geraldines, rising of, 1534, 390
  ancestor of the, 333
  their wars, 334
  defeated at Kenmare, 325.
Germanus, St., his Canons, 117.
Gertrude, St., daughter of King Pepin, 177.
Gherardini, letter from the, 384.
Gilla Caemhain, an Irish writer, 49
  gives annals of all times, 49.
Ginkell, General, 568.
Glundubh, Nial, lamentation for, 196.
Gold ornaments, 157.
Goldsmith, his life, 609.
Gordon's, Mr., account of the atrocities of the military, 628, 629.
Gormgal, St., 221.
Gormflaith, Brian Boroimhé's wife, 210.
Gospels, the, used by St. Patrick, 134.
Graces, the, 474.
Grammatica Celtica, 46.
Granard and Staigue, 237.
Grattan's demand for Irish independence, 590
  his life, 607
  entrance into the Imperial Parliament, 640.
Grainné, pursuit of, and Diarmaid, 106.
Greeks said to have visited Ireland, 139.
Grey, Lord, desecrates churches, 133.
Grey, John de, 301.
Guaire, his hostility to St. Columba, 167.

H.

Harp, when first used as an emblem, 249.
Haverty's History of Ireland, 221n.
Henry II. lands in Ireland, 270
  produces the Bull, 274
  makes his son Lord of Ireland, 287
  holds a synod at Cashel, 273
  his palace, 272
Henry IV., his reign, 368
  his death, 294.
Henry V., 369.
Henry VI., Wars of the Roses, 371.
Henry VII., 379.
Henry VIII., 387
  persecutions during the reign of, 401
  Dr. Browne's letter to, 399.
Herodotus, quotations from, 69.
Hibernia, the first buried in, 57.
Himantiliginos, game of, 141.
Himerus and Iberus, 70.
Hispania Illustrata, 70.
Historians of Erinn, 40.
Historians of the seventeenth century, 531.
Historic Tales, 86.
Historical value of genealogies, 80, 87.
History, Ecclesiastical, 227.
History of the Exile, 91.
Hoggen's Butt, and Le Hogges, 272.
Holy wells not superstitious, 143.
Honorius III., 305.
Howth family founded, 298n.
Hua Alta, race of, 125.
Hy-Figeinte (Munster), 125.
Hy-Kinsallagh (co. Carlow), 125.
Hymn of St. Fiacc, 117.
  of St. Patrick, 120.
Hy-Nials, contention between the, 223
  palace of, 224
  the northern, 192
  divided into two clans, 204.

I

Idols, worship of, 88.
Immoralities of the reformed clergy, 404.
Imperial standard, 639.
Inchiquin, 488
  massacre at Cashel by, 496.
Innocent I., 100.
Innocent X., 490.
Insult to the Irish peeresses, 608.
Insurrection in Wexford, 626.
  in Ulster, 629.
Ireland, climate of, 80,
  colonization of, 57.
  article on, in Rees' Cyclopædia, 67.
  last colonization of, 75.
  ancient laws of, 144.
  antiquarian remains in, 153.
  first mill in, 165.
  fauna and flora of, 253.
  literary ladies in, 374.
  persecutions in, 388.
Ireland, ecclesiastical property forfeited in, 403.
  plantations attempted in, 429, 432.
  social life in, seventeenth century, 529.
  before the Union, and after, 637.
  early geographical account of, 72.
  early social account of, 73.
  Bede's account of, 79.
  the Romans feared to invade, 95.
  Saxon invasion of, 185.
  first Danish invasion of, 188
    second invasion, 224.
  the circuit of, 197.
  Murtough's circuit of, 224.
  Spenser's account of, 439.
  division of, by the Firbolg chiefs, 60.
  receives the faith generously, 111.
  given the name of Hibernia, 70.
  the first writer who names, 71.
  called Iernis, 71.
Ireton's cruelties and miserable death, 507.
Irish genealogies, their rise, 85.
  keen, 141.
  painters, 608.
  musicians, 608.
  MSS., 45.
  authors, 608.
  actors, 608.
  missionaries, 173.
  missionary saints, 178.
  poetry, 180.
  poets, 605.
  bishops at the Council of Lateran, 289.
  war-cries forbidden, 383.
  pedigrees, their importance, 81.
  people transplanted as slaves to Barbadoes, 514.
  chronology compared with Roman, 81.
  schools and scholars, 183.
  alphabet, 152.
  butter and cheese, 246.
  fireplace, 247.
  clothing, 250.
  priests, their devotion to the people, 587.
  communications with Rome, 490.
  old, the, and the new English, 491.
  priests, their peculiar position, 586.
  history, materials for, 39.
  martyr, the first, 125.
  saints, 167.
  religious, 221.
Irish king sent to the Isle of Man, 225.
  Rinuccini's account of the, 491.
  Catholic landowners, injustice towards, 509.
  Brigade, formation of, 574.
Irishmen, celebrated, of the eighteenth century, 592,
Iron Duke, 639.
Island Magee, massacre of, 481.
Ita, St. 169.

J.

Jackson, Rev. William, his miserable death, 616.
James I., his reign, 463.
James II., his reign, 555
  arrival in Ireland, 557.
Japhet, Milesians descended from, 84.
Jerome's, St., statement on Ireland, 74.
John of the Shamrocks, 434.
John, Prince, receives title of King of Ireland, 287
  his visit to Ireland, 292
  second visit to Ireland, 302
  succeeds to the English crown, 296
  starves a bishop to death, 301
  letter of Innocent III. to, 295
  death, 304.
Josephus, 68.
Judgment of a king, 103.

K.

Kadlubeck, historian of Poland, 48.
Keating, the historian, 531.
  on Erinn, 43n.
  quotations from, on the division of Ireland, 60.
  on descent from the Scythians, 68.
  on the battle of Bealagh Mughna, 193.
  books referred to by, 45.
  on colour, as a distinction of rank, 89n.
  on battle of Dundalk, 203.
  burial-place, 532.
  inscription in honour of, 533.
Kennedy, Prince of Munster, 202.
Kildare, Earl of, and Henry VII., 384.
  accused of treason, 384.
  last Catholic Earl of, 387.
  letter of, 388.
Kildare, Monastery of, 132.
Kilian, St., 177.
Kincora, Brian's "Happy Family" at, 209
  destruction of, 226.
Knights of the Royal Branch, 125.
Kunrann the poet, 187.

L.

Lacy, De, made Viceroy of Ireland, 289
  endeavours to become King of Ireland, 291
  cruel death, 293
  family become extinct, 311.
Lady physicians, 66.
Laeghairé, King, holds a pagan festival, 119
  receives St. Patrick at Tara, 120
  his oath, 129
  his death, 129
  his burial, 129n.
Lammas-day, 164.
Landing of the Picts, 79.
  of Partholan, 58.
  of Ceasair, 57.
Lanfranc, Archbishop of Canterbury, 228.
Langton, Stephen, Archbishop of Canterbury, 301.
Language of ancient Erinn, 147
  writing in pre-Christian Erinn, 148
  Ogham writing, 150.
Laws, the Brehon code of, 144
  its peculiarities, 145.
  of the Innocents, 172.
  of succession, 146.
  of ancient Erinn, 144.
Leix, St. Patrick's visit to, 124
  cruelties of the deputy of, 417.
Lewis, Sir G.C., 85n.
Lhind, quotations from, 95n.
Lia Fail, 76
  or Stone of Destiny, 165
  mention of, 165.
Life, social, previous to the English invasion, 237.
Limerick, siege of, by Ireton. 506
  by William of Orange, 566
  by Ginkell, 571.
Linen trade, 251, 540.
Literary ladies in Ireland, 374
Literary men of the seventeenth century, 531.
Livin, St., 178.
Londres, Henry de, made Governor of Ireland, 306
  surnamed Scorch Villain, 306.
Louvain collection, 46
  friars, 52.
Loyola, St. Ignatius, 120n.
Lucas, his life, 607.

M.

Macaille, St., 131.
MacArt's, Cormac, Saltair. 40
  his reign, 103
  his death, 105.
Macaulay, Lays of Ancient Rome, 247n.
Maccallin, St., 221.
MacCarthy, King of Desmond, 229.
MacCarthy More murdered at Tralee, 357.
MacCullinan, Cormac, priest and king, 192
  his reign, 193
  his death, 193n.
MacCumhaill, Finn, 105
  his courtship with the Princess Ailbhé, 105.
MacFirbis, quotations from, 54, 58
  his book on pedigrees, 85
  his pedigrees of the ancient Irish and Anglo-Norman families, 50
  murdered, 51.
MacGilluire, Coarb of St. Patrick, 315.
MacLiag, the poet, 210n.
MacMurrough, Dermod, King of Leinster, 233
  attends synod at Mellifont, 234
  his interview with Henry II., 258
  Henry grants him letters-patent, 259
  his death, 266.
MacMurrough, Art, 367
  his death, 370.
MacNally, advocate of the United Irishmen, 618.
Macutenius on St. Patrick's Canons, 118.
Maelmuire, "servant of Mary," 227n.
Maelruain, St., of Tallaght, 179.
Magna Charta, 305.
Magog and his colony, 68
  his descendants, 84.
Magrath, Miler, the apostate, 78.
Mahoun, brother to Brian, 204
  is murdered, 206.
Mailduf, St., 178.
Malachy, St., 229
  visits Rome, 231
  death of, 231.
Malachy II., 198
  exploits against the Danes, 208
  wins his "collar of gold," 208
  Brian deposes, 209
  his death, 218.
Manners and Customs of Ancient Greece, 141.
Marco Polo, 46.
Marisco, De, his treachery, 311
  his death, 312.
Mary, Queen, 410.
Massacre of a prelate, priest, and friars, 402
  of a bishop, 466
  at Wexford-bridge, 628
  at Cashel, 496
  at Wexford, 503
  of three priests, 445
  of three Franciscans, 453
  at Drogheda, 501
  at Mullamast, 438
  at Fort del Ore, 444
  at Scullabogue House, 627.
Mellifont, Abbey of, 231
  Synod at, 231
  founded, 317.
Meloughlin, King of Meath, 191.
Metalogicus, the, of John of Salisbury, 275n.
Milcho, St. Patrick's master in captivity, 116.
Milesian genealogies, 84, 88.
Milesians, landing of the, 75
  they conquer, 77.
Milford Haven, 292.
Milidh, fleet of the sons of, entrance into Ireland, 75.
Mississippi Scheme, 584.
Mochta, St., 151.
Moira, Lord, exposes the cruelty of the yeomanry, 619.
Moling, St., 109.
Monastery of Kildare, St. Brigid's, 132.
  Kilcrea, 321.
  of Bobbio, 176.
  of Timoleague, 321,
  of Tallaght, 179.
  of St. Columbkille, 293.
  of Cluain Eidhneach, 179.
  of Donegal, 321
    desolation and plunder of, 189.
  of Clonbroney, 188n.
  of St. Columba, 230, 234.
  of Ibrach (Ivragh), Kerry, 230.
  of Lismore, 226.
  of St. Kevin, 235.
  of Dunbrody, 289.
  of St. Peter's of Lemene, near Chambery, 381.
  of Clonfert, 170.
  of Mellifont, 234.
  of Clonmacnois, 221.
  Irrelagh (Muckross), 322.
  Clonmel, 322.
  Drogheda, 322.
  Cill-Achaidh, 374.
Montgomery, 584.
Montmarisco, 237
  becomes a monk, 289
Monroe, 493.
Monroe, Henry, 629.
Moore, his History, 37
  his partiality for Malachy, 209
  on religion, 111
  his life, 605.
Morann the good, and his collar of gold, 97.
MSS. preserved in Trinity College, 44.
  of ancient Irish history, 39n.
  Celtic, preserved in Belgium, 45.
  Continental, 45n.
  in British Museum, 46.
  Stowe collection of, 45n.
MSS., Latin, 46.
  Loftus, 415.
  Burgundian, 46.
  legendary and historical, of Irish history, 39.
Muckross Abbey, 322.
Muircheartach, first Christian king of Ireland, 131.
Muircheartach, his circuit of Ireland, 197
  killed by Blacaire, 197.
Murphy, Father, killed, 628.
Murrough's game of chess, 211.
Murtough of the Leathern Cloaks, 196.

N.

Neamhnach, the well, 164.
Napier's, Lady, letter respecting the tenantry of Duke of Leinster, 623.
Nathi, King, 116.
National joy at the restoration of Catholic worship, 464.
Nemedh, arrival of, 59.
Nemenians, emigration of, 60, 62.
Nemthur, St. Patrick's birthplace, 110.
Nennius, 69.
Nesta, her beauty and infamy, 259.
Nestor, 48.
Netterville, John, Archbishop of Armagh, 318.
Newspapers in seventeenth century, 545.
Newtownbutler, engagement at, 595.
Nial of the Nine Hostages, 106.
Nial Black Knee, 194.
Nicholas, St., College of, 51.
Niebuhr, his theory of history, 82.
  on the story of Tarpeia, 82n.
  on learning by verse, 86.
Noah, genealogies from, 58.
Normans, their arrival in Ireland, 257.
  their luxurious habits, 272.
  Cambrensis' account of them, 277.
  the, ridicule the Irish nobles, 293.
  feuds of the, in Ireland, 300.
  their treachery, 311.
  Viceroys, 285.
Nuada of the Silver Hand, 61
  his privy council, 64.
Numa Pompilius, 89.

O.

O'Brien, Turlough, Monarch of Ireland, 222
  his death, 223.
O'Brien, Donnell, King of Thomond, 271.
O'Briens, from whom descended, 84.
O'Clery, Michael, one of the Four Masters, 52
  his literary labours and piety, 54
  his first work, Trias Thaumaturgas, 52
  rewrote the Book of Invasions, 54
  patronized by Fearghal O'Gara, 53.
O'Connell, Daniel, in the House of Parliament, 647
  obtains Catholic Emancipation, 647
  represented Ireland, 641
  his life, 642
  his maiden speech, 643
  Doneraile Conspiracy, 643.
O'Curry, when Moore visited, 37
  his opinion of early Irish civilization, 104
  his labours, 38
  on Erinn, 48n
  on Keating's statement of Irish descent, 68
  on Cormac's writings, 104n
  on the Bachall Isu, 115
  on Brehon Laws, 145
  on Irish saints, 178
  on musical instruments, 250
  on Irish martyrs, 416.
O'Connor, Hugh, 308.
  Felim, 309, 313.
  of Offaly, 339.
  Roderic, 235.
  expelled from Offaly, 408
    returns to Ireland, 411.
  Margaret, a literary lady, 374.
  Nuala, 321
    establishes the monastery of Franciscans at Donegal, 321
    her death, 322.
  Arthur, 624.
O'Connor Faly, Margaret, visits England, 411.
O'Daly, the poet, 303.
O'Donnell, Hugh, entertainment of, at Windsor, 387.
O'Donnell, Hugh Roe, his treacherous capture, 447
  leaves Ireland, 459.
O'Donnell More, died at Assaroe, 313.
O'Donovan, Dr., quotations from, on Brehon laws, 144.
Odran, St., 147.
O'Duffy, Catholicus, 304.
O'Duffy, Donnell, 233.
O'Flaherty, his Chronology, 81.
Ogham writing, 149.
Oghma, Danann prince, invented the writing called Ogham Craove, 76.
Ogygia of the Greeks, 72.
Ogygia, account in, of ancient writings, 148n.
O'Hagan, the Abbot Imar, 229.
O'Hartigan, Kenneth, 221.
O'Hurly, Dr., 453.
Ollamh Fodhla, 89.
Ollamh, office and qualifications of a, 83, 86.
O'Loughlin, Donnell, 226.
O'Loughlins of Tyrone, 231.
O'More, Rory Oge, 437
  Roger, 480.
O'Neill, Donough, 207
O'Neill, Shane, 409
  feared by the English, 418
  attempts to poison him, 419
  Lord Chancellor Cusack persuades him to forget the poisoning, 420
  he is killed treacherously, 422.
O'Neill, Hugh, marriage of, 450
  his insurrection, 454
  defeats Bagnal, 455
  his interview with Essex, 456
  attempts to assassinate him, 458
  his power decreases, 461
  plot to entrap him, 468
  his flight and death in Rome, 469.
O'Neill, Sir Phelim, 480
  marches against Monroe, 493.
O'Neill, Owen Roe, 480.
O'Neill, Hugh Boy, slain in 1283, 332.
O'Neill, Donnell, 198,
Ormonde, the Duke of. 483
  his intrigues, 492.
Orpheus, first writer who mention Ireland, 71.
Orr, Mr., his trial and death, 620.
O'Toole, St. Laurence, Archbishop of Dublin, 234
  his genealogy, 235
  Abbot of St. Kevin's monastery, at Glendalough, 235
  his patriotism, 267
  his journey to France, 290
  sent as ambassador to Henry II., 281
  his death, 290.
Oirdnidhe, Hugh, the legislator, 179.

P.

Palatines, the, 580.
Palladius, St., mission of, 109.
Palliums, 231.
Partholan, landing of, 58.
Partholyan, English traditions of, 71.
Patrick, St., his birthplace, 112
  visits Tara, 120
  his successful preaching, 123
  relic of his hand, 134
  his copy of the Gospels, 134
  his burial-place, 133
  devotion of his servant, 125
  his death, 126
  his vision, 113
  his prayer for Ireland, 135
  destruction of the idols, 121
  his Hymn, 120
  his captivity, 113.
Peep-o'-Day Boys and Defenders, 613.
Pelasgian remains, 158.
Pembroke, Earl of, plots against, 311.
Penal Laws, enactment of, 576.
Perrot, Sir John, 417.
Petrie, Dr., quotations from, on Brehon laws, 115.
Petty, Sir William, 541.
Philosophical Society, the Dublin, 546.
Phoenician colonization of Spain, 70
  circumnavigation of Africa, 69.
Physicians, establishment of their college in Dublin, 543
Picts, landing of the, 79.
Pitt, William, 613.
Plantation of Connaught, 510
  of Ulster, 469.
Plowden's account of the atrocities of the military, 602.
Plunkett, Dr., his trial and execution, 528.
Plunkett, Lord, in parliament, 640.
Poyning's Parliament, 379
  law, and its effects, 382.
Presentation Order, 593n.
Priests, cruel massacre of, 496
  their efforts to save Protestants, 483.
Protestant Church, state of, 425.

Q.

Quipus used as a register by the Indians, 150.

R.

Raith Beóthaigh (Rath Beagh), an ancient burial-place, 78.
Raleigh, Sir Walter, 439.
Rath at Leighlin, 200
  of the Synods, 165.
Reformation, attempts to introduce the, 415.
Reformed clergy, preaching of, 405.
Religious houses and their founders, 316.
Remonstrance to the Holy See, 341.
Reports on the state of Ireland, 648
Richard I., accession of, 294.
Richard II., visits Ireland, 365.
Rinuccini, 489n
  lands at Kenmare, 490
  reception in Kilkenny, 491
  returns to Italy, 497.
Rock of Cashel, 193.
Rodanus, St., 162.
Romantic Tales, 91.
Rose Tavern, 544.
Rotundo built, 638.
Round Tower controversy, 153.
Rowan, A. Hamilton, 615
Rufus, William, boast of, 257.

S.

Sacramental test, 579.
Saltair of Temair, 41.
  na-Rann, 41.
  of Cashel, 44.
  of Cormac, 41.
San José, arrival of, 443.
Saviour's, St., Dublin, 318.
Schomberg's camp, disease in, 560.
Scots, 69.
Scraball, 164.
Scythian colonists, 68
  Irish claim descent from, 65.
Seanchaidhé, poet, 83n.
Seanchus Mor, language of, 145
  translator of, 145.
Sedulus, St., 178.
Segetius, priest, 115.
Senchan Torpéist, 40.
Severe winters and pestilences in Ireland, 223.
Sheehy, Father Nicholas, judicial murder of, 589.
Sheridan, his life, 608.
Shrines of the three saints, 133.
Sidney's official account of Ireland, 423
  his interview with Granuaile, 434.
Silken Thomas, his rebellion, 391
  his execution, 392.
Silver shields, 89.
Simnel crowned in Dublin, 380.
Simon, Rabbi, 68.
Sitric arrival of, 195
  treachery of, 201.
Smith, Adam, on Ireland, 603.
Smithfield, origin of the name, 241n.
South Sea Bubble, 581.
Spenser's Castle, 423
  grandson, 513
  description of Irish misery, 439.
Sreng, warrior, 62.
Statements in our annals confirmed by a Jewish writer, 68.
Statute of Kilkenny and its effects, 359.
Stierman, 48.
Sterne, Dr., 544.
Strafford, Earl of, 77.
Strongbow, Earl of Clare, arrives in Ireland, 263
  genealogy, 263
  marriage of, and Eva, 264
  proclaims himself king of Leinster, 266
  returns to England. 268
  death of, 282
  his seal, 284.
Succession, law of, 146.
Superstitions, Irish, 142.
Swan, Major, 624.
Swift, Dean, 581
  his writings, 581
  his life, 607.
Swords and chariots of ancient Ireland, 167.

T.

Tacitus, 95.
Táin bó Chuailgné, the expedition of, 92
  the story of, 93.
Talbot, Archbishop, 525.
Tanaiste, 147.
Tandy, Napper, 612.
Tara, account of ancient, 163
  site of, 41
  cursing of, 162.
Taverns and coffee-houses, 544.
Theatre, the first, in Dublin, 547.
Thomas, St., of Canterbury, 266.
Thompson, Charles, Secretary of Congress, 601.
Threnodia Hiberno-Catholica, 511.
Tighernach's Annals, 49
  uses the dominical letter, 49
  mentions the lunar cycle, 49
  quotes historical writers, 49
  his home, 48.
Tighearnmas, 88.
Timoleague, Monastery of, 321.
Tithes introduced into Ireland, 232.
Tom the Devil, 622.
Tone, Theobald Wolfe, 614.
Tradition, its use in history, 40.
Trias Thaumaturgas, 52.
Trinity College, foundation of, 462.
Tuatha Dé Dananns, fifth taking of Ireland by, 61
  their skill as artificers, 61
  battles of, 62, 75
  dynasty passed away, 76.
Tuathal, reign of, 98.
Tuite, Richard (the great baron), 333.
Turgesius the Dane, 189.
Tussach, St, 126.

U.

Ugainé Mor, reign of, 90.
Ultan, St., 171.
Union, the, 632.
United Irishmen, the, 618.
Usher, Archbishop, 534
  his indifference about orders, 536
  on St. Patrick's Canons, 117
  as an historian, 534.
Usher's Island, 318n.

V.

Veto, the, 643.
Victorious, 113n.
Vinegar Hill, the battle of, 627.
Volunteers, the, 591.
Virgilius, St., 178.
Vivian, Cardinal, 286
  entombs the relics of the three saints anew, 294.

W.

Warbeck's plot, 381.
Ware, 415.
Ward, Father, 52.
Waterford rugs, 539.
Wellesley, Chief Secretary, 640.
Wesley, John, his remark about Moira House, 318n.
Wheat planted early, 243.
White and Black Gentiles, 191.
Whiteboys, the, 584.
Wilde, Sir W., 79n.
Wives purchased in Erinn, 43
  exchanged, 229.
Words and Places, 58n.
Wood's halfpence, 581.
Wren, veneration for the, 140.

Y.

Yeomanry, fearful cruelties of the, 630.
York, house of, 371
  Duke of, made Viceroy, 375.
Yorkists, popularity in Ireland, 376.
  insurrection of the, 378.
Youghal, foundation of Convent of, 318
  College of, 378
  burned down, 443.
Young's remedy for Irish disaffection, 585.

