THE

NEW ENGLAND MAGAZINE

AND

BAY STATE MONTHLY.

    OLD SERIES           FEBRUARY, 1886.         NEW SERIES
    VOL. IV. NO. 2.                              VOL. I. NO. 2.

TUFTS COLLEGE.

BY REV. E. H. CAPEN, D.D.

Tufts College is situated on the most beautiful and commanding eminence in the southeasterly
part of Middlesex county, within the town of Medford and on the borders of Somerville. This
eminence was formerly called Walnut Hill, on account, it is said, of the heavy growth of hickory
timber with which it was covered at the time of the settlement of the colony, but is now called
College Hill, on account of the institution which crowns it. The land on which the College
is built is a part of the farm which the late Charles Tufts received by way of inheritance;
and, when asked by his relatives what he would do with the bleak hill over in Medford, he replied,
"I will put a light on it." The tract of land originally given by Mr. Tufts consisted of twenty
acres. Subsequently he gave his pledge to add other valuable tracts adjoining. This pledge
has been fulfilled, so that the plot of ground, belonging to the College, given by Mr. Tufts,
embraces upwards of one hundred acres. The late Deacon Timothy Cotting, of Medford, also gave
to the College at his decease, a piece of land lying near the institution containing upwards
of twenty acres. In consequence of the munificence of Mr. Tufts, it was determined that the
College should bear his name.

[A]

The definite impulse which resulted in the establishment of Tufts College may be traced to
the sermon preached by Hosea Ballou, 2d., D.D., before the General Convention of Universalists,
in the city of New York, September 15, 1847. In this sermon Dr. Ballou urged the "duty of general
culture" and the importance that a denomination should have "at least one college placed on
a permanent basis," with such clearness and emphasis that the movement at once took organic
shape and went forward without pause from that hour. Dr. Ballou declared that one hundred thousand
dollars was the least sum with which the work could begin and have any prospect of success.
The Rev. Otis A. Skinner was appointed to obtain subscriptions to a fund to that amount. The
sum was a large one in the then condition of the Universalist body. But in an undertaking of
that kind, Mr. Skinner knew no such word as fail. It took years for the accomplishment of his
task; but in the summer of 1851 he was able to announce that the subscription was completed.
A meeting of the subscribers was held in Boston on the sixteenth and seventeenth of September
of that year. A board of trustees was designated who subsequently fixed upon the present site
of the institution and determined its name. Application was made to the Legislature for a charter,
which was granted April 21, 1852. The original charter conferred the power to grant every kind
of degree usually given by colleges, "except medical degrees." This restriction was removed
by act of the Legislature, dated February 2, 1867.

In July, 1852, the Rev. Thomas J. Sawyer, D.D., was elected president of the College. But he
declined to accept the office on the terms prescribed, and in May, 1853, the Rev. Hosea Ballou,
2d, D.D., was chosen to the office, which he filled until his death in May, 1861. In July following
his election the corner-stone of the main College hall was laid by Dr. Ballou. The event was
one of great interest and significance, and drew together a large company of people from different
sections of the country. A year was spent by the president in visiting the most prominent institutions
of learning at home and abroad, preparatory to organizing the new College, and laying out its
course of study. In the work of organization, Dr. Ballou received important and valuable assistance
from John P. Marshall, the present senior professor and dean of the College of letters. The
College was first regularly opened for the admission of students in August, 1855, though a
few students had been residing at the College and receiving instruction from the president
and Professor Marshall during the previous year. In the beginning the success of the institution
was as marked as its friends could reasonably expect. But the great anxiety attending the beginning
and development of so important an undertaking seriously affected the health of Dr. Ballou,
and he was cut down before the College could avail itself of the transcendent abilities which
he brought to the discharge of his duties, and before he could witness the almost unexampled
material prosperity awaiting it. President Eliot generously said not long since that the remarkable
growth of Harvard University in these later years is largely the fruit of the efforts of James
Walker, a fit contemporary and fellow-worker in the cause of education with Dr. Ballou. Truly,
other men labor and we enter into their labors. In an important sense the College was the creature
of Dr. Ballou's brain. He had so clear a conception of the nature and scope of an institution
of learning of the highest grade suited to this latitude and these times, and he was so successful
in producing a conviction of its possibilities in the minds of rich men, that they were ready
to devote to it their all. But he died before the fruits of his labors had begun to appear.

In the spring of 1862, the Rev. A. A. Miner, D.D., was elected to succeed Dr. Ballou, and continued
to hold the office until his resignation in February, 1875, a period of nearly thirteen years.
Dr. Miner did not take up his residence at the College nor relinquish his connection with the
School Street parish in Boston, of which he was pastor. But he visited the College daily, or
as often as his presence was required. It was during his presidency and largely through his
instrumentality that the extraordinary material development of the College was secured. Very
soon after its establishment, Silvanus Packard, a prosperous merchant and a parishioner of
Dr. Miner, who was without children, announced his intention of making Tufts College his child.
He gave generously to it during his lifetime, and, dying, bequeathed to it nearly the whole
of his property, amounting to nearly three hundred thousand dollars. The donations and legacies
of Mr. Packard exceed in amount those of any other benefactor. The one who comes the nearest
to him in the aggregate of his gifts is Dr. Wm. J. Walker. This gentleman divided his princely
estate between the following institutions: Amherst College, the Museum of Natural History in
Boston, Tufts College, and Williams College. The share which Tufts College received in this
distribution was upwards of two hundred thousand dollars. The benefactions of Dr. Walker are
remarkable, if we remember that he was an alumnus of Harvard College, an Episcopalian in religion,
that his trusted friend and counsellor at the time he was arranging for the disposal of his
property was Thomas Hill, D.D., the president of Harvard University, and that Tufts College
was in the earliest stages of its development. But notwithstanding these facts, sufficient
in themselves to warp the judgment of ordinary men, his vision was clear enough to enable him
to see that there was room for another great college to grow up in the neighborhood of Boston,
even under the shadow of that ancient and renowned university.

Another notable friend of Tufts College was Dr. Oliver Dean. In the beginning he made very
liberal offers, provided the institution should be placed in Franklin. Subsequently he devoted
the greater portion of his wealth to the founding of Dean Academy, one of whose functions was
to be the fitting of young men for the College. He also showed still more distinctly his favor
to the College by contributing in all $90,000 to its funds.

But the College was especially fortunate in its infancy and when it was practically without
funds in having for its treasurer Thomas A. Goddard, a wealthy merchant; a man utterly void
of personal vanity, whose eyes swept over the whole field, and who, wherever he saw that the
cause could be promoted by a timely benefaction, very simply and unostentatiously bestowed
it. So when the College was almost entirely without funds and had but a small part of the income
needed to meet its current expenses, he quietly paid the deficiency out of his own pocket and
preserved it from debt.

At the conclusion of the first half of the college year, 1874-75, Dr. Miner, having previously
resigned his pastorate in Boston, tendered his resignation of the presidency of the College.
Neither institution, however, was willing to accept his resignation, and each sought to retain
his entire services. After mature deliberation he decided to accept the invitation of the parish,
and his official connection with the faculty of the College which he had held with distinguished
ability and success for thirteen years was thus permanently severed.

The Hon. Israel Washburn, Jr., the war Governor of Maine, was chosen as his successor. But
he promptly declined the office. The trustees then determined to make a new departure and place
an alumnus of the College at its head. Accordingly the present incumbent, at that time pastor
of the First Universalist Church of Providence, R. I., and a graduate of the class of 1860,
was elected to the vacant chair in March, 1875, and was inaugurated on the second day of June
following. Whatever may be the ultimate verdict concerning the wisdom of the trustees in the
selection which was then made, no one will deny that the calling of an alumnus to the post
has had the effect of quickening the interest and securing the co-operation of the graduates
of the institution beyond anything that could have been done.

I come now to speak briefly of certain changes in the internal life of the College, many of
which have taken place under my own eye, and with the shaping of which in important respects,
during these later years, I have had something to do. In the matter of development few institutions
in this country have made greater progress. It is a long step from what the College was when
I knew it as a student, to its present condition; so that those who were only acquainted with
its life fifteen or twenty years ago would scarcely recognize it as the same life to-day. Indeed
the modifications which have been introduced into its discipline and into its courses of study
have aroused an interest in its work outside of and beyond mere denominational lines, and are
beginning to attract to it students from many miscellaneous sources.

One of the chief difficulties in the way of local patronage has been the overshadowing influence
of Harvard University. It was scarcely to be expected that an institution planted in such close
proximity to that powerful and venerable seat of learning would, in the beginning, attract
students from its immediate neighborhood. Many persons have thought that the location of the
College is a mistaken one on that account. But colleges are not made in one day nor in one
decade. It will take more than Leland Stanford's twenty millions of endowment to give his University
a solid and enduring fame. Colleges, indeed, like all the great and permanent institutions
by which society is upheld, and the welfare and progress of humanity are secured, are the slow
growth of generations. The selection of the present site of the College cannot be regarded
as other than fortunate; first, because of its proximity to Boston, the most important literary
centre of the new world, where it may constantly feel the pulsations of every intellectual
movement that takes place in the domain of thought; and, secondly, because, owing to its contact
with the foremost college in the land, it has been compelled to adopt and maintain the highest
standards in its work. The result of this is seen in the steady growth of recent years. During
the last five or six years there has been a good percentage of attendance from schools in the
immediate neighborhood of the College which have heretofore sent their students almost exclusively
to Harvard. Men have been drawn to the College wholly without reference to denominational lines,
simply because they believed the College had advantages to offer unsurpassed by any institution
in the country. Within the last two years the College has made a gain in students of at least
forty per cent. The whole number who entered the different departments in the year 1884-5 was
sixty-one, and although the number entering in 1885-6 was somewhat less, yet the whole number
in the College is greater than ever before, namely, one hundred and forty, of whom twenty-six
are in the Divinity School, and the remainder in the College of letters.

The course of study originally adopted was substantially that of the leading New England colleges.
It has adhered throughout very firmly to its standard. The ten associated colleges of Southern
New England voted at their annual meeting in 1879 that it is desirable to adopt a system of
uniform requirements for the admission of students. Tufts was one of the first to accept the
scheme proposed by the conference of examiners in the different institutions. The faculty as
originally constituted consisted of three professors beside the president; and for many years,
the entire work of the College was performed by not more than five teachers. The gifts and
benefactions of Dr. Walker, designed mainly for the promotion of mathematics and related branches
of study, enabled the trustees to enlarge the facilities for instruction on the side of science.
A professorship of civil engineering was created in 1867. This department has been enlarged
gradually, until now men may receive complete courses of professional instruction in civil,
mechanical, and electrical engineering. Some very able engineers, holding important and responsible
positions, have received their training here. The subjects of natural history, physics, and
chemistry have each been assigned to separate chairs. The department of physics has two excellent
working laboratories. Besides the regular work in physics with the College classes, original
investigations are carried on under the direction of Dr. Dolbear, the professor of physics,
and assistant-professor Hooper. In the department of chemistry, the organic research laboratory
has been very carefully equipped for that line of work, and offers facilities for original
investigation which will compare favorably with those of any similar laboratory in the country.
During the past year very considerable additions to chemical knowledge have been made by Professor
Michael and his able corps of assistants. Of the department of natural history we shall speak
later on.

The only degree given in the beginning as a reward for residence and study in the College was
that of Bachelor of Arts. But the presence of a large number of students who were not prepared
to take that course of study in full led to the organization of two additional courses, one
leading to the degree of Civil Engineer, and the other to the degree of Bachelor of Philosophy.
The latter course has received many modifications, and in the autumn of 1875 it was determined
to make it a four years course, the same in all respects as the regular course, except that
it omits Greek and substitutes instead of it the modern languages and some elective work in
science. Previous to 1875 the work of the College was mainly prescribed, with but little opportunity
for optional or elective studies. At that time the scope of electives was greatly broadened.
There are now eleven full courses of electives open to students. From the middle of the junior
year, a very large percentage of the student's work is in those lines which he chooses for
himself. It was decided also, immediately after the elective system went into effect, to confer
special honors at the time of graduation upon any student who attains distinction in any particular
study and in two cognate studies, under such rules as the faculty have prescribed. Another
important movement in the direction of sound scholarship was made about this time. It was determined
that the degree of Master of Arts, which, so far, had been granted to all graduates of the
degree of A.B. who applied for it after three years from their graduation, should be conferred
only upon such graduates of the regular and philosophical courses as should pursue, during
a residence of not less than one year, under the direction of the faculty, a prescribed course
of study in at least two departments. The privilege of graduate study was also opened to those
holding like degrees from other colleges. The result of this action has been to retain at the
College for more protracted and profound study ambitious and scholarly men out of every class.

The modifications of discipline have been no less important either in their character or results.
Formerly in all the New England colleges an elaborate system of rules, enforced by an oversight,
which often amounted to espionage, was thought to be necessary to good order and the proper
moral development of young men. In the eyes of the students, the faculty of a college seemed
to be little else than a grand court of inquisition for the trial and punishment of offences
against discipline. In point of fact, a very large percentage of the time of college officers
was spent in that business. At Tufts, perhaps more completely than in any other New England
college, all this is changed. Formal rules relating to conduct have been abolished. Men are
put entirely upon their honor, and are no longer watched. Since 1875, there has not been a
single case of a student summoned before the faculty or a committee of the faculty for discipline.
Under this policy the gain in the orderly behavior, moral tone, and contentment of students
has been immense. For eleven years only one student has been sent away from the College for
misconduct; and not more than one or two, so far as I remember, have left the College because
of dissatisfaction either with its methods or its facilities; while the relative percentage
of those who graduate to those who enter has risen in twenty years from sixty-three per cent
to nearly eighty per cent, placing us, in this respect, in the front rank of New England colleges.

The whole number of graduates is now about four hundred. Of this number representatives may
be found in the principal walks of almost every one of the learned professions. As an indication
of the quality of scholarship produced, it may be remarked that the catalogue of 1885-6 shows
that no less than nine of the officers of instruction and government, including the president,
are from its own graduates. The board of trustees consists of twenty-nine persons. Of this
number ten are from the alumni of the College.

Silvanus Packard by will directed that the trustees should establish and maintain out of the
rents and profits of his estate, one theological professorship. The Rev. Thomas J. Sawyer,
D.D., was elected Packard Professor of Theology, and the Divinity School, with Dr. Sawyer at
its head, was organized and opened for the admission of students in 1869. At first one professor
was associated with Dr. Sawyer and very soon another was added to the faculty. There are at
present four professors besides Dr. Sawyer in the Divinity School. The course of study, at
the opening of the school, leading to the degree of Bachelor of Divinity was three years. But
so large a number of those applying for admission were found to be deficient in elementary
training that the course was lengthened to four years for all, except college graduates.

In order to give greater encouragement to men having the Christian ministry in view to secure
college training before entering the Divinity School, after the present year, while a preparatory
course of one year for all who have not the degree of A.B. will be retained, the degree of
B.D. will be given exclusively to college graduates. Upwards of sixty students, since the organization
of the School, have taken the prescribed course in theology and received the degree of Bachelor
of Divinity. Of this number nearly one half are in charge of important parishes in Massachusetts,
and others in different parts of the country are occupying some of the most prominent and influential
pulpits.

When the present site of the College was selected, the hill was without trees and almost repulsive
in its nakedness. The erection of the main college building and the first dormitory only served
to heighten its windswept appearance. But other important buildings have been added; walks
and driveways have been laid out; trees have been planted and have attained, on the southerly
slope, a thick and heavy growth, and are beginning to get a hold upon the northerly side; the
reservoir of the Mystic Water Works is established upon the summit of the hill, and, in effect,
forms a part of the College grounds; so that, in the summer season, there is no more beautiful
or attractive spot in the whole region about Boston than College Hill. In 1882-3 a very important
feature was added to its cluster of buildings by the erection of a stone chapel from funds
provided by Mary T. Goddard. The style of the edifice is Romanesque with a genuine Lombardic
tower. It is as graceful a piece of architecture as can be found in this part of the country
and is a worthy memorial of the woman, who, with her noble husband, has been so efficient a
promoter of the origin and growth of the institution. Since the completion of the chapel, Mrs.
Goddard has built and finished at her own expense an excellent gymnasium.

One of the most important additions of recent years has been the founding of the Barnum Museum
of Natural History. In the spring of 1883, the writer suggested to the Honorable P. T. Barnum
that as he had been all his life engaged in collecting rare objects in certain departments
of natural history for the purpose alike of popular amusement and instruction, it would be
most appropriate for him to leave behind him, as his monument, a natural history museum in
connection with the College of which he was one of the original promoters and founders. The
response was instantaneous. He directed me at once to procure plans and specifications of a
building which would admit of indefinite extension, and submit to him an estimate of the cost.
In accordance with the foregoing scheme, the present museum building has been erected; and
a beginning has been made also in the endowment fund. The museum, which is only the central
portion of what is intended to be a much larger building, is a structure of dignity and beauty.
The first, or basement floor, which is almost wholly above ground, is occupied by the steam-engine
and by the necessary laboratories and work-rooms. The second, or main floor has, besides a
large lecture-room, a grand vestibule, containing a marble bust of the donor, by Thomas Ball.
Here the larger and more important specimens of natural history now belonging to the College
are deposited. Here also the skin of Jumbo and the skeleton of the white elephant are to find
their ultimate resting-place. The third floor comprises a large exhibition hall, fifty feet
wide by seventy feet long, with a gallery running completely around it. In addition to the
important cabinet already belonging to the College, Mr. Barnum authorized Prof. Henry A. Ward
to furnish a fine zoölogical collection. This collection comprising several hundred choice
specimens, selected with special reference to purposes of instruction, has been received, mounted
and set up in cases specially designed for the purpose.

The library has had, on the whole, a very satisfactory growth. Dr. Ballou's extraordinary love
for books led him to bestow particular attention upon its formation. He was unremitting in
his solicitation of gifts from friends and acquaintances and from publishers and booksellers.
The interest awakened by him has never flagged. There are now in the possession of the College
upwards of twenty thousand bound volumes, many of them rare and of great value, and eight or
nine thousand pamphlets. The collection has entirely outgrown the quarters assigned to it,
and needs a building specially adapted to its use. A gentleman of ample fortune has privately
assured the president that such a building shall be supplied at an early day.

The College has been distinguished for its liberal policy towards those young men who are obliged
on account of limited means to struggle for their education. The charge for tuition is $100
a year. But there are more than thirty scholarships in the gift of the College. By means of
these the tuition may be cancelled for those who prove their worthiness by superior attainments.
In addition to these, gratuities are given in cases of need, so that the instruction is practically
free to all men of promise and fidelity whose circumstances require it. It is a gratifying
fact that some of the most distinguished and successful of its graduates are from among those
who have enjoyed its pecuniary favors, and who would have found a liberal education impossible
without them. Moreover, on account of the isolation of the College, there being no villages
in immediate contact with it on either side, it is not only extremely favorable for study,
but admirably adapted to those who are obliged to practise economy. Probably there is no institution
in America where a student can have equal advantages at so low a cost.

FOOTNOTES:

[A] The publishers have taken the liberty of incorporating in his article this portrait of
President Capen.

THE MENDICANT.

BY CLINTON SCOLLARD.

    Like some way-weary mendicant came I
      Unto the court where Love holds potent reign,
      And there in desolation I was fain
    Before the gateway to lie down and die.
    But one came forth who heard my mournful cry,
      Nor mocked nor spurned me with a cold disdain,
      But cheered me, saying, "Do not nurse thy pain!
    Be brave and bid the ghosts of dead days fly!"

    Then I arose and cast the Past aside,
      And felt within my breast a gladness great
      That I dared meet the eyes that beamed above:
    And all the future time was glorified,
    For I, who was a beggar at the gate,
      Became a dweller in the court of Love.

THE GRAND ARMY OF THE REPUBLIC IN MASSACHUSETTS.

BY PAST COMMANDER-IN-CHIEF GEO. S. MERRILL.

When the American Volunteer Army was disbanded in 1865, by reason of the completion of the
great work for which it was organized, had it been individually suggested to each one of that
million of men whose eager faces were turned homeward, to become united in a veteran association,
probably ninety-nine out of a hundred would have responded, "No; I've had all that I want of
soldiering; no more for me."

And yet, so strong did the ties of war-comradeship prove; so tender were the memories of camp
and march, of bivouac and battle; so full of heart-stirring events was the record of intimate
service in the face of great peril, that even before the final disbandment, among the earlier
returning veterans, soldier associations had already sprung into existence. Quite a number
of these had their origin in 1864, and even the date and place of birth of the Grand Army of
the Republic, with its membership of over three hundred thousand, is in doubt; two States at
least, Indiana and Illinois, claim its parentage; and while there are absolutely no reliable
data as to the place or exact time of the preliminary meetings out of which the great organization
grew, there is a tradition--if the dim memories of only twenty years ago can be so called--that
at a casual meeting of returned volunteers in Illinois in the latter portion of 1865, it was
discovered that in the little group nearly all were possessed of certain mysterious signs,
grips, and pass-words, by which various small bands of firm friends in rebel prisons had secretly
bound themselves together for mutual protection. To no men had the value of organization come
more forcibly than to these; and in this almost chance gathering was the beginning of the Grand
Army of the Republic. There was, early enough after the close of the war, another reason beyond
all questions of sentiment or association, demanding some form of organization among the returned
soldiers and sailors. Empty sleeves, single legs, eyeless sockets, and emaciated bodies were
too often coupled with personal necessities, and the maimed and diseased in need of charity
or employment began to point out the larger and growing demand for organized work in behalf
of suffering and dependent ones; and to what hands could this be so well committed as to those
of old comrades in arms? The Post of the Grand Army of the Republic holding the first regular
charter was organized in Dakota, Illinois, in the early spring of 1866, and in July following
a department, including then some forty posts, was organized in that State.

In October of the same year the association had extended into eight or nine other States, and
a call was issued for a convention to be held at Indianapolis, Indiana, November 20, 1866,
and here the National Encampment had its organization.

Massachusetts was not represented in the gathering, the Grand Army at that time having but
just obtained a foothold in this State. In September, 1866, a convention of returned soldiers
and sailors representing nearly all the northern States was held at Pittsburg, Penn. Among
those present from Massachusetts were Gen. Charles Devens, Gen. N. P. Banks, Major A. S. Cushman,
and Chaplain A. H. Quint. On reaching Pittsburg, the attention of the Massachusetts comrades
was attracted by badges worn by a large number of delegates, particularly from Indiana and
Illinois, bearing the legend, "Grand Army of the Republic;" and so numerous were these badges
that a spirit of inquiry was quite naturally awakened as to the character and objects of this
"Soldiers' Masonic Order," as it was termed by the uninitiated. After some consultation, a
number of the Massachusetts delegates, including those we have named, were informally inducted
into the organization, in the parlor of B. F. Stevenson, who at the first national encampment
a few weeks later was made provisional Commander-in-chief; the ritual and unwritten work was
communicated to the new members, and they were fully empowered to organize posts in Massachusetts,
General Devens being appointed provisional Grand Commander of the department. On returning
from Pittsburg there was something of a rivalry for the organization of the first post. Comrade
Cushman, who had been active in the association of the "boys in blue," was especially enthusiastic;
and, capturing an old army associate upon the train homeward, he poured into his ears such
an account of the new organization, that as soon as they reached New Bedford, they went out
into the highways, and summoned a sufficient number of their comrades; and on that very day,
Oct. 4, they organized the first post of the Grand Army of the Republic in Massachusetts. This
still holds the initial number, Wm. Logan Rodman Post, No. 1, of New Bedford. The charter fee
was at once forwarded to provisional Commander Devens, thus making sure of the coveted distinction.

A day or two later, these comrades organized a second post at Nantucket and a third at Taunton.
Comrade Cushman exhibited such zeal and earnestness in this work that provisional Commander
Devens insisted on having that position formally transferred; and the latter therefore resigned,
and asked for the appointment of Mr. Cushman in his stead, which was accordingly made. As in
the case of the national history of the Order, partially consequent thereon, but in a larger
degree because of the destruction of all the department records in the great Boston fire, the
early story of the Grand Army in Massachusetts is incomplete in many details, but it appears
certain that during the existence of the provisional department under Comrade Cushman, ten
posts were organized. On the seventh of May, 1867, a permanent department was organized by
a delegate convention called at New Bedford, Commander Cushman being elected Department, or,
as then termed, Grand Commander.

Inspiring his new official associates with something of his own ardor, Commander Cushman divided
the state into ten districts, with a recruiting officer to each, and the "missionary work"
was so vigorously prosecuted that the commander was able to welcome to the regular annual encampment
in January, 1868, the representatives of over forty posts, with a membership of fully two thousand,
while applications for nearly a score of additional posts were nearly ready for consideration.
During the year 1867, a visit of Gen. P. H. Sheridan to Boston was made the occasion of a torchlight
parade of the posts of the Grand Army, and the fine appearance made by the organization on
this first public display attracted general attention, and was doubtless one means of largely
increasing the membership.

As has been stated, on account of the careless compilation of records at national headquarters,
and the substantial downfall of the posts in the West, where its great strength was at first,
the history of the early years of the order is left in much uncertainty. But the organization
had in the western states a wild, riotous growth; the meagre reports extant naming two hundred
thousand as the membership in 1867; but the utter lack of organization, and the intrusion of
politics, left the order, almost as speedily as it had sprung into existence, a complete wreck.

At the close of the year 1870, the department of Illinois, where the Grand Army had its birth,
had been reduced from over three hundred posts, and a membership of forty thousand, to less
than twenty-five posts, and these barely existing in name; and two years later its entire membership
was but two hundred and thirty-eight. Indiana, with two hundred and seventy-nine posts, and
thirty thousand membership, had become utterly disorganized; Iowa, with one hundred and forty-four
posts, had ceased to have a recognized existence; the thirty posts in Kansas had dwindled to
nine; Minnesota had shrunk from twenty-five to two posts; the one hundred and twenty-nine posts
in Missouri had no department existence; in Wisconsin, of seventy-nine, less than a dozen were
left, and in Pennsylvania, one hundred and forty-three out of two hundred and twenty-four had
been disbanded. At the session of the National Encampment in May, 1870, the Adjutant-General
reported that only three departments, Massachusetts being one, could give the exact number
of the members upon their rolls, and the national headquarters were then involved in over $3,000
of indebtedness.

But in Massachusetts, the founders of the Grand Army of the Republic wisely bolted and double-barred
the doors against the intrusion of partisan topics, and the growth of the organization was
steady and continuous. In January, 1868, comrade A. B. R. Sprague was elected to succeed Commander
Cushman, and at the end of his term was able to report seventy-three posts, with a membership
of six thousand one hundred and eighty-nine.

How well the department of Massachusetts kept, through these early years, the Grand Army banner
in the front, is evidenced by the following:--

The percentage in this department alone of the entire membership in the United States was,
in 1872, 38 per cent; 1873, 42 per cent; 1874, 43 per cent; 1875, 38 per cent; 1876, 32 per
cent; 1877, 33 per cent; 1878, 30 per cent; 1879, 21 per cent.

From the latter year, because of the rapid growth in Pennsylvania and New York, and of the
reorganization and great increase of the departments in western states, this percentage was
rapidly decreased to six per cent in 1885, but for ten successive years the official national
reports accord to Massachusetts, in all respects, the position of "the banner department."
In April, 1868, Commander-in-chief Logan issued his order for the observance annually of the
thirtieth of May as a Memorial Day, "for the purpose of strewing with flowers or otherwise
decorating the graves of those who died in defence of their country during the late rebellion,"
and the ceremony into which so much of tenderness and patriotic love has since been wrought,
was most heartily inaugurated in this department.

Comrade F. A. Osborn succeeded Commander Sprague, occupying the position during the year 1869.
Within his term, a new ritual, establishing three grades or degrees, was adopted by the National
Encampment, largely in compliance with the desires of the members of the western departments,
against the earnest opposition of Massachusetts, where was a strong wish to "let well enough
alone." This change was the first adverse blow felt in this department, where not only was
the rapid and continuous growth of the organization retarded, but in a single quarter ending
Sept. 30, 1869, there was a net loss of one thousand seven hundred and nine members. But this
was partially recovered during the subsequent three months, and the Assistant Adjutant-General
was able to report at the close of the year, one hundred and seventeen posts, with nine thousand
members. During this year there was put in operation the system of careful inspection of the
several posts by department officers, which has since become a part of the national regulations,
and which, from its inception in this department, has contributed so largely to the efficiency
and growth of the organization. With the retrogression of the western departments, Massachusetts
in this year went to the front in point of numbers, as confessedly also in perfection of organization
and completeness of Grand Army work, and held that position until 1880, when Pennsylvania passed
her in point of membership. It will be impossible in the limit of this article to speak in
detail of each distinctive year's administration, but the numerical loss of membership was
not the most serious result of the introduction of the grade system; among those who then dropped
out of the organization, disbelieving in the departure from the original simplicity of forms,
were some of the most active and influential members, the loss of whose interest and personality
was severely felt for years.

During 1870 and 1871, the growth was small, and high water mark for that period was reached
in the first quarter of 1873, when a membership of ten thousand and seventy was reported. From
this point came a reaction, the numbers slowly and steadily diminishing for six years, the
lowest point in membership being reached in the spring of 1879, when there were but seven thousand
seven hundred and forty-eight upon the rolls.

From that time, slowly at first, but without retrogression, the membership has risen to its
present point, numbering eighteen thousand.

The question of an appropriate badge, which had received much consideration by two successive
National Encampments and their committees, was finally settled by a resolution passed October
28, 1869, adopting the design now in use, to be made of bronze from cannon captured during the war.

During one or two years of the Grand Army in this state, there was no organized charity work,
but the necessity for systematized action early became evident, and in 1870 posts began the
establishment of a relief fund, placed in the hands of trustees, and administered by special
committees; and in this direction Massachusetts has grandly led all other departments, having
expended in the past fifteen years, from the various relief funds of posts, over $600,000.

This work has been most thoroughly systematized, in nearly every instance cities being divided
by wards, and large towns into districts, with a special investigating committee for each,
and, from the intimacy of association, the knowledge of records, and the veterans' natural
hatred of shams, a like amount of money could hardly have been as judiciously or economically
disbursed through any other channels; while from no hands could aid to the family or dependent
ones of a needy veteran come with so little of the chilliness of reluctant charity as from
those of old comrades-in-arms.

Unlike most, perhaps every other charitable society, the larger part of this money has, continually,
from the first, been expended in behalf of those who are not of its membership.

From time to time the posts have appealed to the public, by fairs, concerts, lectures, and
like entertainments, for the means to replenish their relief funds, and the response has ever
been worthy the generosity and patriotism of the Commonwealth.

At the present time, the posts have in these funds about $120,000.

With the incoming of Commander Horace Binney Sargent, in 1876, the Grand Army entered upon
a new and broader field in its work of fraternal charity; large as had been the liberality
of Massachusetts towards its veterans, the Commonwealth yet lacked for its own what the national
government had established for the helpless and needy wards of the Republic,--a Soldiers and
Sailors Home. With the same earnestness and fervor which had made him the trusted military
confidant of Governor Andrew, and later, a splendid commanding officer in the field, Commander
Sargent threw himself into the work of securing this great need of the Commonwealth. The times
were far from auspicious; business was suffering from severe depression, property values were
feeling the apparent shrinkage incident to the approach to a coin basis, Comrade Sargent personally
being among the foremost sufferers, while the strength of the Grand Army was from these causes
constantly diminishing; and, at the outset, not a few of the members of the organization doubted
the necessity for, or feared the failure of, the project. But there was contagion in the fiery
enthusiasm and terrible earnestness of Commander Sargent, and, slowly at first, but surely,
the plan won its way. Breaking their hitherto and since invariable rule of "one term" elections
of department commander, the comrades in Massachusetts a second and a third time re-elected
Commander Sargent, and, before the close of the latter term, he saw the beginning of the end
in the establishment of a Soldiers Home on Powder Horn Hill, Chelsea.

The work had been of slow growth; the posts were appealed to, public meetings were held, and
at camp-fires and other gatherings the necessity for the procurement of a Home was strongly
urged; but during the earlier months there were only a few tangible evidences of prospective
success, here and there a small contributor, so that many who had been enthusiastic became
downcast and discouraged. But there was one comrade whose faith failed not, and when the workers
wearied, Comrade Sargent became only the more resolute and determined. During his second term,
he was able to announce the receipt of a small bequest in the will of a generous lady, and
this afforded the basis for yet more persistent appeals to the public. An act of incorporation
was procured from the legislature, by which the control of the institution was placed in the
hands of the Grand Army, by the selection of a majority of the trustees from this organization.
With the small amount of money secured, a beginning was made by the purchase of the property
now used as a Home, and on the eighth day of June, 1881, the dedicatory exercises were held,
and the Home opened July 25 of the following year. Already, however, a movement had been inaugurated
for a grand bazaar in December, at the Mechanics' Building in Boston. Gen. Sargent, who had
been chosen President of the Board of Trustees, which position he filled until his removal
from the state, succeeded in interesting a large number of the leading citizens of the state,
and was fortunate in calling to his aid as chief marshal, Col. A. A. Rand, to whose admirable
organizing powers much of the success of the bazaar was due. The women, always loyal to the
veterans, went enthusiastically into the work, the posts joined heartily, and the general public
responded liberally, and at the end nearly fifty thousand dollars was turned over to the Treasurer
of the Home, which, with the addition of $10,000, the munificent gift of Capt. J. B. Thomas,
enabled the managers to pay the balance of the purchase money upon the property, and largely
increase the number of inmates. For more than five years past, the deserving applicants have
been in excess of the capacity of the Home, and there was also an imperative necessity for
enlarged hospital accommodations.

In 1884, therefore, steps were initiated for the Carnival, held in Boston in February, 1885.
By another bit of good fortune, Col. A. C. Wellington was secured as chief marshal, and again
success crowned the effort, over sixty thousand dollars being realized as the net result. The
legislature makes an annual appropriation of $15,000 towards the support of the Home, which
now contains one hundred and ten inmates, to be increased about thirty upon the completion
of the new hospital building.

Since the institution of the Grand Army in Massachusetts, its commanders have been as follows:--

1866, provisional, Chas. Devens, A. S. Cushman; 1867, A. S. Cushman; 1868, A. B. R. Sprague;
1869, Francis A. Osborne; 1870, James L. Bates; 1871, William Cogswell; 1872, Henry R. Sibley;
1873, A. B. Underwood; 1874, J. W. Kimball; 1875, Geo. S. Merrill; 1876-77-78, Horace Binney
Sargent; 1879, J. G. B. Adams; 1880, John A. Hawes; 1881, Geo. W. Creasey; 1882, Geo. H. Patch;
1883, Geo. S. Evans; 1884, John D. Billings; 1885, John W. Hersey; 1886, Richard F. Tobin.

The Assistant Adjutant-Generals, to whose systematic work this department has been so greatly
indebted for its efficiency, have been Thomas Sherwin, Henry B. Peirce, James F. Meech, and
Alfred C. Munroe.

Having for eight years led in members and excellency all the departments of the country, with
its record of over $600,000, expended in its relief work, with $120,000 now held for that purpose,
with a membership of nearly eighteen thousand, and possessing the only Soldiers Home in the
nation, established solely through its own efforts and still maintained in its hands, the Grand
Army of Massachusetts has a right to be proud of its exemplification of the virtues of "Fraternity,
Charity, and Loyalty."

ON DETACHED SERVICE.

AN EPISODE OF THE CIVIL WAR.

BY CHARLES A. PATCH, MASS. VOLS.

Most sketches of battle-scenes, in their voluminous details of movements and vivid descriptions
of action, so completely hide the actual feelings of the men engaged that the inexperienced
may be pardoned the thought, that, having donned the insignia of a soldier, a man instantly
becomes filled with martial ardor, and eager to face the most withering fire of musketry or
artillery. But the reality is far different; very few men are so constituted, or are so reckless
of their lives, that they can listen to the unearthly screech of the shell or the crash of
solid shot, mingled with the sickening thud of grape and bullets, without a shiver of weakness
creeping through their systems, and a helpless knocking of their knees together. It is a military
fact that lines of combatants as they go into position are not made up of heroes, and regiments
which won renown in such scenes of carnage as Fredericksburg, or Gettysburg, or the Wilderness,
were composed of plain, quiet men, who were faint-hearted and homesick when forming in front
of flashing batteries or heavy bodies of opposing troops. It was only when completely involved
in the struggle, after the madness of excitement had overcome the real man, that they proved
themselves to be, what we now know them, heroes. But it very often happened that troops were
placed in positions where neither glory nor honor could redound to them, however brave they
might be, and where the results of such movements were not at all in keeping with the loss
of life incurred. This little sketch covers somewhat such an occasion, where troops comparatively
new in the service were ordered to perform work which seemed uncalled-for and extra hazardous,
and of so little consequence that no record will ever be made of it, although lives were lost
in its accomplishment. An inside view is simply given of the true feelings and actions of men
at such times, and necessarily lacks the glow of enthusiasm which is thrown around the picture
of the historic battle. But to the story.

If there was one feature in the South which annoyed the Federal commanders more than another
it was the railroad system. Through its medium they were enabled to supply their armies from
the great plantation centres where war was unknown. With a railroad at the back of each army,
they were enabled to move with small wagon trains, and could utilize troops that would otherwise
have been detached as guards. By its potent power, also, the troops were hurried from point
to point of the Confederacy, thus keeping the Federal armies so long outside the charmed circle
of the seceded States. With worn-out rails, scant supply of carriage-material, and wheezy engines,
they performed herculean labor throughout the war. Consequently it became the favorite pastime
and the almost sole business of Union cavalry to destroy or attempt destruction of railroad
communication. Thousands upon thousands of valuable lives were sacrificed in such movements,
and without any material damage to the fighting centre of the Confederacy.

Our department commander, becoming infatuated with this method of making war upon the South,
was urging his corps towards a well-known railroad junction one clear, cool day in December,
'62. We were some fifty miles from our base, and bodies of the enemy were continually harassing
our line of march, sometimes meeting us in sharp conflict, and at all times impeding our progress
by road-obstruction. Already the killed and wounded were counted by hundreds, and the coveted
goal still far away. As we plodded wearily along, wondering what would happen next, one of
the division staff dashed up to our brigadier and ordered him to detach one of his regiments
and send it to support cavalry that had seized a bridge some miles to our right. It was the
fortune of our regiment to be detached for the service, and we marched into a wood-road, rather
depressed in feelings, and sadly missing that sense of security which the fellowship of a large
body of men gives to the soldier. On we went for about three miles through dense woods that
chilled one's very marrow with their gloom. Occasional glimpses of bits of blue sky through
the overarching branches were the only reminders that the outside world remained as it used
to be. Once or twice we passed small openings in which some poor white had located, and where
half-naked children were the only signs of civilization, or, rather, uncivilization, till,
at last, under the guidance of a scout, we filed into a clearing about a quarter of a mile
from the bridge. Through the woods we could see two guns planted in the road at the bridgehead,
and a squadron of dismounted cavalry supporting them. The smoke rising from the partially burnt
timbers, and the frequent interchange of rifle and carbine shots, with now and then the roar
of artillery, gave ample evidence that business would soon be lively in that locality. The
outlook was not at all enlivening; our regiment was small in number, the woods dark and treacherous,--the
main army adding mile upon mile to the interval between us,--and we were very forcibly impressed
that even railroad-smashing, in plenty of company, was far better than bridge-burning with
such lonesome surroundings.

While chewing the cud of reflection, and anxiously considering the situation, a major of cavalry
appeared from the woods calling for assistance, and cold perspiration covered us as our captain
was ordered to place his company under the major's direction. Command was given to "Fall in,"
which we did with very solemn faces, and whisperings went through the ranks that we guessed
it was all up with us; but the order to "March" called us to duty and we proceeded down the
road accompanied by a battery, which had at that moment arrived and proved a welcome addition
to our meagre force. Halting in a clump of trees, a short distance from the river, we divested
ourselves of all luggage and then made our way through the woods to the edge of a field that
bordered on the river bank; quietness reigned as we deployed as skirmishers, and just before
we advanced, the cavalryman pleasantly informed us that when the line struck a certain stump,
we should get abundant notice of our Confederate friends' proximity. Not in the least overjoyed
at this information, we crept slowly forward, all eyes and ears, and as the extreme left came
into line with the stump, the heavens opened, or at least we thought they had, and six pieces
of artillery sent their compliments in the shape of so many barrelsful of grape. One grand
whir-r-r-r went over us, around us, and, in imagination, through us; it took but the sixtieth
part of a minute for fifty men to flatten themselves upon the earth and wish they had never
gone to the war. No time was wasted in examining the topography of the position, or in looking
for safer quarters, our military discipline showing itself in the unanimity with which we then
and there dropped as one man. In the short interval between the first and second discharges
of grape, one of those incidents occurred which often turns the seriousness of battle into
a seeming frolic. While considering the expediency of advancing, our attention was drawn to
the antics of several cattle, which had been quietly grazing near by, now so thoroughly astonished
at the strange proceedings that they were literally attempting to carry out the old Mother
Goose rhyme of "jumping over the moon." With tails stiff as crowbars and hind legs higher than
their heads, they were cavorting around the field, bellowing with fright, and making such an
extremely ludicrous spectacle, that, in our excited condition, it was more than we could bear,
and almost hysterical laughter weakened us so that we were hardly able to move. But the range
of the enemy's guns was too accurate to admit of a long stay in this locality, so we pushed
on, rolling or crawling, to the thin line of trees by the river, continual discharges of grape
adding increased momentum to our movements, and solid shot from our own battery crossing us
so closely that it made the neighborhood more dangerous than social. Drawing long breaths of
relief at last, behind the partial shelter of a rail fence, we began to make as close investigation
of our opponents across the stream as the difficulties of the position would allow. We found
the country thickly inhabited, every stump and tree sheltering its quota of men in gray, and
six ugly-looking cannon at work upon our position with a rapidity and precision that was certainly
commendable to them, if not fully appreciated by us. However, we soon lost our fears and misgivings
in our eagerness to make the climate as warm for them as they had so far made it for us, and
we settled down to our work with a vim that would have made old veterans envious. The river
was so narrow that every movement on either side was visible, and, lying flat upon the ground,
we fired for hours at any signs of life, and were continually answered by the zip-zip of bullets
as they flew past our heads, or buried themselves in the rails above us. Thus the conflict
continued; grape and solid shot tore frantically over us, plowing up the dirt and crashing
through the woods in the rear, filling our ears with the most frightful din. Our greatest difficulty
was in loading, for if so much as a hand was exposed to view, such a rain of lead would be
sent our way that it took some minutes to assure one's self that he was not killed. Once in
a while, the word would be passed along, "George is wounded," "Ned is killed," or, "Serg't
Smith" has a hole through his arm, and we would instinctively get closer to the ground and
flatten ourselves out as thin as possible. Hunger and thirst also began to tell on us, and
we longed for the darkness to come, but our opponents with their larger force held us to our
work, seeming loth to have us depart.

About dusk the order was given to fall back quickly and quietly, but how to do it safely in
the face of a regiment of Confederates was a puzzle to be solved; edging backward till at fair
distance from the fence, we suddenly rose and scampered, in knots of two or three, at break-neck
speed for the other side of the field, with bullets and grape buzzing around us like angry
wasps. When, at length, we gathered, shivering with the cold, around our pile of blankets,
and felt hungrily in the emptiness of our haversacks for one remaining cracker, the prevailing
feeling was that "we wanted to go home," but, to our intense disgust, we were ordered to eat
our hardtack, if so fortunate as to have any, and, as soon as sufficiently dark to conceal
our movements, to picket the river bank near the bridge and be ready to support the battery
in any attempted night surprise. This we felt to be an outrage on good nature, and so expressed
ourselves in language not at all polite. We were tired and hungry, and the night cold and sharp,
but orders are orders and must be obeyed, and we moodily wended our way to our various stations.

It was a good time to illustrate those lines of Tennyson,--

    "Theirs not to make reply,
    Theirs not to reason why."

Nevertheless we were not at all in harmony with the poem, but felt perfectly willing and wholly
competent to instruct our commanders on the correct way to handle troops. As we pushed on through
the underbrush and débris of the forest, the smallest stick trod upon would crack like a rifle-shot,
and the unearthly howl of a dog, in the yard of a hut near by, made our hair stand on end as
it echoed through the woods. The hours passed tediously as we peered through the darkness across
the sluggish stream to the opposite side; but a little after midnight movements of the enemy,
which they did not try to conceal, awakened our fears; the noise of bodies of men moving from
different points, mingled with the sound of voices and frequent shouts, led us to feel that
life would be safer and pleasanter behind our battery, when an officer came from the rear and
ordered us to come out in a hurry. We didn't stand upon the order of going, but "got, right
smart,"--not a word of fault was found, nor a complaint made, out of harmony with the officer's
wishes. Company was formed at once, and the retreat up the road commenced, many an eye peering
back into the darkness to see if the expected pursuit had begun; and had we waited an hour
longer, our march would have been towards the prison-pens of Georgia, for our opponents then
crossed the bridge with a force that would have swept us away in a moment; and the longer we
live the happier we feel that our curiosity remained unsatisfied. Upon reaching the regiment
we learned that our corps, having been unable to accomplish the object in view, as so many
other expeditions failed to do, were in retreat, with heavy forces fresh from Lee's army in
pursuit, and that it behooved us to cover the three-mile interval in double-quick time if we
would join the procession in safety. We had been without rations all day, and for drinkables
had only the water that lay in puddles by the roadside; but, wearied as we were, we kept pace
with the other companies, muttering bitter imprecations against everybody in general, as we
stumbled into holes or tripped over sticks in the intense darkness of the forest road. At early
dawn we fell into the line of the retreating corps, but not till near midnight did the army
halt with the feeling that it had placed safe distance between it and our adversaries. Then
we 'broke ranks for rails,' and, with coffee and pipes, sat beside the cheering blaze recounting
the incidents of the engagement. Our little encounter, so insignificant beside the story of
great battles, was yet full of interest to us, and some were missing from our ranks who would
never again respond to their country's call. To them and theirs it was the great battle of
the Rebellion; to us, who live to tell of it, only an episode of army life.

A TOWN MEETING-HOUSE,

AND TOWN POLITICS IN THE LAST CENTURY.

BY ATHERTON P. MASON, M. D.

Nearly a century ago the little town, now the prosperous city, of Fitchburg, Mass., was the
scene of a fierce contest that lasted a decade. Never in the history of the town was there
contention so bitter or opposition so determined as that shown in the ninety-nine town meetings
held during the years 1786-96. The cause of this tempest in a teapot was the location of a
new meeting-house.

At that time the "center of the town" was in the easterly part of the township, in the vicinity
of the present Union Passenger Depot. Here were located the rather shabby yellow meeting-house,
Cowdin's tavern, Dea. Ephraim Kimball's mill, Joseph Fox's "red store," and several dwelling-houses.
Westward from this ran a country road (now Main Street) along which were scattered half a dozen
houses. West of the present junction of River and Main Streets there were almost no habitations
until reaching the high land, now known as Dean Hill, about 1-3/4 miles distant. This high
land was early settled by farmers, because of the excellent soil, and comparative freedom from
early frosts. Here were two taverns, a blacksmith's shop, a store, and a number of dwellings.
These people in the west were considerably removed from the river, which at that time was regarded
as a curse to the town, and were desirous of being separated from Fitchburg in order to escape
the heavy tax annually levied to maintain bridges. Moreover the west was then the more flourishing
settlement, and its inhabitants began to feel that they ought to have a meeting-house of their
own, and not be obliged to travel to the easterly part of the town to attend church,--in a
word they felt rather abused at being considered a suburb.

Early in 1785 one of the articles in the town-meeting warrant was, "To see if the town will
take into consideration the request of Jacob Upton and others, to see if the town will set
off the inhabitants of the north-westerly part of Fitchburg, with their lands and privileges,
free and clear from said Fitchburg, to join the extreme part of Westminster, with the north-easterly
part of Ashburnham, to be incorporated into a town, to have town privileges, as other towns."
Had this request been granted a new meeting-house would have been built near Upton's tavern;
but it was promptly dismissed. Baffled, but not dismayed, the petitioners came to the town
meeting held in May, 1785, with a proposition to annex to Fitchburg "about a mile or more in
width of land, with the inhabitants thereon, of the northerly part of the town of Westminster,"
and these additional people were "to join the inhabitants of said Fitchburg to build a meeting-house
on Ezra Upton's land." This scheme was very artful, but the wise men of the east saw that such
a move would throw the balance of power into the hands of the west, and therefore voted it down.

These two defeats stirred up the people of the west, and they determined to carry their point
in some way. In March, 1786, they petitioned "that Rev. Mr. Payson have liberty to preach some
part of the time in the year in the westerly part of the town." This was certainly a modest
request, but was denied, the people of the east evidently thinking that if they yielded an
inch they might, at no very distant date, have to travel two or three miles.

All this, however, was but a skirmish. The date of the beginning of the real contest was Sept.
12, 1786, when, it was voted "to build a new meeting-house in the centre of the town, or in
the nearest convenient place to the centre." It was thus agreed that a new house was to be
built, but where to build it was not easily determined. The maxim, large bodies move slowly,
was verified in this instance, for, although there was much private sputtering in regard to
the location, no further public action was taken for two years. Meanwhile Jedediah Cooper and
Jacob Upton, the two tavern keepers in the westerly part of the town, despairing of any redress,
determined, together with some of their neighbors, to have a meeting-house among themselves
at any rate. They accordingly erected in the course of time a shabby structure, just within
the limits of the town, which was used to some extent for preaching; but the proprietors did
not take much care of it, and its dilapidated appearance earned for it the name of the "Lord's
Barn." It was sold and taken down about sixty years ago, and the proceeds of the sale (about
thirty-six dollars) were divided among the proprietors.

Sept. 9, 1788, the subject was again brought before the town by means of an article in the
warrant,--"To see if the town will erect a meeting-house in the centre of the town, or receive
any part of Westminster that shall be willing to join with us, and then erect a meeting-house
in the nearest convenient place to the centre." This article was put into the warrant by the
people of the west, whose underlying object was the formation of a new town, while the rest
of the inhabitants were strenuously opposed to this project. No action was taken on this article
at this meeting. A few days later, Sept. 23, a meeting was called, at which a committee, consisting
of Moses Hale, Oliver Stickney, Daniel Putnam, Jacob Upton, and Asa Perry, was appointed "to
find a place to erect a meeting-house in the most convenient place to accommodate the inhabitants
of the town of Fitchburg." The result of the investigation made by these five gentlemen was
that two of them found the most convenient place to be in the west, two in the east, and the
remaining member was upon the fence. A town meeting was held, Oct. 2, to hear the report of
this committee, and when it had been given it was rejected, and the gentlemen were promptly
discharged from further services in that direction. A motion was then made to place the new
house on the site of the old one: this was negatived. Then, "after much consideration," as
the record says, it was voted "to erect the new meeting-house in the nearest convenient place
to the centre." Such brilliant progress must have been altogether too gratifying, for a few
minutes later it was voted "to reconsider all votes hitherto passed relating to this matter."
At this stage in the proceedings the meeting was adjourned to nine o'clock of the next day.

On the following morning the parties proceeded to business. It was first moved to place the
new house where the old one then stood; this was again negatived. It was then moved to place
it "on the hill near Phineas Sawyer's house, on the land belonging to the heirs of Mr. Ezra
Upton" (in the westerly part of the town). The meeting was divided on this motion, "to find
a true vote," as the record states, and thirty-two voted in favor of it and seventeen against
it. So by a vote of nearly two to one it was decided to place the new house in the west, and
it looked as if everything was going on swimmingly. A committee was chosen, consisting of Reuben
Smith, Asa Perry, Phineas Sawyer, Elijah Carter, and Jacob Upton, "to be invested with power
to agree with the owners of the new frame erecting for a meeting-house (that of Jacob Upton
and others before mentioned) in the north-westerly part of the town, if that appear cheapest
for the town,--otherways are invested with power to provide materials and timber for building
a new meeting-house in the prudentest manner for said town on said plat of ground." This committee
was instructed to report progress at the next town meeting.

This was a bitter pill for the east to swallow. Resolved on retaliation, the east called a
town meeting immediately "To see if the town will comply with a request of a number of the
inhabitants of Fitchburg, to grant that they, together with their respective estates and interests,
may be set off from Fitchburg and annexed to Lunenburg." This request was denied. The honest
people, who, for the sake of peace and reconciliation had favored the west at the previous
meeting, were now thoroughly alarmed. They held the balance of power, and were in a very unpleasant
predicament. If they voted to place the new house in the east, the west threatened to form
a new parish; and if they favored the west, the east evinced strong symptoms of returning to
the parent town of Lunenburg.

Meanwhile, undaunted by this sudden squall in the east, the committee had bargained for the
frame of the new meeting-house being erected in the north-westerly part of the town, prepared
a site for the new house on the land of Ezra Upton's heirs, and done sundry other wise things.
Nov. 17, 1788, a town meeting was called to listen to the report of this committee. Their excellent
progress was set forth with great confidence, whereupon the meeting gravely voted not to accept
the report, and added insult to injury by summarily discharging the committee from further
service. This was done by the peacemakers who were at their wits' ends, and this time threw
their influence into the eastern scale. At this meeting a committee was chosen to find the
centre of the town. After a survey, the centre was found to be on the land of one Thomas Boynton,
about five hundred feet north of the pound. Their report was accepted at a town meeting held
Dec. 18, 1788, and a committee, consisting of Thomas Cowdin, Phineas Hartwell, Oliver Stickney,
Daniel Putnam, and Paul Wetherbee, was chosen to bargain for a site in the most suitable place.
This committee bought twenty-two and a half acres of land, a little south of the pound, of
Boynton, paying therefor two dollars and thirty-three cents per acre, and the town approved
this action.

The west, not thinking this location near enough, resorted to the old scheme of forming a new
town, and called two meetings for that purpose, thereby scaring the conscientious peacemakers
nearly out of their wits; but for some reason or other the men of the west did not put in an
appearance, and these two meetings were uncommonly peaceable. The petitions were dismissed.
The reason of their non-appearance at these meetings probably was that the people of the west,
who all this time were carrying on their plans vigorously but quietly, as will soon be seen,
wished to lull the rest of the town into a sense of security.

At a meeting held Nov. 2, 1789, the town voted "to erect a new meeting-house on the land purchased
of Thomas Boynton," and a committee was chosen to take the matter in charge. Two weeks later
the town voted to reconsider all former votes; so that at the end of four years the town was
in the same position regarding this matter as when it began operations, with the exception
of owning twenty-two and a half acres of real estate. The cause of this singular action was
the culmination of the move on the part of the west, alluded to above. The people of the west,
together with portions of Westminster, Ashburnham, and Ashby, had presented to the General
Court a powerful petition for an act of incorporation into a town.

"This petition set forth in glowing colors the delightful situation of the contemplated town--how
nature had lavished all her skill upon it--how admirably adapted for a township by itself was
the noble swell of land--and that nothing in nature or in art could exceed the grand and imposing
spectacle of a meeting-house towering from its summit, while beneath the said swell was a region
of low, sunken land which almost cut off the petitioners from intercourse with the rest of
mankind.[B]"

This meant business, and the inhabitants of Fitchburg drew up a spirited remonstrance, in which
they were joined by the people in those portions of the three adjoining towns not included
in the proposed new township. In this remonstrance every statement of the petitioners was denied,
and the whole thing denounced as visionary. This matter engrossed the attention of both parties
during 1790, and the result was that the General Court refused to incorporate the new town.

After such a vigorous contest a brief breathing spell was necessary; but Sept. 7, 1791, the
town voted, forty-one to twenty-three, "to erect a new meeting-house in the centre of the town,
or in the nearest convenientest place thereto." This double-barrelled superlativeness shows
that the spirit of the people was by no means cast down by the fruitless struggle of five years.
At this meeting a committee was appointed to plan a new house. Oct. 10, this committee reported
to the town "to build a house sixty by forty-six feet, with a porch at each end twelve by eleven
feet, with stairs into the galleries." There were to be forty-six pews on the ground floor,
and twenty-five in the galleries, to be sold to the highest bidders, and three years were to
be allowed in which to build the house. This report was accepted at a meeting held Nov. 14,
1791. A committee was also chosen to clear a site upon the land purchased of Thomas Boynton
and build the house. Dec. 27, 1791, the town with its usual consistency voted "to dismiss the
committee chosen to build a new meeting-house from further service." Thus the matter again
stood as at the beginning.

For nearly three years thereafter the pot continued to boil, but nothing more was done about
church affairs in town meeting, except that on May 17, 1793, the people showed their obstinacy
by refusing "to repair the meeting-house windows, and to paint the outside of the meeting-house."
Three disinterested individuals, Joseph Stearns and David Kilburn of Lunenburg, and Benjamin
Kimball of Harvard, were chosen by ballot as a committee to discover that much-to-be-desired
spot, "the nearest convenientest place to the centre." They found the centre to be a little
less than a quarter of a mile north-east of the pound, but considered the most eligible location
for the house to be about a half a mile south of this point, which would have placed it near
the present junction of Main and River Streets. Oct. 21 a meeting was called to hear their
report and it was rejected 36 to 29. So the opinions of interested and disinterested persons
seem to have been considered of about equal value--as good for nothing.

Nov. 21, 1794, a motion "to place the meeting-house on the spot where the committee out of
town proposed" was negatived, forty-eight to forty-five. A committee was then appointed to
select a suitable place. Dec. 1 this committee reported in favor of "setting the meeting-house
near the high bridge, under the hill" (the place the out-of-town committee had proposed). This
report was accepted, sixty-one to forty-seven. A town meeting was therefore called Jan. 8,
1795, to choose a committee to purchase the land agreed upon; but at the meeting the town refused
to choose such a committee, and so ended the plan of building a meeting-house there.

Jan. 26, 1795, the town voted "to erect a meeting-house on the town's land they purchased of
Thomas Boynton, about five rods south-west from a large white oak tree, and to pattern it after
the Leominster meeting-house." It was to be completed by the last day of December, 1796.

Feb. 9, 1795, the town chose a committee of three "to view Ashburnham meeting-house, and take
a plan of the inside, and consult with Asa Kendall of Ashby for the mode of finishing the inside,
and laying a plan for building the house." A week later the report of this committee was heard
and accepted, and it was voted to pattern the new house after the one in Ashburnham. "Likewise
voted to have the length of said house sixty-two by forty-eight feet, the posts to said house
to be twenty-seven feet in length, and that the undertaker to build the house give bonds, with
good bondsmen, to fulfil the contract." The contract was given to John Putman, Jr. Then followed
other town meetings which regulated the size of joists to be used, and other minor matters
that need not be here dwelt upon, Sept. 1, 1795, a committee of five was chosen "to stake out
and oversee the clearing and levelling of the meeting-house spot for the underpinning on the
town land." At this meeting it was also voted "that the Selectmen lay out a four-rod road in
the best place to accommodate the travel to the new meeting-house spot."

At this time plans seem to have been perfected, and the prospect of a new house on the town
land tolerably assured; but Oct. 19, 1795, everything was completely upset. On that day a meeting
was called "to know the sense of the town whether the former vote in placing said meeting-house
should be altered." After some wrangling, it was decided by a vote of forty-four to thirty
"to place the new meeting-house at the crotch of the roads, near Capt. William Brown's house"
(very near the present junction of Main, Mechanic, and Academy Streets). This decision was
final. It is rather difficult to see how it happened to be, for this site was a little east
of the town land. The opposition put in one final blow in this way. It was designed to have
the house face directly "down street" and the underpinning was laid with a view to this, but
the opposition party mustered enough strength to change the plan so that it should face the
south and "stand cornerwise to the street."

So the momentous question was finally settled, and early in the summer of 1796 the raising
occurred. This was of course an event of great importance, and extensive preparations were
made to celebrate it. On May 9, 1796, a town meeting was called "to see if the town will make
any provision for the refreshment of the Raisers and also the Spectators that shall attend
upon the raising of the new meeting-house." It was then and there voted most amicably and unanimously
"that the town provide one barrill W. I. Rum and Loaf Sugar sufficient to make it into Toddy
for refreshment for the Raisers and Spectators that shall attend the raising of the new meeting-house."
A committee was also chosen, consisting of Deacon Daniel Putman, Deacon Ephraim Kimball, Deacon
Kendall Boutelle, Reuben Smith, Joseph Polley, Dr. Jonas Marshall, and Asa Perry, "to deal
out the Liquor to the Raisers and Spectators on Raising Day." It would seem as if a barrel
of rum would suffice to make enough toddy to satisfy the cravings of all that would gather
to witness this raising, but the people were evidently overflowing with hospitality, and bound
to have a rousing time after waiting for it so long, for before the adjournment of the meeting
it was voted "that the committee to deal out the Liquor and Sugar sufficient for the Raisers
and Spectators, in case the barrill of W. I. Rum and Sugar already voted should be insufficient,
procure more and bring in their account to the town for allowance."

This was the only meeting in ten years where there was no contention or bitterness of feeling.
For once these good people were all of the same mind, and a "barrill of W. I. Rum," which in
these days gives rise to such excited controversy, in the presumably degenerate days of 1796
acted like oil upon the troubled waters.

The raising came off successfully, but it is not definitely stated how much rum was consumed
thereat. However here is a copy of the order to reimburse Deacon Boutelle for the refreshment
expenses.

                                    "Fitchburg, May y'e 12: 1796.

     "To Ebenezer Thurston Town treasurer you are hereby Directed to
     pay De'n Kendall Boutwell thirty eight Dollars and one Cent it
     being for providing Rum and Shugar for the Raising of the new
     Meeting house and this with his Rec't shall be your Discharge
     for the above sum

     D C                  JOHN THURSTON  }
     38 1                 PAUL WETHERBEE } Selectmen."

On the back of this order is written the receipt and settlement as follows:--

                            1796

     "may y'e 12 Recd a Note in behalf of the Town of fitchburg of
     thirty Eight Dollers and one Sent in full of the within Order

                                    "KENDAL BOUTELL"

     "April 19:1797 Order Settled with the treasurer"

Such in substance was the controversy about the location of the meeting-house. The contest
was characterized by zeal, obstinacy, and bitterness, manifested equally by both factions,
and so fierce was the strife that the people of adjoining towns, for miles around, were in
the habit of flocking into Fitchburg to attend town meetings.

The edifice was dedicated Jan. 19, 1797, Rev. Zabdiel Adams of Lunenburg preaching the sermon.
This house became, a few years later, the church of the First Parish (Unitarian) in Fitchburg,
and stood until 1836, when it was removed, and a brick church, now standing, was built by the
Unitarians on nearly the same site.

FOOTNOTES:

[B] Torrey's "History of Fitchburg," Fitchburg, 1836.

ABBOT ACADEMY.[C]

BY ANNIE SAWYER DOWNS.

Joseph Cook says, "Andover, Mass., has founded several new Institutions. Under the elms on
Andover Hill is a study, in which a prayer-meeting was once held weekly to devise ways and
means of doing good. There originated the first religious newspaper. There began its existence
an American Tract Society which now sifts its printed counsels, like the dew, over a hemisphere.
There, in imitation of a Scottish custom, was instituted the American missionary monthly concert
of prayer, in response to the wants of an American Missionary Society, also originating in
Andover, and on whose operations now the moon goes not down by night nor the sun by day. There
had its birth the American Education Society, which to-day rings its college bells all the
way from Niagara to the Yosemite. There was commenced the American Temperance Society, which
in our crowded cities has before it a work of which even wakeful eyes do not yet see more than
a glimpse of the importance." It was, therefore, natural that the first incorporated school
for the higher education of girls in this Commonwealth should find its birthplace in Andover;
and that the first public meeting of which we have any record whose sole object was the education
of girls, should have been held in its South parish, Feb. 19, 1828, at the house of James Locke,
Esq. The meeting adjourned after voting "that it was desirable and necessary a female academy
should be established in this place," leaving the matter in the hands of a committee who were
to raise funds and see if a lot of land could be obtained. At the next meeting, on the 4th
of March, only a fortnight later, this committee reported that the way was clear to draw up
a constitution, buy a lot of land, erect a brick building two stories high, for which funds
should be raised by subscription, and that the school should be put under the charge of trustees.
These trustees, seven in number, were: Rev. Milton Badger, pastor of the South Church, Andover;
Rev. Samuel C. Jackson, pastor of the West Parish Church, who served until his death, a period
of more than fifty years; Samuel Farrar, Esq., treasurer of Phillips Academy; Hon. Hobart Clark,
State Senator; Mark Newman, formerly principal of Phillips Academy; Amos Abbot, Member of Congress,
and Amos Blanchard, succeeded in later years by his son, Rev. Dr. Amos Blanchard of Lowell.
Drs. Badger and Jackson and Esquire Farrar were to draft a constitution, while Messrs. Clark
and Newman were to serve as a building committee. But, alas! then, as now, it was easy to vote
away money, but not easy to collect it; easy to order buildings begun, but hard to find any
way to pay for them. So at a trustee meeting, July 4, 1828, it was voted that it was not expedient
to erect a building for the Female Academy with their present means. At the Semi-Centennial
of Abbot Academy in June, 1879, several persons were present who remembered the sadness and
disappointment which settled down upon the hearts which had been so sanguine of success when
the plan was first made public. But it is always darkest just before day, and on July 24, 1828,
"most important information" was communicated at a meeting of the trustees. The first site
selected had not been universally approved. A lady, daughter of Mr. Adams, then Principal of
Phillips Academy, writes, "It was the determination to put the new academy on Main Street;
but many Andover mothers were dissatisfied, as this was the street most frequented by Theologues
and Phillips boys. My mother and Mrs. Stuart consequently drew up a petition requesting a change
in location. Elizabeth Stuart (mother of Elizabeth Stuart Phelps) and I circulated said petition.
When we had received a sufficient number of signatures, it was handed to the trustees, who
deemed the 'objections formidable'; so a portion of the 'important information' was that Deacon
Mark Newman had presented the enterprise an acre of land on School Street, and that Madam Sarah
Abbot pledged one thousand dollars to be paid at her death." Esquire Farrar was ready to advance
the money on such security, and it was gratefully voted to take the deed of Deacon Newman,
and begin directly to build from a plan furnished by Mr. Goddard, Principal-elect. Mr. David
Hidden of Newburyport contracted to do the work, being assisted by Mr. William Saunders of
Cambridge, who, it is said, is proud to claim the honor of having made the columns which support
the front portico. Professor Park, who came of age the year Abbot Academy was born, and who
entered Andover Theological Seminary the autumn the Academy was building, and who often amused
himself by walking upon the uncovered floor joists, adds his testimony to that of many contemporary
notices which declare the completed structure, with its fine proportions and classic porch,
to be not only the pride of the town but of Essex County.

So Abbot Female Academy fell into line with the other beneficent institutions established by
men of kindred blood to its founder, and who, like her, were enthusiastic in their love for
learning, passionate in their benevolence, and extraordinarily endowed with common sense.

The act of incorporation was passed Jan. 25, 1829; and there is no record that any opposition
was made or any encouragement offered, although all were aware that it was a pioneer enterprise,
for a local journal says, "Abbot Academy is the first house built in New England by a corporation
for the exclusive work of educating women." Madam Sarah Abbot not only pledged the one thousand
dollars before mentioned, but advanced additional moneys from time to time when the exigencies
threatened destruction; and so arranged her property before her death in 1848, that two years
later, upon the 28th of February, 1850, the trustees came into possession of a sufficient sum
to make the whole amount $10,109.04. Naturally enough the infant institution took her name,
for, though Abbot Academy has received many donations since Esquire Farrar electrified her
by his decided advice, "Surplus money! Use it to found an academy in Andover for the education
of women!" she is still its largest as well as its first giver. The grand-daughter[D] of one
Abbot, the daughter of another, and the wife of a third, she led a secluded life, unillumined
by those opportunities for culture which she appreciated highly for others, and oftentimes,
without doubt, like other great benefactors, half uncertain if the generosity, which to her
more than frugal habits must have seemed excessive, was not as injudicious as it was unusual.
For, as Rev. Phillips Brooks said at a meeting on behalf of Abbot Academy, in Boston, upon
the 12th of January, at the time the school was founded, great ideas and great processes which
have not yet begun to fulfil themselves had just begun to impress themselves on men's minds.
The old and the new existed together; and that Madam Abbot, without advantages of early education
herself, could so entirely have appreciated them that she was willing to bestow her all upon
the new scheme, speaks volumes for her strength and foresight. Her portrait, probably painted
by T. Buchanan Read, still hangs on the wall of the pleasant hall built by her timely liberality;
and women, scattered all the way from Maine to Japan, as they recall its sagacious features,
quaint dress, and old-time air, say to their pupils, or record in their books, or whisper lovingly
to the little children round their knees, that old Mrs. Abbot in far-off Andover was their
real Alma Mater.

May 6, 1829, Abbot Academy opened with eighty-five pupils, from the little ones who did not
know their letters, to young women of eighteen and twenty. One who was there says, "Henrietta
Jackson (afterwards Mrs. Dr. Cyrus Hamlin) sat at my left." Another describes the three gifted
daughters of Professor Stuart, one of whom became the first wife of Professor Phelps and the
mother of Elizabeth Stuart Phelps, who in her turn has likewise been a pupil of the school.
As we look over the list of the girls who went in and out under the Ionic porch of the new
academy, we see they were by inheritance and nature well worthy the broad and generous course
of study marked out for them by Dr Jackson, Samuel Farrar and the others. That course, of more
than half a century ago, was as wide as any laid down in the women's colleges to-day; and although
it was gradually modified in conformity with popular sentiment, still it speaks well for the
sagacity and practical wisdom of the trustees. It is pleasant to note that Dr. Jackson lived
to see his theories of women's education carried into practice by the establishment of colleges
for them. Mr. Charles Goddard, grandson of Dr. Langdon, president of Harvard University, was
the first principal of Abbot Academy. He was tall and fine looking, with refined and polished
manners, worshipped by the little girls and greatly admired by the older ones, who, as one
of their number writes "woke up wonderfully and enjoyed their studies exceedingly." "It was
the universal opinion," says another, "that the advantages offered by Abbot Academy were very
superior to anything in the region, and the building was considered commodious and elegant."
French and German were taught by Dr. William Gottlieb Schauffler, whose romantic history and
extraordinary musical gifts had already attracted much personal interest, and whose after career
has made his name a household word from the shores of the German Ocean to the Stairs of the
Bosphorus. Who wonders that he was a hero to those girls of fifty years ago? No theological
student called upon them who had not some story to tell of his enthusiasm, daring or cleverness,
and how eagerly must they have listened as the adventures of his magic flute were dwelt upon.

For twenty-one years Abbot Academy was under the charge of principals who were all college
graduates and men of exceptional powers, uncommon cultivation, and thorough interest in their
work. There was no fund (then as now it depended upon its fees, systematically as low as possible)
to pay running expenses, and although its superior character as a school attracted as many
pupils as it could accommodate it had a hard struggle to live. Very early in its existence
it was evident that its great lack was a boarding-house for students from a distance, and many
attempts were made to remedy the deficiency. If the principal had a family, he accommodated
all he could; the trustees provided for several brief periods common tables, but generally
they lived in private houses scattered about the village.

In 1853 two great events took place. The first was the offering of the principalship to a woman,
and the second the resolve of the trustees "that it is indispensable to the prosperity, and
even perpetuity of the Academy, to raise the sum of eight thousand dollars in order to procure
suitable accommodations for the boarding pupils." Although the link may not be apparent, the
second is really the logical result of the first for it was the enthusiasm of Miss Nancy J.
Haseltine, who had accepted the position of principal, that urged them on with an irresistible
force. She had come to them from Townsend, Mass., bringing a large following of pupils, and
she found it impossible to provide for them satisfactorily, besides she saw clearly, as the
Punchard Free School was opened in Andover that year, Abbot Academy must henceforth, as time
has proved, depend chiefly upon patronage from out of town. There was no doubt about the situation
of the new building, the only land the trustees owned was the acre given them by Deacon Newman
in 1829; so they must set it in the rear of the Academy, but where could they get the money?
Again, man's extremity was God's opportunity. Deacon Peter Smith, who offered the resolution,
promised $1,000, Mr. John Smith $1,500, though in reality the brothers Smith gave before the
house was finished enough to amount to $6,611. Justly was it named Smith Hall, for its whole
cost was but seven thousand thirty-three dollars and sixty-four cents. But how was the great
empty house to be furnished? Mrs. H. B. Stowe, then living in Andover, talked it over with
Mrs. Dr. Jackson and Mrs. Professor Park and declared a festival should do it. And the festival
did bring in $2,000 which furnished Smith Hall, and prouder, happier women never slept on Andover
Hill than those who had so courageously and triumphantly carried the plan through.

Smith Hall has now been far more than a quarter of a century the home of the pupils of the
academy, during that portion of the time when they are not attending to modern languages. Poverty
has been its constant companion, sternly forbidding any unnecessary expenditures, yet it has
always presented a cheerful, even tasteful appearance to strangers, as well as to the scores
of girls who cherish its memory tenderly. The highly successful term of Miss Nancy J. Haseltine
was all too brief, and after her, Miss Maria J. Brown and Miss Emma L. Taylor, sister of Dr.
S. H. Taylor, filled the last three years of the first thirty of Abbot Academy. In September,
1859, the present principal, Miss Philena McKeen, entered upon her duties, bringing with her
from Oxford, Ohio, her sister, Miss Phebe F. McKeen, as first assistant. Miss McKeen's management
of affairs has been as wise as fortunate, as disinterested as successful, and Abbot Academy
now stands among the very first of the girls' schools in the country.

The year 1862 is memorable as being the first of a series pleasant to chronicle. The institution
was never in a higher condition of prosperity and usefulness, and when, in 1865, the trustees
were perplexed by the good news that Smith Hall was insufficient for the number of pupils from
out of town, Hon. George L. Davis of North Andover, who had for some time been one of their
number, happily solved the difficulty by buying what was known as the Farwell estate, which
joined the academy grounds on the north-east corner, and presenting it to the school. It was
gratefully named Davis hall, and for many years has been occupied by all pupils studying French,
that language being the one ordinarily spoken in the house. Previously Mr. Davis had added
two acres of land in the rear of Smith Hall, and in the autumn of 1865 assisted in the purchase
of the house belonging to Rev. J. W. Turner, on the southern boundary line of the grounds.
That house, known first as South Hall, is now German Hall, German being spoken there in daily
life, as French is at Davis Hall. To the fact that pupils studying these languages are thus
kept out of the way of English speech for so large a portion of school hours is ascribed their
unusual success in the difficult accomplishment of easy and correct conversation in a foreign
tongue. The amount of Mr. Davis' benefactions up to 1879 was more than $7,000.

At the annual meeting in 1870, the trustees expressed special obligations to Mr. Nathaniel
Swift, who had filled the office of treasurer since 1852, and congratulated him upon the wonderful
transformation which he had wrought in the grounds. Instead of poor stony pasture land were
broad smooth lawns, gravelled walks, flower borders, well-trimmed hedges, and rustic seats
in charming spots, which told not only of the exquisite taste which ever guided his hand, but
of his considerate thoughtfulness wherever the pleasure or comfort of the pupils was concerned.
During the autumn of 1877, in order to secure the whole of the beautiful grove adjacent to
their property, the trustees bought fourteen acres, thus making their real estate something
more than twenty-two acres.

In the quarter of a century since Miss McKeen came to Abbot Academy, besides these imperatively
needed houses, and these greatly prized acres, many valuable collections scientific, artistic
and literary have been added; but, as ever, the great want is room, that the pupils may have
the benefit of their use, which is impossible in their present scattered condition. The school
observed its Semi-Centennial in June, 1879, and extended a hearty welcome to nearly three thousand
of its alumnæ. The position was favorable for a survey of its present situation, its past history
and its future prospects. Thorough examination of the past proved it had done excellent work;
its list of pupils from all parts of the country, constantly increasing, showed it had taken
deep root, but its future prospects appeared to be imperilled by its environment. On every
hand it was crippled by want of buildings, want of endowment, want indeed of everything necessary
to the comfort of a school. It was mentioned with amazement that half its collections were
packed in boxes, its books were in every room of the building, wherever a shelf could find
room, its pianos in the public parlors, and as for its boarding accommodations, so insufficient
were they, it is a wonder to those familiar with the arrangements of the more recent girls'
schools and colleges, that Abbot Academy has any boarding pupils at all. That it does, and
frequently to its fullest extent, proves to the entire satisfaction of thoughtful persons the
superior character of its instruction. Numerous highly valued and gratefully remembered gifts
flowed in at the Semi-Centennial, but no sums sufficient to warrant the beginning of new buildings;
so the teachers went on doing the best they could, spite of their great disadvantages, and
their best was so good, that in 1884 the pressure became so strong, that several architects
of Boston and vicinity entered into a free competition, submitting plans for the contemplated
structures, and those drafted by Messrs Hartwell and Richardson, were accepted by the trustees,
who appointed a building committee, consisting of Mr. Warren F. Draper, treasurer of Abbot
Academy since 1876, chairman; Prof. J. W. Churchill, Andover, and Mr. James White, Boston.
All these gentlemen are trustees, and in the heartiest sympathy with the high aims of the institution.
The plans thus approved by the trustees were laid before the Alumnæ Association at a meeting
in June, 1885, and enthusiastically approved. It was then found that they had in their treasury
an accumulation of small gifts amounting to between seven and eight thousand dollars, which
they had been collecting for the purpose, and the announcement that the trustees, at the first
meeting held for the purpose, had subscribed $12,500, was deemed very encouraging. Since that
time the trustees have increased their subscription two thousand dollars, and, through the
efforts of Miss McKeen, Andover people have pledged about $10,000. In short, about $36,000
has been raised up to the present time. But new buildings will cost $100,000; perhaps, even
with the most vigilant and judicious economy, $150,000. Where and how can the remainder be
obtained? It occurred to many friends that it would be a pleasant and perhaps a profitable
thing to have a social meeting in Boston to consider the question and inspect the plans. Mrs.
Daniel Chamberlin (before marriage Miss Abbie W. Chapman), the popular and efficient acting-principal
of Abbot Academy in 1853, and now president of its Alumnæ Association, kindly offered her pleasant
parlors in Chester Square for the purpose. There on the 12th of January, was held a most delightful
gathering, where the speakers were as choice as they were felicitous, and the company as rarely
homogeneous as heartily interested.

Rev. Edward G. Porter of Lexington, one of the trustees, to whose indefatigable efforts the
occasion owed a large portion of its success, called the meeting to order, and in the absence
of Hon. Rufus S. Frost, who had been expected to preside, invited Professor Churchill to the
chair. Professor Churchill whose gift of graceful speech never fails, introduced with a few
delightful words Prof. E. A. Park, who has been president of the board of trustees more than
twenty-five years. Professor Park responded: "The roof of the first edifice for Abbot Academy
was laid the 28th of October, 1828. One week after that day I became a member of Andover Theological
Seminary. I heard at once of the new and beautiful building; I think I was the first college
graduate who walked on the floor of the present Academy Hall. It was said to be the best school
edifice in Essex County or even the state of Massachusetts. Thus it began its existence with
an aspiration in fine architecture. The style of this edifice is not so classical now as it
was fifty-six years ago. When the academy received its new telescope it was too poor to provide
it a suitable place. Therefore a dome was erected on the roof, which disturbed the symmetry
of the Grecian architecture. The telescope does good service under the dome; but it is a sign
of the indigence of the academy. When I reflect on the progress made by other institutions,
I am astonished at the march of events. Twenty years after the founding of Abbot Academy, the
little settlement at Chicago had not been heard of at Andover. When Rev. Dr. Joel Hawes received
his first request to provide a missionary for that settlement, he asked a friend of mine, 'Where
is Kick-a-go?' That little settlement of 'Kickago' has now received a fund of more than three
million dollars for a city library. When our academy was founded, no man in Andover suspected
that California would become one of our United States; but California has recently received
twelve million dollars for the founding of a University. I was acquainted with the founder
of Smith College in Northampton, and also with the founder of Abbot Academy. In some particulars
the two ladies had a marked resemblance to each other. The founder of Smith College gave to
it four hundred thousand dollars; the founder of Abbot Academy gave to it $10,109.04. Those
four cents have played a conspicuous rôle in the history of the academy. They have been a sign
of its indigence from its earliest to the present day."

"Abbot Academy has real estate valued at forty thousand dollars. Its apparatus, library, furniture,
etc., are valued at ten thousand dollars. Its productive and available funds are valued at
$33,636. This valuation was made two years ago; and it is now safe to say that the whole property
of the institution, including real and personal estate, amounts to no more than ninety thousand
dollars. The number of books in its library is 2,630. The number of its books relating to the
fine arts is 233. The number of its art illustrations is 3,284. Still it has no convenient
rooms for its books, pictures, casts. They are highly valuable, but are scattered in different
and obscure places. It has a good cabinet of specimens illustrating conchology. Where is the
cabinet? A large part of it I have never seen. It is kept in the boxes in which it was sent
to the academy. Where is the scientific apparatus? Where is it?

"The rooms for the pupils are not large enough. Two students live by day and by night in one
small chamber. The passages between the rooms are too narrow. The recitation rooms are too
small and not well ventilated. The teachers have no adequate support, and could readily obtain
much larger salaries for far less work in other institutions. For such reasons the academy
asks for an enlarged endowment. It needs $150,000 for its new buildings. Thus far it has received
promise of only $36,000. If it receive a generous increase of funds it will flourish; if it
does not, it will not flourish as it should. Other institutions will attract its scholars.
We cannot expect that future instructors will have a spirit of self-denial equal to that of
its present and past instructors.

"After his 7th of March speech, Daniel Webster said to the Bostonians, 'You have conquered
your climate, you have now nothing to do but to conquer your prejudices.' He meant that New
Englanders had overcome the laws of nature, which had provided them with little except ice
and granite; and nothing was left for them to conquer except their prejudices against the system
of slavery. Now the teachers of Abbot Academy have conquered themselves, and there is nothing
left for them to subdue except the laws of nature. They cannot subdue these laws. They cannot
resist the attractions which other institutions have received from large funds, commodious
dormitories, and suitable lecture-rooms and halls. The two Misses McKeen have devoted a high
degree of skill and energy to the upbuilding of this institution; but they have had a superior
ancestry. They inherited strength and fortitude. They descended from the sturdy men and women
who settled Londonderry, New Hampshire.

"James McKeen of Londonderry was connected by marriage with James McGregor, the first minister
of that town, who was a remarkable man. He was asked to leave his New Hampshire parish and
go to the First Presbyterian Church in New York city. He declined. Londonderry was a more promising
field for usefulness than New York. Londonderry has since succumbed. By the aid of the Hudson
River and the Atlantic Ocean, New York has gone ahead.

"A traveller walking through Fifth Avenue and then through the roads of Londonderry can detect
the superiority of New York with the naked eye. Unless Abbot Academy receive a larger and richer
endowment than it now has, it will be to other institutions what the New Hampshire township
is to the commercial emporium of our land.

"Why not allow our academy to decline? What special reasons are there for giving a new impulse
to it? We ask for our new buildings because our academy is the oldest incorporated institution
in the land for the higher culture of young ladies exclusively. Its age gives it a title to
support. The antiquity of a school is a rich treasure to it. Scores of matrons, teachers, missionaries,
have been trained in this school, and have performed signal services in our Western settlements,
in Constantinople, in Japan, and in other distant parts of the world. The affections of these
pupils are still entwined around this ancient academy. Again, we need our new buildings as
monuments to the past services of teachers who have adorned and honored the school. Their example
of faithful work and of exemplary self-denial ought to receive a visible and fitting memorial.

"Still another reason is that the endowment for which we ask will encourage future instructors
to imitate the example of their predecessors. I have been conversant with many schools, I have
not known one in which the principles of mental and moral philosophy, of the English and the
Latin language, and of the fine arts have been more thoroughly and faithfully studied than
in Abbot Academy. We do not expect there will ever be a theatre or an opera in the neighborhood
of our academy; but we do expect that if we can obtain the pecuniary aid which we need, our
school will be the resort of ladies who will devote themselves with zeal and care to the study
of science, and more than all to the study of the word of God."

Professor Churchill then spoke in a very forcible and interesting manner of the aims of Abbot
Academy, its wish to emphasize the home as well as the school. In a second article upon the
institution it is hoped his remarks will be given in detail in connection with a more extended
consideration of the aim to which he referred. Mr. Hartwell, for Messrs. Hartwell and Richardson,
then explained the principal points of their plans, drawings of which were hung upon the walls.
He concluded by expressing the heartiest interest in the academy and a most earnest wish for
the success of the good plans in its behalf. Mr. Porter read a letter from Dr. Cyrus Hamlin,
a portion of which follows:--

     Abbot Academy has no superior. Its graduates go forth fitted
     for life's true work. The education they have received has been
     admirably adapted to form both mind and heart. It has had the
     social, intellectual and spiritual elements in due
     proportion.... I have sent six daughters to Abbot Academy and
     do not fear to compare the result as seen in their training,
     with the results attained in any other institution of our land,
     provided the persons selected are of equal natural gifts. The
     missionary work of Abbot Academy has been wide in extent and
     noble in character, both at home and abroad; and should be
     understood by friends of missions. It cannot be spared; its
     work, its history, its example, make it one of our choicest
     schools for the education of women, and I pray God it may be
     abundantly, richly endowed.

Mr. Edwin Reed of Cambridge, who married an Abbot Academy graduate, after felicitous compliments
to the school, made a graceful, sparkling speech, from which we quote,--"The wise, judicious,
painstaking administration of affairs there goes always to the roots of character, and gives us:--

    'The perfect woman, nobly planned
    To warn, to comfort, and command.'

One uniform spirit of devotion to the highest good of all presides there, and impresses itself
on every pupil. Indeed, I am not sure, if I had my way and could educate but one of the sexes,
that I would not take the girls, and give them the colleges of the land, in preference to the
present occupants. This would be hard on the boys, but, if I should 'turn the rascals out'
and put their sisters in, it would be for this reason, great men always have great mothers.
No great man ever lived who did not derive the native strength of his character directly from
the mother who bore him. Mothers impress their qualities on their sons, and to get a generation
of great men at the earliest possible moment, I would adopt the order of nature and secure
first a generation of great mothers."

Dr. McKenzie spoke affectionately of the academy and its toilsome growth, saying that almost
every object in the school had its history. He referred to the great force of the demands made
by schools and colleges, and said that it was a sign of health and vigor when a school asked
for better accommodations, because it had wider opportunities for usefulness. Mr. Porter proposed
a committee to attend to the matter in this section, as follows, Rufus S. Frost, James White,
Edwin Reed, C. F. P. Bancroft, Mrs. Daniel Chamberlin, Miss Annie Means, Miss Caroline A. Holmes,
Miss Josephine Wilcox and Mrs. Laura A. W. Fowler. The committee was subsequently enlarged
by adding the names of Rev. Edward G. Porter and Miss Mary E. Fowle. After the business the
meeting adjourned to the dining-room, where Mrs. Chamberlin had thoughtfully and kindly provided
a delicious entertainment, which fitly ended the delightful afternoon.

The Rev. Phillips Brooks acknowledged his kinship to the founder of Abbot, and in substance
said: "No institution so takes on personality as a school. I see the various colleges almost
as if they had features, and we may have some such feeling regarding Abbot Academy. Then there
is so much in the quality of an old institution, if it keeps abreast of the times. The period
of the founding of Abbot was an interesting one. It was a time when old ideas were being left
behind and a new thought was just taking the place of the old. Great processes, which have
not yet begun to fulfil themselves, had just begun to appear. No one can think of the academy
without feeling grateful for that religious character which it is easier for an old school
to keep than for a new one to acquire. Then, too, there is an advantage in its location, for
there is much economy and much value in the educational atmosphere of a town like Andover."

The plan provides for four buildings; the main or central one, where the family life will be
carried on, connected by corridors with the smaller French and German Halls, and containing,
not only parlors, school offices, dining-rooms, and suites for teachers and pupils; but a beautiful
library, a spacious reading-room, and upon its third floor, commodious music-rooms shut off
from each other and the corridors by walls and doors of such construction that sound cannot
pass through. French and German Halls furnish each a family sitting-room cheery with open fires
and charming with artistic finish; suites for pupils and teachers, but neither kitchen nor
dining accommodations, as all meals are to be taken in the main building. To this purpose the
western front of the lower or basement story has been devoted. The young ladies coming from
the language houses pass by separate staircases to their own dining-room on the north and south
side of the central one, where the English-speaking pupils sit. These side dining-rooms can
be shut off or thrown into the central apartment at will, and in this way freedom for the foreign
language is secured and the whole number of pupils centralized; a more economical arrangement
than the present one of three separate kitchens. Indeed, apart from economy, and outside the
great advantage this plan affords to the students of French and German, the Faculty of Abbot
Academy emphatically prefer the division of the school into distinct families; the cottage
system insuring in their opinion much greater certainty of health, and opportunities for the
direct personal influence important in the development of character. The fourth building is
the academy, where prayers and recitations will be conducted, and where public gatherings will
be suitably accommodated. The three living-houses are arranged for one hundred and twenty-five
pupils only, two pupils occupy single beds in one bedroom and sharing a parlor. The architecture
is after the eleventh century Romanesque; the material brick, with freestone trimmings, and
the effect of all simple, suitable, dignified.

FOOTNOTES:

[C] Abbot Academy, then called Abbot Female Academy, was incorporated Feb. 26, 1829; Moravian
Brothers established schools for girls, Bethlehem, Pa., 1749; Rev. Joseph Emerson opened seminaries
for girls in Byfield, Saugus, and Wethersfield, 1815; charter obtained for Adams Academy, Derry,
N. H., 1823; Miss Lyon's seminary, Ipswich, 1828; Bradford Academy limited its work to girls,
1836; Mount Holyoke, 1835; Vassar College, Smith College, and Wellesley College later, but
dates are uncertain, as confusion results from lack of definiteness as to whether they represent
the year of founding, opening, or incorporation.

[D] Miss Sarah Abbot, Founder of Abbot Academy, Andover, was born in Andover, Oct. 3. 1762;
married Nehemiah Abbot, first Steward of Andover Theological Seminary, often called Divinity
College; died in 1848, in the house on Andover Hill, occupied for many years by the family
of Dr. Samuel C. Jackson, and now the residence of Prof. E. J. Hincks; buried in the cemetery
of the South Church, Andover.

THE ORIGINAL NEW ENGLAND MAGAZINE.

BY REV. EDGAR BUCKINGHAM.

The magazine which first bore this title was established in the year 1831, by Joseph T. and
Edwin Buckingham. There were not at that time many monthly periodicals in the country; it was
long before the days of the Atlantic and Putnam's. The New-England originated in the desire
of my brother Edwin, who, at that date, was just twenty-one years of age, to rise to a higher
position than that of editor of a daily paper. He had been for some years connected with my
father, first, as assistant editor of the New England Galaxy, and then of the Boston Courier.
People estimate very differently now the position of the editor of one of our city dailies;
but at that time, though such an editor had an influence and a very great one, he could not
be said to rule so far in political and social life, and to be so nearly supreme, as he has
since become through the talents and labors of the Bennetts, of Greeley, of Raymond, of Thurlow
Weed, and of Samuel Bowles. It is true, Mr. Bryant, of the Evening Post, was already at his
station, so was Joseph E. Chandler, of Philadelphia; and Gales and Seaton, of the National
Intelligencer; and Nathan Hale also, of the Boston Advertiser, exerted an important influence,
wherever that paper was read. But an editor now addresses every day ten thousand or a hundred
thousand readers, where fifty years ago the issue of his paper was limited to little more than
a thousand copies. My brother Edwin felt, apparently, that to be editor of a monthly magazine
would bring him into closer connection and intimacy with the leading men of literary eminence
throughout the country, and so the magazine was originated by him and by my father on his account.

Edwin was an accomplished writer at that early day. He had not learned the art at school; for
he left school altogether when he was fourteen years of age. At that early period of life,
he entered into the printing-office of the New England Galaxy, learning to set type, and, shortly,
came to have charge of the making up of the paper. My father often said that the best school
education one could get was at the compositor's stand. Edwin early began to write for the paper,
and I remember, now, with what admiration an article of his on "Massachusetts" was read more
than sixty years ago, and while he was yet a boy. The Galaxy was sold in 1827; and my father
and brother gave themselves up more particularly to the editorship of the Courier. Before Edwin
was twenty-one, he spent some winters in Washington, as special correspondent of the newspaper;
and while there attracted no little attention from the great men of the nation. He was a young
man of active habits, and during the trial of the Whites, at Salem, for the murder of Joseph
White, in 1830, at which Mr. Webster made one of his most powerful efforts as a lawyer and
advocate, Edwin reported the proceedings. He drove down to Salem in the morning, and back at
night with the proceeds of his daily labor, over the cold and foggy marshes of Lynn. Then he
took a cold, from the effects of which he never recovered. He used the severest remedies, and,
in October, 1832, he sailed for Smyrna; after spending some months there in a home where friendship
and kindness did all that nature and skill could accomplish, and finding all means ineffectual,
he started for home to die; but a few days before reaching his native land he breathed his
last. His remains were committed to the deep in May, 1833. A cenotaph at Mt. Auburn commemorates
his birth and death. It bears the inscription of being placed there by "Boston Mechanics."
Edwin believed in the mechanic arts, and in what are called laboring men. He had himself been
of them. It was fitting also his monument should be reared at Mt. Auburn; it was one of the
first stones erected there. He had been himself greatly instrumental in carrying to success
the project of turning "Sweet" Auburn, as it had been called, into a cemetery where the ashes
of the loved and illustrious might be gathered for a final resting-place.

The Magazine started well, and may be said to have been wholly successful, compared with other
literary undertakings of the day, and with the just expectations of the proprietors. My father
and brother had capable, willing, illustrious helpers. The first article of the first number
was by Dr. Frothingham, of Boston, than whom no more elegant scholar, no finer writer was to
be found in New England; Hon. Edward Everett contributed a playful article of some length to
the same number. Hon. George S. Hillard, long known also in Boston for his fine scholarship,
contributed a long review of the "Chanting Cherubs," a greatly admired piece of sculpture by
Horatio Greenough then on exhibition in Boston. Hon. William Austin of Charlestown contributed
a most ingenious and interesting story, not surpassed by fiction of the present day. Among
the contributors to the first number were also Dr. Samuel G. Howe, and Hon. Timothy Walker
of Cincinnati; Rev. Leonard Withington of Newbury, Mass., a gentleman who lived long and quietly
in that secluded village, but wielded a vigorous pen, and had a very thoughtful mind; his contribution
was of a very kindly and wise article on the religious character of Lord Byron,--an article
well worth republication as an introduction to any complete collection of the works of that
great poet. One would say such a combination of the literary strength of Massachusetts was
a good setting off for a new magazine.

The gentlemen above named, all or most of them, continued their contributions for other months
and years. In addition to these whose names I have given, there were in succeeding numbers
articles from Richard Hildreth, the historian, Park Benjamin, the poet, John G. Whittier, Oliver
Wendell Holmes, Professor Longfellow, Miss Hannah F. Gould, Dr. W. B. O. Peabody, of Springfield,
Dr. Andrew P. Peabody, long known and honored and loved in his position in Cambridge as guardian
and friend of the young men in college. But the list would be too long to enumerate all the
fine scholars and eminent writers who gathered to make up the NEW ENGLAND MAGAZINE. My father
and brother were very successful in securing the labors especially of young men,--my brother,
because he was young himself,--my father, because always he was quick to discern rising merit,
and ready and earnest to help forward young men to success and eminence. The list above given
is that mostly of men who at that time were still in early youth.

The fifth volume of the Magazine, in July, 1833, records my brother's death and the solitude
of the senior editor. The number is prefaced by a picture of my brother, which shows him as
a handsome young man, at the age of twenty-two; but the lithograph cannot give his fair complexion,
the clearness of his large blue eyes. It was accompanied by an elegiac poem, by Charles Sprague,
well known then, and not forgotten since, as one of our most finished poets, and one of our
most pathetic writers. The work that then devolved upon my father, not only as editor of a
daily paper, but as a man of public activity and usefulness, member as he was for many years
of the Legislature, chairman of committees, to whose reports he devoted an immensity of labor,
was sufficient to require him to give up the Magazine. Besides its more strictly literary articles,
contributed mostly by others, though my father wrote some of the literary articles himself,
the Magazine presented every month a review of the public proceedings of Congress and of many
of the State governments, the most of which, I think, were prepared by himself, and usually
a long series of obituary notices. These last were of citizens of different parts of the country,
and came undoubtedly from different hands. But of people of distinction, citizens of Boston,
who died from 1831 to 1835, my father's pen probably produced almost all of the eulogies. The
warmth of his friendship, his readiness to see all good, to forgive all imperfections, his
skill as a writer, made such articles from his pen exceedingly interesting and admirable.

In December, 1834, my father wrote his valedictory, and on the first of January, 1835, announced
that the proprietorship had passed into the hands of Dr. Samuel G. Howe and John O. Sargent,
Esq. In looking over the papers of the seven volumes, which filled out my father's editorship,
very many articles are found of the highest merit,--as the names of the contributors given
above would assure the reader; and if some of inferior worth are at times mingled with them,
they probably had some interest at the time they were written; and the Magazine on the whole
would be pronounced, I suppose, worthy of general commendation.

       *       *       *       *       *

It is the Nemesis of pedantry to be always wrong. Your true prig of a pedant goes immensely
out of his way to be vastly more correct than other people, and succeeds in the end in being
vastly more ungrammatical, or vastly more illogical, or both at once.--Cornhill Magazine.

By far the most thorny problem of British statesmanship at the present moment is the persistent
and pressing demand made by the Irish people through the Irish press and their representatives
in Parliament for the repeal of the Union and the recognition of their right to national self-government.
Incessantly, earnestly, eloquently, the question has been agitated for the past dozen years
or so. Adroitly and skilfully it has been manipulated by some of the most brilliant, sagacious,
and resolute agitators Ireland has ever known. Slowly but steadily it has grown, passing from
stage to stage with ever-brightening prospect of ultimate success, until it has now become
the aspiration, we might almost say, the one, quenchless, all-absorbing passion of the Irish
people. The consequence is that the first calm moment after a most exciting and vigorous electoral
contest, during which "the fire out of the bramble" has devoured many "cedars of Lebanon,"
the two great parties in the State find themselves face to face with a difficulty which, even
for the most zealous aspirant to place and power, robs the honors and emoluments of office
of more than half their charm. Neither Liberal nor Conservative will care to incur the displeasure
of the Queen and the implacable wrath of the English aristocracy--both Whig and Tory--by consenting
to the political divorcement of Ireland, and to what would be regarded as the disruption of
the empire. For it is felt, not without good reason, that the indirect and ultimate consequences
of the severance would be far more serious than any direct and immediate effects. The efforts
of popular statesmen, in recent times, have been mainly directed toward the maintenance of
the prestige of the Crown. This was the sole motive of Lord Beaconsfield's "spirited foreign
policy." It was the one consideration that made the "Imperial Titles Bill," and the imperial
measures of which it proved to be the too significant prelude, so immensely popular in London.
So sure was he of the strength and predominance of this patriotic sentiment in England that
he made his appeal almost exclusively to it, in asking in 1880 for a fresh lease of power.
The occasion was critical, he said. "The peace of Europe, and the ascendency of England in
the councils of Europe" depended upon the verdict the country was now called upon to give.
The policy of the party opposed to his own was declared to be a "policy of decomposition."
But the concession of self-government in the form demanded by the Irish Parliamentary party,
whatever might be the political necessity pleaded in justification of it, would be certain
to be interpreted in England, in the colonies and dependencies of the British empire, and by
all foreign States, as a sure omen of the decline of the British Crown. To us it is utterly
inconceivable that the Queen, who is profoundly conscious of her power, keenly sensitive as
to her royal dignities, rights, and prerogatives, and proud, as she has reason to be, of her
long and prosperous reign, should ever consent to a policy of dismemberment, by whatever political
party proposed. The Conservatives cannot afford to purchase the influence and assistance of
the Irish vote at the price Mr. Parnell has fixed and is every way likely to insist on. They
would have to belie the best traditions of the party, and discredit the cardinal principles
of their once powerful and still deeply revered chief--the late Lord Beaconsfield--to whom
Home Rule meant "veiled rebellion," and presented a danger "scarcely less disastrous than pestilence
and famine." The Liberals are equally unlikely to risk the integrity and unity of the party
by the concession of a claim which even an advanced Radical like Mr. Chamberlain has condemned
as unwarrantable, unwise, and impossible to be granted. Still this and nothing less than this
is the hope and expectation of the great majority of the Irish people. This and nothing less
will be the demand of the Irish leaders as soon as Parliament assembles at the beginning of
the ensuing year.

In order to a clear and correct understanding of the position of Irish affairs at the present
juncture, and of the nature and ground of the Home Rule demand, it will be necessary briefly
to sketch the history of the agitation's genesis and growth. It is all the more necessary to
do this as there are few political or social problems, even in England itself, more grievously
misunderstood and wantonly misstated. It is truly surprising how much confusion, ignorance,
and irrational antipathy may be nursed and maintained by an excited state of public feeling
and a partisan and prejudiced press. Mr. Justin McCarthy complains with some bitterness that
"people found their deepest sympathies stirred by the sufferings of cattle and horses in Ireland,
who never were known to feel one throb of compunction over the fashionable sin of torturing
pigeons at Hurlingham." And the words he quotes from a letter addressed to the Times of Dec.
3, 1880, by the illustrious General Gordon, after a visit to the much afflicted country, show
with equal clearness the sad condition of affairs in Ireland, and the apparent incapability
of the English public to realize it.

To Gordon's appeal on behalf of Ireland no one was more ready to listen with sympathy than
the Prime Minister himself. The claims and grievances of the people whose magnanimous endurance,
self-restraint, and patience had so excited Gordon's admiration and called forth his warmest
words of praise, the great Liberal statesman had never been slow to recognize. Ireland has
not always been willing to be grateful to him; but he has always striven to be more than just
to her, and has more than once incurred the odium and reproach of the aristocracy of England,
and even the disaffection of many of his followers, in his truly heroic "attempts to mitigate
the miseries of the Irish people." When he surprised the country by his sudden and unexpected
dissolution of Parliament in 1874, he had certainly done something to earn the gratitude and
confidence of Ireland. He had disestablished the Irish Protestant Church. He had passed a Land
Act, which at the time (1870) was regarded as a valuable contribution to the settlement of
the land problem, aiming, as it did, first, to give the tenant some security of tenure where,
as in the majority of cases, he had been practically unable to plead any rights as against
the landlord; second, to encourage the making of needful improvements throughout the country;
and, thirdly, to promote the establishment of a peasant proprietorship. In the attempt to confer
a third great boon on the discontented nation in the shape of the Irish University Education
Bill, he and his administration went to pieces on the immovable rock of Protestant prejudice.

Of course the provisions of the Land Act, while they occasioned some fretting and exasperation
among the land-owners, who are in the habit of regarding every effort of legislation for the
benefit of their tenants with a fixed sense of calamity, failed entirely to satisfy the more
aggressive and eager of the Irish Parliamentary party. The Land Act had not taken its place
upon the statute book before a meeting of representative Irishmen was called in Dublin with
the view of framing some scheme of Home Government, and organizing measures for its advocacy
in Parliament, and in the towns and cities of Ireland. In the course of discussion, one of
the speakers used the words "Home Rule," and they were formally and forthwith adopted as the
war-cry of the Nationalist party.

For the first five years the new organization made little headway. Its leader, Mr. Isaac Butt,
was an able man--a lawyer of some distinction and a Protestant--but he was not a man to set
the Thames on fire; he was not the man to control the fierce and fiery young politicians that
had begun to flock to the standard of the National cause. With unromantic dutifulness to his
place and his party, he annually brought his motion for Home Rule before the notice of the
House, and was supported by some fifty or sixty members and a few sympathetic Radicals, but
the Conservative government and its solid majority were of one mind on the matter. Mr. Butt
died in 1879, and Mr. Shaw succeeded to the leadership, but on the organization of the Land
League in the same year, he was quietly shunted in favor of Mr. Parnell, who, as the Corypheus
of the party, has so far displayed great skill, coolness, and self-command, and has been rewarded
in Ireland by regal ovations, and by the suggestive title of the "uncrowned king."

Mr. Charles Stewart Parnell, who was declared by one of the speakers at a recent meeting of
Irish citizens held in Faneuil Hall, and more recently by Mr. J. B. O'Reilly in the North American
Review, to be of American birth, is really a man of English descent. One of his ancestors was
the poet Parnell. Another, Sir Henry Parnell, afterwards created Lord Congleton, was the associate
of Lord Grey and Lord Melbourne in the reform movement of 1829-32. He was a graduate of Cambridge
University, and a Protestant in religion. By birth, by training, and by creed, he seemed to
be of all persons the most unsuited to the task in which he has been so eminently successful.
"In 1871, after some years of travel in America, among other places, he settled down on his
estate at Avondale, in Wicklow, within whose boundaries is to be found Moore's Vale of Avoca,
with its meeting waters." Like many who in spite of early failures have afterwards risen to
distinction, Mr. Parnell's first public appearance was a great disappointment to himself and
his friends. Before the electors of Dublin he completely broke down in his first attempt at
public speaking, and the great city which has since showered upon him the highest honors it
can give, rejected him. In 1875, he entered the House of Commons for the first time as member
for Meath. For the first few years of his Parliamentary life he was mainly distinguished for
the skill and unwearied persistency of his tactics as an obstructionist, though he also succeeded
in carrying useful amendments to such measures as the Factories and Workshops Bill and the
Bill for the Abolition of Flogging in the Army and Navy.

The Land League organization gave him just the kind of political machinery he wanted, though
the credit of its creation belongs more to Michael Davitt and John Dillon than to him. It soon
became immensely popular in Ireland, and, for a time, its orders and decrees superseded the
established law of the land, with the seeming result of replacing social order and tranquillity
by a condition of widespread anarchy, confusion, and lawlessness. It is only fair to say, however,
that the Land League meetings did not create but only revealed the misery, distress, and discontent
of the Irish rural populace. The country had recently suffered from a severe visitation of
famine. Evictions for non-payment of rent had been steadily increasing for several years past.
In 1877 the number stood at 463; in 1878 it swelled to nearly 1,000; at the end of 1880 it
had actually reached 2,110. A bill was introduced by one of the Irish members with a view to
mitigating the rigors of the law as regarded the impoverished tenantry. The government refused
to adopt the measure, but sought to meet the case by framing a remedial scheme of their own
which was introduced under the name of the Compensation for Disturbance Bill. This bill, which
was vigorously assailed from opposite quarters in the Commons, was unceremoniously rejected
by the Lords, who denounced it as a flagrant encroachment on the rights of property. It must
ever be regretted in the interests of mere humanity that Mr. Gladstone's government did not
compel the recalcitrant peers to abandon their attitude of defiance in regard to that much-needed
piece of ameliorative legislation. The House of Lords takes nothing so ill as open and avowed
conflict with a powerful and popular ministry. In such a case the issue is never doubtful.
And if the ministry had shown a determination to nail their colors to the mast, the Lords would
have lost no time in unfurling a flag of truce. As it was, their practical acquiescence in
the rejection of the bill consummated the rupture between the Irish party and themselves. The
speeches of the chiefs of the Land League grew fierce, and at times violent, in their denunciation
of Her Majesty's ministers. Mr. W. E. Forster, especially, the Chief Secretary for Ireland,
a man of invincible resolution and ineradicable prejudices, and yet withal a man of much rugged
kindliness of nature, became the victim of incessant interrogation and attack in Parliament,
and the object of an unrelenting and quenchless hate in Ireland.

At one time the tone and temper of leading agitators were all that could be desired. "Abstain,"
said Mr. Davitt, "from all acts of violence, repel every incentive to outrage. Glorious indeed
will be our victory, and high in the estimation of mankind will our grand old fatherland stand,
if we can so curb our passions and control our actions in this struggle for free land, as to
march to success through privation and danger without resorting to the wild justice of revenge,
or being guilty of anything which could sully the character of a brave and Christian people."
Later on Mr. Davitt's feelings were less calm and his language less measured, mild and sober;
as when, for instance, he pictured to his excited auditors "the wolf-dog of Irish vengeance
leaping across the Atlantic to redress and avenge the wrongs of Ireland." Mr. John Dillon went
further still, and ventured to intimate in a speech delivered at Kildare the advisability of
military drill and general preparation for a resort to arms should the necessity arise.

Among the various means, legitimate and otherwise, adopted by the League for the accomplishment
of its ends, was that form of social ostracism now familiarly known as "boycotting." Captain
Boycott was an Englishman, employed as agent of Lord Earne, and occupied a farm at Ballinrobe,
near Lough Mask. Emboldened by the powerful protection of the League, Lord Earne's tenants
had refused to pay the stipulated rents, and Boycott served notices of eviction upon them.
Whereupon not only the tenants on the estate but the population for miles on every side of
him resolved not to have anything to do with him in any shape, whether of barter, business,
or intercourse, nor was any one else permitted to relieve his isolation, or do him or his family
any service, or supply him with any necessity of life. The Orangemen of Ulster organized and
went armed to his relief, and under the protection of a small band of soldiers and police,
his harvests were gathered in, and his produce conveyed to the nearest available market. Boycott
went to England for a short time, and on his return to Lough Mask at once extricated himself
from his painful and perilous position by giving up his agency. His unexpected surrender, strange
to tell, brought about a complete revulsion of feeling among the dwellers of that wild and
lovely district. He now became as popular as he had before been obnoxious. In the course of
a speech delivered at a mass meeting of from fifteen to twenty thousand men at Waterford, in
September, 1883, Michael Davitt said, "It was better for all concerned that the truth should
be plainly and bluntly told, in order that English quack statesmen might be saved the trouble
of proposing half measures to satisfy the Irish people.... Let the landlords of Ireland resign
their unpopular positions, follow the example of Captain Boycott, and nobody would molest them,
but if they did not, they would be grievously surprised by and by, for they would make the
discovery which Captain Boycott had made, that the English government would find that it did
not pay from an Imperial point of view to support a worse than useless class against the Irish
nation. The 'lifeboat for the landlords,' as Lord Derby had once called the Land Act (1881),
rescued them from the rocks upon which they were hurled by the waves of the Land League, but
they had not reached the shores of safety yet. There were other breakers ahead that would do
more damage to their rotten system than the storm of the Land League. When the laborers and
the artisans of Ireland or of England and Scotland were enfranchised, was it to be supposed
that the educated millions of industry would allow the national patrimony--the land--to be
any longer the property of a useless class? In the language of scripture, the landlords would
be asked to give an account of their stewardship, for they could be no longer stewards."

While, however, the Land Leaguers were jubilant at the success of their movement, the government
were preparing to take strenuous measures for its suppression. Its leaders, Mr. Parnell, Mr.
Dillon, Mr. T. D. Sullivan, Mr. Sexton, along with the Treasurer, Mr. Egan, and the Secretary,
Mr. Brennan, and several others, were prosecuted by the Crown on the charge of inciting to
outrage. The prosecution, however, broke down, as everybody expected it would, through disagreement
of the jury.

When Parliament assembled in January, 1881, the policy announced for Ireland was, as usual,
one of concession and coercion. There was to be a Land Act, and there was to be a Bill which
would give the Lord-lieutenant "power by warrant to arrest any person reasonably suspected
of treason, treasonable felony, or treasonable practices, and the commission, whether before
or after the Act, of crimes of intimidation, or incitement thereto." The conflict over the
latter bill, which was first introduced, made the House of Commons more like a bear-garden
than a place of rational deliberation and debate. Even Mr. Bright and Mr. Gladstone became
exasperated, and charged back upon their assailants with an energy and violence quite unwonted.
Mr. Gladstone's speech in particular aroused the House, angered the Irish members, and proved
to be the prelude to a prolonged conflict with systematic obstruction, which went on for some
time, night and day, without break. Even Mr. Parnell for the moment lost all self-command,
entered into an angry conflict with the Prime Minister, defied the ruling of the Speaker, and
was expelled the House, as Mr. Dillon had been the evening before. Some thirty others of the
National party followed his example of defiance with a similar result. At the close of February
the Coercion Bill was sent up to the Lords, and on the beginning of March received the Queen's
assent. The end of July saw the third reading of the Land Bill in the Commons, after long and
wearisome debate. The Lords amended it to death, and sent it back to the Commons--the poor
and pithless shadow of its former self. Restored to life in the Lower House, it was again presented
for the acceptance of the peers. Again they struck at its vitality, but the Commons said, Nulla
vestigia retrorsum. A thousand popular platforms and almost the whole provincial press called
upon the government to be firm; mass meetings in London and other large cities and towns clamored
for the abolition of the House of Lords and the extinction of hereditary rule. Eventually the
courage of the peers gave way, and the Land Bill of 1881 became law.

The closing months of the year saw the Land League chiefs in Kilmainham Prison. Mr. Gladstone
on his visit to Leeds, early in October, had met with a reception more than royal from the
folks of Yorkshire. For two or three days special trains from every part of that densely populated
county poured into the great emporium of the cloth-trade thousands of enthusiastic admirers
eager to catch a near glimpse of the foremost statesman of the age as he rode from point to
point through the barricaded streets. In one of the speeches made during the visit, he had
strongly reprobated the policy and proceedings of Mr. Parnell. At a meeting in Wexford, a few
days after, Mr. Parnell replied with some bitterness. A few days more brought the exciting
news of the arrests by the Irish Executive. The situation was desperate. The imprisoned leaders
at once issued a manifesto calling upon the tenantry of Ireland to withhold payment of rents.
This was a direct violation of the law, as well as a great political blunder, and the government
at once seized the occasion as a fitting opportunity for suppressing the Land League and the
advanced Nationalist press. In the session of 1882 there appeared a manifest indisposition
on the part of a majority of the cabinet to give further sanction to the policy of Mr. Forster
in Ireland. The imprisoned Home Rulers were released from Kilmainham on conditions which he
thought perilously lenient, and he resigned, as also did Earl Cowper. The entry of the new
Lord-lieutenant, Earl Spencer, on the 6th of May, into the Irish capital, promised well; but
the assassin had bargained with the fates for the day, and before the sun had ceased to shed
his bright beams on the green grass and budding trees of Phoenix Park, a scion of the noble
house of Devonshire and his companion in office had been immolated on the altar of Irish vengeance
before the eyes of the new viceroy as he stood in the window of the viceregal lodge. The civilized
world was horror-struck. Ireland expressed her profound regret at a transaction which was thought
to have been planned and executed by some designing foe. Messrs. Parnell, Dillon, and Davitt
hastily met to disclaim any sympathy with the crime and to denounce the criminals. The rest
of the story is now familiar and needs not be retold. The government was known to have been
contemplating a milder régime for Ireland; but the disastrous incident of the 6th of May drove
them back upon their former policy. A Crimes Bill was passed, followed by a measure of alleviation,
known as the Arrears Bill, with the view of keeping the scales of justice even. In the middle
of August the exhibition of Irish Art and Manufactures was opened in Dublin, and the unveiling
of the statue of O'Connell, in Sackville Street, was part of the programme of the ceremonies.
On the following day, Messrs. Parnell and Dillon received the freedom of the city, and Mr.
E. D. Gray, M. P., proprietor of Freeman's Journal, and High Sheriff of Dublin, was committed
to Richmond gaol for contempt of Court.

Whatever necessity may be pleaded for such measures as these, they only had one result, namely,
the steady advancement of the Irish National cause. Dynamite explosions in London, Glasgow,
and elsewhere, troubles in Egypt and the Soudan, complications with Russia as to the Afghan
frontier, left little time for attention to Irish affairs during the last years of the existence
of the Liberal ministry. The Irish Nationalist leaders had convinced themselves that they owed
no gratitude to the government, and could hope for nothing from the Liberal party, except "chains,
imprisonment, and death," to cite the words of Mr. Gladstone's recent reply to the Irish citizens
of St. Louis. They had been long biding their time and watching for their opportunity, when
suddenly it presented itself. The Chancellor of the Exchequer, Mr. Childers, in presenting
the Annual Budget, "ran a tilt" against the "beer and spirit" interest--a sin unpardonable,
for any minister in England. The Budget was defeated, and ministers accepted the hint, rejoicing
that, for a time at least, their troubles were ended.

Meanwhile the organization of the Irish National party had been developed to a point of perfection
in anticipation of the New Reform Bill. That bill promised nothing in particular either to
Gladstone or Salisbury, and it has given to neither any particular advantage over the other.
In the counties the Liberal interest has advanced; in the boroughs it has markedly declined.
But it promised everything to Parnell, and the fulfilment has been equal to the promise. It
is no exaggeration to say that with a compact following of eighty-six he is virtually "master
of the situation." But his position, on the other hand, is undoubtedly very critical. It is
one which few men are likely to envy; it is one which not one in a thousand is competent to
fill. Will he be equal to it? Where Grattan--sagacious, eloquent, high-minded and sincere--so
signally failed, is Parnell likely to succeed? To-day his party is united, enthusiastic and
strong, but when the hour for compromise and concession arrives, will the unanimity be maintained?
Does Mr. Parnell himself know how much to ask, how little he ought to take, and where to draw
the limit of compromise? Repeatedly Mr. Gladstone has invited Irish leaders to bring forward
some definite scheme, and let the country know what they meant by "Home Rule." The cry, as
a party watchword, has served admirably--seldom has a couple of words served so well--because,
as expressing Irish National aspirations, it meant everything in general and nothing in particular;
but the moment is at hand when it will be necessary to reduce it to a definite and feasible
scheme of domestic government and policy. When that moment comes, will the prince of obstructionists
in St. Stephen's prove himself equally capable as a constructive statesman on College Green?
Should Mr. Gladstone find himself in a position soon after the opening of Parliament (he is
not in a position now) to enter into practical negotiation with Mr. Parnell, may not the latter
discover, as many an able and successful leader of men has done before him, that the next sad
thing to a great defeat is a great victory? It is no secret that the demand Mr. Parnell, as
the head of the Irish Nationalist party, is commissioned to make on behalf of Ireland, is a
demand for national self-government almost, if not quite, amounting to national independence:
it is equally well known that no British statesman would ever think, in the present state of
public sentiment, of countenancing such a claim. For ourselves we do not venture to forecast
the issue of the conflict; for "prophecy is the most gratuitous style of error." We content
ourselves with hoping that the settlement may be speedy, pacific, satisfactory, and lasting.

AN OLD ACQUAINTANCE.

While Archdale, full of emotions that he did not try to analyze, went on toward Grand Battery,
a figure, eluding him, crept softly to one of the hospital tents, lifted the curtain a little
way without being observed at first, and stood looking in, an interested spectator, not because
human suffering, patience, and courage were upon exhibition here, but because here he would
find some one who could give him information that he wanted.

In a few minutes Nancy Foster, passing by the door, looked up and saw him watching her. She
had become too well used to unfamiliar faces and to messages at all hours and was too well
protected to feel alarm.

"Oh! la! how you startled me," she cried. "What do you want? Dr. Waters?"

"Hush!" he said, and beckoned to her to draw nearer. "I want to speak to that lady yonder,
only for a moment. Do you think she would come here?" Harwin, for it was he, was a fine illustration
of the proverb that he who asks timidly, teaches denial. If he had demanded her mistress, Nancy
would have spoken to her at once. Now she scanned the intruder curiously, and judged from the
hesitation of his manner that his errand was not urgent.

"No, she can't," she answered, with the decision wanting in the other. "Don't you see how she's
driven? And she's got to go away some time and get a little rest. You'll have to come tomorrow."

"To-morrow!" he echoed drearily. Was it for this that he had come from the fleet in the dispatch
boat, and was braving all dangers? He took a resolution from despair. He fell back until Nancy
had gone and was again intent upon her work.

At last he stepped forward noiselessly and began to make the half circuit of the tent toward
Elizabeth. Nancy, pre-occupied, passed by him without speaking.

Elizabeth had sent for fresh water to moisten the lips of the dying soldier whom she had told
Archdale about. She had just filled her cup a second time, and was on her way toward her especial
charge for that night, when Edmonson asked her for water. Ashamed of her impatience at the
simple request, she turned toward him, walking carefully with her eyes upon her mug, not to
waste a refreshment that had to be brought from a distance. Suddenly, she found herself almost
running against the intruder. She looked up.

But the apology froze upon her lips. She retreated hastily several steps, the water splashed
unheeded over her trembling fingers. Edmonson, who was always watching her, called to Nancy,
"Your mistress, girl! Quick!" and turned to look for her.

Nancy had gone to her patients in the next tent. But his voice helped Elizabeth to recover
herself. She stood firm again, but her rigid expression did not change. With a bow, the intruder
began:--

"May I venture--"

She interrupted him. "Do not speak to me, or stay here. Go!" She was like marble, only that
her eyes blazed. Her hand pointed toward the door emphasizing her repulsion. Edmonson looked
in amazement at this new power, to him a new attraction.

The other drew back precipitately a few steps. Then he stopped and stood looking at her, the
questions that he had meant to put so boldly struggling with something not unlike fear. For
Elizabeth's look and tone were terrible. She was an embodied indignation. At the moment he
believed her Archdale's wife. Her hand pointing toward the door was turning him beyond the
reach of all that was dearest to him. Yet for a moment it seemed as if he could not resist
her, as if he were forever to be in exile. But he remembered that it was Katie Archdale's world
that was looking at him out of those pitiless eyes, and condemning him. He had tried so hard
to get news of Katie; he had even written her father a business letter, and had ended it by
a covert inquiry for news of her. Not one word but business had come in the answer. Then, learning
that Elizabeth was here, he had contrived to be sent ashore, for he had been with Commodore
Warren through the siege, had risked meeting Archdale, had risked everything for this chance
of the news he hungered for. He had been sure that the person whom he recollected as Mistress
Royal must answer whatever questions he might choose to put to her. And now must he go away
starving within sight of food? In desperation he tried to summon back his assurance.

"Only let me ask you if Katie--Mistress--," he began again, taking a hasty step toward her.
But again she stopped him, and this time without a word. As he tried to meet her look, gradually
his eyes fell. He made no further effort to speak. Step by step he fell backward, until at
a distance from her he stood still looking at her as if strength failed him, even to retreat.
Elizabeth turned to Edmonson, and gave him the water left in her cup.

"Is that Harwin?" he asked hoarsely, holding it back from his lips until she had answered him.

"Yes," she said, as if to end the subject. "Drink. I must go."

He sipped hastily, without thirst, and handed back the cup. "Thank you," he said. As she turned
away, her hand was trembling again. She swept her eyes in the opposite direction from Harwin
if he should still be there. Edmonson, after a long glance at her, lay watching him. Here was
his evil genius. But for Harwin what would not have been? In a flash the future that he had
planned, a thousand times more blissful than his former dreams, came up before him, and, fading,
left the present all the more blank. His wounded right arm moved convulsively. Harwin remained
still where Elizabeth's last repulse had left him. He seemed trying to swallow his chagrin,
and wrap the tatters of his dignity about him before he moved away. Perhaps he was in a dream
of the woman whose very name he had not been allowed to utter. Elizabeth was beside Melvin
again, and Edmonson still kept his eyes fixed upon Harwin, who was standing between him and
her, and gradually and painfully he raised his right arm toward the pillow.

Archdale had been met by an orderly, and had gone to the General's tent instead of to the Battery.
Pepperell was alone.

"Sit down," he said. "No, let us go out into the air. Warren's dispatches have just come,"
he added, as the two passed out of the tent. "He expects two or three large ships in any day.
I shall arrange for the general attack as soon as they come up." He smiled at Archdale's enthusiastic
endorsement. "You like the smoke of battle," he said. "But the fact is, you have an eye for
military situations. Of course I have quite made up my mind, but I should like to hear what
you have to say." And he laughed, and took his young friend's arm with a freedom not too common
in those stately times. But Pepperell was a man who, born in any age or place, would have found
himself at home there, and controlling affairs, not controlled by them. He had come to Louisburg
with very little experience in military matters; he had never even seen a siege. He led an
army of fishermen, backwoodsmen, farmers, who had left their employments at their country's
call. But these had the strong hearts and the quick wits that more than a hundred years later,
when the land awoke from a dream of peace, made it rise up a nation of soldiers.

The General and Archdale went to a hillock that commanded a view of the harbor, and of the
city constantly illuminated by the bursting shells, as were also the forts and the army encamped
there. The luridness of war was over everything. They stood looking toward the island which,
ever since the assault, had hurled its fire at them incessantly.

"And what would you do with that Battery?" asked the General.

"Annihilate the Battery," retorted the young man. "It can be done. I think you could rake it
best from the Light House."

"I believe I will try. Say nothing of this, Archdale. I shall wait a day or two for those ships.
It would be awkward, wouldn't it, if the French ones came instead?" His words were light, but
the other perceived his deep anxiety.

"What would you do then?" he asked.

"Take Louisburg,--or die."

Archdale turned towards him impulsively. "Yes, you will," he cried, "you will lead us into
Louisburg." He waited a moment. "Before the general attack--," he began, and hesitated.

"Oh, I'll send the rest of the hospital off to Canso," interposed Pepperell, "all I can of
it; our house there is full now. And the nurses,--you may be sure that they shall go. That's
what you mean?"

"Yes, you think of everything."

"Mr. Royal has been impressing the same necessity upon me." And the General laughed.

"Where is he?" asked Stephen quickly.

"He has been with his daughter all the afternoon, I believe, but a while ago he went up to
the Batteries with Col. Vaughan.

"But Elizabeth Royal is not a woman to be forgotten," Pepperell went on, "even if her father
were not my old friend, and at my elbow."

"No," said the young man. Then he made a remark about military affairs, and the subject of
the attack was renewed.

Suddenly came the report of a pistol different from the roar of the cannon, and so unexpected
and near that it startled the listeners as if its sharpness had broken in upon the still night.

"Where was that?" cried the General.

Not only sound, but intuition guided Archdale. For the element that was a sharper discord than
war was to be found in the place to which his feet were rushing. If not himself for victim,
who then? In another moment he threw back the door of the hospital tent in which Elizabeth
was, and entered.

He was none too soon. Elizabeth, swaying beside the couch of the dying soldier, fell as Archdale
reached her. He lifted her, and carried her to her own tent. She was too faint to resist, or
appeal. Nancy, whom the shot had summoned, followed, holding back her grief and terror because
help and silence were what her mistress needed. Archdale had stayed but a moment in the tent.
But he had seen everything, Harwin unhurt rushing toward his assailant, the surgeon wrenching
the pistol from the disabled hand that had missed its aim, and Edmonson's face wild with horror
at the lodgment that his ball had found. He had seen all, and he comprehended all.

CHAPTER XXXI.

EYES UNSEALED.

Edmonson sat with a terrible fierceness in his face.

Harwin had never seen him before, but he had heard of him, and, through Katie, of his former
attentions to Elizabeth, and he divined who had fired that shot meant for himself.

"Come up to me," called Edmonson, turning suddenly upon him. "I've no weapon now. My face can't
turn you to stone, though I'd be a Medusa to do it. But no, I'll do better than that. Come
here! come here!" he repeated excitedly.

Harwin went up to him in silence, reading as he went a lesson that wrote itself on his mind
as if in letters of blood. The man before him was well-born, well-educated, and skilled in
all the graces of society, accepted even in court circles; yet, as he lay there, he looked
a slave, for the nobility of freedom had gone, and the mark of the brute nature was on his
forehead, and in his hand that he stretched out with the longing in it to grasp his victim.
The soldier on the bed next his, who had spent a good part of his thirty years of life in a
fishing-smack, who knew nothing of books beyond what the common-school education had given
him, and less of any life but his own venturesome calling, who beyond knowledge of the sea
and its dangers had been taught only by the quickness of his own wit and the honor of his own
heart,--this man, as he turned attentive eyes upon the approaching figure, Harwin involuntarily
glanced at. In a flash of insight he saw in the uprightness of the sailor's face the beauty
of such strength. Then he looked back at Edmonson, and there he saw his own heart in exaggeration,
and he trembled.

As he went up to Edmonson, the latter raised himself from his elbow, and sitting upright leaned
as near him as he could.

"Do you know me?" he asked.

The other nodded, "Mr. Edmonson."

"Yes. Do you know that I was to have married Mistress Royal?" Harwin assented again. "Who told
you?"

"Mistress Archdale."

"Ah! yes, the little golden-haired one that thinks herself such a beauty."

"She is infinitely more than she can think herself," cried Harwin.

Edmonson turned upon him a look of malign triumph. "Ah!" he said. "You suffer, too." He was
silent for an instant. "But then you think that you may yet win her," he said. "Who knows?"
and he watched his listener closely, "Women are strange," he added. "She'd be flattered by
your having been a scamp for her sake; she is not like the other one." He saw the light flash
into Harwin's eyes and leave its bright mark along his cheek, and he smiled. "But you never
shall," he said. "You might, but you never shall. Did you see what happened a minute ago?"
he went on in stifled tones. "I shot her, and he carried her out,--not the yellow-haired one,
oh, no, but,--Did you see his face?" he hissed with a look that made Harwin draw back at its
fierceness. "But we shall be even; we will fight." He sat a moment watching Harwin, and then
went on: "You will be interested in hearing that Mistress Archdale is engaged to Lord Bulchester,
my friend. Your doings, too. But you shall pay for all," as Harwin stepped back in consternation.
"Already, you see you've begun, but this is not the end."

"Calm yourself," said Harwin laying his hand nervously on the other's shoulder, "control yourself.
This is very bad, if you're wounded."

"Control myself!" sneered Edmonson. "I never have done it in my life, and I'm not likely to
do it now at the command of a coward and a sneak. Now will you fight with me?"

"Certainly. But I want to know why it is with you?"

Edmonson seemed about to shout his answer, then, recollecting where he was, said with a passion
more dreadful for its suppression, "Why? Because but for you I should be in paradise now, and
by reason of you I am in----." Suddenly his speech was arrested by what seemed to him in its
vividness a vision rather than a remembrance. He was again one of the gay carousers at the
London inn, he was scoffing at Bulchester, and drinking that frightful pledge to meet them
all again in one hundred years. Had he kept his appointment already? He would have a long while
to wait. The act had seemed to him nothing, the recollection of it now made him shudder. All
at once, the scene stood out to him in a lurid light, and through this he seemed to see a horror
in Elizabeth Royal's face. For one moment the whirl of anguish and remorse blinded him. The
next, that Archdale pride, so grand in a worthy cause, so fatal when in the hands of caprice
and passion, was driving him on again. But as he was about to speak, the surgeon's voice by
his bed commanded him to stop, for his own sake and for others. "Not another word," it said.
"One,--I must speak one," returned Edmonson. "Then I have done, I promise you. Stand back and
count off one minute." He leaned close to Harwin as the doctor yielded. "I give you a chance
of honorable duel," he said. "You'll take it, or there's no place on earth where my sword is
too short to reach you. You've taught me how to stab in the back; I shall not forget it. But
I give you your chance. You'll fight?"

"Yes."

"Weapons?"

"Swords."

Edmonson smiled derisively.

"You think my sword arm will not be strong enough?" he asked. "I shouldn't advise you to depend
upon that. Time--when I am able. Place--we'll settle that afterward. We can't find seconds
here--too much Puritanism; they would interfere. But we can arrange it; we're honorable men,"
he sneered. "I may depend upon you?"

"Yes."

"If not--beware! Now, surgeon, only one thing more," as Harwin left the tent. "How much have
I hurt Mistress Royal?"

"Lovell has gone with them. When he returns you shall hear."

"You will certainly tell me?"

"Certainly."

"Then I have done with you to-night." And he threw himself back on his pillow, and lay silent
and watchful until the other surgeon entered. Hours after, he fell into an uneasy sleep.

Elizabeth's injury was slight. When she recovered from the shock and the faintness, she declared
that there was no wound at all--that the ball had merely grazed her, and the report of the
pistol and her fatigue had done the rest.

"You always seem to be round sort of handy when we want anything," remarked Nancy to Archdale
as she looked up from wiping the few drops of blood from Elizabeth's ear.

"Half an inch to the left," said Stephen hastily, as he stood watching her, "and--"

"Yes," she answered, "and then--." She looked up, seeing him indistinctly in the flaring light
of the candle. But in her mind there was a fair woman standing beside him. But for Elizabeth's
idle words this vision would have been a reality instead of a a hopeless dream. She felt the
pain of this so keenly now that it seemed to her it would have been a good thing if the ball
had swerved half an inch to the left. Then her father, who had been found on his way back,
came in hastily, and as Elizabeth glanced at his face she knew that life ought to be dear to her.

"Elizabeth," he said, as Archdale left them, "have you not had enough of it yet? Come home
now. You have already done a great work."

The girl raised herself slowly, for she still felt a touch of faintness.

"Yes, father, I will go home at once," she answered, "if you will tell me that it is the sort
of thing that you have been trying all my life to teach me to do."

After Mr. Royal had left her, and Nancy was asleep, Elizabeth lay a long time thinking. She
perceived now the whole truth about Edmonson. She was in a coil of struggle, and perhaps of
crime. It seemed as if she herself must be guilty, as all the consequences of what she had
supposed the jest of a summer evening rose before her.

Yet, for all this imagining, there was in her heart the comfort of innocence.

In the morning the shadow of danger seemed to shrink away in the sunlight, and Elizabeth went
back to her duties with a spirit firm, if not untroubled. She saw nothing to give her fresh
alarm. She found that Edmonson had excused his act to the spectators as a touch of delirium
accompanying fever, and the next day he had fever beyond question, though not enough to be
very dangerous.

[TO BE CONTINUED.]

FOOTNOTES:

[E] Copyright, 1884, by Frances C. Sparhawk.

EDITOR'S TABLE.

Brutal and inhuman deeds are not changed in character or color by differences in latitude or
longitude. The people of Quitman, Ga., committed a deed of this character when they put the
torch of the incendiary to a school-house where ignorant colored children, in charity's sweet
name, were being nurtured into nobler manhood and womanhood. This act of inhumanity, clearly
inspired if not wholly sanctioned by a majority sentiment in the community, is not a solecism
in history. In 1832-3, Prudence Crandall taught a successful school for girls in Canterbury,
Conn., to which she admitted a colored girl, an intelligent church member, who desired to prepare
herself to teach children of her own color. All Canterbury was thrown into a state of intense
excitement and indignation by this act, and Miss Crandall had to choose between the expulsion
of her colored pupil and the loss of her white ones. She pluckily faced the tumult, refused
to sacrifice what she regarded as a principle, and her fashionable school opened its doors
as an institution for colored girls only.

Increased excitement followed. A local politician, afterward a member of Congress, became the
leader in a bitter and disgraceful prosecution of the brave woman, and, when they found it
impossible to drive her from her position by ordinary measures, secured the passage of a law
making it a crime to open a school for colored children without the consent of the selectmen
of the town. The power of the State of Connecticut was thus invoked, and used for the crushing
of one brave little Quakeress. Miss Crandall was arrested, and imprisoned in a cell from which
a murderer had just gone to the gallows. Her case was tried in August, 1833. One jury failed
to agree. Another found her guilty. The case was appealed, and proceedings quashed on the ground
of an informality, the higher court thus evading the question raised as to the constitutionality
of the law. An attempt to burn Miss Crandall's house followed, and on the night of Sept. 9,
1834, it was made untenantable under the assaults of a mob.

The subject of this bitter and relentless persecution, Mrs. Prudence (Crandall) Philleo, is
still living, and tardy justice comes forward to recognize the wrong of a half century ago.
The children of her persecutors unite with others in a petition to the lawmaking power which
was induced to brand her as a criminal, to atone for past wrongs by present relief.

It is safe to say that the Canterbury of to-day would gladly blot from history this story of
the Canterbury of a half century ago.

It is equally safe to say that the Quitman of fifty years to come (and much sooner) will gladly
bury in oblivion the story of the burning school-house and frightened and helpless females
and children, which the Quitman of to-day has put upon the page of current history.

There is a very patent moral to this "Canterbury tale." It reads about as follows: Twenty-five
years after the Canterbury persecution, its repetition would have been an impossibility. Twenty-five
years after the Quitman persecution--or any other acts, in any southern state, of like character--what?

Let us, who are only fifty years away from similar deeds at our own doors, go our way, doing
the works of charity, humanity, patriotism, and wait and see.

    For present wrongs atonement comes in bitter tears,
    By children shed for deeds of sires in other years;
    Brute passion rules but for a day, then hides its head,
    And justice, born of love and mercy, rules instead.

       *       *       *       *       *

Archdeacon Farrar, in a recent article in the North American Review, pays a tribute to the
virtues of the founders of New England which has been rarely excelled in fervor of rhetoric
and laudatory statement by the most gifted of after-dinner orators among the sons of Puritans
and Pilgrims.

"Those virtues," he says, "gave to James Otis and to Patrick Henry the prophet's tongue of
flame. They nerved the arm of Washington in battle, and kindled the embattled farmers to fire
'the shot heard round the world.' They kindled the eloquence of Phillips and the song of Longfellow.
They gave to Abraham Lincoln the faith at whose bidding a hundred thousand men sprang to their
feet as one--the faith which brightened the six and thirty stars round the forehead of liberty,
and flung the broken fetters of the last slave beneath her feet. If the church keep the people
in their allegiance to those awful virtues, America shall still be the enlightener of the nations,
the beautiful pioneer in the vanguard of the progress of the world. But if she spread a table
to Fortune, or enshrine Mammon above her altars, if her commerce become dishonest, and her
press debased, and her society frivolous, and her religion a mere twilight of wilful and self-induced
delusion--she in her turn shall fall like Lucifer, son of the morning, and the double oceans
which sweep her illimitable shores shall only plash to future empires a more sad, a more desolate,
and a more unending dirge."

We suspect that this eloquence is expressive not only of impartial admiration, but of the pride
that is partial. The parties concerned have common interests in the matter of grandfathers.

The presidential message has met, as might have been anticipated, with a very varied reception
from the great political parties, from the many-minded press, and from what may be designated
the non-partisan or politically colorless section of the American people. Nor has it been more
fortunate in securing unanimity of judgment as to its political merits and significance from
the public organs which reflect with more or less precision and exactitude the opinions of
the great community of nations on the other side the Atlantic. Party feeling, unless it be
of a very enlightened, patriotic, and unselfish kind, is apt to breed the worst types of mental
perversity, and give birth to paradoxes of the most startling character. And when a great national
document, discussing matters vital to the well-being, prosperity and political advancement
of the republic is declared by one influential paper to contain "no pregnant thought of statesmanship,
no conspicuously original idea, no new issue to inspire discussion in Congress and among the
people," and by another equally competent to frame a judgment to be "a model of good English,
and forcible statement," while a third hesitates not to pronounce it "a message that will rank
among the best documents of its kind," one naturally wonders what can be the cause of this
curious conflict of sentiment; and after looking at the matter for a moment one is driven to
the conclusion that the reference of the phenomenon to an invincible and uncompromising party
sentiment is probably as scientific, comprehensive, and correct an explanation as any that
can be thought of.

We are not disposed, however, to discuss the general merits of the recent message. We will
only say that, in our opinion, the patriotic American citizen, whatever political party may
enjoy his allegiance and support, will never have reason to complain--nay more--will never
be without just occasion to feel proud of his country so long as she can produce a style of
statesmanship, and a power of political exposition like those displayed by the present Chief
Magistrate of the Republic.

       *       *       *       *       *

One noteworthy excellence President Cleveland's message possesses, which has not excited as
much remark as it deserves: we allude to the strenuous endeavor it exhibits to maintain, in
spite of some recent difficulties, a peaceable and friendly attitude towards European nations,
particularly Italy and Austria. It is not too much to hope that the conciliatory yet dignified
tone and temper of the message in this regard may do something as a conspicuous example, to
abate the war frenzy, and cool the morbid passion for "gunpowder and glory," which has been
such a disturbing and dangerous element in European statesmanship and diplomacy for many years
past, and is perhaps more menacing to the quiet of the world and the peaceful advancement of
civilization at the present moment than at any period since the days of the first Napoleon.
Occupying her proud and promising position between the two great oceans; commanding, as a consequence,
these great highways of "commerce, trade and travel"; enjoying a stretch of territory which
not only affords scope for unlimited development of her great resources in a hundred different
directions, but also acts as a check to any passion that might arise for territorial annexation
or conquest; separated from the older nations by thousands of miles, she can afford to regard
with comparative indifference the exciting game of European politics, and contemplate the deep
designs of jealous and jarring diplomatists without any fear that her own house may catch fire.

       *       *       *       *       *

There is, after all, something deeply pathetic in the terrible necessity which exposes persons
of wealth, culture and exalted station to the unpitying penalties of greatness. A lesson ever
needed, ever present, and yet constantly disregarded and defied, has just received a new and
somewhat startling illustration in the sudden death of the amiable daughter and much-beloved
wife of Secretary Bayard. Can it be necessary that society should sacrifice its brightest ornaments,
and literally do itself to death, in order to maintain its existence? "Come ye yourselves into
a desert place, and rest a while," reveals a law of health and happiness as inexorable and
exacting in its demands, and as universal in its sway and scope, as any at work in the frame
of material nature. Let us learn the truth and value of this ancient hint over the tear-bedewed
grave of Kate Bayard.

                            Still streams
    Oft water fairest meadows, and the bird
    That flutters least is longest on the wing.

       *       *       *       *       *

The inevitable sequel of the English Parliamentary elections has come a little sooner than
the twin foes of Lord Salisbury's ministry had ventured to anticipate. The "Constitutional"
party, as English Toryism loves to style itself, has suffered signal and humiliating defeat,
after a brief and precarious career of a few months; and the collapse is quite as complete
as it is sudden. Mr. Gladstone and Mr. Parnell on the one hand, and the Marquis of Salisbury
and Sir Michael Hicks-Beach on the other, must have been equally unprepared for what has happened.
The Queen, caring not to conceal her political predilections, hesitated not to give her ostentatious
approval and powerful endorsement to Tory management by consenting to open Parliament, as she
had previously done for Lord Beaconsfield after his return from Berlin. A phenomenally large
and brilliant assemblage of dukes, marquises, earls and viscounts, at Lord Salisbury's parliamentary
dinner had made a similar attempt, a few days before, to awe and fascinate by a spectacle of
pomp and pageantry the too impressionable Briton. Nothing has been omitted that could in any
way buttress the insecure and tottering fabric of aristocratic power. But as the ancient sage
shrewdly observed, dementation is the prelude of doom; "whom the gods destroy they first infatuate."
The representatives of the nation have taken the earliest opportunity that offered itself of
rebuking this formidable attempt to over-ride by an ill-advised and illegitimate use of the
"favor of the sovereign" the definitely declared will of the British people. The last Parliament
was exceptionally rich in the display of character, in humorous and dramatic incident, and
in unrehearsed and unpremeditated scenes of every kind; but undoubtedly the most striking and
startling of its scenes was that of the younger Tories, unexpectedly triumphant, hailing with
frantic joy and exultation the fall of the Gladstone government. The event was a surprise to
both sides of the House, a surprise all the greater as up to the very moment of the appearance
of the "tellers" on the floor of the House, no one doubted that the ministry had sufficient
strength and vigor to withstand the blow that was aimed at its life. "Lord Kensington," to
quote the words of an eye-witness, "came in hurriedly with a face set into determined absence
of expression, and sat down by Mr. Gladstone. A few moments more and the paper was handed to
Mr. Winn (Conservative whip) amid the loudest outbreak of cheering that the House of Commons
has heard for more than a generation. Wild with delight, Lord Randolph Churchill actually leapt
on to the bench, waving his hat with the enthusiasm of a schoolboy. His friends clustered round
him, caught at him, drew him down, but could not restrain him from the vehement expression
of his delight. The example was contagious. The whole House to the left of the speaker roared
and shouted and thundered and waved its hats and clapped its hands in a frenzy of general delight.
Their hour at last had come, and the fate of the ministry was sealed." Alas for human short-sightedness!
How sad a thing the much-vaunted triumph has proved after all.

In little more than seven months the power so greedily snatched at has slipped from their grasp
like the shadow of a dream. "They laugh best who laugh last." To the aristocracy and land-owning
class generally, both of England and Ireland, the fall of the Tory government will be a cause
of apprehension. By the majority of the British public it will be welcomed. The Liberals, as
a political party, will, for a time at least, feel embarrassed by the event, while the Parnellites
will regard it--whether rightly or wrongly, time alone can tell--as another important step
toward the ultimate success of their cause and the consummation of their hopes.

       *       *       *       *       *

No one who heard the interesting address of the president of the Bostonian Society, Mr. Curtis
Guild, at its fourth annual meeting, recently held at its rooms in the Old State House, Boston,
could have failed to feel a renewed interest in American history, as especially emphasized
by the preservation of interesting memorials.

This Society, the successor of the Boston Antiquarian Society, with a membership of between
four and five hundred, is making itself felt in various ways in thus making practical the belief
that a "visible relic of the past"--as Mr. Guild expressed it---"tends to emphasize and strengthen
an historic fact." He well illustrated this idea when he further said (and who that listened
did not thrill with true patriotism?), "The walls that are about you are the self-same that
existed at the time of the Boston Massacre; the windows the self-same openings--here, where
the Declaration was read in 1776, and the Proclamation of Peace, in 1783; there, where Washington,
in 1789, reviewed the procession in his honor. Within these very walls some of the greatest
events of American history have occurred and the greatest and most notable men who figured
in those events been gathered together."

Without doubt, this Old State House is the most genuine relic of the Revolution, now in existence.
And the Society, in daily opening its rooms, with their historical possessions, free of charge,
is offering to the public rare educational privileges which it should gratefully use and appreciate.

       *       *       *       *       *

While the Bostonian Society is doing its special work of preserving historical objects and
places from the hand of the ruthless destroyer, the Webster Historical Society, organized in
1878, is doing a parallel work in preserving for future generations the fame, work, and true
spirit of America's foremost statesman and constitutional law-giver, Daniel Webster. Of course,
such a work necessarily leads to a deep and practical interest in everything pertaining to
America's political and national life to which the great man was so devoted. This Society,
which has its headquarters in another old landmark of Boston, the Old South Meeting-House,
has now a membership of twelve hundred, who are found in all parts of the country. The customary
annual address, on the anniversary of Webster's birthday, January 18, is generally one of marked
interest; notably so was the one of January, 1884; which, as afterwards published by the Society,
was noticed by deep-thinkers, with perhaps more genuine interest than any other modern pamphlet
of its size.[F] The address at the annual meeting of this year was given before a large and
intelligent audience in the historic meeting-house by Rev. Thomas A. Hyde upon Daniel Webster
as an orator. Mr. Hyde's special study of the physical, mental, and expressional qualities
which go to make an orator gave weight to the address. The aims and purposes of the Webster
Historical Society are such as to command the sympathetic help of all American citizens in
whatever direction it may labor.

       *       *       *       *       *

It is to the credit of American womanhood that the presiding mistress of the White House is
one who, while she is making history, is so intelligently in sympathy with everything connected
with it. Her sensible ideas of the subject as revealed in the chapter on History in her recently
published book, "George Eliot's Poetry, and other Studies," indicate a mind capable of seizing
the essential facts and seeing in them the divine spark. "We must take the event as a starting
point, and travel from it to the man and men behind it." And again, "Let us realize that history
is the shrine of humanity, humanity essential in its essence in past, present, future, wherein
is stored the ego--the thou and the I."

She gives another thought worthy to be quoted and read by itself.

"Nowhere more than in the study of history is it needful to 'put yourself in his place'--i.
e., to carry to the making of an image of the person whose form you seek to confront, those
general and common ingredients which go to make up each man. When you have carried to him that
much of yourself which is common to you both, you will, by this, be qualified to detect that
in him which is himself strictly and not yourself; and so to a man you will add the individuality
of the man and have what you seek.... Nowhere more than in history does it 'take a thief to
catch a thief.'"

Miss Cleveland illustrates this in some essays which follow, where she carries herself back
to "Old Rome and New France," to Charlemagne, to Joan of Arc, and other suggestive epochs.

       *       *       *       *       *

In her essay on "Old Rome and New France," Miss Cleveland calls the Middle or Dark Ages, the
Twilight Age. "It seems to me," she says, "that this period is not suggestively named when
called the Middle Ages, nor accurately named when called the Dark Ages, but that both suggestion
and accuracy combine in that view which denominates it as a Twilight Age. An idea which certainly
embodies much of truth."

FOOTNOTES:

[F] John Adams, the Statesman of the Revolution, by Hon. Mellen Chamberlain, LL.D.

EDUCATION.

It cannot but be regarded as a wholesome and altogether welcome sign of the times that the
science and methods as well as subject-matter of education are becoming increasingly popular
questions, receiving a considerable share of attention, and inviting a more close, careful,
and comprehensive study. Here, however, it happens, as it does in many other things: the difficulties
of the problem multiply exactly in proportion to the clearness and completeness of our apprehension
of what ought to be done, and the earnestness of purpose with which we address ourselves to
the doing of it. Most of the troubles of human life, especially those of the most serious and
pressing sort, are of a purely practical character, to be met and mastered, not with improved
theory, but with better directed action. It is, of course, impossible to over-rate the value
of right principles and correct methods of procedure. Light may be undervalued, neglected,
despised; but it can never lead astray. On this account, every intelligent suggestion in the
direction of educational reform should be listened to. But, on the other hand, there is great
danger of too much emphasizing the need of change, and of forgetting how much the value and
efficiency of any given scheme depends on the ability, wisdom, and earnestness of those who
apply and administer it. One specialist insists, with great force of argument and convincing
earnestness of spirit, on the need of devoting more attention to the training and development
of the business faculty in the up-growing youth of the age. He looks at the matter from the
side of an experienced, active, and successful man of business. Another is convinced that the
spirit and tendency of the age make the study of the elements of physical science imperative.
The paramount claims of history are urged by a third. A fourth considers a course of education
essentially deficient which does not provide for a thorough study of the principal modern languages.
While a fifth, with a view of securing at once an economy of study and a unity of knowledge,
is inclined to think the time has come when children should be taught the rudimentary principles
of the Spencerian philosophy, so that they may see how the several branches of their study
stand related to each other.[G]

Now, while much of this only tends to confuse rather than to solve an already too-complicated
question, it also shows how increased activity of thought and thoroughness of purpose bring
us face to face with difficulties of whose existence we had scarcely a suspicion. The more
we accomplish, the more there is to challenge our courage, skill, and capabilities. Improved
machinery, reformed methods, accumulated experience, with increased ability and aptitude on
the part of teachers, cannot fail to advance the problem of popular education nearer to a satisfactory
solution; but we must never allow ourselves to forget that many of the most important elements
that contribute to the success of teaching are not at the command of the teacher. Education
has to do with mind and character; and these are very subtle things, and exceedingly difficult
to deal with; and success depends on many things that can never be incorporated in a theory
or scheme of education, or in any curriculum of studies.

FOOTNOTES:

[G] This newest educational suggestion appears in a vigorous and thoughtful paper on "Education
and a Philosophy of Life," in the January number of Education. A communication from Curtis
M. Sawyer, of Mechanics Falls, called attention to the fact that traces of Indian settlements
in Maine are now disappearing, and suggested that some means should be taken to mark sites
of Indian villages and shell-heaps. The Rev. Henry O. Thayer read a paper on Popham colony.
E. H. Elwell read a paper on the "British View of the Ashburton Treaty, and the Northeastern
Boundary Question;" the Hon. Joseph Williamson on "The Rumored French Invasion of Maine in
1798;" the Rev. Dr. Burrage on "Additional Facts concerning George Waymouth;" Dr. Charles E.
Banks on "The Administration of William Gorges from 1636 to 1637." The original diploma of
the Society of the Cincinnati, signed by George Washington and General Knox, was exhibited
by Thomas L. Talbot. B. F. Stevens, of London, who has for many years collected documents relating
to the Revolution, and negotiations of that period, requested that the attention of Congress
be called to these manuscripts, and an effort be made to have the government purchase them.
It was voted to refer the matter to a standing committee with power. It was also voted that
the subject relating to the limits of Indian towns be left to a standing committee.

       *       *       *       *       *

MASSACHUSETTS:

Dec. 21.--Forefather's Day was appropriately celebrated in many places. At Plymouth, addresses
were delivered by Hon. Thomas Russell, President of the Pilgrim Society, James Russell Lowell,
Rev. George E. Ellis, D. D., Dr. Henry M. Dexter, Judge Charles Levi Woodbury, and others.

Dec. 22.--Dedication of new public library building in Chelsea, the gift of Eustace C. Fitz.
An eloquent dedicatory address was delivered by James Russell Lowell.

Dec. 24.--Streets of Lawrence lighted for the first time by the incandescent electric light.

Jan. 6.--Annual meeting of the New England Historic Genealogical Society. Marshall P. Wilder
was re-elected President, and Grover Cleveland was made an honorary member. The following were
elected to fill vacancies in the old board of officers: Vice-president, Horace Fairbanks, of
St. Johnsbury, Vt.; honorary vice-presidents, Charles C. Jones, of Savannah, Ga., and W. F.
Mallalieu, of New Orleans, La.; director, John F. Andrew, of Boston; committee on heraldry,
John K. Clarke, of Needham; committee on library, Walter Adams, of Framingham; committee on
papers and essays, Waldo Burnett, of Southboro, Alexander Williams, of Boston. The report of
the treasurer showed: Income of the past year, $3,637.92; expenditures, $3,510.61; present
balance, $127.31; total of the building fund, $25,028.19; total of all funds, $66,610.23. The
librarian's report showed: Addition of books by purchase, 121; by gift, 401; present total,
20,778; pamphlets purchased, 30; gifts, 1848. Present total, 64,604. Nathaniel F. Safford offered
a resolution of thanks to Mr. Wilder for his services in general to the society, and in particular
for his persevering personal efforts during the past few years by which he has obtained, not
merely the subscriptions of his friends, but the payment thereof for the building fund of the
society, so that the money, about $25,000, is now on deposit, and at the society's disposal.
The resolution was adopted unanimously by a rising vote.

Meeting of Massachusetts Legislature. President Pillsbury of the Senate, Speaker Brackett,
of the House, and Clerks Gifford and Mr. Laughlin were re-elected. Captain J. G. B. Adams,
of Lynn, was elected Sergeant-at-Arms.

Dec. 12.--Annual meeting of the Bostonian Society. The following were chosen directors for
the coming year: Thomas C. Amory, William S. Appleton, Thomas J. Allen, Joshua P. Bodfish,
Curtis Guild, John T. Hassam, Hamilton A. Hill, Samuel H. Russell, and William Wilkins Warren.
The report on the library showed a total of 520 volumes, and many pamphlets not yet enumerated,
being an addition of 184 volumes, and 126 pamphlets during the year. The report of the treasurer
showed: Balance of last year, $3,857.85; receipts, to make a total of $4,736.65; expenditures,
to leave a present balance of $1,992.23. It was announced that Mr. D. T. V. Huntoon, the secretary
and treasurer, declined a re-election, being about to take a journey for the benefit of his
health. The vacancy was not filled.

Jan. 14.--Monthly meeting of the Massachusetts Historical Society. Dr. Green, as one of the
executors of the will of John Langdon Sibley, read that part of the will in which he has constituted
this society the residuary legatee of nearly all his estate. This amount is by far the largest
sum of money ever given or bequeathed to the society, and will place the name of Sibley among
the greatest benefactors of historical research. It was voted that a committee consisting of
Judge Hoar, Mr. Cobb, and Professor E. C. Smyth be appointed to consider and report to the
society what action should be taken in view of this munificent bequest.

Mr. R. C. Winthrop, Jr., communicated thirty-two letters, written between 1693 and 1699, from
General Lord Cutts to Colonel Joseph Dudley, then lieutenant-governor of the Isle of Wight,
and afterward governor of Massachusetts. They contain incidental reference to William of Orange,
and many public men of that period, as well as to the campaign of the allied army in Flanders,
and the evident sincerity and soldierly bluntness of the writer renders them quite entertaining.
Lord Cutts was not merely a famous commander, but a poet, and his verses are quoted by Horace
Walpole. Mr. Winthrop expressed a desire to learn where a picture of him might be found, and
he discussed the authority and probable date of various portraits of Governor Joseph Dudley,
and his wife, Rebecca Tyng.

Mr. Appleton spoke of the flag carried by the minute-men of Bedford to Concord, on the 19th
of April, 1775, a photograph of which had been exhibited at the last meeting. It was originally
designed in England in 1660-70 for the three county troops of Massachusetts, and became one
of the accepted standards of the organized militia of this State, and as such was used by the
Bedford company. Mr. Appleton said that in his opinion this flag far exceeds in historic value
the famed flag of Eutaw and Pulaski's banner, and, in fact, is the most precious memorial of
its kind of which we have any knowledge.

The Hon. R. C. Winthrop presented from the Hon. John Bigelow, of New York, late minister to
France, and author of an elaborate life of Franklin, five old maps, on one of which the name
of this city is spelled Baston, and on another Briston.

Mr. Windsor made a communication in reference to a ditch and embankment found in Weston, at
the confluence of Stony Brook and Charles River, which indicate, it has been lately said, that
a trading post and fort were erected there by the French in the early part of the sixteenth
century. He gave reasons for the opinion that these relics may mark the site of an early attempt
to found the town of Boston there, since soon after the arrival of Winthrop at Salem he set
out for Charlestown, whence, with a party, he explored the neighboring rivers for a convenient
spot to found their town, and discovered such a place "three leagues up Charles River." Dr.
Palfrey, who seems not to have known of the existence of these remains, says that the spot
must have been somewhere in Waltham or Weston, and most likely near the mouth of Stony Brook.

Mr. Winsor also read a paper in which he referred to a statement which had appeared in several
popular histories, that, during the eight years of the Revolutionary War, the thirteen colonies
sent two hundred and thirty-two thousand men to the Continental army. He traced the origin
of this extravagant statement. In 1790, General Knox, then Secretary of War, presented to President
Washington a report on the number of troops furnished during the war. He showed the number
credited to the several States, making no distinction between those who served for a shorter
or a longer period, and he did not tabulate his separate statements for each year into one
including the whole war. This was done, however, in the first volume of the New Hampshire Historical
Society's collections, and the error was copied by many subsequent publications. It was afterwards
said in explanation, that these figures denoted enlistments or years of service, and not men.
The truth of the matter is that these figures are worthless as representing the number of men
which made up the Continental line, or the years of actual service, and their only value is
as enabling us approximately to judge how much more or less relatively one State contributed
than another to the military force that gained our independence.

       *       *       *       *       *

RHODE ISLAND:

Dec. 17.--The committee appointed by the Providence City Council to consider what action should
be taken by the city government for the proper observance of its two hundred and fiftieth anniversary,
submitted its report. The committee is of the opinion that the celebration should consist of
a festival lasting two days. It is recommended that the first day be devoted to literary and
historical exercises in the First Baptist Meeting-House, with an historical address giving
a complete history of the city, together with appropriate odes, poems, and music. The committee
recommends that on the second day there be a grand trades procession representative of the
past and present industries of Providence; also an elaborate military and civic parade; that,
in the afternoon, balloon ascensions, band concerts, and other amusements be provided for the
people, and that the celebration be brought to a termination by a grand display of fireworks
in the evening. As the best historical authorities name the date of the founding of Providence
as between the 20th and 25th of June, the committee is of the opinion that the 23d and 24th
should be selected. This suggestion is made also in view of the fact that the 24th of June
will be observed as a festival day by the French residents, and the Masonic Fraternity. It
is proposed that the city appropriate $10,000 for the observance, and that the State legislature
be requested to make a further appropriation of $5,000.

       *       *       *       *       *

CONNECTICUT:

Jan. 6.--The Legislature organized by electing Stiles T. Stanton, President pro tem. of the
Senate, and John T. Tibbets, of New London, as Speaker of the House.

The article on the Wayte family, in the January number of the NEW ENGLAND MAGAZINE, has provoked
much pleasant comment in Lyme, the birthplace and summer home of Chief Justice Waite, and New
London, the residence of Hon. John T. Wait.

The History of Hartford County in two splendid volumes, press of Ticknor & Co., of Boston,
is now being printed, and will be ready for delivery in a few weeks.

       *       *       *       *       *

VERMONT:

Six young men, playing Spanish mandolins, guitars, and harps, says the Chicago Herald, Jan.
18, sat in the balcony of one of the banquet halls at Kinsley's last evening. Below the musicians,
and seated at an E-shaped table were two hundred and fifty elderly gentlemen, members of the
Illinois Association of the Sons of Vermont, who were destroying their ninth annual banquet.
Pots filled with pork and beans, huge pumpkin pies, and large blocks of brown bread were spread
before the banqueters. Glass fruit-dishes piled high with ruddy winter apples and little dishes
overflowing with cracked hickory nuts came later, and then all these good things were washed
down with cider and claret. The toasts were: "Vermont," H. N. Hibbard; "Clergymen of Vermont,"
Rev. G. N. Boardman; "Stumps of Vermont," E. B. Sherman; "The Star that never sets," W. W.
Chandler. After the speech-making, Jules Lombard, robed in black and wearing a pair of gold-rimmed
spectacles upon the breast of his Prince Albert coat, sang "America" and a pretty Scottish
serenade. Among those present were E. G. Keith, II, P. Kellogg, O. S. A. Sprague, R. S. Smith,
Gen. H. H. Thomas, H. N. Hibbard, George Chandler, Harvey Edgerton, Dr. C. N. Fitch, E. A.
Jewett, Col. Arba N. Waterman, E. B. Sherman, John M. Thatcher, A. W. Butler, Frank Deinson,
H. N. Nash, John M. Southworth, George W. Newcombe, and S. W. Burnham.

NECROLOGY.

December 15.--Samuel Dyer, a pioneer in the anti-slavery movement, died at South Abington,
Mass., aged seventy-eight years. He was intimately associated with Wendell Phillips and Garrison
as an abolitionist, and at one time held the office of president of the anti-slavery society
of Plymouth county. He was among the first to aid and assist Frederick Douglass. When George
Thompson, of England, became identified with the anti-slavery movement, his intercourse with
Mr. Dyer began, and they worked together in the cause for many years. He had been a prominent
business man of the town and had held several public offices.

On the same day died at his home in Cambridge, Mass., James C. Fisk, ex-president of the Cambridge
Railroad Company. He was born in Cambridge in 1825, and always lived in that city. He was President
of the Fiskdale Mills, at Sturbridge, Mass. Mr. Fisk was president of the common council two
years, 1858-9.

December 20.--Frederic Kidder died in Melrose, Mass., aged eighty-one years. He was born in
New Ipswich, N. H., and was formerly engaged in the cotton trade in Boston. He was a member
of the New England Historic Genealogical Society, and published several historical works.

December 22.--Rev. Daniel James Noyes, D. D., Professor Emeritus of Intellectual and Moral
Philosophy and Political Economy at Dartmouth College, being in term of service next to the
senior instructor in that institution, died at Chester, N. H. He was born in Springfield, Sept.
17, 1812; was fitted for college at Pembroke, and was graduated from Dartmouth in 1832; after
graduation was a tutor at Columbian College at Washington; was graduated from the Andover Theological
Seminary in 1836, and then for one year was a tutor at Dartmouth. In 1837 he was ordained to
the ministry and installed pastor of the South Congregational Church in Concord. In 1849 he
was dismissed in order to accept the Phillips Foundation Chair of Theology at Dartmouth, which
he filled until 1869, when he was transferred to the chair which he held at the time of his
death, having been Professor Emeritus since 1883. The University of Vermont conferred upon
him the degree of Doctor of Divinity in 1854.

December 29.--Edwin D. Sanborn, LL.D., Winkley Professor Emeritus at Dartmouth College of Anglo-Saxon
and English Language and Literature, died in New York. He was born at Gilmanton, N. H., May
14, 1808, and was the son of David Edwin and Harriet (Hook) Sanborn. He was fitted at Gilmanton
Academy, and was graduated from Dartmouth College in 1832. He gained reputation as a teacher
in the academies at Derry and Topsfield, Mass., and at Gilmanton, being preceptor of the latter.
In 1834 he declined a tutorship at Dartmouth, and at Meredith Bridge began the study of law,
which he abandoned and entered the Andover Theological Seminary. In 1835 he was a tutor at
Hanover; then Professor of Latin and Greek for two years, and later filled the chair of Latin
alone from 1837 to 1859. Then he accepted the place of Professor of Latin and Classical Literature
at Washington University, St. Louis, where he remained four years. In March, 1863, he returned
to Hanover and became Professor of Rhetoric and Belles Lettres. In 1880 he took the Winkley
chair. Since 1882 he had been Professor Emeritus, his failing health preventing him from performing
the duties of that professorship. The deceased was licensed as a Congregational minister, Nov.
1, 1836. The University of Vermont in 1859 conferred upon him the degree of Doctor of Laws.
For many years he held most of the justice's courts in Hanover. In 1848 and '49 he represented
the town in the Legislature and was a delegate to the Constitutional Convention in 1850. In
1869 he was elected to the State Senate, but declined to serve. The deceased was widely known
as an orator and literateur. In 1875 he published a history of New Hampshire. The death of
Professor Sanborn is not only a great loss to Dartmouth College, but to the State and country
at large.

Jan. 3.--A. S. Roe, author of many popular stories, died in East Windsor, Conn., aged eighty-seven
years.

On the same day Prof. Charles E. Hamlin, of the Harvard Museum of Natural History, died at
Cambridge, Mass., aged sixty years.

Jan. 4.---Zuar Eldridge Jameson, died in Irasburg, Orleans County, Vt., aged fifty-one years.
He was a well-known writer and lecturer on agricultural topics, whose initials, with transpositions,
as well as other pseudonyms, are familiar to readers of the agricultural papers, particularly
the New York Weekly Tribune, Albany, N. Y., Country Gentleman and Boston Cultivator. He was
a member of the lower branch of the Vermont Legislature in 1878, and of the State Board of
Agriculture in 1870-74, for many years Secretary of the Orleans County Agricultural Society,
and for one or two years lecturer of the Vermont State Grange, Patrons of Husbandry. Aside
from the large amount of purely agricultural matter written he was a frequent producer of short
sketches of fiction, usually treating of rural life. He was associated with Dr. T. H. Hoskins
in the editing of the old Vermont Farmer (not the present Vermont Farmer) at Newport, which
was from a literary standpoint the most successful of Vermont agricultural journals.

Jan. 5.--Death of Noble H. Hill, senior proprietor of the Boston Theatre. He was born in Shoreham,
Vt., in 1821; received a good education; came to Boston in 1840; was in active trade till 1867,
being at that time a partner in the firm of Hill, Burrage & Co; in 1876 became a partner with
Orlando Tompkins for conducting the Boston Theatre.

On the same day died Dr. James H. Whittemore, Superintendent of the Massachusetts General Hospital,
aged 47 years.

Jan. 8.--Death of the Hon. Nahum Capen, at Dorchester, Mass., aged eighty-two years. He was
born in Canton in 1804. He came to Boston at the age of twenty-one, embarked in the publishing
business in the firm of Marsh, Capen & Lyon, and afterward was connected with several of the
leading publishing houses of this city. His tastes were always literary, and for the past forty
years he has devoted himself to literature and study, except when he held the office of postmaster,
1857 to 1861. He was appointed postmaster by President Buchanan, and it was during his term
of office that the postoffice was removed from the Merchant's Exchange building to Summer street
at the corner of Chauncy street, where it remained for about a year and a half. He mapped out
the free delivery system, and was the first postmaster in the country to establish the outside
letter collection boxes. Mr. Capen has written (most of them anonymously) and has published
many books, scientific and political, and was a very liberal contributor to the newspapers
and magazines. He was a sound thinker and was considered an able writer. His last work, on
which he has been engaged for twenty-five years, is a history of Democracy. The first volume
has been published, and the remaining three have been written and are ready to be printed,
except a portion of the last.

LITERATURE AND ART.

History of the Civil War in America.[H] The deep and widespread interest which is being felt
in this country in all that relates to the late war is likely to receive increased stimulus
from the appearance of recent instalments of the translation of the "History" of the Comte
de Paris. The fact that the narrative is written by a foreigner, not so much for the information
of American as of European readers, will in no way interfere with the profound interest Americans
themselves must feel in what, when finished, will probably be, if not the most impartial yet
the most accurate, comprehensive, complete, and reliable record of that long, lamentable and
costly struggle. The interest in American affairs which has culminated in the production of
this history had been a long-cherished feeling with the author before he conceived the purpose
which he has so far executed so admirably. For years materials of all kinds that promised to
shed light upon his subject and assist him in his undertaking had been industriously collected.
He enjoyed, besides, the great advantage of having personally served on the staff of General
McClellan, in this way attaching to himself many friends, who, after his return to Europe,
continued to keep him posted up in all that related to the movements of the belligerents, and
the incidents and aspects of the conflict. These advantages, together with the count's very
thorough knowledge of military science, justified his attempting a task which, as it approaches
completion, promises to be a splendid success, and which, so far as it has been carried out,
has already received high commendation from distinguished soldiers and statesmen both in Europe
and America. The work, though voluminous, is sure to find, as it deserves, many readers. No
American professing to be proud of his country's struggles and achievements can well afford
to be ignorant of its contents. It may be as well to note that the Count fully confides in
the translator's ability to perform his task with care and accuracy.

FOOTNOTES:

[H] Philadelphia: Porter & Coates. Questions in. 6, 18.

ANTHROPOLOGY AND ETHNOLOGY. Lo, the Poor Indian. Geo. F. Marshall. 3, 206.--Varieties of the
Human Species. Horatio Hale. Illus. 5, 296.--Natural Heirship, or the World Akin. Rev. Henry
Kendall. 5, 377.--Race Characteristics of the Jews. 5, 429.--Prehistoric Human Remains in Mexico.
5, 420.

ART. "Famous Pictures and the Sermons they teach." Crit. art. on Reynolds' painting of the
infant Samuel. Rev. Robt. Maguire, D. D. 1, 1.--A French Painter (M. Duran) and his Pupils.
7, 373.--A Broad View of Art. 7, 474.--The Lesson of Greek Art. Charles Waldstein. 7, 397.--Sir
Joshua Reynolds. Frances C. Sparhawk.

BIOGRAPHY. Tribute to Thomas A. Hendricks. Hon. J. W. Gerard. 2, 18.--Bishop Meade of Va. John
Washington. James Bridger. 2, 93.--David Meade of Ky. 2, 94.--John Breckenridge of Va. 2, 97.--B.
F. Wade, the Judge. Hon. A. G. Riddle. 3, 235.--Thomas Hoyne, Chicago. 3, 288.--Judge Stephenson
Burke, Cleveland, O. 3, 296.--Dr. Wm. Bushnell, Mansfield, O. 3, 306.--George Whittier Jackson.
David Hostetter, Pittsburg. 3, 258. Frank Buckland (Scientist). 5, 401.--Guiseppi Verdi, Port.
7, 323-414.--Daniel Webster. Rogers. 8, 13.--Richard and Gamaliel Wayte. A. T. Lovell. 8, 48.

BIOLOGY. Questions in. 6, 17.

EDUCATION. Early Education in Ohio. Jessie Cohen. 3, 217.--Can College Graduates succeed in
Business? 4, 111.--The Flower or the Leaf. Primary Education. Mary Putnam Jacobi. 5, 325.--Southern
Women as Teachers of Colored Children. 7, 478. Education and a Philosophy of Life. J. C. Dana.
10, 215.--Education of the Colored Race. Andrews. 10, 231.--Organization of Higher Education.
Beale. 10, 233.--Education of Girls. Fenelon. 10, 242.--A Want, and How to Meet It. Klemm.
10, 248.--Reports on Education. 10, 272.--New Education. Livermore. 10, 290.--Overpressure
in High Schools of Denmark. A. T. Smith. 10, 299.--Educational Institutions. Brown University.
R. A. Guild, LL.D. 8, 1.

GEOLOGY. "Gray Wethers." The Saccharoid Sandstone of Salisbury Plain. Grant Allen. 4, 94.

HISTORY. "Paul Revere." 1735-1818. E. H. Goss. Portrait and illus.--From Burnside to Hooker.
Transfer of the Army of the Potomac, 1863. Maj. Wm. Howard Mills. 2, 44.--Operations before
Ft. Donelson. Gen. W. F. (Baldy) Smith. Illus. 2, 20.--Slavery in America. Its Origin and Consequences.
John A. Logan. Portrait of writer. 2, 57.--Washington's First Campaign. T. J. Chapman, A.M.
2, 66.--The New Year's Holiday. Its Origin and Observance. Martha J. Lamb. 2, 79.--Gen. W.
F. Smith's Unpublished Reports of the Capture of Ft. Donelson. 2, 82.--Letters: Jas. Meyrick
to Benedict Arnold, and John Hancock to Gen. Washington. 1781. 2, 89.--Churches in Newark,
N. J., in 1707. 2, 93.--Boston Riot of 1788. 2, 95.--Detroit during Revolutionary Days. Silas
Farmer. 3, 250.--Expedition of Gen. Geo. Rogers Clark, and Capture of Kaskaskia. 1778. John
Moses. 3, 267.--The City of the Straits (Detroit). H. A. Griffin. 3, 270.--The "Lost State"
of Franklin. 3, 321.--First Exploration of Northwest by John Nicolet. 3, 322.--Ohio's Coming
Centennial. 3, 323.--A New Field of Am. Hist. (Pacific States). 5, 371.--The Second Battle
of Bull Run. Gen. John Pope. 7, 442.--Recollections of a Private. Warren L. Goss. 7, 467.--Attleboro,
Mass. Barrows. 8, 27.--Social Life in Early New England. Anson Titus. 8, 63.--Dutch Village
Communities on the Hudson River, 11, 4th series.--Shiloh Campaign. Gen. Beauregard. 13, 1.--Sherman
on Grant. 13.

INDUSTRY. A History of the Oil Interest. A. R. Baker, M.D. 3, 223.

LITERATURE, LIBRARIES, ETC. Early Libraries in Cincinnati. Prof. W. H. Venable. 3, 245.--George
Eliot's Criticisms on her Contemporaries. 4, 19.--The Future Literary Capital of the U. S.
4, 104.--Progress toward Literary Knowledge. 6, 9.--Questions in English, German and Greek
Literature. 6, 17-21.

MEDICINE, HYGIENE, PHYSIOLOGY, ETC. Pioneer Medicine of the Western Reserve. D. P. Allen, M.D.
3, 278.--Inoculation against Hydrophobia. M. Louis Pasteur. 5, 289.--The Physiology of the
Feet. T. S. Ellis, M.R.C.S. 5, 395.--Color Blindness. 5, 431.--Physiological Experiments. 5,
425.--How Milk is Tainted. 5, 421.

MISCELLANY. The Bladensburg Races. A humorous historic ballad. Comments by Horatio C. King. 2, 85.

MONEY AND FINANCE. Banks and Bankers of Cleveland. 3, 313.--Origin of Primitive Money. 5, 296.

MUSIC. A National Conservatory of. 7, 477.

NATURAL HISTORY. Fish out of Water. Grant Allen. 5, 334.--Fruits of the Pacific. 5, 421.--Recent
Experiments in Hybridization. 7, 476.--Feathered Forms of Other Days. Illus. R. M. Shufeldt.
7, 352.

POLITICS, ECONOMICS, LAW, ETC. A Time of Universal Prosperity (in Mich.), and What Came of
It. Hon. Bela Hubbard. 3, 199.--Civil Service Reform. Gail Hamilton. 4, 67.--How our Railroads
have become Luxurious. 4, 110.--Communal Societies. Charles Morris. 5, 325.--Medieval English
Law. 5, 423.--The New Political Economy. 7, 475.--Life Insurance. G. A. Litchfield. 8, 68.--Canadian
Prospects and Politics. Lord Lorne. Alex. Pirie. Sir J. A. McDonald. 13.--Democracy in England.
Andrew Carnegie. 13.--Disfranchisement of Delaware. 13.--Letters to Prominent Persons. A. Lichmond.
13.--Landlordism in America. T. P. Gill, M.P. 13.

RECREATION. Thoughts on Archery. Agnes Fraser Sandham. 12, 371.--Around the World on a Bicycle.
W. A. Rogers. 12, 379.--Ladies' Tour to Kettle Cove. M. C. Smith. 12, 43.--Ice Skating in Canada.
Otley. 12, 413.--Pedestrian Tour in the Scottish Highlands. E. S. Farwell. 12, 436.

RELIGION. Work of the Church in America. Archdeacon Farrar. 13.

SCIENCE. Science in its Useful Applications. W. Odling, F.R.S. 5, 388.--Agatized Wood of Arizona.
5, 362.--Nonconformity (in Types). Herbert Spencer. 5, 367.--How Woods Preserve Moisture. Elm
Leaf Berth. 5, 429.--The Age of Trees. 5, 424.

TRAVEL AND DESCRIPTION. City of Teheran. S. Q. W. Benjamin. 7, 323.

1 The Quiver, Dec. '85.

2 Magazine of Am. History, Jan, '86.

3 Magazine of Western History (Cleveland, O.), Jan., '86.

4 Lippincott's Magazine, Jan., '86.

5 Popular Science Monthly, Jan., '86.

6 Queries (Buffalo, N. Y.), Jan., '86.

7 The Century, Jan., '86.

8 New England Magazine.

9 St. Nicolas.

