THE CAESARS.

BY THOMAS DE QUINCEY

THE CAESARS.

The condition of the Roman Emperors has never yet been fully appreciated; nor has it been sufficiently
perceived in what respects it was absolutely unique. There was but one Rome: no other city,
as we are satisfied by the collation of many facts, either of ancient or modern times, has
ever rivalled this astonishing metropolis in the grandeur of magnitude; and not many--if we
except the cities of Greece, none at all--in the grandeur of architectural display. Speaking
even of London, we ought in all reason to say--the Nation of London, and not the City of London;
but of Rome in her palmy days, nothing less could be said in the naked severity of logic. A
million and a half of souls--that population, apart from any other distinctions, is per se
for London a justifying ground for such a classification; a fortiori, then, will it belong
to a city which counted from one horn to the other of its mighty suburbs not less than four
millions of inhabitants [Footnote: Concerning this question-- once so fervidly debated, yet
so unprofitably for the final adjudication, and in some respects, we may add, so erroneously--on
a future occasion.] at the very least, as we resolutely maintain after reviewing all that has
been written on that much vexed theme, and very probably half as many more. Republican Rome
had her prerogative tribe; the earth has its prerogative city; and that city was Rome.

As was the city, such was its prince--mysterious, solitary, unique. Each was to the other an
adequate counterpart, each reciprocally that perfect mirror which reflected, as it were in
alia materia, those incommunicable attributes of grandeur, that under the same shape and denomination
never upon this earth were destined to be revived. Rome has not been repeated; neither has
Caesar. Ubi Caesar, ibi Roma--was a maxim of Roman jurisprudence. And the same maxim may be
translated into a wider meaning; in which it becomes true also for our historical experience.
Caesar and Rome have flourished and expired together. The illimitable attributes of the Roman
prince, boundless and comprehensive as the universal air,--like that also bright and apprehensible
to the most vagrant eye, yet in parts (and those not far removed) unfathomable as outer darkness,
(for no chamber in a dungeon could shroud in more impenetrable concealment a deed of murder
than the upper chambers of the air,)--these attributes, so impressive to the imagination, and
which all the subtlety of the Roman [Footnote: Or even of modern wit; witness the vain attempt
of so many eminent sort, and illustrious Antecessors, to explain in self- consistency the differing
functions of the Roman Caesar, and in what sense he was legibus solutus. The origin of this
difficulty we shall soon understand.] wit could as little fathom as the fleets of Caesar could
traverse the Polar basin, or unlock the gates of the Pacific, are best symbolized, and find
their most appropriate exponent, in the illimitable city itself--that Rome, whose centre, the
Capitol, was immovable as Teneriffe or Atlas, but whose circumference was shadowy, uncertain,
restless, and advancing as the frontiers of her all-conquering empire. It is false to say,
that with Caesar came the destruction of Roman greatness. Peace, hollow rhetoricians! Until
Caesar came, Rome was a minor; by him, she attained her majority, and fulfilled her destiny.
Caius Julius, you say, deflowered the virgin purity of her civil liberties. Doubtless, then,
Rome had risen immaculate from the arms of Sylla and of Marius. But, if it were Caius Julius
who deflowered Rome, if under him she forfeited her dowery of civic purity, if to him she first
unloosed her maiden zone, then be it affirmed boldly--that she reserved her greatest favors
for the noblest of her wooers, and we may plead the justification of Falconbridge for his mother's
trangression with the lion-hearted king--such a sin was self-ennobled. Did Julius deflower
Rome? Then, by that consummation, he caused her to fulfill the functions of her nature; he
compelled her to exchange the imperfect and inchoate condition of a mere faemina for the perfections
of a mulier. And, metaphor apart, we maintain that Rome lost no liberties by the mighty Julius.
That which in tendency, and by the spirit of her institutions--that which, by her very corruptions
and abuses co-operating with her laws, Rome promised and involved in the germ--even that, and
nothing less or different, did Rome unfold and accomplish under this Julian violence. The rape
[if such it were] of Caesar, her final Romulus, completed for Rome that which the rape under
Romulus, her earliest Caesar, had prosperously begun. And thus by one godlike man was a nation-city
matured; and from the everlasting and nameless [Footnote: "Nameless city."--The true name of
Rome it was a point of religion to conceal; and, in fact, it was never revealed.] city was
a man produced-- capable of taming her indomitable nature, and of forcing her to immolate her
wild virginity to the state best fitted for the destined "Mother of empires." Peace, then,
rhetoricians, false threnodists of false liberty! hollow chanters over the ashes of a hollow
republic! Without Caesar, we affirm a thousand times that there would have been no perfect
Rome; and, but for Rome, there could have been no such man as Caesar.

Both then were immortal; each worthy of each. And the Cui viget nihil simile aut secundum of
the poet, was as true of one as of the other. For, if by comparison with Rome other cities
were but villages, with even more propriety it may be asserted, that after the Roman Caesars
all modern kings, kesars, or emperors, are mere phantoms of royalty. The Caesar of Western
Rome--he only of all earthly potentates, past or to come, could be said to reign as a monarch,
that is, as a solitary king. He was not the greatest of princes, simply because there was no
other but himself. There were doubtless a few outlying rulers, of unknown names and titles
upon the margins of his empire, there were tributary lieutenants and barbarous reguli, the
obscure vassals of his sceptre, whose homage was offered on the lowest step of his throne,
and scarcely known to him but as objects of disdain. But these feudatories could no more break
the unity of his empire, which embraced the whole oichomeni;--the total habitable world as
then known to geography, or recognised by the muse of History--than at this day the British
empire on the sea can be brought into question or made conditional, because some chief of Owyhee
or Tongataboo should proclaim a momentary independence of the British trident, or should even
offer a transient outrage to her sovereign flag. Such a tempestas in matula might raise a brief
uproar in his little native archipelago, but too feeble to reach the shores of Europe by an
echo--or to ascend by so much as an infantine susurrus to the ears of the British Neptune.
Parthia, it is true, might pretend to the dignity of an empire. But her sovereigns, though
sitting in the seat of the great king, (o basileus,) were no longer the rulers of a vast and
polished nation. They were regarded as barbarians--potent only by their standing army, not
upon the larger basis of civic strength; and, even under this limitation, they were supposed
to owe more to the circumstances of their position--their climate, their remoteness, and their
inaccessibility except through arid and sultry deserts--than to intrinsic resources, such as
could be permanently relied on in a serious trial of strength between the two powers. The kings
of Parthia, therefore, were far enough from being regarded in the light of antagonist forces
to the majesty of Rome. And, these withdrawn from the comparison, who else was there--what
prince, what king, what potentate of any denomination, to break the universal calm, that through
centuries continued to lave, as with the quiet undulations of summer lakes, the sacred footsteps
of the Caesarean throne? The Byzantine court, which, merely as the inheritor of some fragments
from that august throne, was drunk with excess of pride, surrounded itself with elaborate expressions
of a grandeur beyond what mortal eyes were supposed able to sustain.

These fastidious, and sometimes fantastic ceremonies, originally devised as the very extremities
of anti-barbarism, were often themselves but too nearly allied in spirit to the barbaresque
in taste. In reality, some parts of the Byzantine court ritual were arranged in the same spirit
as that of China or the Birman empire; or fashioned by anticipation, as one might think, on
the practice of that Oriental Cham, who daily proclaims by sound of trumpet to the kings in
the four corners of the earth--that they, having dutifully awaited the close of his dinner,
may now with his royal license go to their own.

From such vestiges of derivative grandeur, propagated to ages so remote from itself, and sustained
by manners so different from the spirit of her own,--we may faintly measure the strength of
the original impulse given to the feelings of men by the sacred majesty of the Roman throne.
How potent must that splendor have been, whose mere reflection shot rays upon a distant crown,
under another heaven, and across the wilderness of fourteen centuries! Splendor, thus transmitted,
thus sustained, and thus imperishable, argues a transcendent in the basis of radical power.
Broad and deep must those foundations have been laid, which could support an "arch of empire"
rising to that giddy altitude--an altitude which sufficed to bring it within the ken of posterity
to the sixtieth generation.

Power is measured by resistance. Upon such a scale, if it were applied with skill, the relations
of greatness in Rome to the greatest of all that has gone before her, and has yet come after
her, would first be adequately revealed. The youngest reader will know that the grandest forms
in which the collective might of the human race has manifested itself, are the four monarchies.
Four times have the distributive forces of nations gathered themselves, under the strong compression
of the sword, into mighty aggregates--denominated Universal Empires, or Monarchies. These are
noticed in the Holy Scriptures; and it is upon their warrant that men have supposed no fifth
monarchy or universal empire possible in an earthly sense; but that, whenever such an empire
arises, it will have Christ for its head; in other words, that no fifth monarchia can take
place until Christianity shall have swallowed up all other forms of religion, and shall have
gathered the whole family of man into one fold under one all-conquering Shepherd. Hence [Footnote:
This we mention, because a great error has been sometimes committed in exposing their error,
that consisted, not in supposing that for a fifth time men were to be gathered under one sceptre,
and that sceptre wielded by Jesus Christ, but in supposing that this great era had then arrived,
or that with no deeper moral revolution men could be fitted for that yoke.] the fanatics of
1650, who proclaimed Jesus for their king, and who did sincerely anticipate his near advent
in great power, and under some personal manifestation, were usually styled Fifth-Monarchists.

However, waiving the question (interesting enough in itself)--Whether upon earthly principles
a fifth universal empire could by possibility arise in the present condition of knowledge for
man individually, and of organization for man in general--this question waived, and confining
ourselves to the comparison of those four monarchies which actually have existed,--of the Assyrian
or earliest, we may remark, that it found men in no state of cohesion. This cause, which came
in aid of its first foundation, would probably continue; and would diminish the intensity of
the power in the same proportion as it promoted its extension. This monarchy would be absolute
only by the personal presence of the monarch; elsewhere, from mere defect of organization,
it would and must betray the total imperfections of an elementary state, and of a first experiment.
More by the weakness inherent in such a constitution, than by its own strength, did the Persian
spear prevail against the Assyrian. Two centuries revolved, seven or eight generations, when
Alexander found himself in the same position as Cyrus for building a third monarchy, and aided
by the selfsame vices of luxurious effeminacy in his enemy, confronted with the self-same virtues
of enterprise and hardihood in his compatriot soldiers. The native Persians, in the earliest
and very limited import of that name, were a poor and hardy race of mountaineers. So were the
men of Macedon; and neither one tribe nor the other found any adequate resistance in the luxurious
occupants of Babylonia. We may add, with respect to these two earliest monarchies, that the
Assyrian was undefined with regard to space, and the Persian fugitive with regard to time.
But for the third--the Grecian or Macedonian--we know that the arts of civility, and of civil
organization, had made great progress before the Roman strength was measured against it. In
Macedon, in Achaia, in Syria, in Asia Minor, in Egypt,--every where the members of this empire
had begun to knit; the cohesion was far closer, the development of their resources more complete;
the resistance therefore by many hundred degrees more formidable: consequently, by the fairest
inference, the power in that proportion greater which laid the foundations of this last great
monarchy. It is probable, indeed, both a priori, and upon the evidence of various facts which
have survived, that each of the four great empires successively triumphed over an antagonist,
barbarous in comparison of itself, and each by and through that very superiority in the arts
and policy of civilization.

Rome, therefore, which came last in the succession, and swallowed up the three great powers
that had seriatim cast the human race into one mould, and had brought them under the unity
of a single will, entered by inheritance upon all that its predecessors in that career had
appropriated, but in a condition of far ampler development. Estimated merely by longitude and
latitude, the territory of the Roman empire was the finest by much that has ever fallen under
a single sceptre. Amongst modern empires, doubtless, the Spanish of the sixteenth century,
and the British of the present, cannot but be admired as prodigious growths out of so small
a stem. In that view they will be endless monuments in attestation of the marvels which are
lodged in civilization. But considered in and for itself, and with no reference to the proportion
of the creating forces, each of these empires has the great defect of being disjointed, and
even insusceptible of perfect union. It is in fact no vinculum of social organization which
held them together, but the ideal vinculum of a common fealty, and of submission to the same
sceptre. This is not like the tie of manners, operative even where it is not perceived, but
like the distinctions of geography--existing to-day, forgotten to-morrow--and abolished by
a stroke of the pen, or a trick of diplomacy. Russia, again, a mighty empire, as respects the
simple grandeur of magnitude, builds her power upon sterility. She has it in her power to seduce
an invading foe into vast circles of starvation, of which the radii measure a thousand leagues.
Frost and snow are confederates of her strength. She is strong by her very weakness. But Rome
laid a belt about the Mediterranean of a thousand miles in breadth; and within that zone she
comprehended not only all the great cities of the ancient world, but so perfectly did she lay
the garden of the world in every climate, and for every mode of natural wealth, within her
own ring-fence, that since that era no land, no part and parcel of the Roman empire, has ever
risen into strength and opulence, except where unusual artificial industry has availed to counteract
the tendencies of nature. So entirely had Rome engrossed whatsoever was rich by the mere bounty
of native endowment.

Vast, therefore, unexampled, immeasurable, was the basis of natural power upon which the Roman
throne reposed. The military force which put Rome in possession of this inordinate power, was
certainly in some respects artificial; but the power itself was natural, and not subject to
the ebbs and flows which attend the commercial empires of our days, (for all are in part commercial.)
The depression, the reverses, of Rome, were confined to one shape--famine; a terrific shape,
doubtless, but one which levies its penalty of suffering, not by elaborate processes that do
not exhaust their total cycle in less than long periods of years. Fortunately for those who
survive, no arrears of misery are allowed by this scourge of ancient days; [Footnote: "Of ancient
days."--For it is remarkable, and it serves to mark an indubitable progress of mankind, that,
before the Christian era, famines were of frequent occurrence in countries the most civilized;
afterwards they became rare, and latterly have entirely altered their character into occasional
dearths.] the total penalty is paid down at once. As respected the hand of man, Rome slept
for ages in absolute security. She could suffer only by the wrath of Providence; and, so long
as she continued to be Rome, for many a generation she only of all the monarchies has feared
no mortal hand [Footnote: Unless that hand were her own armed against herself; upon which topic
there is a burst of noble eloquence in one of the ancient Panegyrici, when haranguing the Emperor
Theodosius: "Thou, Rome! that, having once suffered by the madness of Cinna, and of the cruel
Marius raging from banishment, and of Sylla, that won his wreath of prosperity from thy disasters,
and of Caesar, compassionate to the dead, didst shudder at every blast of the trumpet filled
by the breath of civil commotion,--thou, that, besides the wreck of thy soldiery perishing
on either side, didst bewail, amongst thy spectacles of domestic woe, the luminaries of thy
senate extinguished, the heads of thy consuls fixed upon a halberd, weeping for ages over thy
self- slaughtered Catos, thy headless Ciceros (truncosque Cicerones), and unburied Pompeys;--to
whom the party madness of thy own children had wrought in every age heavier woe than the Carthaginian
thundering at thy gates, or the Gaul admitted within thy walls; on whom OEmathia, more fatal
than the day of Allia,--Collina, more dismal than Cannae,--had inflicted such deep memorials
of wounds, that, from bitter experience of thy own valor, no enemy was to thee so formidable
as thyself;--thou, Rome! didst now for the first time behold a civil war issuing in a hallowed
prosperity, a soldiery appeased, recovered Italy, and for thyself liberty established. Now
first in thy long annals thou didst rest from a civil war in such a peace, that righteously,
and with maternal tenderness, thou mightst claim for it the honors of a civic triumph."]

  --"God and his Son except,
  Created thing nought valued she nor shunned."

That the possessor and wielder of such enormous power--power alike admirable for its extent,
for its intensity, and for its consecration from all counterforces which could restrain it,
or endanger it--should be regarded as sharing in the attributes of supernatural beings, is
no more than might naturally be expected. All other known power in human hands has either been
extensive, but wanting in intensity--or intense, but wanting in extent--or, thirdly, liable
to permanent control and hazard from some antagonist power commensurate with itself. But the
Roman power, in its centuries of grandeur, involved every mode of strength, with absolute immunity
from all kinds and degrees of weakness. It ought not, therefore, to surprise us that the emperor,
as the depositary of this charmed power, should have been looked upon as a sacred person, and
the imperial family considered a "divina domus." It is an error to regard this as excess of
adulation, or as built originally upon hypocrisy. Undoubtedly the expressions of this feeling
are sometimes gross and overcharged, as we find them in the very greatest of the Roman poets:
for example, it shocks us to find a fine writer in anticipating the future canonization of
his patron, and his instalment amongst the heavenly hosts, begging him to keep his distance
warily from this or that constellation, and to be cautious of throwing his weight into either
hemisphere, until the scale of proportions were accurately adjusted. These doubtless are passages
degrading alike to the poet and his subject. But why? Not because they ascribe to the emperor
a sanctity which he had not in the minds of men universally, or which even to the writer's
feeling was exaggerated, but because it was expressed coarsely, and as a physical power: now,
every thing physical is measurable by weight, motion, and resistance; and is therefore definite.
But the very essence of whatsoever is supernatural lies in the indefinite. That power, therefore,
with which the minds of men invested the emperor, was vulgarized by this coarse translation
into the region of physics. Else it is evident, that any power which, by standing above all
human control, occupies the next relation to superhuman modes of authority, must be invested
by all minds alike with some dim and undefined relation to the sanctities of the next world.
Thus, for instance, the Pope, as the father of Catholic Christendom, could not but be viewed
with awe by any Christian of deep feeling, as standing in some relation to the true and unseen
Father of the spiritual body. Nay, considering that even false religions, as those of Pagan
mythology, have probably never been utterly stripped of all vestige of truth, but that every
such mode of error has perhaps been designed as a process, and adapted by Providence to the
case of those who were capable of admitting no more perfect shape of truth; even the heads
of such superstitions (the Dalai Lama, for instance) may not unreasonably be presumed as within
the cognizance and special protection of Heaven. Much more may this be supposed of him to whose
care was confided the weightier part of the human race; who had it in his power to promote
or to suspend the progress of human improvement; and of whom, and the motions of whose will,
the very prophets of Judea took cognizance. No nation, and no king, was utterly divorced from
the councils of God. Palestine, as a central chamber of God's administration, stood in some
relation to all. It has been remarked, as a mysterious and significant fact, that the founders
of the great empires all had some connection, more or less, with the temple of Jerusalem. Melancthon
even observes it in his Sketch of Universal History, as worthy of notice--that Pompey died,
as it were, within sight of that very temple which he had polluted. Let us not suppose that
Paganism, or Pagan nations, were therefore excluded from the concern and tender interest of
Heaven. They also had their place allowed. And we may be sure that, amongst them, the Roman
emperor, as the great accountant for the happiness of more men, and men more cultivated, than
ever before were intrusted to the motions of a single will, had a special, singular, and mysterious
relation to the secret counsels of Heaven.

Even we, therefore, may lawfully attribute some sanctity to the Roman emperor. That the Romans
did so with absolute sincerity is certain. The altars of the emperor had a twofold consecration;
to violate them, was the double crime of treason and heresy, In his appearances of state and
ceremony, the fire, the sacred fire epompeue was carried in ceremonial solemnity before him;
and every other circumstance of divine worship attended the emperor in his lifetime. [Footnote:
The fact is, that the emperor was more of a sacred and divine creature in his lifetime than
after his death. In short, all the heights and the depths which belong to man as aspirers,
all the contrasts of glory and meanness, the extremities of what is his highest and lowest
in human possibility,--all met in the situation of the Roman Caesars, and have combined to
make them the most interesting studies which history has furnished.

This, as a general proposition, will be readily admitted. But meantime, it is remarkable that
no field has been less trodden than the private memorials of those very Caesars; whilst at
the same time it is equally remarkable, in concurrence with that subject for wonder, that precisely
with the first of the Caesars commences the first page of what in modern times we understand
by anecdotes. Suetonius is the earliest writer in that department of biography; so far as we
know, he may be held first to have devised it as a mode of history. The six writers, whose
sketches are collected under the general title of the Augustan History, followed in the same
track. Though full of entertainment, and of the most curious researches, they are all of them
entirely unknown, except to a few elaborate scholars. We purpose to collect from these obscure,
but most interesting memorialists, a few sketches and biographical portraits of these great
princes, whose public life is sometimes known, but very rarely any part of their private and
personal history. We must of course commence with the mighty founder of the Caesars. In his
case we cannot expect so much of absolute novelty as in that of those who succeed. But if,
in this first instance, we are forced to touch a little upon old things, we shall confine ourselves
as much as possible to those which are susceptible of new aspects. For the whole gallery of
those who follow, we can undertake that the memorials which we shall bring forward, may be
looked upon as belonging pretty much to what has hitherto been a sealed book.

CHAPTER I.

The character of the first Caesar has perhaps never been worse appreciated than by him who
in one sense described it best--that is, with most force and eloquence wherever he really did
comprehend it. This was Lucan, who has nowhere exhibited more brilliant rhetoric, nor wandered
more from the truth, than in the contrasted portraits of Caesar and Pompey. The famous line,
"Nil actum reputans si quid superesset agendum," is a fine feature of the real character, finely
expressed. But if it had been Lucan's purpose (as possibly, with a view to Pompey's benefit,
in some respects it was) utterly and extravagantly to falsify the character of the great Dictator,
by no single trait could he more effectually have fulfilled that purpose, nor in fewer words,
than by this expressive passage, "Gaudensque viam fecisse ruina." Such a trait would be almost
extravagant applied even to Marius, who (though in many respects a perfect model of Roman grandeur,
massy, columnar, imperturbable, and more perhaps than any one man recorded in history capable
of justifying the bold illustration of that character in Horace, "Si fractus illabatur orbis,
impavidum ferient ruinae") had, however, a ferocity in his character, and a touch of the devil
in him, very rarely united with the same tranquil intrepidity. But for Caesar, the all-accomplished
statesman, the splendid orator, the man of elegant habits and polished taste, the patron of
the fine arts in a degree transcending all example of his own or the previous age, and as a
man of general literature so much beyond his contemporaries, except Cicero, that he looked
down even upon the brilliant Sylla as an illiterate person,--to class such a man with the race
of furious destroyers exulting in the desolations they spread, is to err not by an individual
trait, but by the whole genus. The Attilas and the Tamerlanes, who rejoice in avowing themselves
the scourges of God, and the special instruments of his wrath, have no one feature of affinity
to the polished and humane Caesar, and would as little have comprehended his character, as
he could have respected theirs. Even Cato, the unworthy hero of Lucan, might have suggested
to him a little more truth in this instance, by a celebrated remark which he made on the characteristic
distinction of Caesar, in comparison with other revolutionary disturbers; for, whereas others
had attempted the overthrow of the state in a continued paroxysm of fury, and in a state of
mind resembling the lunacy of intoxication, that Caesar, on the contrary, among that whole
class of civil disturbers, was the only one who had come to the task in a temper of sobriety
and moderation, (unum accessisse sobrium ad rempublicam delendam.)

In reality, Lucan did not think as he wrote. He had a purpose to serve; and in an age when
to act like a freeman was no longer possible, he determined at least to write in that character.
It is probable, also, that he wrote with a vindictive or a malicious feeling towards Nero;
and, as the single means he had for gratifying that, resolved upon sacrificing the grandeur
of Caesar's character wherever it should be found possible. Meantime, in spite of himself,
Lucan for ever betrays his lurking consciousness of the truth. Nor are there any testimonies
to Caesar's vast superiority more memorably pointed, than those which are indirectly and involuntarily
extorted from this Catonic poet, by the course of his narration. Never, for example, was there
within the same compass of words, a more emphatic expression of Caesar's essential and inseparable
grandeur of thought, which could not be disguised or be laid aside for an instant, than is
found in the three casual words--Indocilis privata loqui. The very mould, it seems, by Lucan's
confession, of his trivial conversation was regal; nor could he, even to serve a purpose, abjure
it for so much as a casual purpose. The acts of Caesar speak also the same language; and as
these are less susceptible of a false coloring than the features of a general character, we
find this poet of liberty, in the midst of one continuous effort to distort the truth, and
to dress up two scenical heroes, forced by the mere necessities of history into a reluctant
homage to Caesar's supremacy of moral grandeur.

Of so great a man it must be interesting to know all the well attested opinions which bear
upon topics of universal interest to human nature; as indeed no others stood much chance of
preservation, unless it were from as minute and curious a collector of anecdotage as Suetonius.
And, first, it would be gratifying to know the opinion of Caesar, if he had any peculiar to
himself, on the great theme of Religion. It has been held, indeed, that the constitution of
his mind, and the general cast of his character, indisposed him to religious thoughts. Nay,
it has been common to class him amongst deliberate atheists; and some well known anecdotes
are current in books, which illustrate his contempt for the vulgar class of auguries. In this,
however, he went no farther than Cicero, and other great contemporaries, who assuredly were
no atheists. One mark perhaps of the wide interval which, in Caesar's age, had begun to separate
the Roman nobility from the hungry and venal populace who were daily put up to sale, and bought
by the highest bidder, manifested itself in the increasing disdain for the tastes and ruling
sympathies of the lowest vulgar. No mob could be more abjectly servile than was that of Rome
to the superstition of portents, prodigies, and omens. Thus far, in common with his order,
and in this sense, Julius Caesar was naturally a despiser of superstition. Mere strength of
understanding would, perhaps, have made him so in any age, and apart from the circumstances
of his personal history. This natural tendency in him would doubtless receive a further bias
in the same direction from the office of Pontifex Maximus, which he held at an early stage
of his public career. This office, by letting him too much behind the curtain, and exposing
too entirely the base machinery of ropes and pulleys, which sustained the miserable jugglery
played off upon the popular credulity, impressed him perhaps even unduly with contempt for
those who could be its dupes. And we may add--that Caesar was constitutionally, as well as
by accident of position, too much a man of the world, had too powerful a leaning to the virtues
of active life, was governed by too partial a sympathy with the whole class of active forces
in human nature, as contradistinguished from those which tend to contemplative purposes, under
any circumstances, to have become a profound believer, or a steadfast reposer of his fears
and anxieties, in religious influences. A man of the world is but another designation for a
man indisposed to religious awe or contemplative enthusiasm. Still it is a doctrine which we
cherish--that grandeur of mind in any one department whatsoever, supposing only that it exists
in excess, disposes a man to some degree of sympathy with all other grandeur, however alien
in its quality or different in its form. And upon this ground we presume the great Dictator
to have had an interest in religious themes by mere compulsion of his own extraordinary elevation
of mind, after making the fullest allowance for the special quality of that mind, which did
certainly, to the whole extent of its characteristics, tend entirely to estrange him from such
themes. We find, accordingly, that though sincerely a despiser of superstition, and with a
frankness which must sometimes have been hazardous in that age, Caesar was himself also superstitious.
No man could have been otherwise who lived and conversed with that generation and people. But
if superstitious, he was so after a mode of his own. In his very infirmities Caesar manifested
his greatness: his very littlenesses were noble.

  "Nec licuit populis parvum te, Nile, videre."

That he placed some confidence in dreams, for instance, is certain: because, had he slighted
them unreservedly, he would not have dwelt upon them afterwards, or have troubled himself to
recall their circumstances. Here we trace his human weakness. Yet again we are reminded that
it was the weakness of Caesar; for the dreams were noble in their imagery, and Caesarean (so
to speak) in their tone of moral feeling. Thus, for example, the night before he was assassinated,
he dreamt at intervals that he was soaring above the clouds on wings, and that he placed his
hand within the right hand of Jove. It would seem that perhaps some obscure and half- formed
image floated in his mind, of the eagle, as the king of birds; secondly, as the tutelary emblem
under which his conquering legions had so often obeyed his voice; and, thirdly, as the bird
of Jove. To this triple relation of the bird his dream covertly appears to point. And a singular
coincidence appears between this dream and a little anecdote brought down to us, as having
actually occurred in Rome about twenty-four hours before his death. A little bird, which by
some is represented as a very small kind of sparrow, but which, both to the Greeks and the
Romans, was known by a name implying a regal station (probably from the ambitious courage which
at times prompted it to attack the eagle), was observed to direct its flight towards the senate-house,
consecrated by Pompey, whilst a crowd of other birds were seen to hang upon its flight in close
pursuit. What might be the object of the chase, whether the little king himself, or a sprig
of laurel which he bore in his mouth, could not be determined. The whole train, pursuers and
pursued, continued their flight towards Pompey's hall. Flight and pursuit were there alike
arrested; the little king was overtaken by his enemies, who fell upon him as so many conspirators,
and tore him limb from limb.

If this anecdote were reported to Caesar, which is not at all improbable, considering the earnestness
with which his friends labored to dissuade him from his purpose of meeting the senate on the
approaching Ides of March, it is very little to be doubted that it had a considerable effect
upon his feelings, and that, in fact, his own dream grew out of the impression which it had
made. This way of linking the two anecdotes, as cause and effect, would also bring a third
anecdote under the same nexus. We are told that Calpurnia, the last wife of Caesar, dreamed
on the same night, and to the same ominous result. The circumstances of her dream are less
striking, because less figurative; but on that account its import was less open to doubt: she
dreamed, in fact, that after the roof of their mansion had fallen in, her husband was stabbed
in her bosom. Laying all these omens together, Caesar would have been more or less than human
had he continued utterly undepressed by them. And if so much superstition as even this implies,
must be taken to argue some little weakness, on the other hand let it not be forgotten, that
this very weakness does but the more illustrate the unusual force of mind, and the heroic will,
which obstinately laid aside these concurring prefigurations of impending destruction; concurring,
we say, amongst themselves--and concurring also with a prophecy of older date, which was totally
independent of them all.

There is another and somewhat sublime story of the same class, which belongs to the most interesting
moment of Caesar's life; and those who are disposed to explain all such tales upon physiological
principles, will find an easy solution of this, in particular, in the exhaustion of body, and
the intense anxiety which must have debilitated even Caesar under the whole circumstances of
the case. On the ever memorable night when he had resolved to take the first step (and in such
a case the first step, as regarded the power of retreating, was also the final step) which
placed him in arms against the state, it happened that his headquarters were at some distance
from the little river Rubicon, which formed the boundary of his province. With his usual caution,
that no news of his motions might run before himself, on this night Caesar gave an entertainment
to his friends, in the midst of which he slipped away unobserved, and with a small retinue
proceeded through the woods to the point of the river at which he designed to cross. The night
[Footnote: It is an interesting circumstance in the habits of the ancient Romans, that their
journeys were pursued very much in the night-time, and by torchlight. Cicero, in one of his
letters, speaks of passing through the towns of Italy by night, as a serviceable scheme for
some political purpose, either of avoiding too much to publish his motions, or of evading the
necessity (else perhaps not avoidable), of drawing out the party sentiments of the magistrates
in the circumstances of honor or neglect with which they might choose to receive him. His words,
however, imply that the practice was by no means an uncommon one. And, indeed, from some passages
in writers of the Augustan era, it would seem that this custom was not confined to people of
distinction, but was familiar to a class of travellers so low in rank as to be capable of abusing
their opportunities of concealment for the infliction of wanton injury upon the woods and fences
which bounded the margin, of the high-road. Under the cloud of night and solitude, the mischief-loving
traveller was often in the habit of applying his torch to the withered boughs of woods, or
to artificial hedges; and extensive ravages by fire, such as now happen, not unfrequently in
the American woods, (but generally from carelessness in scattering the glowing embers of a
fire, or even the ashes of a pipe,) were then occasionally the result of mere wantonness of
mischief. Ovid accordingly notices, as one amongst the familiar images of daybreak, the half-burnt
torch of the traveller; and, apparently, from the position which it holds in his description,
where it is ranked with the most familiar of all circumstances in all countries,--that of the
rural laborer going out to his morning tasks,--it must have been common indeed:

  "Semiustamque facem vigilata nocte viator
  Ponet; et ad solitum rusticus ibit opus."

This occurs in the Fasti;--elsewhere he notices it for its danger:

  "Ut facibus sepes ardent, cum forte viator
  Vel nimis admovit, vel jam sub luce reliquit."

He, however, we see, good-naturedly ascribes the danger to mere carelessness, in bringing the
torch too near to the hedge, or tossing it away at daybreak. But Varro, a more matter-of-fact
observer, does not disguise the plain truth, that these disasters were often the product of
pure malicious frolic. For instance, in recommending a certain kind of quickset fence, he insists
upon it, as one of its advantages, that it will not readily ignite under the torch of the mischievous
wayfarer: "Naturale sepimentum," says he, "quod obseri solet virgultis aut spinis, praetereuntis
lascivi non metuet facem." It is not easy to see the origin or advantage of this practice of
nocturnal travelling (which must have considerably increased the hazards of a journey), excepting
only in the heats of summer. It is probable, however, that men of high rank and public station
may have introduced the practice by way of releasing corporate bodies in large towns from the
burdensome ceremonies of public receptions; thus making a compromise between their own dignity
and the convenience of the provincial public. Once introduced, and the arrangements upon the
road for meeting the wants of travellers once adapted to such a practice, it would easily become
universal. It is, however, very possible that mere horror of the heats of day-time may have
been the original ground for it. The ancients appear to have shrunk from no hardship so trying
and insufferable as that of heat. And in relation to that subject, it is interesting to observe
the way in which the ordinary use of language has accommodated itself to that feeling. Our
northern way of expressing effeminacy is derived chiefly from the hardships of cold. He that
shrinks from the trials and rough experience of real life in any department, is described by
the contemptuous prefix of chimney-corner, as if shrinking from the cold which he would meet
on coming out into the open air amongst his fellow-men. Thus, a chimney-corner politician,
for a mere speculator or unpractical dreamer. But the very same indolent habit of aerial speculation,
which courts no test of real life and practice, is described by the ancients under the term
umbraticus, or seeking the cool shade, and shrinking from the heat. Thus, an umbraticus doctor
is one who has no practical solidity in his teaching. The fatigue and hardship of real life,
in short, is represented by the ancients under the uniform image of heat, and by the moderns
under that of cold.] was stormy, and by the violence of the wind all the torches of his escort
were blown out, so that the whole party lost their road, having probably at first intentionally
deviated from the main route, and wandered about through the whole night, until the early dawn
enabled them to recover their true course. The light was still gray and uncertain, as Caesar
and his retinue rode down upon the banks of the fatal river--to cross which with arms in his
hands, since the further bank lay within the territory of the Republic, ipso facto proclaimed
any Roman a rebel and a traitor. No man, the firmest or the most obtuse, could be otherwise
than deeply agitated, when looking down upon this little brook--so insignificant in itself,
but invested by law with a sanctity so awful, and so dire a consecration. The whole course
of future history, and the fate of every nation, would necessarily be determined by the irretrievable
act of the next half hour.

In these moments, and with this spectacle before him, and contemplating these immeasurable
consequences consciously for the last time that could allow him a retreat,--impressed also
by the solemnity and deep tranquillity of the silent dawn, whilst the exhaustion of his night
wanderings predisposed him to nervous irritation,--Caesar, we may be sure, was profoundly agitated.
The whole elements of the scene were almost scenically disposed; the law of antagonism having
perhaps never been employed with so much effect: the little quiet brook presenting a direct,
antithesis to its grand political character; and the innocent dawn, with its pure, untroubled
repose, contrasting potently, to a man of any intellectual sensibility, with the long chaos
of bloodshed, darkness, and anarchy, which was to take its rise from the apparently trifling
acts of this one morning. So prepared, we need not much wonder at what followed. Caesar was
yet lingering on the hither bank, when suddenly, at a point not far distant from himself, an
apparition was descried in a sitting posture, and holding in its hand what seemed a flute.
This phantom was of unusual size, and of beauty more than human, so far as its lineaments could
be traced in the early dawn. What is singular, however, in the story, on any hypothesis which
would explain it out of Caesar's individual condition, is, that others saw it as well as he;
both pastoral laborers, (who were present, probably, in the character of guides,) and some
of the sentinels stationed at the passage of the river. These men fancied even that a strain
of music issued from this aerial flute. And some, both of the shepherds and the Roman soldiers,
who were bolder than the rest, advanced towards the figure. Amongst this party, it happened
that there were a few Roman trumpeters. From one of these, the phantom, rising as they advanced
nearer, suddenly caught a trumpet, and blowing through it a blast of superhuman strength, plunged
into the Rubicon, passed to the other bank, and disappeared in the dusky twilight of the dawn.
Upon which Caesar exclaimed:--"It is finished--the die is cast--let us follow whither the guiding
portents from Heaven, and the malice of our enemy, alike summon us to go." So saying, he crossed
the river with impetuosity; and, in a sudden rapture of passionate and vindictive ambition,
placed himself and his retinue upon the Italian soil; and, as if by inspiration from Heaven,
in one moment involved himself and his followers in treason, raised the standard of revolt,
put his foot upon the neck of the invincible republic which had humbled all the kings of the
earth, and founded an empire which was to last for a thousand and half a thousand years. In
what manner this spectral appearance was managed--whether Caesar were its author, or its dupe--will
remain unknown for ever. But undoubtedly this was the first time that the advanced guard of
a victorious army was headed by an apparition; and we may conjecture that it will be the last.
[Footnote: According to Suetonius, the circumstances of this memorable night were as follows:--As
soon as the decisive intelligence was received, that the intrigues of his enemies had prevailed
at Rome, and that the interposition of the popular magistrates (the tribunes) was set aside,
Caesar sent forward the troops, who were then at his head-quarters, but in as private a manner
as possible. He himself, by way of masque, (per dissimulationem,) attended a public spectacle,
gave an audience to an architect who wished to lay before him a plan for a school of gladiators
which Caesar designed to build, and finally presented himself at a banquet, which was very
numerously attended. From this, about sunset, he set forward in a carriage, drawn by mules,
and with a small escort (modico comitatu.) Losing his road, which was the most private he could
find (occultissimum), he quitted his carriage and proceeded on foot. At dawn he met with a
guide; after which followed the above incidents.]

In the mingled yarn of human life, tragedy is never far asunder from farce; and it is amusing
to retrace in immediate succession to this incident of epic dignity, which has its only parallel
by the way in the case of Vasco de Gama, (according to the narrative of Camoens,) when met
and confronted by a sea phantom, whilst attempting to double the Cape of Storms, (Cape of Good
Hope,) a ludicrous passage, in which one felicitous blunder did Caesar a better service than
all the truths which Greece and Rome could have furnished. In our own experience, we once witnessed
a blunder about as gross. The present Chancellor, in his first electioneering contest with
the Lowthers, upon some occasion where he was recriminating upon the other party, and complaining
that stratagems, which they might practise with impunity, were denied to him and his, happened
to point the moral of his complaint, by alleging the old adage, that one man might steal a
horse with more hope of indulgence than another could look over the hedge. Whereupon, by benefit
of the universal mishearing in the outermost ring of the audience, it became generally reported
that Lord Lowther had once been engaged in an affair of horse stealing; and that he, Henry
Brougham, could (had he pleased) have lodged an information against him, seeing that he was
then looking over the hedge. And this charge naturally won the more credit, because it was
notorious and past denying that his lordship was a capital horseman, fond of horses, and much
connected with the turf. To this hour, therefore, amongst some worthy shepherds and others,
it is a received article of their creed, and (as they justly observe in northern pronunciation,)
a shamful thing to be told, that Lord Lowther was once a horse stealer, and that he escaped
lagging by reason of Harry Brougham's pity for his tender years and hopeful looks. Not less
was the blunder which, on the banks of the Rubicon, befriended Caesar. Immediately after crossing,
he harangued the troops whom he had sent forward, and others who there met him from the neighboring
garrison of Ariminium. The tribunes of the people, those great officers of the democracy, corresponding
by some of their functions to our House of Commons, men personally, and by their position in
the state, entirely in his interest, and who, for his sake, had fled from home, there and then
he produced to the soldiery; thus identified his cause, and that of the soldiers, with the
cause of the people of Rome and of Roman liberty; and perhaps with needless rhetoric attempted
to conciliate those who were by a thousand ties and by claims innumerable, his own already;
for never yet has it been found, that with the soldier, who, from youth upwards, passes his
life in camps, could the duties or the interests of citizens survive those stronger and more
personal relations connecting him with his military superior. In the course of this harangue,
Caesar often raised his left hand with Demosthenic action, and once or twice he drew off the
ring, which every Roman gentleman--simply as such--wore as the inseparable adjunct and symbol
of his rank. By this action he wished to give emphasis to the accompanying words, in which
he protested, that, sooner than fail in satisfying and doing justice to any the least of those
who heard him and followed his fortunes, he would be content to part with his own birthright,
and to forego his dearest claims. This was what he really said; but the outermost circle of
his auditors, who rather saw his gestures than distinctly heard his words, carried off the
notion, (which they were careful every where to disperse amongst the legions afterwards associated
with them in the same camps,) that Caesar had vowed never to lay down his arms until he had
obtained for every man, the very meanest of those who heard him, the rank, privileges and appointments
of a Roman knight. Here was a piece of sovereign good luck. Had he really made such a promise,
Caesar might have found that he had laid himself under very embarrassing obligations; but,
as the case stood, he had, through all his following campaigns, the total benefit of such a
promise, and yet could always absolve himself from the penalties of responsibility which it
imposed, by appealing to the evidence of those who happened to stand in the first ranks of
his audience. The blunder was gross and palpable; and yet, with the unreflecting and dull-witted
soldier, it did him service greater than all the subtilties of all the schools could have accomplished,
and a service which subsisted to the end of the war.

Great as Caesar was by the benefit of his original nature, there can--be no doubt that he,
like others, owed something to circumstances; and perhaps, amongst these which were most favorable
to the premature development of great self-dependence, we must reckon the early death of his
father. It is, or it is not, according to the nature of men, an advantage to be orphaned at
an early age. Perhaps utter orphanage is rarely or never such: but to lose a father betimes
profits a strong mind greatly. To Caesar it was a prodigious benefit that he lost his father
when not much more than fifteen. Perhaps it was an advantage also to his father that he died
thus early. Had he stayed a year longer, he would have seen himself despised, baffled, and
made ridiculous. For where, let us ask, in any age, was the father capable of adequately sustaining
that relation to the unique Caius Julius--to him, in the appropriate language of Shakspeare,

  "The foremost man of all this world?"

And, in this fine and Caesarean line, "this world" is to be understood not of the order of
co-existences merely, but also of the order of successions; he was the foremost man not only
of his contemporaries, but also of men generally--of all that ever should come after him, or
should sit on thrones under the denominations of Czars, Kesars, or Caesars of the Bosphorus
and the Danube; of all in every age that should inherit his supremacy of mind, or should subject
to themselves the generations of ordinary men by qualities analogous to his. Of this infinite
superiority some part must be ascribed to his early emancipation from paternal control. There
are very many cases in which, simply from considerations of sex, a female cannot stand forward
as the head of a family, or as its suitable representative. If they are even ladies paramount,
and in situations of command, they are also women. The staff of authority does not annihilate
their sex; and scruples of female delicacy interfere for ever to unnerve and emasculate in
their hands the sceptre however otherwise potent. Hence we see, in noble families, the merest
boys put forward to represent the family dignity, as fitter supporters of that burden than
their mature mothers. And of Caesar's mother, though little is recorded, and that little incidentally,
this much at least, we learn-- that, if she looked down upon him with maternal pride and delight,
she looked up to him with female ambition as the re-edifier of her husband's honors, with reverence
as to a column of the Roman grandeur, and with fear and feminine anxieties as to one whose
aspiring spirit carried him but too prematurely into the fields of adventurous honor. One slight
and evanescent sketch of the relations which subsisted between Caesar and his mother, caught
from the wrecks of time, is preserved both by Plutarch and Suetonius. We see in the early dawn
the young patrician standing upon the steps of his paternal portico, his mother with her arms
wreathed about his neck, looking up to his noble countenance, sometimes drawing auguries of
hope from features so fitted for command, sometimes boding an early blight to promises so prematurely
magnificent. That she had something of her son's aspiring character, or that he presumed so
much in a mother of his, we learn from the few words which survive of their conversation. He
addressed to her no language that could tranquillize her fears. On the contrary, to any but
a Roman mother his valedictory words, taken in connection with the known determination of his
character, were of a nature to consummate her depression, as they tended to confirm the very
worst of her fears. He was then going to stand his chance in a popular election for an office
of dignity, and to launch himself upon the storms of the Campus Martius. At that period, besides
other and more ordinary dangers, the bands of gladiators, kept in the pay of the more ambitious
amongst the Roman nobles, gave a popular tone of ferocity and of personal risk to the course
of such contests; and either to forestall the victory of an antagonist, or to avenge their
own defeat, it was not at all impossible that a body of incensed competitors might intercept
his final triumph by assassination. For this danger, however, he had no leisure in his thoughts
of consolation; the sole danger which he contemplated, or supposed his mother to contemplate,
was the danger of defeat, and for that he reserved his consolations. He bade her fear nothing;
for that without doubt he would return with victory, and with the ensigns of the dignity he
sought, or would return a corpse.

Early indeed did Caesar's trials commence; and it is probable, that, had not the death of his
father, by throwing him prematurely upon his own resources, prematurely developed the masculine
features of his character, forcing him whilst yet a boy under the discipline of civil conflict
and the yoke of practical life, even his energies would have been insufficient to sustain them.
His age is not exactly ascertained, but it is past a doubt that he had not reached his twentieth
year when he had the hardihood to engage in a struggle with Sylla, then Dictator, and exercising
the immoderate powers of that office with the license and the severity which history has made
so memorable. He had neither any distinct grounds of hope, nor any eminent example at that
time, to countenance him in this struggle--which yet he pushed on in the most uncompromising
style, and to the utmost verge of defiance. The subject of the contrast gives it a further
interest. It was the youthful wife of the youthful Caesar who stood under the shadow of the
great Dictator's displeasure; not personally, but politically, on account of her connections:
and her it was, Cornelia, the daughter of a man who had been four times consul, that Caesar
was required to divorce: but he spurned the haughty mandate, and carried his determination
to a triumphant issue, notwithstanding his life was at stake, and at one time saved only by
shifting his place of concealment every night; and this young lady it was who afterwards became
the mother of his only daughter. Both mother and daughter, it is remarkable, perished prematurely,
and at critical periods of Caesar's life; for it is probable enough that these irreparable
wounds to Caesar's domestic affections threw him with more exclusiveness of devotion upon the
fascinations of glory and ambition than might have happened under a happier condition of his
private life. That Caesar should have escaped destruction in this unequal contest with an enemy
then wielding the whole thunders of the state, is somewhat surprising; and historians have
sought their solution of the mystery in the powerful intercessions of the vestal virgins, and
several others of high rank amongst the connections of his great house. These may have done
something; but it is due to Sylla, who had a sympathy with every thing truly noble, to suppose
him struck with powerful admiration for the audacity of the young patrician, standing out in
such severe solitude among so many examples of timid concession; and that to this magnanimous
feeling in the Dictator, much of his indulgence was due. In fact, according to some accounts,
it was not Sylla, but the creatures of Sylla (adjutores), who pursued Caesar. We know, at all
events, that Sylla formed a right estimate of Caesar's character, and that, from the complexion
of his conduct in this one instance, he drew his famous prophecy of his future destiny; bidding
his friends beware of that slipshod boy, "for that in him lay couchant many a Marius." A grander
testimony to the awe which Caesar inspired, or from one who knew better the qualities of that
man by whom he measured him, cannot be imagined.

It is not our intention, or consistent with our plan, to pursue this great man through the
whole circumstances of his romantic career; though it is certain that many parts of his life
require investigation much keener than has ever been applied to them, and that many might easily
be placed in a new light. Indeed, the whole of this most momentous section of ancient history
ought to be recomposed with the critical scepticism of a Niebuhr, and the same comprehensive
collation of authorities. In reality it is the hinge upon which turned the future destiny of
the whole earth, and having therefore a common relation to all modern nations whatsoever, should
naturally have been cultivated with the zeal which belongs to a personal concern. In general,
the anecdotes which express most vividly the splendid character of the first Caesar, are those
which illustrate his defiance of danger in extremity,--the prodigious energy and rapidity of
his decisions and motions in the field; the skill with which he penetrated the designs of his
enemies, and the exemplary speed with which he provided a remedy for disasters; the extraordinary
presence of mind which he showed in turning adverse omens to his own advantage, as when, upon
stumbling in coming on shore, (which was esteemed a capital omen of evil,) he transfigured
as it were in one instant its whole meaning by exclaiming, "Thus do I take possession of thee,
oh Africa!" in that way giving to an accident the semblance of a symbolic purpose; the grandeur
of fortitude with which he faced the whole extent of a calamity when palliation could do no
good, "non negando, minuendove, sed insuper amplificando, ementiendoque;" as when, upon finding
his soldiery alarmed at the approach of Juba, with forces really great, but exaggerated by
their terrors, he addressed them in a military harangue to the following effect: "Know that
within a few days the king will come up with us, bringing with him sixty thousand legionaries,
thirty thousand cavalry, one hundred thousand light troops, besides three hundred elephants.
Such being the case, let me hear no more of conjectures and opinions, for you have now my warrant
for the fact, whose information is past doubting. Therefore, be satisfied; otherwise, I will
put every man of you on board some crazy old fleet, and whistle you down the tide--no matter
under what winds, no matter towards what shore." Finally, we might seek for the characteristic
anecdotes of Caesar in his unexampled liberalities and contempt of money. [Footnote: Middleton's
Life of Cicero, which still continues to be the most readable digest of these affairs, is feeble
and contradictory. He discovers that Caesar was no general! And the single merit which his
work was supposed to possess, viz. the better and more critical arrangement of Cicero's Letters,
in respect to their chronology, has of late years been detected as a robbery from the celebrated
Bellenden, of James the First's time.]

Upon this last topic it is the just remark of Casaubon, that some instances of Caesar's munificence
have been thought apocryphal, or to rest upon false readings, simply from ignorance of the
heroic scale upon which the Roman splendors of that age proceeded. A forum which Caesar built
out of the products of his last campaign, by way of a present to the Roman people, cost him--for
the ground merely on which it stood--nearly eight hundred thousand pounds. To the citizens
of Rome (perhaps 300,000 persons) he presented, in one congiary, about two guineas and a half
a head. To his army, in one donation, upon the termination of the civil war, he gave a sum
which allowed about two hundred pounds a man to the infantry, and four hundred to the cavalry.
It is true that the legionary troops were then much reduced by the sword of the enemy, and
by the tremendous hardships of their last campaigns. In this, however, he did perhaps no more
than repay a debt. For it is an instance of military attachment, beyond all that Wallenstein
or any commander, the most beloved amongst his troops, has ever experienced, that, on the breaking
out of the civil war, not only did the centurions of every legion severally maintain a horse
soldier, but even the privates volunteered to serve without pay-- and (what might seem impossible)
without their daily rations. This was accomplished by subscriptions amongst themselves, the
more opulent undertaking for the maintenance of the needy. Their disinterested love for Caesar
appeared in another and more difficult illustration: it was a traditionary anecdote in Rome,
that the majority of those amongst Caesar's troops, who had the misfortune to fall into the
enemy's hands, refused to accept their lives under the condition of serving against him.

In connection with this subject of his extraordinary munificence, there is one aspect of Caesar's
life which has suffered much from the misrepresentations of historians, and that is--the vast
pecuniary embarrassments under which he labored, until the profits of war had turned the scale
even more prodigiously in his favor. At one time of his life, when appointed to a foreign office,
so numerous and so clamorous were his creditors, that he could not have left Rome on his public
duties, had not Crassus come forward with assistance in money, or by promises, to the amount
of nearly two hundred thousand pounds. And at another, he was accustomed to amuse himself with
computing how much money it would require to make him worth exactly nothing (i. e. simply to
clear him of debts); this, by one account, amounted to upwards of two millions sterling. Now
the error of historians has been--to represent these debts as the original ground of his ambition
and his revolutionary projects, as though the desperate condition of his private affairs had
suggested a civil war to his calculations as the best or only mode of redressing it. But, on
the contrary, his debts were the product of his ambition, and contracted from first to last
in the service of his political intrigues, for raising and maintaining a powerful body of partisans,
both in Rome and elsewhere. Whosoever indeed will take the trouble to investigate the progress
of Caesar's ambition, from such materials as even yet remain, may satisfy himself that the
scheme of revolutionizing the Republic, and placing himself at its head, was no growth of accident
or circumstances; above all, that it did not arise upon any so petty and indirect an occasion
as that of his debts; but that his debts were in their very first origin purely ministerial
to his ambition; and that his revolutionary plans were at all periods of his life a direct
and foremost object. In this there was in reality no want of patriotism; it had become evident
to every body that Rome, under its present constitution, must fall; and the sole question was--by
whom? Even Pompey, not by nature of an aspiring turn, and prompted to his ambitious course
undoubtedly by circumstances and the friends who besieged him, was in the habit of saying,
"Sylla potuit, ego non potero?" And the fact was, that if, from the death of Sylla, Rome recovered
some transient show of constitutional integrity, that happened not by any lingering virtue
that remained in her republican forms, but entirely through the equilibrium and mechanical
counterpoise of rival factions.

In a case, therefore, where no benefit of choice was allowed to Rome as to the thing, but only
as to the person--where a revolution was certain, and the point left open to doubt simply by
whom that revolution should be accomplished--Caesar had (to say the least) the same right to
enter the arena in the character of candidate as could belong to any one of his rivals. And
that he did enter that arena constructively, and by secret design, from his very earliest manhood,
may be gathered from this-- that he suffered no openings towards a revolution, provided they
had any hope in them, to escape his participation. It is familiarly known that he was engaged
pretty deeply in the conspiracy of Catiline, [Footnote: Suetonius, speaking of this conspiracy,
says, that Caesar was nominatos inter socios Catilinae, which has been erroneously understood
to mean that he was talked of as an accomplice; but in fact, as Casaubon first pointed out,
nominatus is a technical term of the Roman jurisprudence, and means that he was formally denounced.]
and that he incurred considerable risk on that occasion; but it is less known, and has indeed
escaped the notice of historians generally, that he was a party to at least two other conspiracies.
There was even a fourth, meditated by Crassus, which Caesar so far encouraged as to undertake
a journey to Rome from a very distant quarter, merely with a view to such chances as it might
offer to him; but as it did not, upon examination, seem to him a very promising scheme, he
judged it best to look coldly upon it, or not to embark in it by any personal co-operation.
Upon these and other facts we build our inference--that the scheme of a revolution was the
one great purpose of Caesar, from his first entrance upon public life. Nor does it appear that
he cared much by whom it was undertaken, provided only there seemed to be any sufficient resources
for carrying it through, and for sustaining the first collision with the regular forces of
the existing government. He relied, it seems, on his own personal superiority for raising him
to the head of affairs eventually, let who would take the nominal lead at first. To the same
result, it will be found, tended the vast stream of Caesar's liberalities. From the senator
downwards to the lowest faex Romuli, he had a hired body of dependents, both in and out of
Rome, equal in numbers to a nation. In the provinces, and in distant kingdoms, he pursued the
same schemes. Every where he had a body of mercenary partisans; kings are known to have taken
his pay. And it is remarkable that even in his character of commander in chief, where the number
of legions allowed to him for the accomplishment of his mission raised him for a number of
years above all fear of coercion or control, he persevered steadily in the same plan of providing
for the day when he might need assistance, not from the state, but against the state. For amongst
the private anecdotes which came to light under the researches made into his history after
his death, was this--that, soon after his first entrance upon his government in Gaul, he had
raised, equipped, disciplined, and maintained, from his own private funds, a legion amounting,
perhaps, to six or seven thousand men, who were bound by no sacrament of military obedience
to the state, nor owed fealty to any auspices except those of Caesar. This legion, from the
fashion of their crested helmets, which resembled the crested heads of a small bird of the
lark species, received the popular name of the Alauda (or Lark) legion. And very singular it
was that Cato, or Marcellus, or some amongst those enemies of Caesar, who watched his conduct
during the period of his Gaulish command with the vigilance of rancorous malice, should not
have come to the knowledge of this fact; in which case we may be sure that it would have been
denounced to the senate.

Such, then, for its purpose and its uniform motive, was the sagacious munificence of Caesar.
Apart from this motive, and considered in and for itself, and simply with a reference to the
splendid forms which it often assumed, this munificence would furnish the materials for a volume.
The public entertainments of Caesar, his spectacles and shows, his naumachiae, and the pomps
of his unrivalled triumphs, (the closing triumphs of the Republic,) were severally the finest
of their kind which had then been brought forward. Sea-fights were exhibited upon the grandest
scale, according to every known variety of nautical equipment and mode of conflict, upon a
vast lake formed artificially for that express purpose. Mimic land-fights were conducted, in
which all the circumstances of real war were so faithfully rehearsed, that even elephants "indorsed
with towers," twenty on each side, took part in the combat. Dramas were represented in every
known language, (per omnium linguarum histriones.) And hence [that is, from the conciliatory
feeling thus expressed towards the various tribes of foreigners resident in Rome] some have
derived an explanation of what is else a mysterious circumstance amongst the ceremonial observances
at Caesar's funeral--that all people of foreign nations then residing at Rome, distinguished
themselves by the conspicuous share which they took in the public mourning; and that, beyond
all other foreigners, the Jews for night after night kept watch and ward about the emperor's
grave. Never before, according to traditions which lasted through several generations in Rome,
had there been so vast a conflux of the human race congregated to any one centre, on any one
attraction of business or of pleasure, as to Rome, on occasion of these spectacles exhibited
by Caesar.

In our days, the greatest occasional gatherings of the human race are in India, especially
at the great fair of the Hurdwar, in the northern part of Hindostan; a confluence of many millions
is sometimes seen at that spot, brought together under the mixed influences of devotion and
commercial business, and dispersed as rapidly as they had been convoked. Some such spectacle
of nations crowding upon nations, and some such Babylonian confusion of dresses, complexions,
languages, and jargons, was then witnessed at Rome. Accommodations within doors, and under
roofs of houses, or of temples, was altogether impossible. Myriads encamped along the streets,
and along the high-roads in the vicinity of Rome. Myriads of myriads lay stretched on the ground,
without even the slight protection of tents, in a vast circuit about the city. Multitudes of
men, even senators, and others of the highest rank, were trampled to death in the crowds. And
the whole family of man seemed at that time gathered together at the bidding of the great Dictator.
But these, or any other themes connected with the public life of Caesar, we notice only in
those circumstances which have been overlooked, or partially represented by historians. Let
us now, in conclusion, bring forward, from the obscurity in which they have hitherto lurked,
the anecdotes which describe the habits of his private life, his tastes, and personal peculiarities.

In person, he was tall, fair, and of limbs distinguished for their elegant proportions and
gracility. His eyes were black and piercing. These circumstances continued to be long remembered,
and no doubt were constantly recalled to the eyes of all persons in the imperial palaces, by
pictures, busts, and statues; for we find the same description of his personal appearance three
centuries afterwards, in a work of the Emperor Julian's. He was a most accomplished horseman,
and a  master (peritissimus) in the use of arms. But, notwithstanding his skill in horsemanship,
it seems that, when he accompanied his army on marches, he walked oftener than he rode; no
doubt, with a view to the benefit of his example, and to express that sympathy with his soldiers
which gained him their hearts so entirely. On other occasions, when travelling apart from his
army, he seems more frequently to have rode in a carriage than on horseback. His purpose, in
making this preference, must have been with a view to the transport of luggage. The carriage
which he generally used was a rheda, a sort of gig, or rather curricle, for it was a four-
wheeled carriage, and adapted (as we find from the imperial regulations for the public carriages,
&c.) to the conveyance of about half a ton. The mere personal baggage which Caesar carried
with him, was probably considerable, for he was a man of the most elegant habits, and in all
parts of his life sedulously attentive to elegance of personal appearance. The length of journeys
which he accomplished within a given time, appears even to us at this day, and might well therefore
appear to his contemporaries, truly astonishing. A distance of one hundred miles was no extraordinary
day's journey for him in a rheda, such as we have described it. So elegant were his habits,
and so constant his demand for the luxurious accommodations of polished life, as it then existed
in Rome, that he is said to have carried with him, as indispensable parts of his personal baggage,
the little lozenges and squares of ivory, and other costly materials, which were wanted for
the tessellated flooring of his tent. Habits such as these will easily account for his travelling
in a carriage rather than on horseback.

The courtesy and obliging disposition of Caesar were notorious, and both were illustrated in
some anecdotes which survived for generations in Rome. Dining on one occasion at a table, where
the servants had inadvertently, for salad-oil, furnished some sort of coarse lamp-oil, Caesar
would not allow the rest of the company to point out the mistake to their host, for fear of
shocking him too much by exposing the mistake. At another time, whilst halting at a little
cabaret, when one of his retinue was suddenly taken ill, Caesar resigned to his use the sole
bed which the house afforded. Incidents, as trifling as these, express the urbanity of Caesar's
nature; and, hence, one is the more surprised to find the alienation of the senate charged,
in no trifling degree, upon a failure in point of courtesy. Caesar neglected to rise from his
seat, on their approaching him in a body with an address of congratulation. It is said, and
we can believe it, that he gave deeper offence by this one defect in a matter of ceremonial
observance, than by all his substantial attacks upon their privileges. What we find it difficult
to believe, however, is not that result from the offence, but the possibility of the offence
itself, from one so little arrogant as Caesar, and so entirely a man of the world. He was told
of the disgust which he had given, and we are bound to believe his apology, in which he charged
it upon sickness, which would not at the moment allow him to maintain a standing attitude.
Certainly the whole tenor of his life was not courteous only, but kind; and, to his enemies,
merciful in a degree which implied so much more magnanimity than men in general could understand,
that by many it was put down to the account of weakness.

Weakness, however, there was none in Caius Caesar; and, that there might be none, it was fortunate
that conspiracy should have cut him off in the full vigor of his faculties, in the very meridian
of his glory, and on the brink of completing a series of gigantic achievements. Amongst these
are numbered--a digest of the entire body of laws, even then become unwieldy and oppressive;
the establishment of vast and comprehensive public libraries, Greek as well as Latin; the chastisement
of Dacia; the conquest of Parthia; and the cutting a ship canal through the Isthmus of Corinth.
The reformation of the calendar he had already accomplished. And of all his projects it may
be said, that they were equally patriotic in their purpose, and colossal in their proportions.

As an orator, Caesar's merit was so eminent, that, according to the general belief, had he
found time to cultivate this department of civil exertion, the precise supremacy of Cicero
would have been made questionable, or the honors would have been divided. Cicero himself was
of that opinion; and on different occasions applied the epithet Splendidus to Caesar, as though
in some exclusive sense, or with a peculiar emphasis, due to him. His taste was much simpler,
chaster, and disinclined to the florid and ornamental, than that of Cicero. So far he would,
in that condition of the Roman culture and feeling, have been less acceptable to the public;
but, on the other hand, he would have compensated this disadvantage by much more of natural
and Demosthenic fervor.

In literature, the merits of Caesar are familiar to most readers. Under the modest title of
Commentaries, he meant to offer the records of his Gallic and British campaigns, simply as
notes, or memoranda, afterwards to be worked up by regular historians; but, as Cicero observes,
their merit was such in the eyes of the discerning, that all judicious writers shrank from
the attempt to alter them. In another instance of his literary labors, he showed a very just
sense of true dignity. Rightly conceiving that every thing patriotic was dignified, and that
to illustrate or polish his native language, was a service of real patriotism, he composed
a work on the grammar and orthoepy of the Latin language. Cicero and himself were the only
Romans of distinction in that age, who applied themselves with true patriotism to the task
of purifying and ennobling their mother tongue. Both were aware of the transcendent quality
of the Grecian literature; but that splendor did not depress their hopes of raising their own
to something of the same level. As respected the natural wealth of the two languages, it was
the private opinion of Cicero, that the Latin had the advantage; and if Caesar did not accompany
him to that length, he yet felt that it was but the more necessary to draw forth any single
advantage which it really had. [Footnote: Caesar had the merit of being the first person to
propose the daily publication of the acts and votes of the senate. In the form of public and
official dispatches, he made also some useful innovations; and it may be mentioned, for the
curiosity of the incident, that the cipher which he used in his correspondence, was the following
very simple one:--For every letter of the alphabet he substituted that which stood fourth removed
from it in the order of succession. Thus, for A, he used D; for D, G, and so on.]

Was Caesar, upon the whole, the greatest of men? Dr. Beattie once observed, that if that question
were left to be collected from the suffrages already expressed in books, and scattered throughout
the literature of all nations, the scale would be found to have turned prodigiously in Caesar's
favor, as against any single competitor; and there is no doubt whatsoever, that even amongst
his own countrymen, and his own contemporaries, the same verdict would have been returned,
had it been collected upon the famous principle of Themistocles, that he should be reputed
the first, whom the greatest number of rival voices had pronounced the second.

CHAPTER II.

The situation of the Second Caesar, at the crisis of the great Dictator's assassination, was
so hazardous and delicate, as to confer interest upon a character not otherwise attractive.
To many, we know it was positively repulsive, and in the very highest degree. In particular,
it is recorded of Sir William Jones, that he regarded this emperor with feelings of abhorrence
so personal and deadly, as to refuse him his customary titular honors whenever he had occasion
to mention him by name. Yet it was the whole Roman people that conferred upon him his title
of Augustus. But Sir William, ascribing no force to the acts of a people who had sunk so low
as to exult in their chains, and to decorate with honors the very instruments of their own
vassalage, would not recognise this popular creation, and spoke of him always by his family
name of Octavius. The flattery of the populace, by the way, must, in this instance, have been
doubly acceptable to the emperor, first, for what it gave, and secondly, for what it concealed.
Of his grand-uncle, the first Caesar, a tradition survives--that of all the distinctions created
in his favor, either by the senate or the people, he put most value upon the laurel crown which
was voted to him after his last campaigns--a beautiful and conspicuous memorial to every eye
of his great public acts, and at the same time an overshadowing veil of his one sole personal
defect. This laurel diadem at once proclaimed his civic grandeur, and concealed his baldness,
a defect which was more mortifying to a Roman than it would be to ourselves, from the peculiar
theory which then prevailed as to its probable origin. A gratitude of the same mixed quality
must naturally have been felt by the Second Caesar for his title of Augustus, which, whilst
it illustrated his public character by the highest expression of majesty, set apart and sequestrated
to public functions, had also the agreeable effect of withdrawing from the general remembrance
his obscure descent. For the Octavian house [gens] had in neither of its branches risen to
any great splendor of civic distinction, and in his own, to little or none. The same titular
decoration, therefore, so offensive to the celebrated Whig, was, in the eyes of Augustus, at
once a trophy of public merit, a monument of public gratitude, and an effectual obliteration
of his own natal obscurity.

But, if merely odious to men of Sir William's principles, to others the character of Augustus,
in relation to the circumstances which surrounded him, was not without its appropriate interest.
He was summoned in early youth, and without warning, to face a crisis of tremendous hazard,
being at the same time himself a man of no very great constitutional courage; perhaps he was
even a coward. And this we say without meaning to adopt as gospel truths all the party reproaches
of Anthony. Certainly he was utterly unfurnished by nature with those endowments which seemed
to be indispensable in a successor to the power of the great Dictator. But exactly in these
deficiencies, and in certain accidents unfavorable to his ambition, lay his security. He had
been adopted by his grand-uncle, Julius. That adoption made him, to all intents and purposes
of law, the son of his great patron; and doubtless, in a short time, this adoption would have
been applied to more extensive uses, and as a station of vantage for introducing him to the
public favor. From the inheritance of the Julian estates and family honors, he would have been
trained to mount, as from a stepping-stone, to the inheritance of the Julian power and political
station; and the Roman people would have been familiarized to regard him in that character.
But, luckily for himself, the finishing, or ceremonial acts, were yet wanting in this process--the
political heirship was inchoate and imperfect. Tacitly understood, indeed, it was; but, had
it been formally proposed and ratified, there cannot be a doubt that the young Octavius would
have been pointed out to the vengeance of the patriots, and included in the scheme of the conspirators,
as a fellow- victim with his nominal father; and would have been cut off too suddenly to benefit
by that reaction of popular feeling which saved the partisans of the Dictator, by separating
the conspirators, and obliging them, without loss of time, to look to their own safety. It
was by this fortunate accident that the young heir and adopted son of the first Caesar not
only escaped assassination, but was enabled to postpone indefinitely the final and military
struggle for the vacant seat of empire, and in the mean time to maintain a coequal rank with
the leaders in the state, by those arts and resources in which he was superior to his competitors.
His place in the favor of Caius Julius was of power sufficient to give him a share in any triumvirate
which could be formed; but, wanting the formality of a regular introduction to the people,
and the ratification of their acceptance, that place was not sufficient to raise him permanently
into the perilous and invidious station of absolute supremacy which he afterwards occupied.
The felicity of Augustus was often vaunted by antiquity, (with whom success was not so much
a test of merit as itself a merit of the highest quality,) and in no instance was this felicity
more conspicuous than in the first act of his entrance upon the political scene. No doubt his
friends and enemies alike thought of him, at the moment of Caesar's assassination, as we now
think of a young man heir-elect to some person of immense wealth, cut off by a sudden death
before he has had time to ratify a will in execution of his purposes. Yet in fact the case
was far otherwise. Brought forward distinctly as the successor of Caesar's power, had he even,
by some favorable accident of absence from Rome, or otherwise, escaped being involved in that
great man's fate, he would at all events have been thrown upon the instant necessity of defending
his supreme station by arms. To have left it unasserted, when once solemnly created in his
favor by a reversionary title, would have been deliberately to resign it. This would have been
a confession of weakness liable to no disguise, and ruinous to any subsequent pretensions.
Yet, without preparation of means, with no development of resources nor growth of circumstances,
an appeal to arms would, in his case, have been of very doubtful issue. His true weapons, for
a long period, were the arts of vigilance and dissimulation. Cultivating these, he was enabled
to prepare for a contest which, undertaken prematurely, must have ruined him, and to raise
himself to a station of even military pre-eminence to those who naturally, and by circumstances,
were originally every way superior to himself.

The qualities in which he really excelled, the gifts of intrigue, patience, long-suffering,
dissimulation, and tortuous fraud, were thus brought into play, and allowed their full value.
Such qualities had every chance of prevailing in the long run, against the noble carelessness
and the impetuosity of the passionate Anthony--and they did prevail. Always on the watch to
lay hold of those opportunities which the generous negligence of his rival was but too frequently
throwing in his way--unless by the sudden reverses of war and the accidents of battle, which
as much as possible, and as long as possible, he declined--there could be little question in
any man's mind, that eventually he would win his way to a solitary throne, by a policy so full
of caution and subtlety. He was sure to risk nothing which could be had on easier terms; and
nothing, unless for a great overbalance of gain in prospect; to lose nothing which he had once
gained; and in no case to miss an advantage, or sacrifice an opportunity, by any consideration
of generosity. No modern insurance office but would have guaranteed an event depending upon
the final success of Augustus, on terms far below those which they must in prudence have exacted
from the fiery and adventurous Anthony. Each was an ideal in his own class. But Augustus, having
finally triumphed, has met with more than justice from succeeding ages. Even Lord Bacon says,
that, by comparison with Julius Caesar, he was "non tam impar quam dispar," surely a most extravagant
encomium, applied to whomsoever. On the other hand, Anthony, amongst the most signal misfortunes
of his life, might number it, that Cicero, the great dispenser of immortality, in whose hands
(more perhaps than in any one man's of any age) were the vials of good and evil fame, should
happen to have been his bitter and persevering enemy. It is, however, some balance to this,
that Shakspeare had a just conception of the original grandeur which lay beneath that wild
tempestuous nature presented by Anthony to the eye of the undiscriminating world. It is to
the honor of Shakspeare, that he should have been able to discern the true coloring of this
most original character, under the smoke and tarnish of antiquity. It is no less to the honor
of the great triumvir, that a strength of coloring should survive in his character, capable
of baffling the wrongs and ravages of time. Neither is it to be thought strange that a character
should have been misunderstood and falsely appreciated for nearly two thousand years. It happens
not uncommonly, especially amongst an unimaginative people like the Romans, that the characters
of men are ciphers and enigmas to their own age, and are first read and interpreted by a far
distant posterity. Stars are supposed to exist, whose light has been travelling for many thousands
of years without having yet reached our system; and the eyes are yet unborn upon which their
earliest rays will fall. Men like Mark Anthony, with minds of chaotic composition--light conflicting
with darkness, proportions of colossal grandeur disfigured by unsymmetrical arrangement, the
angelic in close neighborhood with the brutal--are first read in their true meaning by an age
learned in the philosophy of the human heart. Of this philosophy the Romans had, by the necessities
of education and domestic discipline not less than by original constitution of mind, the very
narrowest visual range. In no literature whatsoever are so few tolerable notices to be found
of any great truths in Psychology. Nor could this have been otherwise amongst a people who
tried every thing by the standard of social value; never seeking for a canon of excellence,
in man considered abstractedly in and for himself, and as having an independent value--but
always and exclusively in man as a gregarious being, and designed for social uses and functions.
Not man in his own peculiar nature, but man in his relations to other men, was the station
from which the Roman speculators took up their philosophy of human nature. Tried by such standard,
Mark Anthony would be found wanting. As a citizen, he was irretrievably licentious, and therefore
there needed not the bitter personal feud, which circumstances had generated between them,
to account for the acharnement with which Cicero pursued him. Had Anthony been his friend even,
or his near kinsman, Cicero must still have been his public enemy. And not merely for his vices;
for even the grander features of his character, his towering ambition, his magnanimity, and
the fascinations of his popular qualities,--were all, in the circumstances of those times,
and in his position, of a tendency dangerously uncivic.

So remarkable was the opposition, at all points, between the second Caesar and his rival, that
whereas Anthony even in his virtues seemed dangerous to the state, Octavius gave a civic coloring
to his most indifferent actions, and, with a Machiavelian policy, observed a scrupulous regard
to the forms of the Republic, after every fragment of the republican institutions, the privileges
of the republican magistrates, and the functions of the great popular officers, had been absorbed
into his own autocracy. Even in the most prosperous days of the Roman State, when the democratic
forces balanced, and were balanced by, those of the aristocracy, it was far from being a general
or common praise, that a man was of a civic turn of mind, animo civili. Yet this praise did
Augustus affect, and in reality attain, at a time when the very object of all civic feeling
was absolutely extinct; so much are men governed by words. Suetonius assures us, that many
evidences were current even to his times of this popular disposition (civilitas) in the emperor;
and that it survived every experience of servile adulation in the Roman populace, and all the
effects of long familiarity with irresponsible power in himself. Such a moderation of feeling,
we are almost obliged to consider as a genuine and unaffected expression of his real nature;
for, as an artifice of policy, it had soon lost its uses. And it is worthy of notice, that
with the army he laid aside those popular manners as soon as possible, addressing them as milites,
not (according to his earlier practice) as commilitones. It concerned his own security, to
be jealous of encroachments on his power. But of his rank, and the honors which accompanied
it, he seems to have been uniformly careless. Thus, he would never leave a town or enter it
by daylight, unless some higher rule of policy obliged him to do so; by which means he evaded
a ceremonial of public honor which was burdensome to all the parties concerned in it. Sometimes,
however, we find that men, careless of honors in their own persons, are glad to see them settling
upon their family and immediate connections. But here again Augustus showed the sincerity of
his moderation. For upon one occasion, when the whole audience in the Roman theatre had risen
upon the entrance of his two adopted sons, at that time not seventeen years old, he was highly
displeased, and even thought it necessary to publish his displeasure in a separate edict. It
is another, and a striking illustration of his humility, that he willingly accepted of public
appointments, and sedulously discharged the duties attached to them, in conjunction with colleagues
who had been chosen with little regard to his personal partialities. In the debates of the
senate, he showed the same equanimity; suffering himself patiently to be contradicted, and
even with circumstances of studied incivility. In the public elections, he gave his vote like
any private citizen; and, when he happened to be a candidate himself, he canvassed the electors
with the same earnestness of personal application, as any other candidate with the least possible
title to public favor from present power or past services. But, perhaps by no expressions of
his civic spirit did Augustus so much conciliate men's minds, as by the readiness with which
he participated in their social pleasures, and by the uniform severity with which he refused
to apply his influence in any way which could disturb the pure administration of justice. The
Roman juries (judices they were called), were very corrupt; and easily swayed to an unconscientious
verdict, by the appearance in court of any great man on behalf of one of the parties interested:
nor was such an interference with the course of private justice any ways injurious to the great
man's character. The wrong which he promoted did but the more forcibly proclaim the warmth
and fidelity of his friendships. So much the more generally was the uprightness of the emperor
appreciated, who would neither tamper with justice himself, nor countenance any motion in that
direction, though it were to serve his very dearest friend, either by his personal presence,
or by the use of his name. And, as if it had been a trifle merely to forbear, and to show his
regard to justice in this negative way, he even allowed himself to be summoned as a witness
on trials, and showed no anger when his own evidence was overborne by stronger on the other
side. This disinterested love of justice, and an integrity, so rare in the great men of Rome,
could not but command the reverence of the people. But their affection, doubtless, was more
conciliated by the freedom with which the emperor accepted invitations from all quarters, and
shared continually in the festal pleasures of his subjects. This practice, however, he discontinued,
or narrowed, as he advanced in years. Suetonius, who, as a true anecdote- monger, would solve
every thing, and account for every change by some definite incident, charges this alteration
in the emperor's condescensions upon one particular party at a wedding feast, where the crowd
incommoded him much by their pressure and heat. But, doubtless, it happened to Augustus as
to other men; his spirits failed, and his powers of supporting fatigue or bustle, as years
stole upon him. Changes, coming by insensible steps, and not willingly acknowledged, for some
time escape notice; until some sudden shock reminds a man forcibly to do that which he has
long meditated in an irresolute way. The marriage banquet may have been the particular occasion
from which Augustus stepped into the habits of old age, but certainly not the cause of so entire
a revolution in his mode of living.

It might seem to throw some doubt, if not upon the fact, yet at least upon the sincerity, of
his civism, that undoubtedly Augustus cultivated his kingly connections with considerable anxiety.
It may have been upon motives merely political that he kept at Rome the children of nearly
all the kings then known as allies or vassals of the Roman power: a curious fact, and not generally
known. In his own palace were reared a number of youthful princes; and they were educated jointly
with his own children. It is also upon record, that in many instances the fathers of these
princes spontaneously repaired to Rome, and there assuming the Roman dress--as an expression
of reverence to the majesty of the omnipotent State--did personal 'suit and service' (more
clientum) to Augustus. It is an anecdote of not less curiosity, that a whole 'college' of kings
subscribed money for a temple at Athens, to be dedicated in the name of Augustus. Throughout
his life, indeed, this emperor paid a marked attention to all the royal houses then known to
Rome, as occupying the thrones upon the vast margin of the empire. It is true that in part
this attention might be interpreted as given politically to so many lieutenants, wielding a
remote or inaccessible power for the benefit of Rome. And the children of these kings might
be regarded as hostages, ostensibly entertained for the sake of education, but really as pledges
for their parents' fidelity, and also with a view to the large reversionary advantages which
might be expected to arise upon the basis of so early and affectionate a connection. But it
is not the less true, that, at one period of his life, Augustus did certainly meditate some
closer personal connection with the royal families of the earth. He speculated, undoubtedly,
on a marriage for himself with some barbarous princess, and at one time designed his daughter
Julia as a wife for Cotiso, the king of the Getae. Superstition perhaps disturbed the one scheme,
and policy the other. He married, as is well known, for his final wife, and the partner of
his life through its whole triumphant stage, Livia Drusilla; compelling her husband, Tiberius
Nero, to divorce her, notwithstanding she was then six months advanced in pregnancy. With this
lady, who was distinguished for her beauty, it is certain that he was deeply in love; and that
might be sufficient to account for the marriage. It is equally certain, however, upon the concurring
evidence of independent writers, that this connection had an oracular sanction--not to say,
suggestion; a circumstance which was long remembered, and was afterwards noticed by the Christian
poet Prudentius:

  "Idque Deum sortes et Apollinis antra dederunt
  Consilium: nunquam melius nam caedere taedas
  Responsum est, quam cum praegnans nova nupta jugatur."

His daughter Julia had been promised by turns, and always upon reasons of
state, to a whole muster-roll of suitors; first of all, to a son of Mark
Anthony; secondly, to the barbarous king; thirdly, to her first cousin--
that Marcellus, the son of Octavia, only sister to Augustus, whose early
death, in the midst of great expectations, Virgil has so beautifully
introduced into the vision of Roman grandeurs as yet unborn, which AEneas
beholds in the shades; fourthly, she was promised (and this time the
promise was kept) to the fortunate soldier, Agrippa, whose low birth was
not permitted to obscure his military merits. By him she had a family of
children, upon whom, if upon any in this world, the wrath of Providence
seems to have rested; for, excepting one, and in spite of all the favors
that earth and heaven could unite to shower upon them, all came to an
early, a violent, and an infamous end. Fifthly, upon the death of Agrippa,
and again upon motives of policy, and in atrocious contempt of all the
ties that nature and the human heart and human laws have hallowed, she was
promised, (if that word may be applied to the violent obtrusion upon a
man's bed of one who was doubly a curse--first, for what she brought, and,
secondly, for what she took away,) and given to Tiberius, the future
emperor. Upon the whole, as far as we can at this day make out the
connection of a man's acts and purposes, which, even to his own age, were
never entirely cleared up, it is probable that, so long as the triumvirate
survived, and so long as the condition of Roman power or intrigues, and
the distribution of Roman influence, were such as to leave a possibility
that any new triumvirate should arise--so long Augustus was secretly
meditating a retreat for himself at some barbarous court, against any
sudden reverse of fortune, by means of a domestic connection, which should
give him the claim of a kinsman. Such a court, however unable to make head
against the collective power of Rome, might yet present a front of
resistance to any single partisan who should happen to acquire a brief
ascendancy; or, at the worst, as a merely defensive power, might offer a
retreat, secure in distance, and difficult access; or might be available
as a means of delay for recovering from some else fatal defeat. It is
certain that Augustus viewed Egypt with jealousy as a province, which
might be turned to account in some such way by any aspiring insurgent. And
it must have often struck him as a remarkable circumstance, which by good
luck had turned out entirely to the advantage of his own family, but which
might as readily have had an opposite result, that the three decisive
battles of Pharsalia, of Thapsus, and of Munda, in which the empire of the
world was three times over staked as the prize, had severally brought upon
the defeated leaders a ruin which was total, absolute, and final. One hour
had seen the whole fabric of their aspiring fortunes demolished; and no
resource was left to them but either in suicide, (which, accordingly, even
Caesar had meditated at one stage of the battle of Munda, when it seemed to
be going against him,) or in the mercy of the victor.
                   Shakespeare's Sonnets.]
as in his first, risk the loss of that particular battle, is inseparable
from the condition of man, and the uncertainty of human means; but that
the loss of this one battle should be equally fatal and irrecoverable with
the loss of his first, that it should leave him with means no more
cemented, and resources no better matured for retarding his fall, and
throwing a long succession of hindrances in the way of his conqueror,
argues some essential defect of system. Under our modern policy, military
power--though it may be the growth of one man's life--soon takes root; a
succession of campaigns is required for its extirpation; and it revolves
backwards to its final extinction through all the stages by which
originally it grew. On the Roman system this was mainly impossible from
the solitariness of the Roman power; co-rival nations who might balance
the victorious party, there were absolutely none; and all the underlings
hastened to make their peace, whilst peace was yet open to them, on the
known terms of absolute treachery to their former master, and instant
surrender to the victor of the hour. For this capital defect in the tenure
of Roman power, no matter in whose hands deposited, there was no absolute
remedy. Many a sleepless night, during the perilous game which he played
with Anthony, must have familiarized Octavius with that view of the risk,
which to some extent was inseparable from his position as the leader in
such a struggle carried on in such an empire. In this dilemma, struck with
the extreme necessity of applying some palliation to the case, we have no
doubt that Augustus would devise the scheme of laying some distant king
under such obligations to fidelity as would suffice to stand the first
shock of misfortune. Such a person would have power enough, of a direct
military kind, to face the storm at its outbreak. He would have power of
another kind in his distance. He would be sustained by the courage of
hope, as a kinsman having a contingent interest in a kinsman's prosperity.
And, finally, he would be sustained by the courage of despair, as one who
never could expect to be trusted by the opposite party. In the worst case,
such a prince would always offer a breathing time and a respite to his
friends, were it only by his remoteness, and if not the means of
rallying, yet at least the time for rallying, more especially as
the escape to his frontier would be easy to one who had long forecast it.
We can hardly doubt that Augustus meditated such schemes; that he laid
them aside only as his power began to cement and to knit together after
the battle of Actium; and that the memory and the prudential tradition of
this plan survived in the imperial family so long as itself survived.
Amongst other anecdotes of the same tendency, two are recorded of Nero,
the emperor in whom expired the line of the original Caesars, which
strengthen us in a belief of what is otherwise in itself so probable.
Nero, in his first distractions, upon receiving the fatal tidings of the
revolt in Gaul, when reviewing all possible plans of escape from the
impending danger, thought at intervals of throwing himself on the
protection of the barbarous King Vologesus. And twenty years afterwards,
when the Pseudo-Nero appeared, he found a strenuous champion and protector
in the king of the Parthians. Possibly, had an opportunity offered for
searching the Parthian chancery, some treaty would have been found binding
the kings of Parthia, from the age of Augustus through some generations
downwards, in requital of services there specified, or of treasures
lodged, to secure a perpetual asylum to the prosperity of the Julian
family.

The cruelties of Augustus were perhaps equal in atrocity to any which are recorded; and the
equivocal apology for those acts (one which might as well be used to aggravate as to palliate
the case) is, that they were not prompted by a ferocious nature, but by calculating policy.
He once actually slaughtered upon an altar, a large body of his prisoners; and such was the
contempt with which he was regarded by some of that number, that, when led out to death, they
saluted their other proscriber, Anthony, with military honors, acknowledging merit even in
an enemy, but Augustus they passed with scornful silence, or with loud reproaches. Too certainly
no man has ever contended for empire with unsullied conscience, or laid pure hands upon the
ark of so magnificent a prize. Every friend to Augustus must have wished that the twelve years
of his struggle might for ever be blotted out from human remembrance. During the forty-two
years of his prosperity and his triumph, being above fear, he showed the natural lenity of
his temper.

That prosperity, in a public sense, has been rarely equalled; but far different was his fate,
and memorable was the contrast, within the circuit of his own family. This lord of the universe
groaned as often as the ladies of his house, his daughter and grand-daughter, were mentioned.
The shame which he felt on their account, led him even to unnatural designs, and to wishes
not less so; for at one time he entertained a plan for putting the elder Julia to death--and
at another, upon hearing that Phoebe (one of the female slaves in his household) had hanged
herself, he exclaimed audibly,--"Would that I had been the father of Phoebe!" It must, however,
be granted, that in this miserable affair he behaved with very little of his usual discretion.
In the first paroxysms of his rage, on discovering his daughter's criminal conduct, he made
a communication of the whole to the senate. That body could do nothing in such a matter, either
by act or by suggestion; and in a short time, as every body could have foreseen, he himself
repented of his own want of self-command. Upon the whole, it cannot be denied, that, according
to the remark of Jeremy Taylor, of all the men signally decorated by history, Augustus Caesar
is that one who exemplifies, in the most emphatic terms, the mixed tenor of human life, and
the equitable distribution, even on this earth, of good and evil fortune. He made himself master
of the world, and against the most formidable competitors; his power was absolute, from the
rising to the setting sun; and yet in his own house, where the peasant who does the humblest
chares, claims an undisputed authority, he was baffled, dishonored, and made ridiculous. He
was loved by nobody; and if, at the moment of his death, he desired his friends to dismiss
him from this world by the common expression of scenical applause, (vos plaudite!) in that
valedictory injunction he expressed inadvertently the true value of his own long life, which,
in strict candor, may be pronounced one continued series of histrionic efforts, and of excellent
acting, adapted to selfish ends.

CHAPTER III.

The three next emperors, Caligula, Claudius, and Nero, were the last princes who had any connection
by blood [Footnote: And this was entirely by the female side. The family descent of the first
six Caesars is so intricate, that it is rarely understood accurately; so that it may be well
to state it briefly. Augustus was grand nephew to Julius Caesar, being the son of his sister's
daughter. He was also, by adoption, the son of Julius. He himself had one child only, viz.
the infamous Julia, who was brought him by his second wife Scribonia; and through this Julia
it was that the three princes, who succeeded to Tiberius, claimed relationship to Augustus.
On that emperor's last marriage with Livia, he adopted the two sons whom she had borne to her
divorced husband. These two noblemen, who stood in no degree of consanguinity whatever to Augustus,
were Tiberius and Drusus. Tiberius left no children; but Drusus, the younger of the two brothers,
by his marriage with the younger Antonia, (daughter of Mark Anthony,) had the celebrated Germanicus,
and Claudius, (afterwards emperor.) Germanicus, though adopted by his uncle Tiberius, and destined
to the empire, died prematurely. But, like Banquo, though he wore no crown, he left descendants
who did. For, by his marriage with Agrippina, a daughter of Julia's by Agrippa, (and therefore
grand-daughter of Augustus,) he had a large family, of whom one son became the Emperor Caligula;
and one of the daughters, Agrippina the younger, by her marriage with a Roman nobleman, became
the mother of the Emperor Nero. Hence it appears that Tiberius was uncle to Claudius, Claudius
was uncle to Caligula, Caligula was uncle to Nero. But it is observable, that Nero and Caligula
stood in another degree of consanguinity to each other through their grandmothers, who were
both daughters of Mark Anthony the triumvir; for the elder Antonia married the grandfather
of Nero; the younger Antonia (as we have stated, above) married Drusus, the grandfather of
Caligula; and again, by these two ladies, they were connected not only with each other, but
also with the Julian house, for the two Antonias were daughters of Mark Anthony by Octavia,
sister to Augustus.] with the Julian house. In Nero, the sixth emperor, expired the last of
the Caesars, who was such in reality. These three were also the first in that long line of
monsters, who, at different times, under the title of Caesars, dishonored humanity more memorably,
than was possible, except in the cases of those (if any such can be named) who have abused
the same enormous powers in times of the same civility, and in defiance of the same general
illumination. But for them it is a fact, than some crimes, which now stain the page of history,
would have been accounted fabulous dreams of impure romancers, taxing their extravagant imaginations
to create combinations of wickedness more hideous than civilized men would tolerate, and more
unnatural than the human heart could conceive. Let us, by way of example, take a short chapter
from the diabolic life of Caligula: In what way did he treat his nearest and tenderest female
connections? His mother had been tortured and murdered by another tyrant almost as fiendish
as himself. She was happily removed from his cruelty. Disdaining, however, to acknowledge any
connection with the blood of so obscure a man as Agrippa, he publicly gave out that his mother
was indeed the daughter of Julia, but by an incestuous commerce with her father Augustus. His
three sisters he debauched. One died, and her he canonized; the other two he prostituted to
the basest of his own attendants. Of his wives, it would be hard to say whether they were first
sought and won with more circumstances of injury and outrage, or dismissed with more insult
and levity. The one whom he treated best, and with most profession of love, and who commonly
rode by his side, equipped with spear and shield, to his military inspections and reviews of
the soldiery, though not particularly beautiful, was exhibited to his friends at banquets in
a state of absolute nudity. His motive for treating her with so much kindness, was probably
that she brought him a daughter; and her he acknowledged as his own child, from the early brutality
with which she attacked the eyes and cheeks of other infants who were presented to her as play-fellows.
Hence it would appear that he was aware of his own ferocity, and treated it as a jest. The
levity, indeed, which he mingled with his worst and most inhuman acts, and the slightness of
the occasions upon which he delighted to hang his most memorable atrocities, aggravated their
impression at the time, and must have contributed greatly to sharpen the sword of vengeance.
His palace happened to be contiguous to the circus. Some seats, it seems, were open indiscriminately
to the public; consequently, the only way in which they could be appropriated, was by taking
possession of them as early as the midnight preceding any great exhibitions. Once, when it
happened that his sleep was disturbed by such an occasion, he sent in soldiers to eject them;
and with orders so rigorous, as it appeared by the event, that in this singular tumult, twenty
Roman knights, and as many mothers of families, were cudgelled to death upon the spot, to say
nothing of what the reporter calls "innumeram turbam ceteram."

But this is a trifle to another anecdote reported by the same authority:-- On some occasion
it happened that a dearth prevailed, either generally of cattle, or of such cattle as were
used for feeding the wild beasts reserved for the bloody exhibitions of the amphitheatre. Food
could be had, and perhaps at no very exorbitant price, but on terms somewhat higher than the
ordinary market price. A slight excuse served with Caligula for acts the most monstrous. Instantly
repairing to the public jails, and causing all the prisoners to pass in review before him (custodiarum
seriem recognoscens), he pointed to two bald-headed men, and ordered that the whole file of
intermediate persons should be marched off to the dens of the wild beasts: "Tell them off,"
said he, "from the bald man to the bald man." Yet these were prisoners committed, not for punishment,
but trial. Nor, had it been otherwise, were the charges against them equal, but running through
every gradation of guilt. But the elogia or records of their commitment, he would not so much
as look at. With such inordinate capacities for cruelty, we cannot wonder that he should in
his common conversation have deplored the tameness and insipidity of his own times and reign,
as likely to be marked by no wide-spreading calamity." Augustus," said he, "was happy; for
in his reign occurred the slaughter of Varus and his legions. Tiberius was happy; for in his
occurred that glorious fall of the great amphitheatre at Fidenae. But for me--alas! alas!"
And then he would pray earnestly for fire or slaughter--pestilence or famine. Famine indeed
was to some extent in his own power; and accordingly, as far as his courage would carry him,
he did occasionally try that mode of tragedy upon the people of Rome, by shutting up the public
granaries against them. As he blended his mirth and a truculent sense of the humorous with
his cruelties, we cannot wonder that he should soon blend his cruelties with his ordinary festivities,
and that his daily banquets would soon become insipid without them. Hence he required a daily
supply of executions in his own halls and banqueting rooms; nor was a dinner held to be complete
without such a dessert. Artists were sought out who had dexterity and strength enough to do
what Lucan somewhere calls ensem rotare, that is, to cut off a human head with one whirl of
the sword. Even this became insipid, as wanting one main element of misery to the sufferer,
and an indispensable condiment to the jaded palate of the connoisseur, viz., a lingering duration.
As a pleasant variety, therefore, the tormentors were introduced with their various instruments
of torture; and many a dismal tragedy in that mode of human suffering was conducted in the
sacred presence during the emperor's hours of amiable relaxation.

The result of these horrid indulgences was exactly what we might suppose, that even such scenes
ceased to irritate the languid appetite, and yet that without them life was not endurable.
Jaded and exhausted as the sense of pleasure had become in Caligula, still it could be roused
into any activity by nothing short of these murderous luxuries. Hence, it seems, that he was
continually tampering and dallying with the thought of murder; and like the old Parisian jeweller
Cardillac, in Louis XIV.'s time, who was stung with a perpetual lust for murdering the possessors
of fine diamonds--not so much for the value of the prize (of which he never hoped to make any
use), as from an unconquerable desire of precipitating himself into the difficulties and hazards
of the murder,--Caligula never failed to experience (and sometimes even to acknowledge) a secret
temptation to any murder which seemed either more than usually abominable, or more than usually
difficult. Thus, when the two consuls were seated at his table, he burst out into sudden and
profuse laughter; and, upon their courteously requesting to know what witty and admirable conceit
might be the occasion of the imperial mirth, he frankly owned to them, and doubtless he did
not improve their appetites by this confession, that in fact he was laughing, and that he could
not but laugh, (and then the monster laughed immoderately again,) at the pleasant thought of
seeing them both headless, and that with so little trouble to himself, (uno suo nutu,) he could
have both their throats cut. No doubt he was continually balancing the arguments for and against
such little escapades; nor had any person a reason for security in the extraordinary obligations,
whether of hospitality or of religious vows, which seemed to lay him under some peculiar restraints
in that case above all others; for such circumstances of peculiarity, by which the murder would
be stamped with unusual atrocity, were but the more likely to make its fascinations irresistible.
Hence he dallied with the thoughts of murdering her whom he loved best, and indeed exclusively--his
wife Caesonia; and whilst fondling her, and toying playfully with her polished throat, he was
distracted (as he half insinuated to her) between the desire of caressing it, which might be
often repeated, and that of cutting it, which could be gratified but once.

Nero (for as to Claudius, he came too late to the throne to indulge any propensities of this
nature with so little discretion) was but a variety of the same species. He also was an amateur,
and an enthusiastic amateur of murder. But as this taste, in the most ingenious hands, is limited
and monotonous in its modes of manifestation, it would be tedious to run through the long Suetonian
roll-call of his peccadilloes in this way. One only we shall cite, to illustrate the amorous
delight with which he pursued any murder which happened to be seasoned highly to his taste
by enormous atrocity, and by almost unconquerable difficulty. It would really be pleasant,
were it not for the revolting consideration of the persons concerned, and their relation to
each other, to watch the tortuous pursuit of the hunter, and the doubles of the game, in this
obstinate chase. For certain reasons of state, as Nero attempted to persuade himself, but in
reality because no other crime had the same attractions of unnatural horror about it, he resolved
to murder his mother Agrippina. This being settled, the next thing was to arrange the mode
and the tools. Naturally enough, according to the custom then prevalent in Rome, he first attempted
the thing by poison. The poison failed: for Agrippina, anticipating tricks of this kind, had
armed her constitution against them, like Mithridates; and daily took potent antidotes and
prophylactics. Or else (which is more probable) the emperor's agent in such purposes, fearing
his sudden repentance and remorse on first hearing of his mother's death, or possibly even
witnessing her agonies, had composed a poison of inferior strength. This had certainly occurred
in the case of Britannicus, who had thrown off with ease the first dose administered to him
by Nero. Upon which he had summoned to his presence the woman employed in the affair, and compelling
her by threats to mingle a more powerful potion in his own presence, had tried it successively
upon different animals, until he was satisfied with its effects; after which, immediately inviting
Britannicus to a banquet, he had finally dispatched him. On Agrippina, however, no changes
in the poison, whether of kind or strength, had any effect; so that, after various trials,
this mode of murder was abandoned, and the emperor addressed himself to other plans. The first
of these was some curious mechanical device, by which a false ceiling was to have been suspended
by bolts above her bed; and in the middle of the night, the bolt being suddenly drawn, a vast
weight would have descended with a ruinous destruction to all below. This scheme, however,
taking air from the indiscretion of some amongst the accomplices, reached the ears of Agrippina;
upon which the old lady looked about her too sharply to leave much hope in that scheme: so
that also was abandoned. Next, he conceived the idea of an artificial ship, which, at the touch
of a few springs, might fall to pieces in deep water. Such a ship was prepared, and stationed
at a suitable point. But the main difficulty remained, which was to persuade the old lady to
go on board. Not that she knew in this case who had been the ship-builder, for that would have
ruined all; but it seems that she took it ill to be hunted in this murderous spirit, and was
out of humor with her son; besides, that any proposal coming from him, though previously indifferent
to her, would have instantly become suspected. To meet this difficulty, a sort of reconciliation
was proposed, and a very affectionate message sent, which had the effect of throwing Agrippina
off her guard, and seduced her to Baiae for the purpose of joining the emperor's party at a
great banquet held in commemoration of a solemn festival. She came by water in a sort of light
frigate, and was to return in the same way. Meantime Nero tampered with the commander of her
vessel, and prevailed upon him to wreck it. What was to be done? The great lady was anxious
to return to Rome, and no proper conveyance was at hand. Suddenly it was suggested, as if by
chance, that a ship of the emperor's, new and properly equipped, was moored at a neighboring
station. This was readily accepted by Agrippina: the emperor accompanied her to the place of
embarkation, took a most tender leave of her, and saw her set sail. It was necessary that the
vessel should get into deep water before the experiment could be made; and with the utmost
agitation this pious son awaited news of the result. Suddenly a messenger rushed breathless
into his presence, and horrified him by the joyful information that his august mother had met
with an alarming accident; but, by the blessing of Heaven, had escaped safe and sound, and
was now on her road to mingle congratulations with her affectionate son. The ship, it seems,
had done its office; the mechanism had played admirably; but who can provide for every thing?
The old lady, it turned out, could swim like a duck; and the whole result had been to refresh
her with a little sea-bathing. Here was worshipful intelligence. Could any man's temper be
expected to stand such continued sieges? Money, and trouble, and infinite contrivance, wasted
upon one old woman, who absolutely would not, upon any terms, be murdered! Provoking it certainly
was; and of a man like Nero it could not be expected that he should any longer dissemble his
disgust, or put up with such repeated affronts. He rushed upon his simple congratulating friend,
swore that he had come to murder him, and as nobody could have suborned him but Agrippina,
he ordered her off to instant execution. And, unquestionably, if people will not be murdered
quietly and in a civil way, they must expect that such forbearance is not to continue for ever;
and obviously have themselves only to blame for any harshness or violence which they may have
rendered necessary.

It is singular, and shocking at the same time, to mention, that, for this atrocity, Nero did
absolutely receive solemn congratulations from all orders of men. With such evidences of base
servility in the public mind, and of the utter corruption which they had sustained in their
elementary feelings, it is the less astonishing that he should have made other experiments
upon the public patience, which seem expressly designed to try how much it would support. Whether
he were really the author of the desolating fire which consumed Rome for six [Footnote: But
a memorial stone, in its inscription, makes the time longer: "Quando urbs per novem dies arsit
Neronianis temporibus."] days and seven nights, and drove the mass of the people into the tombs
and sepulchres for shelter, is yet a matter of some doubt. But one great presumption against
it, founded on its desperate imprudence, as attacking the people in their primary comforts,
is considerably weakened by the enormous servility of the Romans in the case just stated: they
who could volunteer congratulations to a son for butchering his mother, (no matter on what
pretended suspicions,) might reasonably be supposed incapable of any resistance which required
courage even in a case of self-defence, or of just revenge. The direct reasons, however, for
implicating him in this affair, seem at present insufficient. He was displeased, it seems,
with the irregularity and unsightliness of the antique buildings, and also with the streets,
as too narrow and winding, (angustiis flexurisque vicorum.) But in this he did but express
what was no doubt the common judgment of all his contemporaries, who had seen the beautiful
cities of Greece and Asia Minor. The Rome of that time was in many parts built of wood; and
there is much probability that it must have been a picturesque city, and in parts almost grotesque.
But it is remarkable, and a fact which we have nowhere seen noticed, that the ancients, whether
Greeks or Romans, had no eye for the picturesque; nay, that it was a sense utterly unawakened
amongst them; and that the very conception of the picturesque, as of a thing distinct from
the beautiful, is not once alluded to through the whole course of ancient literature, nor would
it have been intelligible to any ancient critic; so that, whatever attraction for the eye might
exist in the Rome of that day, there is little doubt that it was of a kind to be felt only
by modern spectators. Mere dissatisfaction with its external appearance, which must have been
a pretty general sentiment, argued, therefore, no necessary purpose of destroying it. Certainly
it would be a weightier ground of suspicion, if it were really true, that some of his agents
were detected on the premises of different senators in the act of applying combustibles to
their mansions. But this story wears a very fabulous air. For why resort to the private dwellings
of great men, where any intruder was sure of attracting notice, when the same effect, and with
the same deadly results, might have been attained quietly and secretly in so many of the humble
Roman coenacula?

The great loss on this memorable occasion was in the heraldic and ancestral honors of the city.
Historic Rome then went to wreck for ever. Then perished the domus priscorum ducum hostilibus
adhuc spoliis adornatae; the "rostral" palace; the mansion of the Pompeys; the Blenheims and
the Strathfieldsays of the Scipios, the Marcelli, the Paulli, and the Caesars; then perished
the aged trophies from Carthage and from Gaul; and, in short, as the historian sums up the
lamentable desolation, "quidquid visendum atque memorabile ex antiquitate duraverat." And this
of itself might lead one to suspect the emperor's hand as the original agent; for by no one
act was it possible so entirely and so suddenly to wean the people from their old republican
recollections, and in one week to obliterate the memorials of their popular forces, and the
trophies of many ages. The old people of Rome were gone; their characteristic dress even was
gone; for already in the time of Augustus they had laid aside the toga, and assumed the cheaper
and scantier paenula, so that the eye sought in vain for Virgil's

  "Romanes rerum dominos gentemque togatam."

Why, then, after all the constituents of Roman grandeur had passed away, should their historical
trophies survive, recalling to them the scenes of departed heroism, in which they had no personal
property, and suggesting to them vain hopes, which for them were never to be other than chimeras?
Even in that sense, therefore, and as a great depository of heart-stirring historical remembrances,
Rome was profitably destroyed; and in any other sense, whether for health or for the conveniences
of polished life, or for architectural magnificence, there never was a doubt that the Roman
people gained infinitely by this conflagration. For, like London, it arose from its ashes with
a splendor proportioned to its vast expansion of wealth and population; and marble took the
place of wood. For the moment, however, this event must have been felt by the people as an
overwhelming calamity. And it serves to illustrate the passive endurance and timidity of the
popular temper, and to what extent it might be provoked with impunity, that in this state of
general irritation and effervescence, Nero absolutely forbade them to meddle with the ruins
of their own dwellings-- taking that charge upon himself, with a view to the vast wealth which
he anticipated from sifting the rubbish. And, as if that mode of plunder were not sufficient,
he exacted compulsory contributions to the rebuilding of the city so indiscriminately, as to
press heavily upon all men's finances; and thus, in the public account which universally imputed
the fire to him, he was viewed as a twofold robber, who sought to heal one calamity by the
infliction of another and a greater.

The monotony of wickedness and outrage becomes at length fatiguing to the coarsest and most
callous senses; and the historian, even, who caters professedly for the taste which feeds upon
the monstrous and the hyperbolical, is glad at length to escape from the long evolution of
his insane atrocities, to the striking and truly scenical catastrophe of retribution which
overtook them, and avenged the wrongs of an insulted world. Perhaps history contains no more
impressive scenes than those in which the justice of Providence at length arrested the monstrous
career of Nero.

It was at Naples, and, by a remarkable fatality, on the very anniversary of his mother's murder,
that he received the first intelligence of the revolt in Gaul under the Propraetor Vindex.
This news for about a week he treated with levity; and, like Henry VII. of England, who was
nettled, not so much at being proclaimed a rebel, as because he was described under the slighting
denomination of "one Henry Tidder or Tudor," he complained bitterly that Vindex had mentioned
him by his family name of AEnobarbus, rather than his assumed one of Nero. But much more keenly
he resented the insulting description of himself as a "miserable harper," appealing to all
about him whether they had ever known a better, and offering to stake the truth of all the
other charges against himself upon the accuracy of this in particular. So little even in this
instance was he alive to the true point of the insult; not thinking it any disgrace that a
Roman emperor should be chiefly known to the world in the character of a harper, but only if
he should happen to be a bad one. Even in those days, however, imperfect as were the means
of travelling, rebellion moved somewhat too rapidly to allow any long interval of security
so light-minded as this. One courier followed upon the heels of another, until he felt the
necessity for leaving Naples; and he returned to Rome, as the historian says, praetrepidus;
by which word, however, according to its genuine classical acceptation, we apprehend is not
meant that he was highly alarmed, but only that he was in a great hurry. That he was not yet
under any real alarm (for he trusted in certain prophecies, which, like those made to the Scottish
tyrant "kept the promise to the ear, but broke it to the sense,") is pretty evident, from his
conduct on reaching the capitol. For, without any appeal to the senate or the people, but sending
out a few summonses to some men of rank, he held a hasty council, which he speedily dismissed,
and occupied the rest of the day with experiments on certain musical instruments of recent
invention, in which the keys were moved by hydraulic contrivances. He had come to Rome, it
appeared, merely from a sense of decorum.

Suddenly, however, arrived news, which fell upon him with the force of a thunderbolt, that
the revolt had extended to the Spanish provinces, and was headed by Galba. He fainted upon
hearing this; and falling to the ground, lay for a long time lifeless, as it seemed, and speechless.
Upon coming to himself again, he tore his robe, struck his forehead, and exclaimed aloud--that
for him all was over. In this agony of mind, it strikes across the utter darkness of the scene
with the sense of a sudden and cheering flash, recalling to us the possible goodness and fidelity
of human nature--when we read that one humble creature adhered to him, and, according to her
slender means, gave him consolation during these trying moments; this was the woman who had
tended his infant years; and she now recalled to his remembrance such instances of former princes
in adversity, as appeared fitted to sustain his drooping spirits. It seems, however, that,
according to the general course of violent emotions, the rebound of high spirits was in proportion
to his first despondency. He omitted nothing of his usual luxury or self-indulgence, and he
even found spirits for going incognito to the theatre, where he took sufficient interest in
the public performances, to send a message to a favorite actor. At times, even in this hopeless
situation, his native ferocity returned upon him, and he was believed to have framed plans
for removing all his enemies at once--the leaders of the rebellion, by appointing successors
to their offices, and secretly sending assassins to dispatch their persons; the senate, by
poison at a great banquet; the Gaulish provinces, by delivering them up for pillage to the
army; the city, by again setting it on fire, whilst, at the same time, a vast number of wild
beasts was to have been turned loose upon the unarmed populace--for the double purpose of destroying
them, and of distracting their attention from the fire. But, as the mood of his frenzy changed,
these sanguinary schemes were abandoned, (not, however, under any feelings of remorse, but
from mere despair of effecting them,) and on the same day, but after a luxurious dinner, the
imperial monster grew bland and pathetic in his ideas; he would proceed to the rebellious army;
he would present himself unarmed to their view; and would recall them to their duty by the
mere spectacle of his tears. Upon the pathos with which he would weep he was resolved to rely
entirely. And having received the guilty to his mercy without distinction, upon the following
day he would unite his joy with their joy, and would chant hymns of victory (epinicia)--"which
by the way," said he, suddenly, breaking off to his favorite pursuits, "it is necessary that
I should immediately compose." This caprice vanished like the rest; and he made an effort to
enlist the slaves and citizens into his service, and to raise by extortion a large military
chest. But in the midst of these vascillating purposes fresh tidings surprised him--other armies
had revolted, and the rebellion was spreading contagiously. This consummation of his alarms
reached him at dinner; and the expressions of his angry fears took even a scenical air; he
tore the dispatches, upset the table, and dashed to pieces upon the ground two crystal beakers--which
had a high value as works of art, even in the Aurea Domus, from the sculptures which adorned them.

He now prepared for flight; and, sending forward commissioners to prepare the fleet at Ostia
for his reception, he tampered with such officers of the army as were at hand, to prevail upon
them to accompany his retreat. But all showed themselves indisposed to such schemes, and some
flatly refused. Upon which he turned to other counsels; sometimes meditating a flight to the
King of Parthia, or even to throw himself on the mercy of Galba; sometimes inclining rather
to the plan of venturing into the forum in mourning apparel, begging pardon for his past offences,
and, as a last resource, entreating that he might receive the appointment of Egyptian prefect.
This plan, however, he hesitated to adopt, from some apprehension that he should be torn to
pieces in his road to the forum; and, at all events, he concluded to postpone it to the following
day. Meantime events were now hurrying to their catastrophe, which for ever anticipated that
intention. His hours were numbered, and the closing scene was at hand.

In the middle of the night he was aroused from slumber with the intelligence that the military
guard, who did duty at the palace, had all quited their posts. Upon this the unhappy prince
leaped from his couch, never again to taste the luxury of sleep, and dispatched messengers
to his friends. No answers were returned; and upon that he went personally with a small retinue
to their hotels. But he found their doors every where closed; and all his importunities could
not avail to extort an answer. Sadly and slowly he returned to his own bedchamber; but there
again he found fresh instances of desertion, which had occurred during his short absence; the
pages of his bedchamber had fled, carrying with them the coverlids of the imperial bed, which
were probably inwrought with gold, and even a golden box, in which Nero had on the preceding
day deposited poison prepared against the last extremity. Wounded to the heart by this general
desertion, and perhaps by some special case of ingratitude, such as would probably enough be
signalized in the flight of his personal favorites, he called for a gladiator of the household
to come and dispatch him. But none appearing,--"What!" said he, "have I neither friend nor
foe?" And so saying, he ran towards the Tiber, with the purpose of drowning himself. But that
paroxysm, like all the rest, proved transient; and he expressed a wish for some hiding-place,
or momentary asylum, in which he might collect his unsettled spirits, and fortify his wandering
resolution. Such a retreat was offered to him by his libertus Phaon, in his own rural villa,
about four miles distant from Rome. The offer was accepted; and the emperor, without further
preparation than that of throwing over his person a short mantle of a dusky hue, and enveloping
his head and face in a handkerchief, mounted his horse, and left Rome with four attendants.
It was still night, but probably verging towards the early dawn; and even at that hour the
imperial party met some travellers on their way to Rome (coming up, no doubt, [Footnote: At
this early hour, witnesses, sureties, &c., and all concerned in the law courts, came up to
Rome from villas, country towns, &c. But no ordinary call existed to summon travellers in the
opposite direction; which accounts for the comment of the travellers on the errand of Nero
and his attendants.] on law business)--who said, as they passed, "These men are certainly in
chase of Nero." Two other incidents, of an interesting nature, are recorded of this short but
memorable ride; at one point of the road, the shouts of the soldiery assailed their ears from
the neighboring encampment of Galba. They were probably then getting under arms for their final
march to take possession of the palace. At another point, an accident occurred of a more unfortunate
kind, but so natural and so well circumstantiated, that it serves to verify the whole narrative;
a dead body was lying on the road, at which the emperor's horse started so violently as nearly
to dismount his rider, and under the difficulty of the moment compelled him to withdraw the
hand which held up the handkerchief, and suddenly to expose his features. Precisely at this
critical moment it happened that an old half-pay officer passed, recognised the emperor, and
saluted him. Perhaps it was with some purpose of applying a remedy to this unfortunate rencontre,
that the party dismounted at a point where several roads met, and turned their horses adrift
to graze at will amongst the furze and brambles. Their own purpose was, to make their way to
the back of the villa; but, to accomplish that, it was necessary that they should first cross
a plantation of reeds, from the peculiar state of which they found themselves obliged to cover
successively each space upon which they trode with parts of their dress, in order to gain any
supportable footing. In this way, and contending with such hardships, they reached at length
the postern side of the villa. Here we must suppose that there was no regular ingress; for,
after waiting until an entrance was pierced, it seems that the emperor could avail himself
of it in no more dignified posture, than by creeping through the hole on his hands and feet,
(quadrupes per angustias receptus.)

Now, then, after such anxiety, alarm, and hardship, Nero had reached a quiet rural asylum.
But for the unfortunate concurrence of his horse's alarm with the passing of the soldier, he
might perhaps have counted on a respite of a day or two in this noiseless and obscure abode.
But what a habitation for him who was yet ruler of the world in the eye of law, and even de
facto was so, had any fatal accident befallen his aged competitor! The room in which (as the
one most removed from notice and suspicion) he had secreted himself, was a cella, or little
sleeping closet of a slave, furnished only with a miserable pallet and a coarse rug. Here lay
the founder and possessor of the Golden House, too happy if he might hope for the peaceable
possession even of this miserable crypt. But that, he knew too well, was impossible. A rival
pretender to the empire was like the plague of fire--as dangerous in the shape of a single
spark left unextinguished, as in that of a prosperous conflagration. But a few brief sands
yet remained to run in the emperor's hour-glass; much variety of degradation or suffering seemed
scarcely within the possibilities of his situation, or within the compass of the time. Yet,
as though Providence had decreed that his humiliation should pass through every shape, and
speak by every expression which came home to his understanding, or was intelligible to his
senses, even in these few moments he was attacked by hunger and thirst. No other bread could
be obtained (or, perhaps, if the emperor's presence were concealed from the household, it was
not safe to raise suspicion by calling for better) than that which was ordinarily given to
slaves, coarse, black, and, to a palate so luxurious, doubtless disgusting. This accordingly
he rejected; but a little tepid water he drank. After which, with the haste of one who fears
that he may be prematurely interrupted, but otherwise, with all the reluctance which we may
imagine, and which his streaming tears proclaimed, he addressed himself to the last labor in
which he supposed himself to have any interest on this earth--that of digging a grave. Measuring
a space adjusted to the proportions of his person, he inquired anxiously for any loose fragments
of marble, such as might suffice to line it. He requested also to be furnished with wood and
water, as the materials for the last sepulchral rites. And these labors were accompanied, or
continually interrupted by tears and lamentations, or by passionate ejaculations on the blindness
of fortune, in suffering so divine an artist to be thus violently snatched away, and on the
calamitous fate of musical science, which then stood on the brink of so dire an eclipse. In
these moments he was most truly in an agony, according to the original meaning of that word;
for the conflict was great between two master principles of his nature: on the one hand, he
clung with the weakness of a girl to life, even in that miserable shape to which it had now
sunk; and like the poor malefactor, with whose last struggles Prior has so atrociously amused
himself, "he often took leave, but was loath to depart." Yet, on the other hand, to resign
his life very speedily, seemed his only chance for escaping the contumelies, perhaps the tortures,
of his enemies; and, above all other considerations, for making sure of a burial, and possibly
of burial rites; to want which, in the judgment of the ancients, was the last consummation
of misery. Thus occupied, and thus distracted--sternly attracted to the grave by his creed,
hideously repelled by infirmity of nature--he was suddenly interrupted by a courier with letters
for the master of the house; letters, and from Rome! What was their import? That was soon told--briefly
that Nero was adjudged to be a public enemy by the senate, and that official orders were issued
for apprehending him, in order that he might be brought to condign punishment according to
the method of ancient precedent. Ancient precedent! more majorum! And how was that? eagerly
demanded the emperor. He was answered--that the state criminal in such cases was first stripped
naked, then impaled as it were between the prongs of a pitchfork, and in that condition scourged
to death. Horror-struck with this account, he drew forth two poniards, or short swords, tried
their edges, and then, in utter imbecility of purpose, returned them to their scabbards, alleging
that the destined moment had not yet arrived. Then he called upon Sporus, the infamous partner
in his former excesses, to commence the funeral anthem. Others, again, he besought to lead
the way in dying, and to sustain him by the spectacle of their example. But this purpose also
he dismissed in the very moment of utterance; and turning away despairingly, he apostrophized
himself in words reproachful or animating, now taxing his nature with infirmity of purpose,
now calling on himself by name, with adjurations to remember his dignity, and to act worthy
of his supreme station: ou prepei Neroni, cried he, ou prepeu naephein dei en tois toidaetois
ale, eleire seauton-- i.e. "Fie, fie, then Nero! such a season calls for perfect self- possession.
Up, then, and rouse thyself to action."

Thus, and in similar efforts to master the weakness of his reluctant nature--weakness which
would extort pity from the severest minds, were it not from the odious connection which in
him it had with cruelty the most merciless--did this unhappy prince, jam non salutis spem sed
exitii solatium quaerens, consume the flying moments, until at length his ears caught the fatal
sounds or echoes from a body of horsemen riding up to the villa. These were the officers charged
with his arrest; and if he should fall into their hands alive, he knew that his last chance
was over for liberating himself, by a Roman death, from the burthen of ignominious life, and
from a lingering torture. He paused from his restless motions, listened attentively, then repeated
a line from Homer--

  Ippon m' ochupodon amphi chtupos ouata ballei

(The resounding tread of swift-footed horses reverberates upon my ears);-- then under some
momentary impulse of courage, gained perhaps by figuring to himself the bloody populace rioting
upon his mangled body, yet even then needing the auxiliary hand and vicarious courage of his
private secretary, the feeble-hearted prince stabbed himself in the throat. The wound, however,
was not such as to cause instant death. He was still breathing, and not quite speechless, when
the centurion who commanded the party entered the closet; and to this officer, who uttered
a few hollow words of encouragement, he was still able to make a brief reply. But in the very
effort of speaking he expired, and with an expression of horror impressed upon his stiffened
features, which communicated a sympathetic horror to all beholders.

Such was the too memorable tragedy which closed for ever the brilliant line of the Julian family,
and translated the august title of Caesar from its original purpose as a proper name to that
of an official designation. It is the most striking instance upon record of a dramatic and
extreme vengeance overtaking extreme guilt; for, as Nero had exhausted the utmost possibilities
of crime, so it may be affirmed that he drank off the cup of suffering to the very extremity
of what his peculiar nature allowed. And in no life of so short a duration, have there ever
been crowded equal extremities of gorgeous prosperity and abject infamy. It may be added, as
another striking illustration of the rapid mutability and revolutionary excesses which belonged
to what has been properly called the Roman stratocracy then disposing of the world, that within
no very great succession of weeks that same victorious rebel, the Emperor Galba, at whose feet
Nero had been self-immolated, was laid a murdered corpse in the same identical cell which had
witnessed the lingering agonies of his unhappy victim. This was the act of an emancipated slave,
anxious, by a vindictive insult to the remains of one prince, to place on record his gratitude
to another. "So runs the world away!" And in this striking way is retribution sometimes dispensed.

In the sixth Caesar terminated the Julian line. The three next princes in the succession were
personally uninteresting; and, with a slight reserve in favor of Otho, whose motives for committing
suicide (if truly reported) argue great nobility of mind, [Footnote: We may add that the unexampled
public grief which followed the death of Otho, exceeding even that which followed the death
of Germanicus, and causing several officers to commit suicide, implies some remarkable goodness
in this Prince, and a very unusual power of conciliating attachment.] were even brutal in the
tenor of their lives and monstrous; besides that the extreme brevity of their several reigns
(all three, taken conjunctly, having held the supreme power for no more than twelve months
and twenty days) dismisses them from all effectual station or right to a separate notice in
the line of Caesars. Coming to the tenth in succession, Vespasian, and his two sons, Titus
and Domitian, who make up the list of the twelve Caesars, as they are usually called, we find
matter for deeper political meditation and subjects of curious research. But these emperors
would be more properly classed with the five who succeed them--Nerva, Trajan, Hadrian, and
the two Antonines; after whom comes the young ruffian, Commodus, another Caligula or Nero,
from whose short and infamous reign Gibbon takes up his tale of the decline of the empire.
And this classification would probably have prevailed, had not the very curious work of Suetonius,
whose own life and period of observation determined the series and cycle of his subjects, led
to a different distribution. But as it is evident that, in the succession of the first twelve
Caesars, the six latter have no connection whatever by descent, collaterally, or otherwise,
with the six first, it would be a more logical distribution to combine them according to the
fortunes of the state itself, and the succession of its prosperity through the several stages
of splendor, declension, revival, and final decay. Under this arrangement, the first seventeen
would belong to the first stage; Commodus would open the second; Aurelian down to Constantine
or Julian would fill the third; and Jovian to Augustulus would bring up the melancholy rear.
Meantime it will be proper, after thus briefly throwing our eyes over the monstrous atrocities
of the early Caesars, to spend a few lines in examining their origin, and the circumstances
which favored their growth. For a mere hunter after hidden or forgotten singularities; a lover
on their own account of all strange perversities and freaks of nature, whether in action, taste,
or opinion; for a collector and amateur of misgrowths and abortions; for a Suetonius, in short,
it may be quite enough to state and to arrange his cabinet of specimens from the marvellous
in human nature. But certainly in modern times, any historian, however little affecting the
praise of a philosophic investigator, would feel himself called upon to remove a little the
taint of the miraculous and preternatural which adheres to such anecdotes, by entering into
the psychological grounds of their possibility; whether lying in any peculiarly vicious education,
early familiarity with bad models, corrupting associations, or other plausible key to effects,
which, taken separately, and out of their natural connection with their explanatory causes,
are apt rather to startle and revolt the feelings of sober thinkers. Except, perhaps, in some
chapters of Italian history, as, for example, among the most profligate of the Papal houses,
and amongst some of the Florentine princes, we find hardly any parallel to the atrocities of
Caligula and Nero; nor indeed was Tiberius much (if at all) behind them, though otherwise so
wary and cautious in his conduct. The same tenor of licentiousness beyond the needs of the
individual, the same craving after the marvellous and the stupendous in guilt, is continually
emerging in succeeding emperors--in Vitellius, in Domitian, in Commodus, in Caracalla--every
where, in short, where it was not overruled by one of two causes, either by original goodness
of nature too powerful to be mastered by ordinary seductions, (and in some cases removed from
their influence by an early apprenticeship to camps,) or by the terrors of an exemplary ruin
immediately preceding. For such a determinate tendency to the enormous and the anomalous, sufficient
causes must exist. What were they?

In the first place, we may observe that the people of Rome in that age were generally more
corrupt by many degrees than has been usually supposed possible. The effect of revolutionary
times, to relax all modes of moral obligation, and to unsettle the moral sense, has been well
and philosophically stated by Mr. Coleridge; but that would hardly account for the utter licentiousness
and depravity of Imperial Rome. Looking back to Republican Rome, and considering the state
of public morals but fifty years before the emperors, we can with difficulty believe that the
descendants of a people so severe in their habits could thus rapidly degenerate, and that a
populace, once so hardy and masculine, should assume the manners which we might expect in the
debauchees of Daphne (the infamous suburb of Antioch) or of Canopus, into which settled the
very lees and dregs of the vicious Alexandria. Such extreme changes would falsify all that
we know of human nature; we might a priori pronounce them impossible; and in fact, upon searching
history, we find other modes of solving the difficulty. In reality, the citizens of Rome were
at this time a new race, brought together from every quarter of the world, but especially from
Asia. So vast a proportion of the ancient citizens had been cut off by the sword, and partly
to conceal this waste of population, but much more by way of cheaply requiting services, or
of showing favor, or of acquiring influence, slaves had been emancipated in such great multitudes,
and afterwards invested with all the rights of citizens, that, in a single generation, Rome
became almost transmuted into a baser metal; the progeny of those whom the last generation
had purchased from the slave merchants. These people derived their stock chiefly from Cappadocia,
Pontus, &c., and the other populous regions of Asia Minor; and hence the taint of Asiatic luxury
and depravity, which was so conspicuous to all the Romans of the old republican severity. Juvenal
is to be understood more literally than is sometimes supposed, when he complains that long
before his time the Orontes (that river which washed the infamous capital of Syria) had mingled
its impure waters with those of the Tiber. And a little before him, Lucan speaks with mere
historic gravity when he says--

  ------"Vivant Galataeque Syrique
  Cappadoces, Gallique, extremique orbis Iberi,
  Armenii, Cilices: nam post civilia bella
  Hic Populus Romanus erit."
[Footnote: Blackwell, in his Court of Augustus, vol. i. p. 382, when
noticing these lines upon occasion of the murder of Cicero, in the final
proscription under the last triumvirate, comments thus: "Those of the
greatest and truly Roman spirit had been murdered in the field by Julius
Caesar; the rest were now massacred in the city by his son and successors;
in their room came Syrians, Cappadocians, Phrygians, and other
enfranchised slaves from the conquered nations;"--"these in half a century
had sunk so low, that Tiberius pronounced her very senators to be
homines ad sermtutem natos, men born to be slaves."]

Probably in the time of Nero, not one man in six was of pure Roman descent. [Footnote: Suetonius
indeed pretends that Augustus, personally at least, struggled against this ruinous practice--thinking
it a matter of the highest moment, "Sincerum atque ab omni colluvione peregrini et servilis
sanguinis incorruptum servare populum." And Horace is ready with his flatteries on the same
topic, lib. 3, Od. 6. But the facts are against them; for the question is not what Augustus
did in his own person, (which at most could not operate very widely except by the example,)
but what he permitted to be done. Now there was a practice familiar to those times; that when
a congiary or any other popular liberality was announced, multitudes were enfranchised by avaricious
masters in order to make them capable of the bounty, (as citizens,) and yet under the condition
of transferring to their emancipators whatsoever they should receive; ina ton daemosios d domenon
siton lambanontes chata maena--pherosi tois dedochasi taen eleutherian says Dionysius of Halicarnassus,
in order that after receiving the corn given publicly in every month, they might carry it to
those who had bestowed upon them their freedom. In a case, then, where an extensive practice
of this kind was exposed to Augustus, and publicly reproved by him, how did he proceed? Did
he reject the new- made citizens? No; he contented himself with diminishing the proportion
originally destined for each, so that the same absolute sum being distributed among a number
increased by the whole amount of the new enrolments, of necessity the relative sum for each
separately was so much less. But this was a remedy applied only to the pecuniary fraud as it
would have affected himself. The permanent mischief to the state went unredressed.] And the
consequences were suitable. Scarcely a family has come down to our knowledge that could not
in one generation enumerate a long catalogue of divorces within its own contracted circle.
Every man had married a series of wives; every woman a series of husbands. Even in the palace
of Augustus, who wished to be viewed as an exemplar or ideal model of domestic purity, every
principal member of his family was tainted in that way; himself in a manner and a degree infamous
even at that time. [Footnote: Part of the story is well known, but not the whole. Tiberius
Nero, a promising young nobleman, had recently married a very splendid beauty. Unfortunately
for him, at the marriage of Octavia (sister to Augustus) with Mark Anthony, he allowed his
young wife, then about eighteen, to attend upon the bride. Augustus was deeply and suddenly
fascinated by her charms, and without further scruple sent a message to Nero--intimating that
he was in love with his wife, and would thank him to resign her. The other, thinking it vain,
in those days of lawless proscription, to contest a point of this nature with one who commanded
twelve legions, obeyed the requisition. Upon some motive, now unknown, he was persuaded even
to degrade himself farther; for he actually officiated at the marriage in character of father,
and gave away the young beauty to his rival, although at that time six months advanced in pregnancy
by himself. These humiliating concessions were extorted from him, and yielded (probably at
the instigation of friends) in order to save his life. In the sequel they had the very opposite
result; for he died soon after, and it is reasonably supposed of grief and mortification. At
the marriage feast, an incident occurred which threw the whole company into confusion: A little
boy, roving from couch to couch among the guests, came at length to that in which Livia (the
bride) was lying by the side of Augustus, on which he cried out aloud,--"Lady, what are you
doing here? You are mistaken--this is not your husband--he is there," (pointing to Tiberius,)
"go, go--rise, lady, and recline beside him."] For the first 400 years of Rome, not one divorce
had been granted or asked, although the statute which allowed of this indulgence had always
been in force. But in the age succeeding to the civil wars men and women "married," says one
author, "with a view to divorce, and divorced in order to marry. Many of these changes happened
within the year, especially if the lady had a large fortune, which always went with her, and
procured her choice of transient husbands." And, "can one imagine," asks the same writer, "that
the fair one, who changed her husband every quarter, strictly kept her matrimonial faith all
the three months?" Thus the very fountain of all the "household charities" and household virtues
was polluted. And after that we need little wonder at the assassinations, poisonings, and forging
of wills, which then laid waste the domestic life of the Romans.

2. A second source of the universal depravity was the growing inefficacy of the public religion;
and this arose from its disproportion and inadequacy to the intellectual advances of the nation.
Religion, in its very etymology, has been held to imply a religatio, that is, a reiterated
or secondary obligation of morals; a sanction supplementary to that of the conscience. Now,
for a rude and uncultivated people, the Pagan mythology might not be too gross to discharge
the main functions of a useful religion. So long as the understanding could submit to the fables
of the Pagan creed, so long it was possible that the hopes and fears built upon that creed
might be practically efficient on men's lives and intentions. But when the foundation gave
way, the whole superstructure of necessity fell to the ground. Those who were obliged to reject
the ridiculous legends which invested the whole of their Pantheon, together with the fabulous
adjudgers of future punishments, could not but dismiss the punishments, which were, in fact,
as laughable, and as obviously the fictions of human ingenuity, as their dispensers. In short,
the civilized part of the world in those days lay in this dreadful condition; their intellect
had far outgrown their religion; the disproportions between the two were at length become monstrous;
and as yet no purer or more elevated faith was prepared for their acceptance. The case was
as shocking as if, with our present intellectual needs, we should be unhappy enough to have
no creed on which to rest the burden of our final hopes and fears, of our moral obligations,
and of our consolations in misery, except the fairy mythology of our nurses. The condition
of a people so situated, of a people under the calamity of having outgrown its religious faith,
has never been sufficiently considered. It is probable that such a condition has never existed
before or since that era of the world. The consequences to Rome were--that the reasoning and
disputatious part of her population took refuge from the painful state of doubt in Atheism;
amongst the thoughtless and irreflective the consequences were chiefly felt in their morals,
which were thus sapped in their foundation.

3. A third cause, which from the first had exercised a most baleful influence upon the arts
and upon literature in Rome, had by this time matured its disastrous tendencies towards the
extinction of the moral sensibilities. This was the circus, and the whole machinery, form and
substance, of the Circensian shows. Why had tragedy no existence as a part of the Roman literature?
Because--and that was a reason which would have sufficed to stifle all the dramatic genius
of Greece and England-- there was too much tragedy in the shape of gross reality, almost daily
before their eyes. The amphitheatre extinguished the theatre. How was it possible that the
fine and intellectual griefs of the drama should win their way to hearts seared and rendered
callous by the continual exhibition of scenes the most hideous, in which human blood was poured
out like water, and a human life sacrificed at any moment either to caprice in the populace,
or to a strife of rivalry between the ayes and the noes, or as the penalty for any trifling
instance of awkwardness in the performer himself? Even the more innocent exhibitions, in which
brutes only were the sufferers, could not but be mortal to all the finer sensibilities. Five
thousand wild animals, torn from their native abodes in the wilderness or forest, were often
turned out to be hunted, or for mutual slaughter, in the course of a single exhibition of this
nature; and it sometimes happened, (a fact which of itself proclaims the course of the public
propensities,) that the person at whose expense the shows were exhibited, by way of paying
special court to the people and meriting their favor, in the way most conspicuously open to
him, issued orders that all, without a solitary exception, should be slaughtered. He made it
known, as the very highest gratification which the case allowed, that (in the language of our
modern auctioneers) the whole, "without reserve," should perish before their eyes. Even such
spectacles must have hardened the heart, and blunted the more delicate sensibilities; but these
would soon cease to stimulate the pampered and exhausted sense. From the combats of tigers
or leopards, in which the passions could only be gathered indirectly, and by way of inference
from the motions, the transition must have been almost inevitable to those of men, whose nobler
and more varied passions spoke directly, and by the intelligible language of the eye, to human
spectators; and from the frequent contemplation of these authorized murders, in which a whole
people, women [Footnote: Augustus, indeed, strove to exclude the women from one part of the
circension spectacles; and what was that? Simply from the sight of the Athletae, as being naked.
But that they should witness the pangs of the dying gladiators, he deemed quite allowable.
The smooth barbarian considered; that a license of the first sort offended against decorum,
whilst the other violated only the sanctities of the human heart, and the whole sexual character
of women. It is our opinion, that to the brutalizing effect of these exhibitions we are to
ascribe not only the early extinction of the Roman drama, but generally the inferiority of
Rome to Greece in every department of the fine arts. The fine temper of Roman sensibility,
which no culture could have brought to the level of the Grecian, was thus dulled for every
application.] as much as men, and children intermingled with both, looked on with leisurely
indifference, with anxious expectation, or with rapturous delight, whilst below them were passing
the direct sufferings of humanity, and not seldom its dying pangs, it was impossible to expect
a result different from that which did in fact take place,-- universal hardness of heart, obdurate
depravity, and a twofold degradation of human nature, which acted simultaneously upon the two
pillars of morality, (which are otherwise not often assailed together,) of natural sensibility
in the first place, and, in the second, of conscientious principle.

4. But these were circumstances which applied to the whole population indiscriminately. Superadded
to these, in the case of the emperor, and affecting him exclusively, was this prodigious disadvantage--that
ancient reverence for the immediate witnesses of his actions, and for the people and senate
who would under other circumstances have exercised the old functions of the censor, was, as
to the emperor, pretty nearly obliterated. The very title of imperator, from which we have
derived our modern one of emperor, proclaims the nature of the government, and the tenure of
that office. It was purely a government by the sword, or permanent stratocracy having a movable
head. Never was there a people who inquired so impertinently as the Romans into the domestic
conduct of each private citizen. No rank escaped this jealous vigilance; and private liberty,
even in the most indifferent circumstances of taste or expense, was sacrificed to this inquisitorial
rigor of surveillance exercised on behalf of the State, sometimes by erroneous patriotism,
too often by malice in disguise. To this spirit the highest public officers were obliged to
bow; the consuls, not less than others. And even the occasional dictator, if by law irresponsible,
acted nevertheless as one who knew that any change which depressed his party, might eventually
abrogate his privilege. For the first time in the person of an imperator was seen a supreme
autocrat, who had virtually and effectively all the irresponsibility which the law assigned,
and the origin of his office presumed. Satisfied to know that he possessed such power, Augustus,
as much from natural taste as policy, was glad to dissemble it, and by every means to withdraw
it from public notice. But he had passed his youth as citizen of a republic; and in the state
of transition to autocracy, in his office of triumvir, had experimentally known the perils
of rivalship, and the pains of foreign control, too feelingly to provoke unnecessarily any
sleeping embers of the republican spirit. Tiberius, though familiar from his infancy with the
servile homage of a court, was yet modified by the popular temper of Augustus; and he came
late to the throne. Caligula was the first prince on whom the entire effect of his political
situation was allowed to operate; and the natural results were seen--he was the first absolute
monster. He must early have seen the realities of his position, and from what quarter it was
that any cloud could arise to menace his security. To the senate or people any respect which
he might think proper to pay, must have been imputed by all parties to the lingering superstitions
of custom, to involuntary habit, to court dissimulation, or to the decencies of external form,
and the prescriptive reverence of ancient names. But neither senate nor people could enforce
their claims, whatever they might happen to be. Their sanction and ratifying vote might be
worth having, as consecrating what was already secure, and conciliating the scruples of the
weak to the absolute decision of the strong. But their resistance, as an original movement,
was so wholly without hope, that they were never weak enough to threaten it.

The army was the true successor to their places, being the ultimate depository of power. Yet,
as the army was necessarily subdivided, as the shifting circumstances upon every frontier were
continually varying the strength of the several divisions as to numbers and state of discipline,
one part might be balanced against the other by an imperator standing in the centre of the
whole. The rigor of the military sacramentum, or oath of allegiance, made it dangerous to offer
the first overtures to rebellion; and the money, which the soldiers were continually depositing
in the bank, placed at the foot of their military standards, if sometimes turned against the
emperor, was also liable to be sequestrated in his favor. There were then, in fact, two great
forces in the government acting in and by each other--the Stratocracy, and the Autocracy. Each
needed the other; each stood in awe of each. But, as regarded all other forces in the empire,
constitutional or irregular, popular or senatorial, neither had any thing to fear. Under any
ordinary circumstances, therefore, considering the hazards of a rebellion, the emperor was
substantially liberated from all control. Vexations or outrages upon the populace were not
such to the army. It was but rarely that the soldier participated in the emotions of the citizen.
And thus, being effectually without check, the most vicious of the Caesars went on without
fear, presuming upon the weakness of one part of his subjects, and the indifference of the
other, until he was tempted onwards to atrocities, which armed against him the common feelings
of human nature, and all mankind, as it were, rose in a body with one voice, and apparently
with one heart, united by mere force of indignant sympathy, to put him down, and "abate" him
as a monster. But, until he brought matters to this extremity, Caesar had no cause to fear.
Nor was it at all certain, in any one instance, where this exemplary chastisement overtook
him, that the apparent unanimity of the actors went further than the practical conclusion of
"abating" the imperial nuisance, or that their indignation had settled upon the same offences.
In general the army measured the guilt by the public scandal, rather than by its moral atrocity;
and Caesar suffered perhaps in every case, not so much because he had violated his duties,
as because he had dishonored his office.

It is, therefore, in the total absence of the checks which have almost universally existed
to control other despots, under some indirect shape, even where none was provided by the laws,
that we must seek for the main peculiarity affecting the condition of the Roman Caesar, which
peculiarity it was, superadded to the other three, that finally made those three operative
in their fullest extent. It is in the perfection of the stratocracy that we must look for the
key to the excesses of the autocrat. Even in the bloody despotisms of the Barbary States, there
has always existed in the religious prejudices of the people, which could not be violated with
safety, one check more upon the caprices of the despot than was found at Rome. Upon the whole,
therefore, what affects us on the first reading as a prodigy or anomaly in the frantic outrages
of the early Caesars--falls within the natural bounds of intelligible human nature, when we
state the case considerately. Surrounded by a population which had not only gone through a
most vicious and corrupting discipline, and had been utterly ruined by the license of revolutionary
times, and the bloodiest proscriptions, but had even been extensively changed in its very elements,
and from the descendants of Romulus had been transmuted into an Asiatic mob;--starting from
this point, and considering as the second feature of the case, that this transfigured people,
morally so degenerate, were carried, however, by the progress of civilization to a certain
intellectual altitude, which the popular religion had not strength to ascend--but from inherent
disproportion remained at the base of the general civilization, incapable of accompanying the
other elements in their advance;--thirdly, that this polished condition of society, which should
naturally with the evils of a luxurious repose have counted upon its pacific benefits, had
yet, by means of its circus and its gladiatorial contests, applied a constant irritation, and
a system of provocations to the appetites for blood, such as in all other nations are connected
with the rudest stages of society, and with the most barbarous modes of warfare, nor even in
such circumstances without many palliatives wanting to the spectators of the circus;--combining
these considerations, we have already a key to the enormities and hideous excesses of the Roman
Imperator. The hot blood which excites, and the adventurous courage which accompanies, the
excesses of sanguinary warfare, presuppose a condition of the moral nature not to be compared
for malignity and baleful tendency to the cool and cowardly spirit of amateurship, in which
the Roman (perhaps an effeminate Asiatic) sat looking down upon the bravest of men, (Thracians,
or other Europeans,) mangling each other for his recreation. When, lastly, from such a population,
and thus disciplined from his nursery days, we suppose the case of one individual selected,
privileged, and raised to a conscious irresponsibility, except at the bar of one extra-judicial
tribunal, not easily irritated, and notoriously to be propitiated by other means than those
of upright or impartial conduct, we lay together the elements of a situation too trying for
poor human nature, and fitted only to the faculties of an angel or a demon; of an angel, if
we suppose him to resist its full temptations; of a demon, if we suppose him to use its total
opportunities. Thus interpreted and solved, Caligula and Nero become ordinary men.

But, finally, what if, after all, the worst of the Caesars, and those in particular, were entitled
to the benefit of a still shorter and more conclusive apology? What if, in a true medical sense,
they were insane? It is certain that a vein of madness ran in the family; and anecdotes are
recorded of the three worst, which go far to establish it as a fact, and others which would
imply it as symptoms--preceding or accompanying. As belonging to the former class, take the
following story: At midnight an elderly gentleman suddenly sends round a message to a select
party of noblemen, rouses them out of bed, and summons them instantly to his palace. Trembling
for their lives from the suddenness of the summons, and from the unseasonable hour, and scarcely
doubting that by some anonymous delator they have been implicated as parties to a conspiracy,
they hurry to the palace--are received in portentous silence by the ushers and pages in attendance--are
conducted to a saloon, where (as in every where else) the silence of night prevails, united
with the silence of fear and whispering expectation. All are seated--all look at each other
in ominous anxiety. Which is accuser? Which is the accused? On whom shall their suspicion settle--on
whom their pity? All are silent--almost speechless-- and even the current of their thoughts
is frost-bound by fear. Suddenly the sound of a fiddle or a viol is caught from a distance--it
swells upon the ear--steps approach--and in another moment in rushes the elderly gentleman,
grave and gloomy as his audience, but capering about in a frenzy of excitement. For half an
hour he continues to perform all possible evolutions of caprioles, pirouettes, and other extravagant
feats of activity, accompanying himself on the fiddle; and, at length, not having once looked
at his guests, the elderly gentleman whirls out of the room in the same transport of emotion
with which he entered it; the panic- struck visitors are requested by a slave to consider themselves
as dismissed: they retire; resume their couches:--the nocturnal pageant has "dislimned" and
vanished; and on the following morning, were it not for their concurring testimonies, all would
be disposed to take this interruption of their sleep for one of its most fantastic dreams.
The elderly gentleman, who figured in this delirious pas seul--who was he? He was Tiberius
Caesar, king of kings, and lord of the terraqueous globe. Would a British jury demand better
evidence than this of a disturbed intellect in any formal process de lunatico inquirendo? For
Caligula, again, the evidence of symptoms is still plainer. He knew his own defect; and purposed
going through a course of hellebore. Sleeplessness, one of the commonest indications of lunacy,
haunted him in an excess rarely recorded. [Footnote: No fiction of romance presents so awful
a picture of the ideal tyrant as that of Caligula by Suetonius. His palace--radiant with purple
and gold, but murder every where lurking beneath flowers; his smiles and echoing laughter--masking
(yet hardly meant to mask) his foul treachery of heart; his hideous and tumultuous dreams--his
baffled sleep--and his sleepless nights--compose the picture of an AEschylus. And thus these
unfortunate princes, who have so long (and with so little investigation of their cases) passed
for monsters or for demoniac counterfeits of men, would at length be brought back within the
fold of humanity, as objects rather of pity than of abhorrence, would be reconciled to our
indulgent feelings, and, at the same time, made intelligible to our understandings.

CHAPTER IV.

The five Caesars who succeeded immediately to the first twelve, were, in as high a sense as
their office allowed, patriots. Hadrian is perhaps the first of all whom circumstances permitted
to show his patriotism without fear. It illustrates at one and the same moment a trait in this
emperor's character, and in the Roman habits, that he acquired much reputation for hardiness
by walking bareheaded. "Never, on any occasion," says one of his memorialists (Dio,) "neither
in summer heat nor in winter's cold, did he cover his head; but, as well in the Celtic snows
as in Egyptian heats, he went about bareheaded." This anecdote could not fail to win the especial
admiration of Isaac Casaubon, who lived in an age when men believed a hat no less indispensable
to the head, even within doors, than shoes or stockings to the feet. His astonishment on the
occasion is thus expressed: "Tantum est hae aschaesis:" such and so mighty is the force of
habit and daily use. And then he goes on to ask--"Quis hodie nudum caput radiis solis, aut
omnia perurenti frigori, ausit exponere?" Yet we ourselves, and our illustrious friend, Christopher
North, have walked for twenty years amongst our British lakes and mountains hatless, and amidst
both snow and rain, such as Romans did not often experience. We were naked, and yet not ashamed.
Nor in this are we altogether singular. But, says Casaubon, the Romans went farther; for they
walked about the streets of Rome [Footnote: And hence we may the better estimate the trial
to a Roman's feelings in the personal deformity of baldness, connected with the Roman theory
of its cause, for the exposure of it was perpetual.] bareheaded, and never assumed a hat or
a cap, a petasus or a galerus, a Macedonian causia, or a pileus, whether Thessalian, Arcadian,
or Laconic, unless when they entered upon a journey. Nay, some there were, as Masinissa and
Julius Caesar, who declined even on such an occasion to cover their heads. Perhaps in imitation
of these celebrated leaders, Hadrian adopted the same practice, but not with the same result;
for to him, either from age or constitution, this very custom proved the original occasion
of his last illness.

Imitation, indeed, was a general principle of action with Hadrian, and the key to much of his
public conduct; and allowably enough, considering the exemplary lives (in a public sense) of
some who had preceded him, and the singular anxiety with which he distinguished between the
lights and shadows of their examples. He imitated the great Dictator, Julius, in his vigilance
of inspection into the civil, not less than the martial police of his times, shaping his new
regulations to meet abuses as they arose, and strenuously maintaining the old ones in vigorous
operation. As respected the army, this was matter of peculiar praise, because peculiarly disinterested;
for his foreign policy was pacific; [Footnote: "Expeditiones sub eo," says Spartian, "graves
nullae fuerunt. Bella etiam silentio pene transacta." But he does not the less add, "A militibus,
propter curam exercitus nimiam, multum amatus est."] he made no new conquests; and he retired
from the old ones of Trajan, where they could not have been maintained without disproportionate
bloodshed, or a jealousy beyond the value of the stake. In this point of his administration
he took Augustus for his model; as again in his care of the army, in his occasional bounties,
and in his paternal solicitude for their comforts, he looked rather to the example of Julius.
Him also he imitated in his affability and in his ambitious courtesies; one instance of which,
as blending an artifice of political subtlety and simulation with a remarkable exertion of
memory, it may be well to mention. The custom was, in canvassing the citizens of Rome, that
the candidate should address every voter by his name; it was a fiction of republican etiquette,
that every man participating in the political privileges of the State must be personally known
to public aspirants. But, as this was supposed to be, in a literal sense, impossible to all
men with the ordinary endowments of memory, in order to reconcile the pretensions of republican
hauteur with the necessities of human weakness, a custom had grown up of relying upon a class
of men, called nomenclators, whose express business and profession it was to make themselves
acquainted with the person and name of every citizen. One of these people accompanied every
candidate, and quietly whispered into his ear the name of each voter as he came in sight. Few,
indeed, were they who could dispense with the services of such an assessor; for the office
imposed a twofold memory, that of names and of persons; and to estimate the immensity of the
effort, we must recollect that the number of voters often far exceeded one quarter of a million.
The very same trial of memory he undertook with respect to his own army, in this instance recalling
the well known feat of Mithridates. And throughout his life he did not once forget the face
or name of any veteran soldier whom he ever had occasion to notice, no matter under what remote
climate, or under what difference of circumstances. Wonderful is the effect upon soldiers of
such enduring and separate remembrance, which operates always as the most touching kind of
personal flattery, and which, in every age of the world, since the social sensibilities of
men have been much developed, military commanders are found to have played upon as the most
effectual chord in the great system which they modulated; some few, by a rare endowment of
nature; others, as Napoleon Bonaparte, by elaborate mimicries of pantomimic art. [Footnote:
In the true spirit of Parisian mummery, Bonaparte caused letters to be written from the War-office,
in his own name, to particular soldiers of high military reputation in every brigade, (whose
private history he had previously caused to be investigated,) alluding circumstantially to
the leading facts in their personal or family career; a furlough accompanied this letter, and
they were requested to repair to Paris, where the emperor anxiously desired to see them. Thus
was the paternal interest expressed, which their leader took in each man's fortunes; and the
effect of every such letter, it was not doubted, would diffuse itself through ten thousand
other men.]

Other modes he had of winning affection from the army; in particular that, so often practised
before and since, of accommodating himself to the strictest ritual of martial discipline and
castrensian life. He slept in the open air, or, if he used a tent (papilio), it was open at
the sides. He ate the ordinary rations of cheese, bacon, &c.; he used no other drink than that
composition of vinegar and water, known by the name of posca, which formed the sole beverage
allowed in the Roman camps. He joined personally in the periodical exercises of the army--those
even which were trying to the most vigorous youth and health: marching, for example, on stated
occasions, twenty English miles without intermission, in full armor and completely accoutred.
Luxury of every kind he not only interdicted to the soldier by severe ordinances, himself enforcing
their execution, but discountenanced it (though elsewhere splendid and even gorgeous in his
personal habits) by his own continual example. In dress, for instance, he sternly banished
the purple and gold embroideries, the jewelled arms, and the floating draperies so little in
accordance with the-severe character of "war in procinct" [Footnote: "War in procinct"--a phrase
of Milton's in Paradise Regained, which strikingly illustrates his love of Latin phraseology;
for unless to a scholar, previously acquainted with the Latin phrase of in procinctu, it is
so absolutely unintelligible as to interrupt the current of the feeling.] Hardly would he allow
himself an ivory hilt to his sabre. The same severe proscription he extended to every sort
of furniture, or decorations of art, which sheltered even in the bosom of camps those habits
of effeminate luxury--so apt in all great empires to steal by imperceptible steps from the
voluptuous palace to the soldier's tent--following in the equipage of great leading officers,
or of subalterns highly connected. There was at that time a practice prevailing, in the great
standing camps on the several frontiers and at all the military stations, of renewing as much
as possible the image of distant Rome by the erection of long colonnades and piazzas--single,
double, or triple; of crypts, or subterranean [Footnote: "Crypts"--these, which Spartian, in
his life of Hadrian, denominates simply cryptae, are the same which, in the Roman jurisprudence,
and in the architectural works of the Romans, yet surviving, are termed hypogaea deambulationes,
i. e. subterranean parades. Vitruvius treats of this luxurious class of apartments in connection
with the Apothecae, and other repositories or store-rooms, which were also in many cases under
ground, for the same reason as our ice-houses, wine-cellars, &c. He (and from him Pliny and
Apollonaris Sidonius), calls them crypto-porticus (cloistral colonnades); and Ulpian calls
them refugia (sanctuaries, or places of refuge); St. Ambrose notices them under the name of
hypogaea and umbrosa penetralia, as the resorts of voluptuaries: Luxuriosorum est, says he,
hypogaea quaerere--captantium frigus aestivum; and again he speaks of desidiosi qui ignava
sub terris agant otia.] saloons, (and sometimes subterranean galleries and corridors,) for
evading the sultry noontides of July and August; of verdant cloisters or arcades, with roofs
high over- arched, constructed entirely out of flexile shrubs, box-myrtle, and others, trained
and trimmed in regular forms; besides endless other applications of the topiary [Footnote:
"The topiary art"--so called, as Salmasius thinks, from ropaeion, a rope; because the process
of construction was conducted chiefly by means of cords and strings. This art was much practised
in the 17th century; and Casaubon describes one, which existed in his early days somewhere
in the suburbs of Paris, on so elaborate a scale, that it represented Troy besieged, with the
two hosts, their several leaders, and all other objects in their full proportion.] art, which
in those days (like the needlework of Miss Linwood in ours), though no more than a mechanic
craft, in some measure realized the effects of a fine art by the perfect skill of its execution.
All these modes of luxury, with a policy that had the more merit as it thwarted his own private
inclinations, did Hadrian peremptorily abolish; perhaps, amongst other more obvious purposes,
seeking to intercept the earliest buddings of those local attachments which are as injurious
to the martial character and the proper pursuits of men whose vocation obliges them to consider
themselves eternally under marching orders, as they are propitious to all the best interests
of society in connection with the feelings of civic life.

We dwell upon this prince not without reason in this particular; for, amongst the Caesars,
Hadrian stands forward in high relief as a reformer of the army. Well and truly might it be
said of him--that, post Caesarem Octavianum labantem disciplinam, incurid superiorum principum,
ipse retinuit. Not content with the cleansings and purgations we have mentioned, he placed
upon a new footing the whole tenure, duties, and pledges, of military offices. [Footnote: Very
remarkable it is, and a fact which speaks volumes as to the democratic constitution of the
Roman army, in the midst of that aristocracy which enveloped its parent state in a civil sense,
that although there was a name for a common soldier (or sentinel, as he was termed by our ancestors)--viz.
miles gregarius, or miles manipularis--there was none for an officer; that is to say, each
several rank of officers had a name; but there was no generalization to express the idea of
an officer abstracted from its several species or classes.] It cannot much surprise us that
this department of the public service should gradually have gone to ruin or decay. Under the
senate and people, under the auspices of those awful symbols--letters more significant and
ominous than ever before had troubled the eyes of man, except upon Belshazzar's wall--S.P.Q.R.,
the officers of the Roman army had been kept true to their duties, and vigilant by emulation
and a healthy ambition. But, when the ripeness of corruption had by dissolving the body of
the State brought out of its ashes a new mode of life, and had recast the aristocratic republic,
by aid of its democratic elements then suddenly victorious, into a pure autocracy--whatever
might be the advantages in other respects of this great change, in one point it had certainly
injured the public service, by throwing the higher military appointments, all in fact which
conferred any authority, into the channels of court favor--and by consequence into a mercenary
disposal. Each successive emperor had been too anxious for his own immediate security, to find
leisure for the remoter interests of the empire: all looked to the army, as it were, for their
own immediate security against competitors, without venturing to tamper with its constitution,
to risk popularity by reforming abuses, to balance present interest against a remote one, or
to cultivate the public welfare at the hazard of their own: contented with obtaining that,
they left the internal arrangements of so formidable a body in the state to which circumstances
had brought it, and to which naturally the views of all existing beneficiaries had gradually
adjusted themselves. What these might be, and to what further results they might tend, was
a matter of moment doubtless to the empire. But the empire was strong; if its motive energy
was decaying, its vis inertia was for ages enormous, and could stand up against assaults repeated
for many ages: whilst the emperor was in the beginning of his authority weak, and pledged by
instant interest, no less than by express promises, to the support of that body whose favor
had substantially supported himself. Hadrian was the first who turned his attention effectually
in that direction; whether it were that he first was struck with the tendency of the abuses,
or that he valued the hazard less which he incurred in correcting them, or that, having no
successor of his own blood, he had a less personal and affecting interest at stake in setting
this hazard at defiance. Hitherto, the highest regimental rank, that of tribune, had been disposed
of in two ways, either civilly upon popular favor and election, or upon the express recommendation
of the soldiery. This custom had prevailed under the republic, and the force of habit had availed
to propagate that practice under a new mode of government. But now were introduced new regulations:
the tribune was selected for his military qualities and experience: none was appointed to this
important office, "nisi barba plena" The centurion's truncheon, [Footnote: Vitis: and it deserves
to be mentioned, that this staff, or cudgel, which was the official engine and cognizance of
the Centurion's dignity, was meant expressly to be used in caning or cudgelling the inferior
soldiers: "propterea vitis in manum data," says Salmasius, "verberando scilicet militi qui
deliquisset." We are no patrons of corporal chastisement, which, on the contrary, as the vilest
of degradations, we abominate. The soldier, who does not feel himself dishonored by it, is
already dishonored beyond hope or redemption. But still let this degradation not be imputed
to the English army exclusively.] again, was given to no man, "nisi robusto et bonae famae."
The arms and military appointments (supellectilis) were revised; the register of names was
duly called over; and none suffered to remain in the camps who was either above or below the
military age. The same vigilance and jealousy were extended to the great stationary stores
and repositories of biscuit, vinegar, and other equipments for the soldiery. All things were
in constant readiness in the capital and the provinces, in the garrisons and camps, abroad
and at home, to meet the outbreak of a foreign war or a domestic sedition. Whatever were the
service, it could by no possibility find Hadrian unprepared. And he first, in fact, of all
the Caesars, restored to its ancient republican standard, as reformed and perfected by Marius,
the old martial discipline of the Scipios and the Paulli--that discipline, to which, more than
to any physical superiority of her soldiery, Rome had been indebted for her conquest of the
earth; and which had inevitably decayed in the long series of wars growing out of personal
ambition. From the days of Marius, every great leader had sacrificed to the necessities of
courting favor from the troops, as much as was possible of the hardships incident to actual
service, and as much as he dared of the once rigorous discipline. Hadrian first found himself
in circumstances, or was the first who had courage enough to decline a momentary interest in
favor of a greater in reversion; and a personal object which was transient, in favor of a state
one continually revolving.

For a prince, with no children of his own, it is in any case a task of peculiar delicacy to
select a successor. In the Roman empire the difficulties were much aggravated. The interests
of the State were, in the first place, to be consulted; for a mighty burthen of responsibility
rested upon the emperor in the most personal sense. Duties of every kind fell to his station,
which, from the peculiar constitution of the government, and from circumstances rooted in the
very origin of the imperatorial office, could not be devolved upon a council. Council there
was none, nor could be recognised as such in the State machinery. The emperor, himself a sacred
and sequestered creature, might be supposed to enjoy the secret tutelage of the Supreme Deity;
but a council, composed of subordinate and responsible agents, could not. Again, the auspices
of the emperor, and his edicts, apart even from any celestial or supernatural inspiration,
simply as emanations of his own divine character, had a value and a consecration which could
never belong to those of a council--or to those even which had been sullied by the breath of
any less august reviser. The emperor, therefore, or--as with a view to his solitary and unique
character we ought to call him--in the original irrepresentable term, the imperator, could
not delegate his duties, or execute them in any avowed form by proxies or representatives.
He was himself the great fountain of law--of honor--of preferment--of civil and political regulations.
He was the fountain also of good and evil fame. He was the great chancellor, or supreme dispenser
of equity to all climates, nations, languages, of his mighty dominions, which connected the
turbaned races of the Orient, and those who sat in the gates of the rising sun, with the islands
of the West, and the unfathomed depths of the mysterious Scandinavia. He was the universal
guardian of the public and private interests which composed the great edifice of the social
system as then existing amongst his subjects. Above all, and out of his own private purse,
he supported the heraldries of his dominions--the peerage, senatorial or praetorian, and the
great gentry or chivalry of the Equites. These were classes who would have been dishonored
by the censorship of a less august comptroller. And, for the classes below these,--by how much
they were lower and more remote from his ocular superintendence,--by so much the more were
they linked to him in a connection of absolute dependence. Caesar it was who provided their
daily food, Caesar who provided their pleasures and relaxations. He chartered the fleets which
brought grain to the Tiber--he bespoke the Sardinian granaries whilst yet unformed--and the
harvests of the Nile whilst yet unsown. Not the connection between a mother and her unborn
infant is more intimate and vital, than that which subsisted between the mighty populace of
the Roman capital and their paternal emperor. They drew their nutriment from him; they lived
and were happy by sympathy with the motions of his will; to him also the arts, the knowledge,
and the literature of the empire looked for support. To him the armies looked for their laurels,
and the eagles in every clime turned their aspiring eyes, waiting to bend their flight according
to the signal of his Jovian nod. And all these vast functions and ministrations arose partly
as a natural effect, but partly also they were a cause of the emperor's own divinity. He was
capable of services so exalted, because he also was held a god, and had his own altars, his
own incense, his own worship and priests. And that was the cause, and that was the result of
his bearing, on his own shoulders, a burthen so mighty and Atlantean.

Yet, if in this view it was needful to have a man of talent, on the other hand there was reason
to dread a man of talents too adventurous, too aspiring, or too intriguing. His situation,
as Caesar, or Crown Prince, flung into his hands a power of fomenting conspiracies, and of
concealing them until the very moment of explosion, which made him an object of almost exclusive
terror to his principal, the Caesar Augustus. His situation again, as an heir voluntarily adopted,
made him the proper object of public affection and caresses, which became peculiarly embarrassing
to one who had, perhaps, soon found reasons for suspecting, fearing, and hating him beyond
all other men.

The young nobleman, whom Hadrian adopted by his earliest choice, was Lucius Aurelius Verus,
the son of Cejonius Commodus. These names were borne also by the son; but, after his adoption
into the AElian family, he was generally known by the appellation of AElius Verus. The scandal
of those times imputed his adoption to the worst motives. "Adriano," says one author, ("ut
malevoli loquuntur) acceptior forma quam moribus" And thus much undoubtedly there is to countenance
so shocking an insinuation, that very little is recorded of the young prince but such anecdotes
as illustrate his excessive luxury and effeminate dedication to pleasure. Still it is our private
opinion, that Hadrian's real motives have been misrepresented; that he sought in the young
man's extraordinary beauty--[for he was, says Spartian, pulchritudinis regiae]--a plausible
pretext that should he sufficient to explain and to countenance his preference, whilst under
this provisional adoption he was enabled to postpone the definitive choice of an imperator
elect, until his own more advanced age might diminish the motives for intriguing against himself.
It was, therefore, a mere ad interim adoption; for it is certain, however we may choose to
explain that fact, that Hadrian foresaw and calculated on the early death of AElius. This prophetic
knowledge may have been grounded on a private familiarity with some constitutional infirmity
affecting his daily health, or with some habits of life incompatible with longevity, or with
both combined. It is pretended that this distinguished mark of favor was conferred in fulfilment
of a direct contract on the emperor's part, as the price of favors such as the Latin reader
will easily understand from the strong expression of Spartian above cited. But it is far more
probable that Hadrian relied on this admirable beauty, and allowed it so much weight, as the
readiest and most intelligible justification to the multitude, of a choice which thus offered
to their homage a public favorite--and to the nobility, of so invidious a preference, which
placed one of their own number far above the level of his natural rivals. The necessities of
the moment were thus satisfied without present or future danger;--as respected the future,
he knew or believed that Verus was marked out for early death; and would often say, in a strain
of compliment somewhat disproportionate, applying to him the Virgilian lines on the hopeful
and lamented Marcellus,

  "Ostendent terris hunc tantum fata, neque ultra
  Esse sinent."

And, at the same time, to countenance the belief that he had been disappointed, he would affect
to sigh, exclaiming--"Ah! that I should thus fruitlessly have squandered a sum of three [Footnote:
In the original ter millies, which is not much above two millions and 150 thousand pounds sterling;
but it must be remembered that one third as much, in addition to this popular largess, had
been given to the army.] millions sterling!" for so much had been distributed in largesses
to the people and the army on the occasion of his inauguration. Meantime, as respected the
present, the qualities of the young man were amply fitted to sustain a Roman popularity; for,
in addition to his extreme and statuesque beauty of person, he was (in the report of one who
did not wish to color his character advantageously) "memor families suce, comptus, decorus,
oris venerandi, eloquentice, celsioris, versufacilis, in republica etiam non inutilis." Even
as a military officer, he had a respectable [Footnote:-- "nam bene gesti rebus, vel potius
feliciter, etsi nori summi--medii tamen obtinuit ducis famam."] character; as an orator he
was more than respectable; and in other qualifications less interesting to the populace, he
had that happy mediocrity of merit which was best fitted for his delicate and difficult situation--sufficient
to do credit to the emperor's preference--sufficient to sustain the popular regard, but not
brilliant enough to throw his patron into the shade. For the rest, his vices were of a nature
not greatly or necessarily to interfere with his public duties, and emphatically such as met
with the readiest indulgence from the Roman laxity of morals. Some few instances, indeed, are
noticed of cruelty; but there is reason to think that it was merely by accident, and as an
indirect result of other purposes, that he ever allowed himself in such manifestations of irresponsible
power--not as gratifying any harsh impulses of his native character. The most remarkable neglect
of humanity with which he has been taxed, occurred in the treatment of his couriers; these
were the bearers of news and official dispatches, at that time fulfilling the functions of
the modern post; and it must be remembered that as yet they were not slaves, (as afterwards
by the reformation of Alexander Severus,) but free citizens. They had been already dressed
in a particular livery or uniform, and possibly they might wear some symbolical badges of their
profession; but the new Caesar chose to dress them altogether in character as winged Cupids,
affixing literal wings to their shoulders, and facetiously distinguishing them by the names
of the four cardinal winds, (Boreas, Aquilo, Notus, &c.) and others as levanters or hurricanes,
(Circius, &c.) Thus far he did no more than indulge a blameless fancy; but in his anxiety that
his runners should emulate their patron winds, and do credit to the names which he had assigned
them, he is said to have exacted a degree of speed inconsistent with any merciful regard for
their bodily powers.[Footnote: This, however, is a point in which royal personages claim an
old prescriptive right to be unreasonable in their exactions and some, even amongst the most
humane of Christian princes, have erred as flagrantly as AElius Verus. George IV., we have
understood, was generally escorted from Balkeith to Holyrood at a rate of twenty-two miles
an hour. And of his father, the truly kind and paternal king, it is recorded by Miss Hawkins,
(daughter of Sir J. Hawkins, the biographer of Johnson, &c.) that families who happened to
have a son, brother, lover, &c. in the particular regiment of cavalry which furnished the escort
for the day, used to suffer as much anxiety for the result as on the eve of a great battle.]
But these were, after all, perhaps, mere improvements of malice upon some solitary incident.
The true stain upon his memory, and one which is open to no doubt whatever, is excessive and
extravagant luxury--excessive in degree, extravagant and even ludicrous in its forms. For example,
he constructed a sort of bed or sofa--protected from insects by an awning of network composed
of lilies, delicately fabricated into the proper meshes, &c., and the couches composed wholly
of rose-leaves; and even of these, not without an exquisite preparation; for the white parts
of the leaves, as coarser and harsher to the touch, (possibly, also, as less odorous,) were
scrupulously rejected. Here he lay indolently stretched amongst favorite ladies,

  "And like a naked Indian slept himself away."

He had also tables composed of the same delicate material--prepared and purified in the same
elaborate way--and to these were adapted seats in the fashion of sofas (accubationes,) corresponding
in their materials, and in their mode of preparation. He was also an expert performer, and
even an original inventor, in the art of cookery; and one dish of his discovery, which, from
its four component parts, obtained the name of tetrapharmacum, was so far from owing its celebrity
to its royal birth, that it maintained its place on Hadrian's table to the time of his death.
These, however, were mere fopperies or pardonable extravagancies in one so young and so exalted;
"quae, etsi non decora," as the historian observes, "non tamen ad perniciem publicam prompta
sunt." A graver mode of licentiousness appeared in his connections with women. He made no secret
of his lawless amours; and to his own wife, on her expostulating with him on his aberrations
in this respect, he replied--that "wife" was a designation of rank and official dignity, not
of tenderness and affection, or implying any claim of love on either side; upon which distinction
he begged that she would mind her own affairs, and leave him to pursue such as he might himself
be involved in by his sensibility to female charms.

However, he and all his errors, his "regal beauty," his princely pomps, and his authorized
hopes, were suddenly swallowed up by the inexorable grave; and he would have passed away like
an exhalation, and leaving no remembrance of himself more durable than his own beds of rose-leaves,
and his reticulated canopies of lilies, had it not been that Hadrian filled the world with
images of his perfect fawn-like beauty in the shape of colossal statues, and raised temples
even to his memory in various cities. This Caesar, therefore, dying thus prematurely, never
tasted of empire; and his name would have had but a doubtful title to a place in the imperatorial
roll, had it not been recalled to a second chance for the sacred honors in the person of his
son--whom it was the pleasure of Hadrian, by way of testifying his affection for the father,
to associate in the order of succession with the philosophic Marcus Aurelius Antoninus. This
fact, and the certainty that to the second Julius Verus he gave his own daughter in marriage,
rather than to his associate Caesar Marcus Aurelius, make it evident that his regret for the
elder Verus was unaffected and deep; and they overthrow effectually the common report of historians--that
he repented of his earliest choice, as of one that had been disappointed not by the decrees
of fate, but by the violent defect of merits in its object. On the contrary, he prefaced his
inauguration of this junior Caesar by the following tender words--Let us confound the rapine
of the grave, and let the empire possess amongst her rulers a second AElius Verus.

"Diis aliter visum est:" the blood of the AElian family was not privileged to ascend or aspire:
it gravitated violently to extinction; and this junior Verus is supposed to have been as much
indebted to his assessor on the throne for shielding his obscure vices, and drawing over his
defects the ample draperies of the imperatorial robe, as he was to Hadrian, his grandfather
by fiction of law, for his adoption into the reigning family, and his consecration as one of
the Caesars. He, says one historian, shed no ray of light or illustration upon the imperial
house, except by one solitary quality. This bears a harsh sound; but it has the effect of a
sudden redemption for his memory, when we learn--that this solitary quality, in virtue of which
he claimed a natural affinity to the sacred house, and challenged a natural interest in the
purple, was the very princely one of--a merciful disposition.

The two Antonines fix an era in the imperial history; for they were both eminent models of
wise and good rulers; and some would say, that they fixed a crisis; for with their successor
commenced, in the popular belief, the decline of the empire. That at least is the doctrine
of Gibbon; but perhaps it would not be found altogether able to sustain itself against a closer
and philosophic examination of the true elements involved in the idea of declension as applied
to political bodies. Be that as it may, however, and waiving any interest which might happen
to invest the Antonines as the last princes who kept up the empire to its original level, both
of them had enough of merit to challenge a separate notice in their personal characters, and
apart from the accidents of their position.

The elder of the two, who is usually distinguished by the title of Pius, is thus described
by one of his biographers:--"He was externally of remarkable beauty; eminent for his moral
character, full of benign dispositions, noble, with a countenance of a most gentle expression,
intellectually of singular endowments, possessing an elegant style of eloquence, distinguished
for his literature, generally temperate, an earnest lover of agricultural pursuits, mild in
his deportment, bountiful in the use of his own, but a stern respecter of the rights of others;
and, finally, he was all this without ostentation, and with a constant regard to the proportions
of cases, and to the demands of time and place." His bounty displayed itself in a way, which
may be worth mentioning, as at once illustrating the age, and the prudence with which he controlled
the most generous of his impulses:--"Finus trientarium," says the historian, "hoc est minimis
usuris exercuit, ut patrimonio suo plurimos adjuvaret." The meaning of which is this:--in Rome,
the customary interest for money was what was called centesimae usurae; that is, the hundredth
part, or one per cent. But, as this expressed not the annual, but the monthly interest, the
true rate was, in fact, twelve per cent.; and that is the meaning of centesimae usurae. Nor
could money be obtained any where on better terms than these; and, moreover, this one per cent,
was exacted rigorously as the monthly day came round, no arrears being suffered to lie over.
Under these circumstances, it was a prodigious service to lend money at a diminished rate,
and one which furnished many men with the means of saving themselves from ruin. Pius then,
by way of extending his aid as far as possible, reduced the monthly rate of his loans to one-third
per cent., which made the annual interest the very moderate one of four per cent. The channels,
which public spirit had as yet opened to the beneficence of the opulent, were few indeed: charity
and munificence languished, or they were abused, or they were inefficiently directed, simply
through defects in the structure of society. Social organization, for its large development,
demanded the agency of newspapers, (together with many other forms of assistance from the press,)
of banks, of public carriages on an extensive scale, besides infinite other inventions or establishments
not yet created--which support and powerfully react upon that same progress of society which
originally gave birth to themselves. All things considered, in the Rome of that day, where
all munificence confined itself to the direct largesses of a few leading necessaries of life,--a
great step was taken, and the best step, in this lending of money at a low interest, towards
a more refined and beneficial mode of charity.

In his public character, he was perhaps the most patriotic of Roman emperors, and the purest
from all taint of corrupt or indirect ends. Peculation, embezzlement, or misapplication of
the public funds, were universally corrected: provincial oppressors were exposed and defeated:
the taxes and tributes were diminished; and the public expenses were thrown as much as possible
upon the public estates, and in some instances upon his own private estates. So far, indeed,
did Pius stretch his sympathy with the poorer classes of his subjects, that on this account
chiefly he resided permanently in the capital--alleging in excuse, partly that he thus stationed
himself in the very centre of his mighty empire, to which all couriers could come by the shortest
radii, but chiefly that he thus spared the provincialists those burthens which must else have
alighted upon them; "for," said he, "even the slenderest retinue of a Roman emperor is burthensome
to the whole line of its progress." His tenderness and consideration, indeed, were extended
to all classes, and all relations, of his subjects; even to those who stood in the shadow of
his public displeasure as State delinquents, or as the most atrocious criminals. To the children
of great treasury defaulters, he returned the confiscated estates of their fathers, deducting
only what might repair the public loss. And so resolutely did he refuse to shed the blood of
any in the senatorial order, to whom he conceived himself more especially bound in paternal
ties, that even a parricide, whom the laws would not suffer to live, was simply exposed upon
a desert island.

Little indeed did Pius want of being a perfect Christian, in heart and in practice. Yet all
this display of goodness and merciful indulgence, nay, all his munificence, would have availed
him little with the people at large, had he neglected to furnish shows and exhibitions in the
arena of suitable magnificence. Luckily for his reputation, he exceeded the general standard
of imperial splendor not less as the patron of the amphitheatre than in his more important
functions. It is recorded of him--that in one missio he sent forward on the arena a hundred
lions. Nor was he less distinguished by the rarity of the wild animals which he exhibited than
by their number. There were elephants, there were crocodiles, there were hippopotami at one
time upon the stage: there was also the rhinoceros, and the still rarer crocuta or corocotta,
with a few strepsikerotes. Some of these were matched in duels, some in general battles with
tigers; in fact, there was no species of wild animal throughout the deserts and sandy Zaarras
of Africa, the infinite steppes of Asia, or the lawny recesses and dim forests of then sylvan
Europe, [Footnote: And not impossibly of America; for it must be remembered that, when we speak
of this quarter of the earth as yet undiscovered, we mean--to ourselves of the western climates;
since as respects the eastern quarters of Asia, doubtless America was known there familiarly
enough; and the high bounties of imperial Rome on rare animals, would sometimes perhaps propagate
their influence even to those regions.] no species known to natural history, (and some even
of which naturalists have lost sight,) which the Emperor Pius did not produce to his Roman
subjects on his ceremonious pomps. And in another point he carried his splendors to a point
which set the seal to his liberality. In the phrase of modern auctioneers, he gave up the wild
beasts to slaughter "without reserve." It was the custom, in ordinary cases, so far to consider
the enormous cost of these far-fetched rarities as to preserve for future occasions those which
escaped the arrows of the populace, or survived the bloody combats in which they were engaged.
Thus, out of the overflowings of one great exhibition, would be found materials for another.
But Pius would not allow of these reservations. All were given up unreservedly to the savage
purposes of the spectators; land and sea were ransacked; the sanctuaries of the torrid zone
were violated; columns of the army were put in motion--and all for the transient effect of
crowning an extra hour with hecatombs of forest blood, each separate minute of which had cost
a king's ransom.

Yet these displays were alien to the nature of Pius; and, even through the tyranny of custom,
he had been so little changed, that to the last he continued to turn aside, as often as the
public ritual of his duty allowed him, from these fierce spectacles to the gentler amusements
of fishing and hunting. His taste and his affections naturally carried him to all domestic
pleasures of a quiet nature. A walk in a shrubbery or along a piazza, enlivened with the conversation
of a friend or two, pleased him better than all the court festivals; and among festivals, or
anniversary celebrations, he preferred those which, like the harvest-home or feast of the vintagers,
whilst they sanctioned a total carelessness and dismissal of public anxieties, were at the
same time colored by the innocent gaiety which belongs to rural and to primitive manners. In
person this emperor was tall and dignified (statura elevata decorus;) but latterly he stooped;
to remedy which defect, that he might discharge his public part with the more decorum, he wore
stays. [Footnote: In default of whalebone, one is curious to know of what they were made:--thin
tablets of the linden-tree, it appears, were the best materials which the Augustus of that
day could command.] Of his other personal habits little is recorded, except that, early in
the morning, and just before receiving the compliments of his friends and dependents, (salutatores,)
or what in modern phrase would be called his levee, he took a little plain bread, (panem siccum
comedit,) that is, bread without condiments or accompaniments of any kind, by way of breakfast.
In no meal has luxury advanced more upon the model of the ancients than in this: the dinners
(caenae) of the Romans were even more luxurious, and a thousand times more costly, than our
own; but their breakfasts were scandalously meagre; and, with many men, breakfast was no professed
meal at all. Galen tells us that a little bread, and at most a little seasoning of oil, honey,
or dried fruits, was the utmost breakfast which men generally allowed themselves: some indeed
drank wine after it, but this was far from being a common practice. [Footnote: There is, however,
a good deal of delusion prevalent on such subjects. In some English cavalry regiments, the
custom is for the privates to take only one meal a day, which of course is dinner; and by some
curious experiments it has appeared that such a mode of life is the healthiest. But at the
same time, we have ascertained that the quantity of porter or substantial ale drunk in these
regiments does virtually allow many meals, by comparison with the washy tea breakfasts of most
Englishmen.]

The Emperor Pius died in his seventieth year. The immediate occasion of his death was--not
breakfast nor caena, but something of the kind. He had received a present of Alpine cheese,
and he ordered some for supper. The trap for his life was baited with toasted cheese. There
is no reason to think that he ate immoderately; but that night he was seized with indigestion.
Delirium followed; during which it is singular that his mind teemed with a class of imagery
and of passions the most remote (as it might have been thought) from the voluntary occupations
of his thoughts. He raved about the State, and about those kings with whom he was displeased;
nor were his thoughts one moment removed from the public service. Yet he was the least ambitious
of princes, and his reign was emphatically said to be bloodless. Finding his fever increase,
he became sensible that he was dying; and he ordered the golden statue of Prosperity, a household
symbol of empire, to be transferred from his own bedroom to that of his successor. Once again,
however, for the last time, he gave the word to the officer of the guard; and, soon after,
turning away his face to the wall against which his bed was placed, he passed out of life in
the very gentlest sleep, "quasi dormiret, spiritum reddidit;" or, as a Greek author expresses
it, kat iso hypno to malakotato. He was one of those few Roman emperors whom posterity truly
honored with the title of anaimatos (or bloodless;) solusque omnium prope principum prorsus
sine civili sanguine et hostili vixit. In the whole tenor of his life and character he was
thought to resemble Numa. And Pausanias, after remarking on his title of Eusebaes (or Pius),
upon the meaning and origin of which there are several different hypotheses, closes with this
memorable tribute to his paternal qualities--doxae de emae, kai to onoma to te Kyros pheroito
an tos presbyteros, Pater anthropon kalemenos: but, in my opinion, he should also bear the
name of Cyrus the elder--being hailed as Father of the Human Race.

A thoughtful Roman would have been apt to exclaim, This is too good to last, upon finding so
admirable a ruler succeeded by one still more admirable in the person of Marcus Aurelius. From
the first dawn of his infancy this prince indicated, by his grave deportment, the philosophic
character of his mind; and at eleven years of age he professed himself a formal devotee of
philosophy in its strictest form,--assuming the garb, and submitting to its most ascetic ordinances.
In particular, he slept upon the ground, and in other respects he practised a style of living
the most simple and remote from the habits of rich men [or, in his own words, tho lithon chatha
taen diaitan, chai porro taes pleousiachaes hagogaes]; though it is true that he himself ascribes
this simplicity of life to the influence of his mother, and not to the premature assumption
of the stoical character. He pushed his austerities indeed to excess; for Dio mentions that
in his boyish days he was reduced to great weakness by exercises too severe, and a diet of
too little nutriment. In fact, his whole heart was set upon philosophic attainments, and perhaps
upon philosophic glory. All the great philosophers of his own time, whether Stoic or Peripatetic,
and amongst them Sextus of Cheronaea, a nephew of Plutarch, were retained as his instructors.
There was none whom he did not enrich; and as many as were fitted by birth and manners to fill
important situations, he raised to the highest offices in the State. Philosophy, however, did
not so much absorb his affections, but that he found time to cultivate the fine arts, (painting
he both studied and practised,) and such gymnastic exercises as he held consistent with his
public dignity. Wrestling, hunting, fowling, playing at cricket (pila), he admired and patronized
by personal participation. He tried his powers even as a runner. But with these tasks, and
entering so critically, both as a connoisseur and as a practising amateur, into such trials
of skill, so little did he relish the very same spectacles, when connected with the cruel exhibitions
of the circus and amphitheatre, that it was not without some friendly violence on the part
of those who could venture on such a liberty, nor even thus, perhaps, without the necessities
of his official station, that he would be persuaded to visit either one or the other.[Footnote:
So much improvement had Christianity already accomplished in the feelings of men since the
time of Augustus. That prince, in whose reign the founder of this ennobling religion was born,
had delighted so much and indulged so freely in the spectacles of the amphitheatre, that Maecenas
summoned him reproachfully to leave them, saying, "Surge tandem, carnifex."

It is the remark of Capitoline, that "gladiatoria spectacula omnifariam temperavit; temperavit
etiam scenicas donationes;"--he controlled in every possible way the gladiatorial spectacles;
he controlled also the rates of allowance to the stage performers. In these latter reforms,
which simply restrained the exorbitant salaries of a class dedicated to the public pleasures,
and unprofitable to the state, Marcus may have had no farther view than that which is usually
connected with sumptuary laws. But in the restraints upon the gladiators, it is impossible
to believe that his highest purpose was not that of elevating human nature, and preparing the
way for still higher regulations. As little can it be believed that this lofty conception,
and the sense of a degradation entailed upon human nature itself, in the spectacle of human
beings matched against each other like brute beasts, and pouring out their blood upon the arena
as a libation to the caprices of a mob, could have been derived from any other source than
the contagion of Christian standards and Christian sentiments, then beginning to pervade and
ventilate the atmosphere of society in its higher and philosophic regions. Christianity, without
expressly affirming, every where indirectly supposes and presumes the infinite value and dignity
of man as a creature, exclusively concerned in a vast and mysterious economy of restoration
to a state of moral beauty and power in some former age mysteriously forfeited. Equally interested
in its benefits, joint heirs of its promises, all men, of every color, language, and rank,
Gentile or Jew, were here first represented as in one sense (and that the most important) equal;
in the eye of this religion, they were, by necessity of logic, equal, as equal participators
in the ruin and the restoration. Here first, in any available sense, was communicated to the
standard of human nature a vast and sudden elevation; and reasonable enough it is to suppose,
that some obscure sense of this, some sympathy with the great changes for man then beginning
to operate, would first of all reach the inquisitive students of philosophy, and chiefly those
in high stations, who cultivated an intercourse with all the men of original genius throughout
the civilized world. The Emperor Hadrian had already taken a solitary step in the improvement
of human nature; and not, we may believe, without some sub-conscious influence received directly
or indirectly from Christianity. So again, with respect to Marcus, it is hardly conceivable
that he, a prince so indulgent and popular, could have thwarted, and violently gainsaid, a
primary impulse of the Roman populace, without some adequate motive; and none could be adequate
which was not built upon some new and exalted views of human nature, with which these gladiatorial
sacrifices were altogether at war. The reforms which Marcus introduced into these "crudelissima
spectacula," all having the common purpose of limiting their extent, were three. First, he
set bounds to the extreme cost of these exhibitions; and this restriction of the cost covertly
operated as a restriction of the practice. Secondly,--and this ordinance took effect whenever
he was personally present, if not oftener, --he commanded, on great occasions, that these displays
should be bloodless. Dion Cassius notices this fact in the following words:--"The Emperor Marcus
was so far from taking delight in spectacles of bloodshed, that even the gladiators in Rome
could not obtain his inspection of their contests, unless, like the wrestlers, they contended
without imminent risk; for he never allowed them the use of sharpened weapons, but universally
they fought before him with weapons previously blunted." Thirdly, he repealed the old and uniform
regulation, which secured to the gladiators a perpetual immunity from military service. This
necessarily diminished their available amount. Being now liable to serve their country usefully
in the field of battle, whilst the concurrent limitation of the expenses in this direction
prevented any proportionate increase of their numbers, they were so much the less disposable
in aid of the public luxury. His fatherly care of all classes, and the universal benignity
with which he attempted to raise the abject estimate and condition of even the lowest Pariars
in his vast empire, appears in another little anecdote, relating to a class of men equally
with the gladiators given up to the service of luxury in a haughty and cruel populace. Attending
one day at an exhibition of rope-dancing, one of the performers (a boy) fell and hurt himself;
from which time the paternal emperor would never allow the rope-dancers to perform without
mattrasses or feather-beds spread below, to mitigate the violence of their falls.] In this
he meditated no reflection upon his father by adoption, the Emperor Pius, (who also, for aught
we know, might secretly revolt from a species of amusement which, as the prescriptive test
of munificence in the popular estimate, it was necessary to support;) on the contrary, he obeyed
him with the punctiliousness of a Roman obedience; he watched the very motions of his countenance;
and he waited so continually upon his pleasure, that for three-and-twenty years which they
lived together, he is recorded to have slept out of his father's palace only for two nights.
This rigor of filial duty illustrates a feature of Roman life; for such was the sanctity of
law, that a father created by legal fiction was in all respects treated with the same veneration
and affection, as a father who claimed upon the most unquestioned footing of natural right.
Such, however, is the universal baseness of courts, that even this scrupulous and minute attention
to his duties, did not protect Marcus from the injurious insinuations of whisperers. There
were not wanting persons who endeavored to turn to account the general circumstances in the
situation of the Caesar, which pointed him out to the jealousy of the emperor. But these being
no more than what adhere necessarily to the case of every heir as such, and meeting fortunately
with no more proneness to suspicion in the temper of the Augustus than they did with countenance
in the conduct of the Caesar, made so little impression, that at length these malicious efforts
died away, from mere defect of encouragement.

The most interesting political crisis in the reign of Marcus was the war in Germany with the
Marcomanni, concurrently with pestilence in Rome. The agitation of the public mind was intense;
and prophets arose, as since under corresponding circumstances in Christian countries, who
announced the approaching dissolution of the world. The purse of Marcus was open, as usual,
to the distresses of his subjects. But it was chiefly for the expense of funerals that his
aid was claimed. In this way he alleviated the domestic calamities of his capital, or expressed
his sympathy with the sufferers, where alleviation was beyond his power; whilst, by the energy
of his movements and his personal presence on the Danube, he soon dissipated those anxieties
of Rome which pointed in a foreign direction. The war, however, had been a dreadful one, and
had excited such just fears in the most experienced heads of the State, that, happening in
its outbreak to coincide with a Parthian war, it was skilfully protracted until the entire
thunders of Rome, and the undivided energies of her supreme captains, could be concentrated
upon this single point. Both [Footnote: Marcus had been associated, as Caesar and as emperor,
with the son of the late beautiful Verus, who is usually mentioned by the same name.] emperors
left Rome, and crossed the Alps; the war was thrown back upon its native seats--Austria and
the modern Hungary: great battles were fought and won; and peace, with consequent relief and
restoration to liberty, was reconquered for many friendly nations, who had suffered under the
ravages of the Marcomanni, the Sarmatians, the Quadi, and the Vandals; whilst some of the hostile
people were nearly obliterated from the map, and their names blotted out from the memory of men.

Since the days of Gaul as an independent power, no war had so much alarmed the people of Rome;
and their fear was justified by the difficulties and prodigious efforts which accompanied its
suppression. The public treasury was exhausted; loans were an engine of fiscal policy, not
then understood or perhaps practicable; and great distress was at hand for the State. In these
circumstances, Marcus adopted a wise (though it was then esteemed a violent or desperate) remedy.
Time and excessive luxury had accumulated in the imperial palaces and villas vast repositories
of apparel, furniture, jewels, pictures, and household utensils, valuable alike for the materials
and the workmanship. Many of these articles were consecrated, by color or otherwise, to the
use of the sacred household; and to have been found in possession of them, or with the materials
for making them, would have entailed the penalties of treason. All these stores were now brought
out to open day, and put up to public sale by auction, free license being first granted to
the bidders, whoever they might be, to use, or otherwise to exercise the fullest rights of
property upon all they bought. The auction lasted for two months. Every man was guaranteed
in the peaceable ownership of his purchases. And afterwards, when the public distress had passed
over, a still further indulgence was extended to the purchasers. Notice was given--that all
who were dissatisfied with their purchases, or who for other means might wish to recover their
cost, would receive back the purchase-money, upon returning the articles. Dinner-services of
gold and crystal, murrhine vases, and even his wife's wardrobe of silken robes interwoven with
gold, all these, and countless other articles were accordingly returned, and the full auction
prices paid back; or were not returned, and no displeasure shown to those who publicly displayed
them as their own. Having gone so far, overruled by the necessities of the public service,
in breaking down those legal barriers by which a peculiar dress, furniture, equipage, &c.,
were appropriated to the imperial house, as distinguished from the very highest of the noble
houses, Marcus had a sufficient pretext for extending indefinitely the effect of the dispensation
then granted. Articles purchased at the auction bore no characteristic marks to distinguish
them from others of the same form and texture: so that a license to use any one article of
the sacred pattern, became necessarily a general license for all others which resembled them.
And thus, without abrogating the prejudices which protected the imperial precedency, a body
of sumptuary laws--the most ruinous to the progress of manufacturing skill, [Footnote: Because
the most effectual extinguishers of all ambition applied in that direction; since the very
excellence of any particular fabric was the surest pledge of its virtual suppression by means
of its legal restriction (which followed inevitably) to the use of the imperial house.] which
has ever been devised--were silently suspended. One or two aspiring families might be offended
by these innovations, which meantime gave the pleasures of enjoyment to thousands, and of hope
to millions.

But these, though very noticeable relaxations of the existing prerogative, were, as respected
the temper which dictated them, no more than everyday manifestations of the emperor's perpetual
benignity. Fortunately for Marcus, the indestructible privilege of the divina domus exalted
it so unapproachably beyond all competition, that no possible remissions of aulic rigor could
ever be misinterpreted; fear there could be none, lest such paternal indulgences should lose
their effect and acceptation as pure condescensions. They could neither injure their author,
who was otherwise charmed and consecrated, from disrespect; nor could they suffer injury themselves
by misconstruction, or seem other than sincere, coming from a prince whose entire life was
one long series of acts expressing the same affable spirit. Such, indeed, was the effect of
this uninterrupted benevolence in the emperor, that at length all men, according to their several
ages, hailed him as their father, son, or brother. And when he died, in the sixty-first year
of his life (the 18th of his reign), he was lamented with a corresponding peculiarity in the
public ceremonial, such, for instance, as the studied interfusion of the senatorial body with
the populace, expressive of the levelling power of a true and comprehensive grief; a peculiarity
for which no precedent was found, and which never afterwards became a precedent for similar
honors to the best of his successors.

But malice has the divine privilege of ubiquity; and therefore it was that even this great
model of private and public virtue did not escape the foulest libels: he was twice accused
of murder; once on the person of a gladiator, with whom the empress is said to have fallen
in love; and again, upon his associate in the empire, who died in reality of an apoplectic
seizure, on his return from the German campaign. Neither of these atrocious fictions ever gained
the least hold of the public attention, so entirely were they put down by the prima facie evidence
of facts, and of the emperor's notorious character. In fact his faults, if he had any in his
public life, were entirely those of too much indulgence. In a few cases of enormous guilt,
it is recorded that he showed himself inexorable. But, generally speaking, he was far otherwise;
and, in particular, he carried his indulgence to his wife's vices to an excess which drew upon
him the satirical notice of the stage.

The gladiators, and still more the sailors of that age, were constantly to be seen playing
naked, and Faustina was shameless enough to take her station in places which gave her the advantages
of a leisurely review; and she actually selected favorites from both classes on the ground
of a personal inspection. With others of greater rank she is said even to have been surprised
by her husband; in particular with one called Tertullus, at dinner. [Footnote: Upon which some
mimographus built an occasional notice of the scandal then floating on the public breath in
the following terms: One of the actors having asked "Who was the adulterous paramour?" receives
for answer, Tullus. Who? he asks again; and again for three times running he is answered, Tullus.
But asking a fourth time, the rejoinder is, Jam dixi ter Tullus.] But to all remonstrances
on this subject, Marcus is reported to have replied, "Si uxorem dimittimus, reddamus et dotem;"
meaning that, having received his right of succession to the empire simply by his adoption
into the family of Pius, his wife's father, gratitude and filial duty obliged him to view any
dishonors emanating from his wife's conduct as joint legacies with the splendors inherited
from their common father; in short, that he was not at liberty to separate the rose from its
thorns. However, the facts are not sufficiently known to warrant us in criticising very severely
his behavior on so trying an occasion.

It would be too much for human frailty, that absolutely no stain should remain upon his memory.
Possibly the best use which can be made of such a fact is, in the way of consolation to any
unhappy man, whom his wife may too liberally have endowed with honors of this kind, by reminding
him that he shares this distinction with the great philosophic emperor. The reflection upon
this story by one of his biographers is this--"Such is the force of daily life in a good ruler,
so great the power of his sanctity, gentleness, and piety, that no breath of slander or invidious
suggestion from an acquaintance can avail to sully his memory. In short, to Antonine, immutable
as the heavens in the tenor of his own life, and in the manifestations of his own moral temper,
and who was not by possibility liable to any impulse or 'shadow of turning' from another man's
suggestion, it was not eventually an injury that he was dishonored by some of his connections;
on him, invulnerable in his own character, neither a harlot for his wife, nor a gladiator for
his son, could inflict a wound. Then as now, oh sacred lord Diocletian, he was reputed a god;
not as others are reputed, but specially and in a peculiar sense, and with a privilege to such
worship from all men as you yourself addressed to him-- who often breathe a wish to Heaven,
that you were or could be such in life and merciful disposition as was Marcus Aurelius."

What this encomiast says in a rhetorical tone was literally true. Marcus was raised to divine
honors, or canonized [Footnote: In reality, if by divus and divine honors we understand a saint
or spiritualized being having a right of intercession with the Supreme Deity, and by his temple,
&c., if we understand a shrine attended by a priest to direct the prayers of his devotees,
there is no such wide chasm between this pagan superstition and the adoration of saints in
the Romish church, as at first sight appears. The fault is purely in the names: divus and templum
are words too undistinguishing and generic.] (as in Christian phrase we might express it.)
That was a matter of course; and, considering with whom he shared such honors, they are of
little account in expressing the grief and veneration which followed him. A circumstance more
characteristic, in the record of those observances which attested the public feeling, is this--
that he who at that time had no bust, picture, or statue of Marcus in his house, was looked
upon as a profane and irreligious man. Finally, to do him honor not by testimonies of men's
opinions in his favor, but by facts of his own life and conduct, one memorable trophy there
is amongst the moral distinctions of the philosophic Caesar, utterly unnoticed hitherto by
historians, but which will hereafter obtain a conspicuous place in any perfect record of the
steps by which civilization has advanced, and human nature has been exalted. It is this: Marcus
Aurelius was the first great military leader (and his civil office as supreme interpreter and
creator of law consecrated his example) who allowed rights indefeasible--rights uncancelled
by his misfortune in the field, to the prisoner of war. Others had been merciful and variously
indulgent, upon their own discretion, and upon a random impulse to some, or possibly to all
of their prisoners; but this was either in submission to the usage of that particular war,
or to special self-interest, or at most to individual good feeling. None had allowed a prisoner
to challenge any forbearance as of right. But Marcus Aurelius first resolutely maintained that
certain indestructible rights adhered to every soldier, simply as a man, which rights, capture
by the sword, or any other accident of war, could do nothing to shake or to diminish. We have
noticed other instances in which Marcus Aurelius labored, at the risk of his popularity, to
elevate the condition of human nature. But those, though equally expressing the goodness and
loftiness of his nature, were by accident directed to a perishable institution, which time
has swept away, and along with it therefore his reformations. Here, however, is an immortal
act of goodness built upon an immortal basis; for so long as armies congregate, and the sword
is the arbiter of international quarrels, so long it will deserve to be had in remembrance,
that the first man who set limits to the empire of wrong, and first translated within the jurisdiction
of man's moral nature that state of war which had heretofore been consigned, by principle no
less than by practice, to anarchy, animal violence, and brute force, was also the first philosopher
who sat upon a throne.

In this, and in his universal spirit of forgiveness, we cannot but acknowledge a Christian
by anticipation; nor can we hesitate to believe, that through one or other of his many philosophic
friends, [Footnote: Not long after this, Alexander Severus meditated a temple to Christ; upon
which design Lampridius observes,--Quod et Hadrianus cogitasse fertur; and, as Lampridius was
himself a pagan, we believe him to have been right in his report, in spite of all which has
been written by Casaubon and others, who maintain that these imperfect temples of Hadrian were
left void of all images or idols,--not in respect to the Christian practice, but because he
designed them eventually to be dedicated to himself. However, be this as it may, thus much
appears on the face of the story,--that Christ and Christianity had by that time begun to challenge
the imperial attention; and of this there is an indirect indication, as it has been interpreted,
even in the memoir of Marcus himself. The passage is this: "Fama fuit sane quod sub philosophorum
specie quidam rempublicam vexarent et privates." The philosophi, here mentioned by Capitoline,
are by some supposed to be the Christians; and for many reasons we believe it; and we understand
the molestations of the public services and of private individuals, here charged upon them,
as a very natural reference to the Christian doctrines falsely understood. There is, by the
way, a fine remark upon Christianity, made by an infidel philosopher of Germany, which suggests
a remarkable feature in the merits of Marcus Aurelius. There were, as this German philosopher
used to observe, two schemes of thinking amongst the ancients, which severally fulfilled the
two functions of a sound philosophy, as respected the moral nature of man. One of these schemes
presented us with a just ideal of moral excellence, a standard sufficiently exalted: this was
the Stoic philosophy; and thus far its pretensions were unexceptionable and perfect. But unfortunately,
whilst contemplating this pure ideal of man as he ought to be, the Stoic totally forgot the
frail nature of man as he is; and by refusing all compromises and all condescensions to human
infirmity, this philosophy of the Porch presented to us a brilliant prize and object for our
efforts, but placed on an inaccessible height.

On the other hand, there was a very different philosophy at the very antagonist pole,--not
blinding itself by abstractions too elevated, submitting to what it finds, bending to the absolute
facts and realities of man's nature, and affably adapting itself to human imperfections. This
was the philosophy of Epicurus; and undoubtedly, as a beginning, and for the elementary purpose
of conciliating the affections of the pupil, it was well devised; but here the misfortune was,
that the ideal, or maximum perfectionis, attainable by human nature, was pitched so low, that
the humility of its condescensions and the excellence of its means were all to no purpose,
as leading to nothing further. One mode presented a splendid end, but insulated, and with no
means fitted to a human aspirant for communicating with its splendors; the other, an excellent
road, but leading to no worthy or proportionate end. Yet these, as regarded morals, were the
best and ultimate achievements of the pagan world. Now Christianity, said he, is the synthesis
of whatever is separately excellent in either. It will abate as little as the haughtiest Stoicism
of the ideal which it contemplates as the first postulate of true morality; the absolute holiness
and purity which it demands are as much raised above the poor performances of actual man, as
the absolute wisdom and impeccability of the Stoic. Yet, unlike the Stoic scheme, Christianity
is aware of the necessity, and provides for it, that the means of appropriating this ideal
perfection should be such as are consistent with the nature of a most erring and imperfect
creature. Its motion is towards the divine, but by and through the human. In fact, it offers
the Stoic humanized in his scheme of means, and the Epicurean exalted in his final objects.
Nor is it possible to conceive a practicable scheme of morals which should not rest upon such
a synthesis of the two elements as the Christian scheme presents; nor any other mode of fulfilling
that demand than, such a one as is there first brought forward, viz., a double or Janus nature,
which stands in an equivocal relation,--to the divine nature by his actual perfections, to
the human nature by his participation in the same animal frailties and capacities of fleshly
temptation. No other vinculum could bind the two postulates together, of an absolute perfection
in the end proposed, and yet of utter imperfection in the means for attaining it.

Such was the outline of this famous tribute by an unbelieving philosopher to the merits of
Christianity as a scheme of moral discipline. Now, it must be remembered that Marcus Aurelius
was by profession a Stoic; and that generally, as a theoretical philosopher, but still more
as a Stoic philosopher, he might be supposed incapable of descending from these airy altitudes
of speculation to the true needs, infirmities, and capacities of human nature. Yet strange
it is, that he, of all the good emperors, was the most thoroughly human and practical. In evidence
of which, one body of records is amply sufficient, which is, the very extensive and wise reforms
which he, beyond all the Caesars, executed in the existing laws. To all the exigencies of the
times, and to all the new necessities developed by the progress of society, he adjusted the
old laws, or supplied new ones. The same praise, therefore, belongs to him, which the German
philosopher conceded to Christianity, of reconciling the austerest ideal with the practical;
and hence another argument for presuming him half baptized into the new faith.] whose attention
Christianity was by that time powerful to attract, some reflex images of Christian doctrines--some
half-conscious perception of its perfect beauty--had flashed upon his mind. And when we view
him from this distant age, as heading that shining array, the Howards and the Wilberforces,
who have since then in a practical sense hearkened to the sighs of "all prisoners and captives"--we
are ready to suppose him addressed by the great Founder of Christianity, in the words of Scripture,
"Verily, I say unto thee, Thou art not far from the kingdom of heaven."

As a supplement to the reign of Marcus Aurelius, we ought to notice the rise of one great rebel,
the sole civil disturber of his time, in Syria. This was Avidius Cassius, whose descent from
Cassius (the noted conspirator against the great Dictator, Julius) seems to have suggested
to him a wandering idea, and at length a formal purpose of restoring the ancient republic.
Avidius was the commander-in-chief of the Oriental army, whose head-quarters were then fixed
at Antioch. His native disposition, which inclined him to cruelty, and his political views,
made him, from his first entrance upon office, a severe disciplinarian. The well known enormities
of the neighboring Daphne gave him ample opportunities for the exercise of his harsh propensities
in reforming the dissolute soldiery. He amputated heads, arms, feet, and hams: he turned out
his mutilated victims, as walking spectacles of warning; he burned them; he smoked them to
death; and, in one instance, he crucified a detachment of his army, together with their centurions,
for having, unauthorized, gained a splendid victory, and captured a large booty on the Danube.
Upon this the soldiers mutinied against him, in mere indignation at his tyranny. However, he
prosecuted his purpose, and prevailed, by his bold contempt of the danger which menaced him.
From the abuses in the army, he proceeded to attack the abuses of the civil administration.
But as these were protected by the example of the great proconsular lieutenants and provincial
governors, policy obliged him to confine himself to verbal expressions of anger; until at length,
sensible that this impotent railing did but expose him to contempt, he resolved to arm himself
with the powers of radical reform, by open rebellion. His ultimate purpose was the restoration
of the ancient republic, or, (as he himself expresses it in an interesting letter, which yet
survives,) "ut in antiquum statum publica forma reddatur;" i.e. that the constitution should
be restored to its original condition. And this must be effected by military violence and the
aid of the executioner--or, in his own words, multis gladiis, multis elogiis, (by innumerable
sabres, by innumerable records of condemnation.) Against this man Marcus was warned by his
imperial colleague Lucius Verus, in a very remarkable letter. After expressing his suspicions
of him generally, the writer goes on to say--"I would you had him closely watched. For he is
a general disliker of us and of our doings; he is gathering together an enormous treasure,
and he makes an open jest of our literary pursuits. You, for instance, he calls a philosophizing
old woman, and me a dissolute buffoon and scamp. Consider what you would have done. For my
part, I bear the fellow no ill will; but again, I say, take care that he does not do a mischief
to yourself, or your children."

The answer of Marcus is noble and characteristic: "I have read your letter, and I will confess
to you I think it more scrupulously timid than becomes an emperor, and timid in a way unsuited
to the spirit of our times. Consider this--if the empire is destined to Cassius by the decrees
of Providence, in that case it will not be in our power to put him to death, however much we
may desire to do so. You know your great- grandfather's saying,--No prince ever killed his
own heir--no man, that is, ever yet prevailed against one whom Providence had marked out as
his successor. On the other hand, if Providence opposes him, then, without any cruelty on our
part, he will spontaneously fall into some snare spread for him by destiny. Besides, we cannot
treat a man as under impeachment whom nobody impeaches, and whom, by your own confession, the
soldiers love. Then again, in cases of high treason, even those criminals who are convicted
upon the clearest evidence, yet, as friendless and deserted persons contending against the
powerful, and matched against those who are armed with the whole authority of the State, seem
to suffer some wrong. You remember what your grandfather said--Wretched, indeed, is the fate
of princes, who then first obtain credit in any charges of conspiracy which they allege--when
they happen to seal the validity of their charges against the plotters, by falling martyrs
to the plot. Domitian it was, in fact, who first uttered this truth; but I choose rather to
place it under the authority of Hadrian, because the sayings of tyrants, even when they are
true and happy, carry less weight with them than naturally they ought. For Cassius, then, let
him keep his present temper and inclinations; and the more so--being (as he is) a good General--austere
in his discipline, brave, and one whom the State cannot afford to lose. For as to what you
insinuate--that I ought to provide for my children's interests, by putting this man judicially
out of the way, very frankly I say to you--Perish my children, if Avidius shall deserve more
attachment than they, and if it shall prove salutary to the State that Cassius should live
rather than the children of Marcus."

This letter affords a singular illustration of fatalism, such certainly as we might expect
in a Stoic, but carried even to a Turkish excess; and not theoretically professed only, but
practically acted upon in a case of capital hazard. That no prince ever killed his own successor,
i.e., that it was vain for a prince to put conspirators to death, because, by the very possibility
of doing so, a demonstration is obtained that such conspirators had never been destined to
prosper, is as condensed and striking an expression of fatalism as ever has been devised. The
rest of the letter is truly noble, and breathes the very soul of careless magnanimity reposing
upon conscious innocence. Meantime, Cassius increased in power and influence: his army had
become a most formidable engine of his ambition through its restored discipline; and his own
authority was sevenfold greater, because he had himself created that discipline in the face
of unequalled temptations hourly renewed and rooted in the very centre of his head-quarters.
"Daphne, by Orontes," a suburb of Antioch, was infamous for its seductions; and Daphnic luxury
had become proverbial for expressing an excess of voluptuousness, such as other places could
not rival by mere defect of means, and preparations elaborate enough to sustain it in all its
varieties of mode, or to conceal it from public notice. In the very purlieus of this great
nest, or sty of sensuality, within sight and touch of its pollutions, did he keep his army
fiercely reined up, daring and defying them, as it were, to taste of the banquet whose very
odor they inhaled.

Thus provided with the means, and improved instruments, for executing his purposes, he broke
out into open rebellion; and, though hostile to the principatus, or personal supremacy of one
man, he did not feel his republican purism at all wounded by the style and title of Imperator,--
that being a military term, and a mere titular honor, which had co-existed with the severest
forms of republicanism. Imperator, then, he was saluted and proclaimed; and doubtless the writer
of the warning letter from Syria would now declare that the sequel had justified the fears
which Marcus had thought so unbecoming to a Roman emperor. But again Marcus would have said,
"Let us wait for the sequel of the sequel," and that would have justified him. It is often
found by experience that men, who have learned to reverence a person in authority chiefly by
his offices of correction applied to their own aberrations,--who have known and feared him,
in short, in his character of reformer,--will be more than usually inclined to desert him on
his first movement in the direction of wrong. Their obedience being founded on fear, and fear
being never wholly disconnected from hatred, they naturally seize with eagerness upon the first
lawful pretext for disobedience; the luxury of revenge is, in such a case, too potent,--a meritorious
disobedience too novel a temptation,--to have a chance of being rejected. Never, indeed, does
erring human nature look more abject than in the person of a severe exactor of duty, who has
immolated thousands to the wrath of offended law, suddenly himself becoming a capital offender,
a glozing tempter in search of accomplices, and in that character at once standing before the
meanest of his own dependents as a self-deposed officer, liable to any man's arrest, and, ipso
facto, a suppliant for his own mercy. The stern and haughty Cassius, who had so often tightened
the cords of discipline until they threatened to snap asunder, now found, experimentally, the
bitterness of these obvious truths. The trembling sentinel now looked insolently in his face;
the cowering legionary, with whom "to hear was to obey," now mused or even bandied words upon
his orders; the great lieutenants of his office, who stood next to his own person in authority,
were preparing for revolt, open or secret, as circumstances should prescribe; not the accuser
only, but the very avenger, was upon his steps; Nemesis, that Nemesis who once so closely adhered
to the name and fortunes of the lawful Caesar, turning against every one of his assassins the
edge of his own assassinating sword, was already at his heels; and in the midst of a sudden
prosperity, and its accompanying shouts of gratulation, he heard the sullen knells of approaching
death. Antioch, it was true, the great Roman capital of the Orient, bore him, for certain motives
of self- interest, peculiar good-will. But there was no city of the world in which the Roman
Caesar did not reckon many liege-men and partisans. And the very hands, which dressed his altars
and crowned his Praetorian pavilion, might not improbably in that same hour put an edge upon
the sabre which was to avenge the injuries of the too indulgent and long-suffering Antoninus.
Meantime, to give a color of patriotism to his treason, Cassius alleged public motives; in
a letter, which he wrote after assuming the purple, he says: "Wretched empire, miserable state,
which endures these hungry blood- suckers battening on her vitals!--A worthy man, doubtless,
is Marcus; who, in his eagerness to be reputed clement, suffers those to live whose conduct
he himself abhors. Where is that L. Cassius, whose name I vainly inherit? Where is that Marcus,--not
Aurelius, mark you, but Cato Censorius? Where the good old discipline of ancestral times, long
since indeed disused, but now not so much as looked after in our aspirations? Marcus Antoninus
is a scholar; he enacts the philosopher; and he tries conclusions upon the four elements, and
upon the nature of the soul; and he discourses learnedly upon the Honestum; and concerning
the Summum Bonum he is unanswerable. Meanwhile, is he learned in the interests of the State?
Can he argue a point upon the public economy? You see what a host of sabres is required, what
a host of impeachments, sentences, executions, before the commonwealth can reassume its ancient
integrity! What! shall I esteem as proconsuls, as governors, those who for that end only deem
themselves invested with lieutenancies or great senatorial appointments, that they may gorge
themselves with the provincial luxuries and wealth? No doubt you heard in what way our friend
the philosopher gave the place of praetorian prefect to one who but three days before was a
bankrupt,--insolvent, by G--, and a beggar. Be not you content: that same gentleman is now
as rich as a prefect should be; and has been so, I tell you, any time these three days. And
how, I pray you, how--how, my good sir? How but out of the bowels of the provinces, and the
marrow of their bones? But no matter, let them be rich; let them be blood-suckers; so much,
God willing, shall they regorge into the treasury of the empire. Let but Heaven smile upon
our party, and the Cassiani shall return to the republic its old impersonal supremacy."

But Heaven did not smile; nor did man. Rome heard with bitter indignation of this old traitor's
ingratitude, and his false mask of republican civism. Excepting Marcus Aurelius himself, not
one man but thirsted for revenge. And that was soon obtained. He and all his supporters, one
after the other, rapidly fell (as Marcus had predicted) into snares laid by the officers who
continued true to their allegiance. Except the family and household of Cassius, there remained
in a short time none for the vengeance of the senate, or for the mercy of the emperor. In them
centred the last arrears of hope and fear, of chastisement or pardon, depending upon this memorable
revolt. And about the disposal of their persons arose the final question to which the case
gave birth. The letters yet remain in which the several parties interested gave utterance to
the passions which possessed them. Faustina, the Empress, urged her husband with feminine violence
to adopt against his prisoners comprehensive acts of vengeance. "Noli parcere hominibus," says
she, "qui tibi non pepercerunt; et nec mihi nec filiis nostris parcerent, si vicissent." And
elsewhere she irritates his wrath against the army as accomplices for the time, and as a body
of men "qui, nisi opprimuntur, opprimunt." We may be sure of the result. After commending her
zeal for her own family, he says, "Ego vero et ejus liberis parcam, et genero, et uxori; et
ad senatum scribam ne aut proscriptio gravior sit, aut poena crudelior;" adding that, had his
counsels prevailed, not even Cassius himself should have perished. As to his relatives, "Why,"
he asks, "should I speak of pardon to them, who indeed have done no wrong, and are blameless
even in purpose?" Accordingly, his letter of intercession to the senate protests, that, so
far from asking for further victims to the crime of Avidius Cassius, would to God he could
call back from the dead many of those who had fallen! With immense applause, and with turbulent
acclamations, the senate granted all his requests "in consideration of his philosophy, of his
long-suffering, of his learning and accomplishments, of his nobility, of his innocence." And
until a monster arose who delighted in the blood of the guiltless, it is recorded that the
posterity of Avidius Cassius lived in security, and were admitted to honors and public distinctions
by favor of him, whose life and empire that memorable traitor had sought to undermine under
the favor of his guileless master's too confiding magnanimity.

CHAPTER V.

The Roman empire, and the Roman emperors, it might naturally be supposed by one who had not
as yet traversed that tremendous chapter in the history of man, would be likely to present
a separate and almost equal interest. The empire, in the first place, as the most magnificent
monument of human power which our planet has beheld, must for that single reason, even though
its records were otherwise of little interest, fix upon itself the very keenest gaze from all
succeeding ages to the end of time. To trace the fortunes and revolutions of that unrivalled
monarchy over which the Roman eagle brooded, to follow the dilapidations of that aerial arch,
which silently and steadily through seven centuries ascended under the colossal architecture
of the children of Romulus, to watch the unweaving of the golden arras, and step by step to
see paralysis stealing over the once perfect cohesion of the republican creations,--cannot
but insure a severe, though melancholy delight. On its own separate account, the decline of
this throne-shattering power must and will engage the foremost place amongst all historical
reviews. The "dislimning" and unmoulding of some mighty pageantry in the heavens has its own
appropriate grandeurs, no less than the gathering of its cloudy pomps. The going down of the
sun is contemplated with no less awe than his rising. Nor is any thing portentous in its growth,
which is not also portentous in the steps and "moments" of its decay. Hence, in the second
place, we might presume a commensurate interest in the characters and fortunes of the successive
emperors. If the empire challenged our first survey, the next would seem due to the Caesars
who guided its course; to the great ones who retarded, and to the bad ones who precipitated,
its ruin.

Such might be the natural expectation of an inexperienced reader. But it is not so. The Caesars,
throughout their long line, are not interesting, neither personally in themselves, nor derivatively
from the tragic events to which their history is attached. Their whole interest lies in their
situation--in the unapproachable altitude of their thrones. But, considered with a reference
to their human qualities, scarcely one in the whole series can be viewed with a human interest
apart from the circumstances of his position. "Pass like shadows, so depart!" The reason for
this defect of all personal variety of interest in these enormous potentates, must be sought
in the constitution of their power and the very necessities of their office. Even the greatest
among them, those who by way of distinction were called the Great, as Constantine and Theodosius,
were not great, for they were not magnanimous; nor could they be so under their tenure of power,
which made it a duty to be suspicious, and, by fastening upon all varieties of original temper
one dire necessity of bloodshed, extinguished under this monotonous cloud of cruel jealousy
and everlasting panic every characteristic feature of genial human nature, that would else
have emerged through so long a train of princes. There is a remarkable story told of Agrippina,
that, upon some occasion, when a wizard announced to her, as truths which he had read in the
heavens, the two fatal necessities impending over her son,--one that he should ascend to empire,
the other that he should murder herself, she replied in these stern and memorable words--Occidat,
dum imperet. Upon which a continental writer comments thus: "Never before or since have three
such words issued from the lips of woman; and in truth, one knows not which most to abominate
or to admire--the aspiring princess, or the loving mother. Meantime, in these few words lies
naked to the day, in its whole hideous deformity, the very essence of Romanism and the imperatorial
power, and one might here consider the mother of Nero as the impersonation of that monstrous
condition."

This is true: Occidat dum imperet, was the watchword and very cognizance of the Roman imperator.
But almost equally it was his watchword-- Occidatur dum imperet. Doing or suffering, the Caesars
were almost equally involved in bloodshed; very few that were not murderers, and nearly all
were themselves murdered.

The empire, then, must be regarded as the primary object of our interest; and it is in this
way only that any secondary interest arises for the emperors. Now, with respect to the empire,
the first question which presents itself is,--Whence, that is, from what causes and from what
era, we are to date its decline? Gibbon, as we all know, dates it from the reign of Commodus;
but certainly upon no sufficient, or even plausible grounds. Our own opinion we shall state
boldly: the empire itself, from the very era of its establishment, was one long decline of
the Roman power. A vast monarchy had been created and consolidated by the all- conquering instincts
of a republic--cradled and nursed in wars, and essentially warlike by means of all its institutions
[Footnote: Amongst these institutions, none appear to us so remarkable, or fitted to accomplish
so prodigious a circle of purposes belonging to the highest state policy, as the Roman method
of colonization. Colonies were, in effect, the great engine of Roman conquest; and the following
are among a few of the great ends to which they were applied. First of all, how came it that
the early armies of Rome served, and served cheerfully, without pay? Simply because all who
were victorious knew that they would receive their arrears in the fullest and amplest form
upon their final discharge, viz. in the shape of a colonial estate--large enough to rear a
family in comfort, and seated in the midst of similar allotments, distributed to their old
comrades in arms. These lands were already, perhaps, in high cultivation, being often taken
from conquered tribes; but, if not, the new occupants could rely for aid of every sort, for
social intercourse, and for all the offices of good neighborhood upon the surrounding proprietors
--who were sure to be persons in the same circumstances as themselves, and draughted from the
same legion. For be it remembered, that in the primitive ages of Rome, concerning which it
is that we are now speaking, entire legions--privates and officers--were transferred in one
body to the new colony. "Antiquitus," says the learned Goesius, "deducebantur integral legiones,
quibus parta victoria." Neither was there much waiting for this honorary gift. In later ages,
it is true, when such resources were less plentiful, and when regular pay was given to the
soldiery, it was the veteran only who obtained this splendid provision; but in the earlier
times, a single fortunate campaign not seldom dismissed the young recruit to a life of ease
and honor. "Multis legionibus," says Hyginus, "contigit bellum feliciter transigere, et ad
laboriosam agriculturae requiem primo tyrocinii gradu pervenire. Nam cum signis et aquila et
primis ordinibus et tribunis deducebantur." Tacitus also notices this organization of the early
colonies, and adds the reason of it, and its happy effect, when contrasting it with the vicious
arrangements of the colonizing system in his own days. "Olim," says he, "universae legiones
deducebantur cum tribunis et centurionibus, et sui cujusque ordinis militibus, ut consensu
et charitate rempublicam efficerent." Secondly, not only were the troops in this way paid at
a time when the public purse was unequal to the expenditure of war--but this pay, being contingent
on the successful issue of the war, added the strength of self-interest to that of patriotism
in stimulating the soldier to extraordinary efforts. Thirdly, not only did the soldier in this
way reap his pay, but also he reaped a reward, (and that besides a trophy and perpetual monument
of his public services,) so munificent as to constitute a permanent provision for a family;
and accordingly he was now encouraged, nay, enjoined, to marry. For here was an hereditary
landed estate equal to the liberal maintenance of a family. And thus did a simple people, obeying
its instinct of conquest, not only discover, in its earliest days, the subtle principle of
Machiavel--Let war support war; but (which is far more than Machiavel's view) they made each
present war support many future wars--by making it support a new offset from the population,
bound to the mother city by indissoluble ties of privilege and civic duties; and in many other
ways they made every war, by and through the colonizing system to which it gave occasion, serviceable
to future aggrandizement. War, managed in this way, and with these results, became to Rome
what commerce or rural industry is to other countries, viz. the only hopeful and general way
for making a fortune. Fourthly, by means of colonies it was that Rome delivered herself from
her surplus population. Prosperous and well-governed, the Roman citizens of each generation
outnumbered those of the generation preceding. But the colonies provided outlets for these
continual accessions of people, and absorbed them faster than they could arise. [Footnote:
And in this way we must explain the fact--that, in the many successive numerations of the people
continually noticed by Livy and others, we do not find that sort of multiplication which we
might have looked for in a state so ably governed. The truth is, that the continual surpluses
had been carried off by the colonizing drain, before they could become noticeable or troublesome.]
And thus the great original sin of modern states, that heel of Achilles in which they are all
vulnerable, and which (generally speaking) becomes more oppressive to the public prosperity
as that prosperity happens to be greater (for in poor states and under despotic governments,
this evil does not exist), that flagrant infirmity of our own country, for which no statesman
has devised any commensurate remedy, was to ancient Rome a perpetual foundation and well-head
of public strength and enlarged resources. With us of modern times, when population greatly
outruns the demand for labor, whether it be under the stimulus of upright government, and just
laws, justly administered, in combination with the manufacturing system (as in England,) or
(as in Ireland) under the stimulus of idle habits, cheap subsistence, and a low standard of
comfort--we think it much if we can keep down insurrection by the bayonet and the sabre. Lucro
ponamus is our cry, if we can effect even thus much; whereas Rome, in her simplest and pastoral
days, converted this menacing danger and standing opprobrium of modern statesmanship to her
own immense benefit. Not satisfied merely to have neutralized it, she drew from it the vital
resources of her martial aggrandizement. For, Fifthly, these colonies were in two ways made
the corner-stones of her martial policy: 1st, They were looked to as nurseries of their armies;
during one generation the original colonists, already trained to military habits, were themselves
disposable for this purpose on any great emergency; these men transmitted heroic traditions
to their posterity; and, at all events, a more robust population was always at hand in agricultural
colonies than could be had in the metropolis. Cato the elder, and all the early writers, notice
the quality of such levies as being far superior to those drawn from a population of sedentary
habits. 2dly, The Italian colonies, one and all, performed the functions which in our day are
assigned to garrisoned towns and frontier fortresses. In the earliest times they discharged
a still more critical service, by sometimes entirely displacing a hostile population, and more
often by dividing it and breaking its unity. In cases of desperate resistance to the Roman
arms, marked by frequent infraction of treaties, it was usual to remove the offending population
to a safer situation, separated from Rome by the Tiber; sometimes entirely to disperse and
scatter it. But, where these extremities were not called for by expediency or the Roman maxims
of justice, it was judged sufficient to interpolate, as it were, the hostile people by colonizations
from Rome, which were completely organized [Footnote: That is indeed involved in the technical
term of Deductio; for unless the ceremonies, religious and political, of inauguration and organization,
were duly complied with, the colony was not entitled to be considered as deducta--that is,
solemnly and ceremonially transplanted from the metropolis.] for mutual aid, having officers
of all ranks dispersed amongst them, and for overawing the growth of insurrectionary movements
amongst their neighbors. Acting on this system, the Roman colonies in some measure resembled
the English Pale, as existing at one era in Ireland. This mode of service, it is true, became
obsolete in process of time, concurrently with the dangers which it was shaped to meet; for
the whole of Italy proper, together with that part of Italy called Cisalpine Gaul, was at length
reduced to unity and obedience by the almighty republic. But in forwarding that great end,
and indispensable condition towards all foreign warfare, no one military engine in the whole
armory of Rome availed so much as her Italian colonies. The other use of these colonies, as
frontier garrisons, or, at any rate, as interposing between a foreign enemy and the gates of
Rome, they continued to perform long after their earlier uses had passed away; and Cicero himself
notices their value in this view. "Colonias," says he [Orat. in Rullum], "sic idoneis in locis
contra suspicionem periculi collocarunt, ut esse non oppida Italiae sed propugnacula imperii
viderentur." Finally, the colonies were the best means of promoting tillage, and the culture
of vineyards. And though this service, as regarded the Italian colonies, was greatly defeated
in succeeding times by the ruinous largesses of corn [frumentationes], and other vices of the
Roman policy after the vast revolution effected by universal luxury, it is not the less true
that, left to themselves and their natural tendency, the Roman colonies would have yielded
this last benefit as certainly as any other. Large volumes exist, illustrated by the learning
of Rigaltius, Salmatius, and Goesius, upon the mere technical arrangements of the Roman colonies.
And whose libraries might be written on these same colonies considered as engines of exquisite
state policy.] and by the habits of the people. This monarchy had been of too slow a growth--too
gradual, and too much according to the regular stages of nature herself in its development,
to have any chance of being other than well cemented; the cohesion of its parts was intense;
seven centuries of growth demand one or two at least for palpable decay; and it is only for
harlequin empires like that of Napoleon, run up with the rapidity of pantomime, to fall asunder
under the instant reaction of a few false moves in politics, or a single unfortunate campaign.
Hence it was, and from the prudence of Augustus acting through a very long reign, sustained
at no very distant interval by the personal inspection and revisions of Hadrian, that for some
time the Roman power seemed to be stationary. What else could be expected? The mere strength
of the impetus derived from the republican institutions, could not but propagate itself, and
cause even a motion in advance, for some time after those institutions had themselves given
way. And besides the military institutions survived all others; and the army continued very
much the same in its discipline and composition, long after Rome and all its civic institutions
had bent before an utter revolution. It was very possible even that emperors should have arisen
with martial propensities, and talents capable of masking, for many years, by specious but
transitory conquests, the causes that were silently sapping the foundations of Roman supremacy;
and thus by accidents of personal character and taste, an empire might even have expanded itself
in appearance, which, by all its permanent and real tendencies, was even then shrinking within
narrower limits, and travelling downwards to dissolution. In reality, one such emperor there
was. Trajan, whether by martial inclinations, or (as is supposed by some) by dissatisfaction
with his own position at Rome, when brought into more immediate connection with the senate,
was driven into needless war; and he achieved conquests in the direction of Dacia as well as
Parthia. But that these conquests were not substantial,--that they were connected by no true
cement of cohesion with the existing empire, is evident from the rapidity with which they were
abandoned. In the next reign, the empire had already recoiled within its former limits; and
in two reigns further on, under Marcus Antoninus, though a prince of elevated character and
warlike in his policy, we find such concessions of territory made to the Marcomanni and others,
as indicate too plainly the shrinking energies of a waning empire. In reality, if we consider
the polar opposition, in point of interest and situation, between the great officers of the
republic and the Augustus or Caesar of the empire, we cannot fail to see the immense effect
which that difference must have had upon the permanent spirit of conquest. Caesar was either
adopted or elected to a situation of infinite luxury and enjoyment. He had no interests to
secure by fighting in person: and he had a powerful interest in preventing others from fighting;
since in that way only he could raise up competitors to himself, and dangerous seducers of
the army. A consul, on the other hand, or great lieutenant of the senate, had nothing to enjoy
or to hope for, when his term of office should have expired, unless according to his success
in creating military fame and influence for himself. Those Caesars who fought whilst the empire
was or seemed to be stationary, as Trajan, did so from personal taste. Those who fought in
after centuries, when the decay became apparent, and dangers drew nearer, as Aurelian, did
so from the necessities of fear; and under neither impulse were they likely to make durable
conquests. The spirit of conquest having therefore departed at the very time when conquest
would have become more difficult even to the republican energies, both from remoteness of ground
and from the martial character of the chief nations which stood beyond the frontier,-- it was
a matter of necessity that with the republican institutions should expire the whole principle
of territorial aggrandizement; and that, if the empire seemed to be stationary for some time
after its establishment by Julius, and its final settlement by Augustus, this was through no
strength of its own, or inherent in its own constitution, but through the continued action
of that strength which it had inherited from the republic. In a philosophical sense, therefore,
it may be affirmed, that the empire of the Caesars was always in decline; ceasing to go forward,
it could not do other than retrograde; and even the first appearances of decline can, with
no propriety, be referred to the reign of Commodus. His vices exposed him to public contempt
and assassination; but neither one nor the other had any effect upon the strength of the empire.
Here, therefore, is one just subject of complaint against Gibbon, that he has dated the declension
of the Roman power from a commencement arbitrarily assumed; another, and a heavier, is, that
he has failed to notice the steps and separate indications of decline as they arose,--the moments
(to speak in the language of dynamics) through which the decline travelled onwards to its consummation.
It is also a grievous offence as regards the true purposes of history,--and one which, in a
complete exposition of the imperial history, we should have a right to insist on,--that Gibbon
brings forward only such facts as allow of a scenical treatment, and seems every where, by
the glancing style of his allusions, to presuppose an acquaintance with that very history which
he undertakes to deliver. Our immediate purpose, however, is simply to characterize the office
of emperor, and to notice such events and changes as operated for evil, and for a final effect
of decay, upon the Caesars or their empire. As the best means of realizing it, we shall rapidly
review the history of both, promising that we confine ourselves to the true Caesars, and the
true empire, of the West.

The first overt act of weakness,--the first expression of conscious declension, as regarded
the foreign enemies of Rome, occurred in the reign of Hadrian; for it is a very different thing
to forbear making conquests, and to renounce them when made. It is possible, however, that
the cession then made of Mesopotamia and Armenia, however sure to be interpreted into the language
of fear by the enemy, did not imply any such principle in this emperor. He was of a civic and
paternal spirit, and anxious for the substantial welfare of the empire rather than its ostentatious
glory. The internal administration of affairs had very much gone into neglect since the times
of Augustus; and Hadrian was perhaps right in supposing that he could effect more public good
by an extensive progress through the empire, and by a personal correction of abuses, than by
any military enterprise. It is, besides, asserted, that he received an indemnity in money for
the provinces beyond the Euphratus. But still it remains true, that in his reign the God Terminus
made his first retrograde motion; and this emperor became naturally an object of public obloquy
at Rome, and his name fell under the superstitious ban of a fatal tradition connected with
the foundation of the capitol. The two Antonines, Titus and Marcus, who came next in succession,
were truly good and patriotic princes; perhaps the only princes in the whole series who combined
the virtues of private and of public life. In their reigns the frontier line was maintained
in its integrity, and at the expense of some severe fighting under Marcus, who was a strenuous
general at the same time that he was a severe student. It is, however, true, as we observed
above, that, by allowing a settlement within the Roman frontier to a barbarous people, Marcus
Aurelius raised the first ominous precedent in favor of those Gothic, Vandal, and Frankish
hives, who were as yet hidden behind a cloud of years. Homes had been obtained by Trans-Danubian
barbarians upon the sacred territory of Rome and Caesar: that fact remained upon tradition;
whilst the terms upon which they had been obtained, how much or how little connected with fear,
necessarily became liable to doubt and to oblivion. Here we pause to remark, that the first
twelve Caesars, together with Nerva, Trajan, Hadrian, and the two Antonines, making seventeen
emperors, compose the first of four nearly equal groups, who occupied the throne in succession
until the extinction of the Western Empire. And at this point be it observed,--that is, at
the termination of the first group,--we take leave of all genuine virtue. In no one of the
succeeding princes, if we except Alexander Severus, do we meet with any goodness of heart,
or even amiableness of manners. The best of the future emperors, in a public sense, were harsh
and repulsive in private character.

The second group, as we have classed them, terminating with Philip the Arab, commences with
Commodus. This unworthy prince, although the son of the excellent Marcus Antoninus, turned
out a monster of debauchery. At the moment of his father's death, he was present in person
at the head- quarters of the army on the Danube, and of necessity partook in many of their
hardships. This it was which furnished his evil counsellors with their sole argument for urging
his departure to the capital. A council having been convened, the faction of court sycophants
pressed upon his attention the inclemency of the climate, contrasting it with the genial skies
and sunny fields of Italy; and the season, which happened to be winter, gave strength to their
representations. What! would the emperor be content for ever to hew out the frozen water with
an axe before he could assuage his thirst? And, again, the total want of fruit-trees--did that
recommend their present station as a fit one for the imperial court? Commodus, ashamed to found
his objections to the station upon grounds so unsoldierly as these, affected to be moved by
political reasons: some great senatorial house might take advantage of his distance from home,--
might seize the palace, fortify it, and raise levies in Italy capable of sustaining its pretensions
to the throne. These arguments were combated by Pompeianus, who, besides his personal weight
as an officer, had married the eldest sister of the young emperor. Shame prevailed for the
present with Commodus, and he dismissed the council with an assurance that he would think farther
of it. The sequel was easy to foresee. Orders were soon issued for the departure of the court
to Rome, and the task of managing the barbarians of Dacia, was delegated to lieutenants. The
system upon which these officers executed their commission was a mixed one of terror and persuasion.
Some they defeated in battle; and these were the majority; for Herodian says, pleizous ton
barbaron haplois echeirosanto: Others they bribed into peace by large sums of money. And no
doubt this last article in the policy of Commodus was that which led Gibbon to assign to this
reign the first rudiments of the Roman declension. But it should be remembered, that, virtually,
this policy was but the further prosecution of that which had already been adopted by Marcus
Aurelius. Concessions and temperaments of any sort or degree showed that the Pannonian frontier
was in too formidable a condition to be treated with uncompromising rigor. To hamerimnon onoumenos,
purchasing an immunity from all further anxiety, Commodus (as the historian expresses it) panta
edidou ta aitoumena--conceded all demands whatever. His journey to Rome was one continued festival:
and the whole population of Rome turned out to welcome him. At this period he was undoubtedly
the darling of the people: his personal beauty was splendid; and he was connected by blood
with some of the greatest nobility. Over this flattering scene of hope and triumph clouds soon
gathered: with the mob, indeed, there is reason to think that he continued a favorite to the
last; but the respectable part of the citizens were speedily disgusted with his self-degradation,
and came to hate him even more than ever or by any class he had been loved. The Roman pride
never shows itself more conspicuously throughout all history, than in the alienation of heart
which inevitably followed any great and continued outrages upon his own majesty, committed
by their emperor. Cruelties the most atrocious, acts of vengeance the most bloody, fratricide,
parricide, all were viewed with more toleration than oblivion of his own inviolable sanctity.
Hence we imagine the wrath with which Rome would behold Commodus, under the eyes of four hundred
thousand spectators, making himself a party to the contests of gladiators. In his earlier exhibitions
as an archer, it is possible that his matchless dexterity, and his unerring eye, would avail
to mitigate the censures: but when the Roman Imperator actually descended to the arena in the
garb and equipments of a servile prize-fighter, and personally engaged in combat with such
antagonists, having previously submitted to their training and discipline-- the public indignation
rose a to height, which spoke aloud the language of encouragement to conspiracy and treason.
These were not wanting: three memorable plots against his life were defeated; one of them (that
of Maternus, the robber) accompanied with romantic circumstances, [Footnote: On this occasion
we may notice that the final execution of the vengeance projected by Maternus, was reserved
for a public festival, exactly corresponding to the modern carnival; and from an expression
used by Herodian, it is plain that masquerading had been an ancient practice in Rome.] which
we have narrated in an earlier paper of this series. Another was set on foot by his eldest
sister, Lucilla; nor did her close relationship protect her from capital punishment. In that
instance, the immediate agent of her purposes, Quintianus, a young man, of signal resolution
and daring, who had attempted to stab the emperor at the entrance of the amphitheatre, though
baffled in his purpose, uttered a word which rang continually in the ears of Commodus, and
poisoned his peace of mind for ever. His vengeance, perhaps, was thus more effectually accomplished
than if he had at once dismissed his victim from life. "The senate," he had said, "sends thee
this through me:" and henceforward the senate was the object of unslumbering suspicions to
the emperor. Yet the public suspicions settled upon a different quarter; and a very memorable
scene must have pointed his own in the same direction, supposing that he had previously been
blind to his danger. On a day of great solemnity, when Rome had assembled her myriads in the
amphitheatre, just at the very moment when the nobles, the magistrates, the priests, all, in
short, that was venerable or consecrated in the State, with the Imperator in their centre,
had taken their seats, and were waiting for the opening of the shows, a stranger, in the robe
of a philosopher, bearing a staff in his hand, (which also was the professional ensign [Footnote:
See Casaubon's notes upon Theophrastus.] of a philosopher,) stepped forward, and, by the waving
of his hand, challenged the attention of Commodus. Deep silence ensued: upon which, in a few
words, ominous to the ear as the handwriting on the wall to the eye of Belshazzar, the stranger
unfolded to Commodus the instant peril which menaced both his life and his throne, from his
great servant Perennius. What personal purpose of benefit to himself this stranger might have
connected with his public warning, or by whom he might have been suborned, was never discovered;
for he was instantly arrested by the agents of the great officer whom he had denounced, dragged
away to punishment, and put to a cruel death. Commodus dissembled his panic for the present;
but soon after, having received undeniable proofs (as is alleged) of the treason imputed to
Perennius, in the shape of a coin which had been struck by his son, he caused the father to
be assassinated; and, on the same day, by means of forged letters, before this news could reach
the son, who commanded the Illyrian armies, he lured him also to destruction, under the belief
that he was obeying the summons of his father to a private interview on the Italian frontier.
So perished those enemies, if enemies they really were. But to these tragedies succeeded others
far more comprehensive in their mischief, and in more continuous succession than is recorded
upon any other page of universal history. Rome was ravaged by a pestilence--by a famine--by
riots amounting to a civil war--by a dreadful massacre of the unarmed mob--by shocks of earthquake--
and, finally, by a fire which consumed the national bank, [Footnote: Viz. the Temple of Peace;
at that time the most magnificent edifice in Rome. Temples, it is well known, were the places
used in ancient times as banks of deposit. For this function they were admirably fitted by
their inviolable sanctity.] and the most sumptuous buildings of the city. To these horrors,
with a rapidity characteristic of the Roman depravity, and possible only under the most extensive
demoralization of the public mind, succeeded festivals of gorgeous pomp, and amphitheatrical
exhibitions, upon a scale of grandeur absolutely unparalleled by all former attempts. Then
were beheld, and familiarized to the eyes of the Roman mob--to children--and to women, animals
as yet known to us, says Herodian, only in pictures. Whatever strange or rare animal could
be drawn from the depths of India, from Siam and Pegu, or from the unvisited nooks of Ethiopia,
were now brought together as subjects for the archery of the universal lord. [Footnote: What
a prodigious opportunity for the zoologist!--And considering that these shows prevailed, for
500 years, during all which period the amphitheatre gave bounties, as it were, to the hunter
and the fowler of every climate, and that, by means of a stimulus so constantly applied, scarcely
any animal, the shyest, rarest, fiercest, escaped the demands of the arena,--no one fact so
much illustrates the inertia of the public mind in those days, and the indifference to all
scientific pursuits, as that no annotator should have risen to Pliny the elder--no rival to
the immortal tutor of Alexander.] Invitations (and the invitations of kings are commands) had
been scattered on this occasion profusely; not, as heretofore, to individuals or to families--but,
as was in proportion to the occasion where an emperor was the chief performer, to nations.
People were summoned by circles of longitude and latitude to come and see theasumenoi ha mae
proteron maete heormkesun maete aekaekoeisun-- things that eye had not seen nor ear heard of]
the specious miracles of nature brought together from arctic and from tropic deserts, putting
forth their strength, their speed, or their beauty, and glorifying by their deaths the matchless
hand of the Roman king. There was beheld the lion from Bilidulgerid, and the leopard from Hindostan--the
rein-deer from polar latitudes--the antelope from the Zaara--and the leigh, or gigantic stag,
from Britain. Thither came the buffalo and the bison, the white bull of Northumberland and
Galloway, the unicorn from the regions of Nepaul or Thibet, the rhinoceros and the river-horse
from Senegal, with the elephant of Ceylon or Siam. The ostrich and the cameleopard, the wild
ass and the zebra, the chamois and the ibex of Angora,--all brought their tributes of beauty
or deformity to these vast aceldamas of Rome: their savage voices ascended in tumultuous uproar
to the chambers of the capitol: a million of spectators sat round them: standing in the centre
was a single statuesque figure--the imperial sagittary, beautiful as an Antinous, and majestic
as a Jupiter, whose hand was so steady and whose eye so true, that he was never known to miss,
and who, in this accomplishment at least, was so absolute in his excellence, that, as we are
assured by a writer not disposed to flatter him, the very foremost of the Parthian archers
and of the Mauritanian lancers [Parthyaion oi toxichaes hachribentes, chai Mauresion oi hachontixein
harizoi] were not able to contend with him. Juvenal, in a well known passage upon the disproportionate
endings of illustrious careers, drawing one of his examples from Marius, says, that he ought,
for his own glory, and to make his end correspondent to his life, to have died at the moment
when he descended from his triumphal chariot at the portals of the capitol. And of Commodus,
in like manner, it may be affirmed, that, had he died in the exercise of his peculiar art,
with a hecatomb of victims rendering homage to his miraculous skill, by the regularity of the
files which they presented, as they lay stretched out dying or dead upon the arena,--he would
have left a splendid and a characteristic impression of himself upon that nation of spectators
who had witnessed his performance. He was the noblest artist in his own profession that the
world had seen--in archery he was the Robin Hood of Rome; he was in the very meridian of his
youth; and he was the most beautiful man of his own times Ton chath eauton hathropon challei
euprepestatos. He would therefore have looked the part admirably of the dying gladiator; and
he would have died in his natural vocation. But it was ordered otherwise; his death was destined
to private malice, and to an ignoble hand. And much obscurity still rests upon the motives
of the assassins, though its circumstances are reported with unusual minuteness of detail.
One thing is evident, that the public and patriotic motives assigned by the perpetrators as
the remote causes of their conspiracy, cannot have been the true ones. The grave historian
may sum up his character of Commodus by saying that, however richly endowed with natural gifts,
he abused them all to bad purposes; that he derogated from his noble ancestors, and disavowed
the obligations of his illustrious name; and, as the climax of his offences, that he dishonored
the purple-- aischrois epitaedeumasin--by the baseness of his pursuits. All that is true, and
more than that. But these considerations were not of a nature to affect his parasitical attendants
very nearly or keenly. Yet the story runs--that Marcia, his privileged mistress, deeply affected
by the anticipation of some further outrages upon his high dignity which he was then meditating,
had carried the importunity of her deprecations too far; that the irritated emperor had consequently
inscribed her name, in company with others, (whom he had reason to tax with the same offence,
or whom he suspected of similar sentiments,) in his little black book, or pocket souvenir of
death; that this book, being left under the cushion of a sofa, had been conveyed into the hands
of Marcia by a little pet boy, called Philo-Commodus, who was caressed equally by the emperor
and by Marcia; that she had immediately called to her aid, and to the participation of her
plot, those who participated in her danger; and that the proximity of their own intended fate
had prescribed to them an immediate attempt; the circumstances of which were these. At mid-day
the emperor was accustomed to bathe, and at the same time to take refreshments. On this occasion,
Marcia, agreeably to her custom, presented him with a goblet of wine, medicated with poison.
Of this wine, having just returned from the fatigues of the chase, Commodus drank freely, and
almost immediately fell into heavy slumbers; from which, however, he was soon aroused by deadly
sickness. That was a case which the conspirators had not taken into their calculations; and
they now began to fear that the violent vomiting which succeeded might throw off the poison.
There was no time to be lost; and the barbarous Marcia, who had so often slept in the arms
of the young emperor, was the person to propose that he should now be strangled. A young gladiator,
named Narcissus, was therefore introduced into the room; what passed is not known circumstantially;
but, as the emperor was young and athletic, though off his guard at the moment, and under the
disadvantage of sickness, and as he had himself been regularly trained in the gladiatorial
discipline, there can be little doubt that the vile assassin would meet with a desperate resistance.
And thus, after all, there is good reason to think that the emperor resigned his life in the
character of a dying gladiator. [Footnote: It is worthy of notice, that, under any suspension
of the imperatorial power or office, the senate was the body to whom the Roman mind even yet
continued to turn. In this case, both to color their crime with a show of public motives, and
to interest this great body in their own favor by associating them in their own dangers, the
conspirators pretended to have found a long roll of senatorial names included in the same page
of condemnation with their own. A manifest fabrication!]

So perished the eldest and sole surviving son of the great Marcus Antoninus; and the crown
passed into the momentary possession of two old men, who reigned in succession each for a few
weeks. The first of these was Pertinax, an upright man, a good officer, and an unseasonable
reformer; unseasonable for those times, but more so for himself. Laetus, the ringleader in
the assassination of Commodus, had been at that time the praetorian prefect--an office which
a German writer considers as best represented to modern ideas by the Turkish post of grand
vizier. Needing a protector at this moment, he naturally fixed his eyes upon Pertinax--as then
holding the powerful command of city prefect (or governor of Rome.) Him therefore he recommended
to the soldiery--that is, to the praetorian cohorts. The soldiery had no particular objection
to the old general, if he and they could agree upon terms; his age being doubtless appreciated
as a first-rate recommendation, in a case where it insured a speedy renewal of the lucrative
bargain.

The only demur arose with Pertinax himself: he had been leader of the troops in Britain, then
superintendent of the police in Rome, thirdly proconsul in Africa, and finally consul and governor
of Rome. In these great official stations he stood near enough to the throne to observe the
dangers with which it was surrounded; and it is asserted that he declined the offered dignity.
But it is added, that, finding the choice allowed him lay between immediate death [Footnote:
Historians have failed to remark the contradiction between this statement and the allegation
that Laetus selected Pertinax for the throne on a consideration of his ability to protect the
assassins of Commodus.] and acceptance, he closed with the proposals of the praetorian cohorts,
at the rate of about ninety-six pounds per man; which largess he paid by bringing to sale the
rich furniture of the last emperor. The danger which usually threatened a Roman Caesar in such
cases was--lest he should not be able to fulfill his contract. But in the case of Pertinax
the danger began from the moment when he had fulfilled it. Conceiving himself to be now released
from his dependency, he commenced his reforms, civil as well as military, with a zeal which
alarmed all those who had an interest in maintaining the old abuses. To two great factions
he thus made himself especially obnoxious--to the praetorian cohorts, and to the courtiers
under the last reign. The connecting link between these two parties was Laetus, who belonged
personally to the last, and still retained his influence with the first. Possibly his fears
were alarmed; but, at all events, his cupidity was not satisfied. He conceived himself to have
been ill rewarded; and, immediately resorting to the same weapons which he had used against
Commodus, he stimulated the praetorian guards to murder the emperor. Three hundred of them
pressed into the palace: Pertinax attempted to harangue them, and to vindicate himself; but
not being able to obtain a hearing, he folded his robe about his head, called upon Jove the
Avenger, and was immediately dispatched.

The throne was again empty after a reign of about eighty days; and now came the memorable scandal
of putting up the empire to auction. There were two bidders, Sulpicianus and Didius Julianus.
The first, however, at that time governor of Rome, lay under a weight of suspicion, being the
father- in-law of Pertinax, and likely enough to exact vengeance for his murder. He was besides
outbid by Julianus. Sulpician offered about one hundred and sixty pounds a man to the guards;
his rival offered two hundred, and assured them besides of immediate payment; "for," said he,
"I have the money at home, without needing to raise it from the possessions of the crown."
Upon this the empire was knocked down to the highest bidder. So shocking, however, was this
arrangement to the Roman pride, that the guards durst not leave their new creation without
military protection. The resentment of an unarmed mob, however, soon ceased to be of foremost
importance; this resentment extended rapidly to all the frontiers of the empire, where the
armies felt that the praetorian cohorts had no exclusive title to give away the throne, and
their leaders felt, that, in a contest of this nature, their own claims were incomparably superior
to those of the present occupant. Three great candidates therefore started forward-- Septimius
Severus, who commanded the armies in Illyria, Pescennius Niger in Syria, and Albinus in Britain.
Severus, as the nearest to Rome, marched and possessed himself of that city. Vengeance followed
upon all parties concerned in the late murder. Julianus, unable to complete his bargain, had
already been put to death, as a deprecatory offering to the approaching army. Severus himself
inflicted death upon Laetus, and dismissed the praetorian cohorts. Thence marching against
his Syrian rival, Niger, who had formerly been his friend, and who was not wanting in military
skill, he overthrew him in three great battles. Niger fled to Antioch, the seat of his late
government, and was there decapitated. Meantime Albinus, the British commander-in-chief, had
already been won over by the title of Caesar, or adopted heir to the new Augustus. But the
hollowness of this bribe soon became apparent, and the two competitors met to decide their
pretensions at Lyons. In the great battle which followed, Severus fell from his horse, and
was at first supposed to be dead. But recovering, he defeated his rival, who immediately committed
suicide. Severus displayed his ferocious temper sufficiently by sending the head of Albinus
to Rome. Other expressions of his natural character soon followed: he suspected strongly that
Albinus had been favored by the senate; forty of that body, with their wives and children,
were immediately sacrificed to his wrath; but he never forgave the rest, nor endured to live
upon terms of amity amongst them. Quitting Rome in disgust, he employed himself first in making
war upon the Parthians, who had naturally, from situation, befriended his Syrian rival. Their
capital cities he overthrew; and afterwards, by way of employing his armies, made war in Britain.
At the city of York he died; and to his two sons, Geta and Caracalla, he bequeathed, as his
dying advice, a maxim of policy, which sufficiently indicates the situation of the empire at
that period; it was this--"To enrich the soldiery at any price, and to regard the rest of their
subjects as so many ciphers." But, as a critical historian remarks, this was a shortsighted
and self-destroying policy; since in no way is the subsistence of the soldier made more insecure,
than by diminishing the general security of rights and property to those who are not soldiers,
from whom, after all, the funds must be sought, by which the soldier himself is to be paid
and nourished. The two sons of Severus, whose bitter enmity is so memorably put on record by
their actions, travelled simultaneously to Rome; but so mistrustful of each other, that at
every stage the two princes took up their quarters at different houses. Geta has obtained the
sympathy of historians, because he happened to be the victim; but there is reason to think,
that each of the brothers was conspiring against the other. The weak credulity, rather than
the conscious innocence, of Geta, led to the catastrophe; he presented himself at a meeting
with his brother in the presence of their common mother, and was murdered by Caracalla in his
mother's arms. He was, however, avenged; the horrors of that tragedy, and remorse for the twenty
thousand murders which had followed, never forsook the guilty Caracalla. Quitting Rome, but
pursued into every region by the bloody image of his brother, the emperor henceforward led
a wandering life at the head of his legions; but never was there a better illustration of the
poet's maxim, that

  'Remorse is as the mind in which it grows:
  If that be gentle,' &c.

For the remorse of Caracalla put on no shape of repentance. On the contrary, he carried anger
and oppression wherever he moved; and protected himself from plots only by living in the very
centre of a nomadic camp. Six years had passed away in this manner, when a mere accident led
to his assassination. For the sake of security, the office of praetorian prefect had been divided
between two commissioners, one for military affairs, the other for civil. The latter of these
two officers was Opilius Macrinus. This man has, by some historians, been supposed to have
harbored no bad intentions; but, unfortunately, an astrologer had foretold that he was destined
to the throne. The prophet was laid in irons at Rome, and letters were dispatched to Caracalla,
apprizing him of the case. These letters, as yet unopened, were transferred by the emperor,
then occupied in witnessing a race, to Macrinus, who thus became acquainted with the whole
grounds of suspicion against himself,--grounds which, to the jealousy of the emperor, he well
knew would appear substantial proofs. Upon this he resolved to anticipate the emperor in the
work of murder. The head-quarters were then at Edessa; and upon his instigation, a disappointed
centurion, named Martialis, animated also by revenge for the death of his brother, undertook
to assassinate Caracalla. An opportunity soon offered, on a visit which the prince made to
the celebrated temple of the moon at Carrhae. The attempt was successful: the emperor perished;
but Martialis paid the penalty of his crime in the same hour, being shot by a Scythian archer
of the body-guard.

Macrinus, after three days' interregnum, being elected emperor, began his reign by purchasing
a peace from the Parthians. What the empire chiefly needed at this moment, is evident from
the next step taken by this emperor. He labored to restore the ancient discipline of the armies
in all its rigor. He was aware of the risk he ran in this attempt; and that he was so, is the
best evidence of the strong necessity which existed for reform. Perhaps, however, he might
have surmounted his difficulties and dangers, had he met with no competitor round whose person
the military malcontents could rally. But such a competitor soon arose; and, to the astonishment
of all the world, in the person of a Syrian. The Emperor Severus, on losing his first wife,
had resolved to strengthen the pretensions of his family by a second marriage with some lady
having a regal "genesis," that is, whose horoscope promised a regal destiny. Julia Domna, a
native of Syria, offered him this dowry, and she became the mother of Geta. A sister of this
Julia, called Moesa, had, through two different daughters, two grandsons--Heliogabalus and
Alexander Severus. The mutineers of the army rallied round the first of these; a battle was
fought; and Macrinus, with his son Diadumenianus, whom he had adopted to the succession, were
captured and put to death. Heliogabalus succeeded, and reigned in the monstrous manner which
has rendered his name infamous in history. In what way, however, he lost the affections of
the army, has never been explained. His mother, Sooemias, the eldest daughter of Moesa, had
represented herself as the concubine of Caracalla; and Heliogabalus, being thus accredited
as the son of that emperor, whose memory was dear to the soldiery, had enjoyed the full benefit
of that descent, nor can it be readily explained how he came to lose it.

Here, in fact, we meet with an instance of that dilemma which is so constantly occurring in
the history of the Caesars. If a prince is by temperament disposed to severity of manners,
and naturally seeks to impress his own spirit upon the composition and discipline of the army,
we are sure to find that he was cut off in his attempts by private assassination or by public
rebellion. On the other hand, if he wallows in sensuality, and is careless about all discipline,
civil or military, we then find as commonly that he loses the esteem and affections of the
army to some rival of severer habits. And in the midst of such oscillations, and with examples
of such contradictory interpretation, we cannot wonder that the Roman princes did not oftener
take warning by the misfortunes of their predecessors. In the present instance, Alexander,
the cousin of Heliogabalus, without intrigues of his own, and simply (as it appears) by the
purity and sobriety of his conduct, had alienated the affections of the army from the reigning
prince. Either jealousy or prudence had led Heliogabalus to make an attempt upon his rival's
life; and this attempt had nearly cost him his own through the mutiny which it caused. In a
second uproar, produced by some fresh intrigues of the emperor against his cousin, the soldiers
became unmanageable, and they refused to pause until they had massacred Heliogabalus, together
with his mother, and raised his cousin Alexander to the throne.

The reforms of this prince, who reigned under the name of Alexander Severus, were extensive
and searching; not only in his court, which he purged of all notorious abuses, but throughout
the economy of the army. He cashiered, upon one occasion, an entire legion: he restored, as
far as he was able, the ancient discipline; and, above all, he liberated the provinces from
military spoliation. "Let the soldier," said he, "be contented with his pay; and whatever more
he wants, let him obtain it by victory from the enemy, not by pillage from his fellow-subject."
But whatever might be the value or extent of his reforms in the marching regiments, Alexander
could not succeed in binding the praetorian guards to his yoke. Under the guardianship of his
mother Mammaea, the conduct of state affairs had been submitted to a council of sixteen persons,
at the head of which stood the celebrated Ulpian. To this minister the praetorians imputed
the reforms, and perhaps the whole spirit of reform; for they pursued him with a vengeance
which is else hardly to be explained. Many days was Ulpian protected by the citizens of Rome,
until the whole city was threatened with conflagration; he then fled to the palace of the young
emperor, who in vain attempted to save him from his pursuers under the shelter of the imperial
purple. Ulpian was murdered before his eyes; nor was it found possible to punish the ringleader
in this foul conspiracy, until he had been removed by something like treachery to a remote
government.

Meantime, a great revolution and change of dynasty had been effected in Parthia; the line of
the Arsacidae was terminated; the Parthian empire was at an end; and the sceptre of Persia
was restored under the new race of the Sassanides. Artaxerxes, the first prince of this race,
sent an embassy of four hundred select knights, enjoining the Roman emperor to content himself
with Europe, and to leave Asia to the Persians. In the event of a refusal, the ambassadors
were instructed to offer a defiance to the Roman prince. Upon such an insult, Alexander could
not do less, with either safety or dignity, than prepare for war. It is probable, indeed, that,
by this expedition, which drew off the minds of the soldiery from brooding upon the reforms
which offended them, the life of Alexander was prolonged. But the expedition itself was mismanaged,
or was unfortunate. This result, however, does not seem chargeable upon Alexander. All the
preparations were admirable on the march, and up to the enemy's frontier. The invasion it was,
which, in a strategic sense, seems to have been ill combined. Three armies were to have entered
Persia simultaneously: one of these, which was destined to act on a flank of the general line,
entangled itself in the marshy grounds near Babylon, and was cut off by the archery of an enemy
whom it could not reach. The other wing, acting upon ground impracticable for the manoeuvres
of the Persian cavalry, and supported by Chosroes the king of Armenia, gave great trouble to
Artaxerxes, and, with adequate support from the other armies, would doubtless have been victorious.
But the central army, under the conduct of Alexander in person, discouraged by the destruction
of one entire wing, remained stationary in Mesopotamia throughout the summer, and, at the close
of the campaign, was withdrawn to Antioch, re infecta. It has been observed that great mystery
hangs over the operations and issue of this short war. Thus much, however, is evident, that
nothing but the previous exhaustion of the Persian king saved the Roman armies from signal
discomfiture; and even thus there is no ground for claiming a victory (as most historians do)
to the Roman arms. Any termination of the Persian war, however, whether glorious or not, was
likely to be personally injurious to Alexander, by allowing leisure to the soldiery for recurring
to their grievances. Sensible, no doubt, of this, Alexander was gratified by the occasion which
then arose for repressing the hostile movements of the Germans. He led his army off upon this
expedition; but their temper was gloomy and threatening; and at length, after reaching the
seat of war, at Mentz, an open mutiny broke out under the guidance of Maximin, which terminated
in the murder of the emperor and his mother. By Herodian the discontents of the army are referred
to the ill management of the Persian campaign, and the unpromising commencement of the new
war in Germany. But it seems probable that a dissolute and wicked army, like that of Alexander,
had not murmured under the too little, but the too much of military service; not the buying
a truce with gold seems to have offended them, but the having led them at all upon an enterprise
of danger and hardship.

Maximin succeeded, whose feats of strength, when he first courted the notice of the Emperor
Severus, have been described by Gibbon. He was at that period a Thracian peasant; since then
he had risen gradually to high offices; but, according to historians, he retained his Thracian
brutality to the last. That may have been true; but one remark must be made upon this occasion:
Maximin was especially opposed to the senate; and, wherever that was the case, no justice was
done to an emperor. Why it was that Maximin would not ask for the confirmation of his election
from the senate, has never been explained; it is said that he anticipated a rejection. But,
on the other hand, it seems probable that the senate supposed its sanction to be despised.
Nothing, apparently, but this reciprocal reserve in making approaches to each other, was the
cause of all the bloodshed which followed. The two Gordians, who commanded in Africa, were
set up by the senate against the new emperor; and the consternation of that body must have
been great, when these champions were immediately overthrown and killed. They did not, however,
despair: substituting the two governors of Rome, Pupienus and Balbinus, and associating to
them the younger Gordian, they resolved to make a stand; for the severities of Maximin had
by this time manifested that it was a contest of extermination. Meantime, Maximin had broken
up from Sirmium, the capital of Pannonia, and had advanced to Aquileia,--that famous fortress,
which in every invasion of Italy was the first object of attack. The senate had set a price
upon his head; but there was every probability that he would have triumphed, had he not disgusted
his army by immoderate severities. It was, however, but reasonable that those, who would not
support the strict but equitable discipline of the mild Alexander, should suffer under the
barbarous and capricious rigor of Maximin. That rigor was his ruin: sunk and degraded as the
senate was, and now but the shadow of a mighty name, it was found on this occasion to have
long arms when supported by the frenzy of its opponent. Whatever might be the real weakness
of this body, the rude soldiers yet felt a blind traditionary veneration for its sanction,
when prompting them as patriots to an act which their own multiplied provocations had but too
much recommended to their passions. A party entered the tent of Maximin, and dispatched him
with the same unpitying haste which he had shown under similar circumstances to the gentle-minded
Alexander. Aquileia opened her gates immediately, and thus made it evident that the war had
been personal to Maximin.

A scene followed within a short time which is in the highest degree interesting. The senate,
in creating two emperors at once (for the boy Gordian was probably associated to them only
by way of masking their experiment), had made it evident that their purpose was to restore
the republic and its two consuls. This was their meaning; and the experiment had now been twice
repeated. The army saw through it: as to the double number of emperors, that was of little
consequence, farther than as it expressed their intention, viz. by bringing back the consular
government, to restore the power of the senate, and to abrogate that of the army. The praetorian
troops, who were the most deeply interested in preventing this revolution, watched their opportunity,
and attacked the two emperors in the palace. The deadly feud, which had already arisen between
them, led each to suppose himself under assault from the other. The mistake was not of long
duration. Carried into the streets of Rome, they were both put to death, and treated with monstrous
indignities. The young Gordian was adopted by the soldiery. It seems odd that even thus far
the guards should sanction the choice of the senate, having the purposes which they had; but
perhaps Gordian had recommended himself to their favor in a degree which might outweigh what
they considered the original vice of his appointment, and his youth promised them an immediate
impunity. This prince, however, like so many of his predecessors, soon came to an unhappy end.
Under the guardianship of the upright Misitheus, for a time he prospered; and preparations
were made upon a great scale for the energetic administration of a Persian war. But Misitheus
died, perhaps by poison, in the course of the campaign; and to him succeeded, as praetorian
prefect, an Arabian officer, called Philip. The innocent boy, left without friends, was soon
removed by murder; and a monument was afterwards erected to his memory, at the junction of
the Aboras and the Euphrates. Great obscurity, however, clouds this part of history; nor is
it so much as known in what way the Persian war was conducted or terminated.

Philip, having made himself emperor, celebrated, upon his arrival in Rome, the secular games,
in the year 247 of the Christian era--that being the completion of a thousand years from the
foundation of Rome. But Nemesis was already on his steps. An insurrection had broken out amongst
the legions stationed in Moesia; and they had raised to the purple some officer of low rank.
Philip, having occasion to notice this affair in the senate, received for answer from Decius,
that probably the pseudo-imperator would prove a mere evanescent phantom. This conjecture was
confirmed; and Philip in consequence conceived a high opinion of Decius, whom (as the insurrection
still continued) he judged to be the fittest man for appeasing it. Decius accordingly went,
armed with the proper authority. But on his arrival, he found himself compelled by the insurgent
army to choose between empire and death. Thus constrained, he yielded to the wishes of the
troops; and then hastening with a veteran army into Italy, he fought the battle of Verona,
where Philip was defeated and killed, whilst the son of Philip was murdered at Rome by the
praetorian guards.

With Philip ends, according to our distribution, the second series of the Caesars, comprehending
Commodus, Pertinax, Didius Julianus, Septimius Severus, Caracalla, and Geta, Macrinus, Heliogabalus,
Alexander Severus, Maximin, the two Gordians, Pupienus and Balbinus, the third Gordian, and
Philip the Arab.

In looking back at this series of Caesars, we are horror-struck at the blood-stained picture.
Well might a foreign writer, in reviewing the same succession, declare, that it is like passing
into a new world when the transition is made from this chapter of the human history to that
of modern Europe. From Commodus to Decius are sixteen names, which, spread through a space
of 59 years, assign to each Caesar a reign of less than four years. And Casaubon remarks, that,
in one period of 160 years, there were 70 persons who assumed the Roman purple; which gives
to each not much more than two years. On the other hand, in the history of France, we find
that, through a period of 1200 years, there have been no more than 64 kings: upon an average,
therefore, each king appears to have enjoyed a reign of nearly nineteen years. This vast difference
in security is due to two great principles,--that of primogeniture as between son and son,
and of hereditary succession as between a son and every other pretender. Well may we hail the
principle of hereditary right as realizing the praise of Burke applied to chivalry, viz., that
it is "the cheap defence of nations;" for the security which is thus obtained, be it recollected,
does not regard a small succession of princes, but the whole rights and interests of social
man: since the contests for the rights of belligerent rivals do not respect themselves only,
but very often spread ruin and proscription amongst all orders of men. The principle of hereditary
succession, says one writer, had it been a discovery of any one individual, would deserve to
be considered as the very greatest ever made; and he adds acutely, in answer to the obvious,
but shallow objection to it (viz. its apparent assumption of equal ability for reigning in
father and son for ever), that it is like the Copernican system of the heavenly bodies,--contradictory
to our sense and first impressions, but true notwithstanding.

CHAPTER VI.

To return, however, to our sketch of the Caesars--at the head of the third series we place
Decius. He came to the throne at a moment of great public embarrassment. The Goths were now
beginning to press southwards upon the empire. Dacia they had ravaged for some time; "and here,"
says a German writer, "observe the shortsightedness of the Emperor Trajan." Had he left the
Dacians in possession of their independence, they would, under their native kings, have made
head against the Goths. But, being compelled to assume the character of Roman citizens, they
had lost their warlike qualities. From Dacia the Goths had descended upon Moesia; and, passing
the Danube, they laid siege to Marcianopolis, a city built by Trajan in honor of his sister.
The inhabitants paid a heavy ransom for their town; and the Goths were persuaded for the present
to return home. But sooner than was expected, they returned to Moesia, under their king, Kniva;
and they were already engaged in the siege of Nicopolis, when Decius came in sight at the head
of the Roman army. The Goths retired, but it was to Thrace; and, in the conquest of Philippopolis,
they found an ample indemnity for their forced retreat and disappointment. Decius pursued,
but the king of the Goths turned suddenly upon him; the emperor was obliged to fly; the Roman
camp was plundered; Philippopolis was taken by storm; and its whole population, reputed at
more than a hundred thousand souls, destroyed.

Such was the first great irruption of the barbarians into the Roman territory: and panic was
diffused on the wings of the winds over the whole empire. Decius, however, was firm, and made
prodigious efforts to restore the balance of power to its ancient condition. For the moment
he had some partial successes. He cut off several detachments of Goths, on their road to reinforce
the enemy; and he strengthened the fortresses and garrisons of the Danube. But his last success
was the means of his total ruin. He came up with the Goths at Forum Terebronii, and, having
surrounded their position, their destruction seemed inevitable. A great battle ensued, and
a mighty victory to the Goths. Nothing is now known of the circumstances, except that the third
line of the Romans was entangled inextricably in a morass (as had happened in the Persian expedition
of Alexander). Decius perished on this occasion--nor was it possible to find his dead body.
This great defeat naturally raised the authority of the senate, in the same proportion as it
depressed that of the army; and by the will of that body, Hostilianus, a son of Decius, was
raised to the empire; and ostensibly on account of his youth, but really with a view to their
standing policy of restoring the consulate, and the whole machinery of the republic, Gallus,
an experienced commander, was associated in the empire. But no skill or experience could avail
to retrieve the sinking power of Rome upon the Illyrian, frontier. The Roman army was disorganized,
panic-stricken, reduced to skeleton battalions. Without an army, what could be done? And thus
it may really have been no blame to Gallus, that he made a treaty with the Goths more degrading
than any previous act in the long annals of Rome. By the terms of this infamous bargain, they
were allowed to carry off an immense booty, amongst which was a long roll of distinguished
prisoners; and Caesar himself it was--not any lieutenant or agent that might have been afterwards
disavowed--who volunteered to purchase their future absence by an annual tribute. The very
army which had brought their emperor into the necessity of submitting to such abject concessions,
were the first to be offended with this natural result of their own failures. Gallus was already
ruined in public opinion, when further accumulations arose to his disgrace. It was now supposed
to have been discovered, that the late dreadful defeat of Forum Terebronii was due to his bad
advice; and, as the young Hostilianus happened to die about this time of a contagious disorder,
Gallus was charged with his murder. Even a ray of prosperity, which just now gleamed upon the
Roman arms, aggravated the disgrace of Gallus, and was instantly made the handle of his ruin.
AEmilianus, the governor of Moesia and Pannonia, inflicted some check or defeat upon the Goths;
and in the enthusiasm of sudden pride, upon an occasion which contrasted so advantageously
for himself with the military conduct of Decius and Gallus, the soldiers of his own legion
raised AEmilianus to the purple. No time was to be lost. Summoned by the troops, AEmilianus
marched into Italy; and no sooner had he made his appearance there, than the praetorian guards
murdered the Emperor Gallus and his son Volusianus, by way of confirming the election of AEmilianus.
The new emperor offered to secure the frontiers, both in the east and on the Danube, from the
incursions of the barbarians. This offer may be regarded as thrown out for the conciliation
of all classes in the empire. But to the senate in particular he addressed a message, which
forcibly illustrates the political position of that body in those times. AEmilianus proposed
to resign the whole civil administration into the hands of the senate, reserving to himself
only the unenviable burthen of the military interests. His hope was, that in this way making
himself in part the creation of the senate, he might strengthen his title against competitors
at Rome, whilst the entire military administration going on under his own eyes, exclusively
directed to that one object, would give him some chance of defeating the hasty and tumultuary
competitions so apt to arise amongst the legions upon the frontier. We notice the transaction
chiefly as indicating the anomalous situation of the senate. Without power in a proper sense,
or no more, however, than the indirect power of wealth, that ancient body retained an immense
auctoritas--that is, an influence built upon ancient reputation, which, in their case, had
the strength of a religious superstition in all Italian minds. This influence the senators
exerted with effect, whenever the course of events had happened to reduce the power of the
army. And never did they make a more continuous and sustained effort for retrieving their ancient
power and place, together with the whole system of the republic, than during the period at
which we are now arrived. From the time of Maximin, in fact, to the accession of Aurelian,
the senate perpetually interposed their credit and authority, like some Deus ex machina in
the dramatic art. And if this one fact were all that had survived of the public annals at this
period, we might sufficiently collect the situation of the two other parties in the empire
--the army and the imperator; the weakness and precarious tenure of the one, and the anarchy
of the other. And hence it is that we can explain the hatred borne to the senate by vigorous
emperors, such as Aurelian, succeeding to a long course of weak and troubled reigns. Such an
emperor presumed in the senate, and not without reason, that same spirit of domineering interference
as ready to manifest itself, upon any opportunity offered, against himself, which, in his earlier
days, he had witnessed so repeatedly in successful operation upon the fates and prospects of
others.

The situation indeed of the world--that is to say, of that great centre of civilization, which,
running round the Mediterranean in one continuous belt of great breadth, still composed the
Roman Empire, was at this time most profoundly interesting. The crisis had arrived. In the
East, a new dynasty (the Sassanides) had remoulded ancient elements into a new form, and breathed
a new life into an empire, which else was gradually becoming crazy from age, and which, at
any rate, by losing its unity, must have lost its vigor as an offensive power. Parthia was
languishing and drooping as an anti-Roman state, when the last of the Arsacidae expired. A
perfect Palingenesis was wrought by the restorer of the Persian empire, which pretty nearly
re-occupied (and gloried in re-occupying) the very area that had once composed the empire of
Cyrus. Even this Palingenesis might have terminated in a divided empire: vigor might have been
restored, but in the shape of a polyarchy, (such as the Saxons established in England,) rather
than a monarchy; and in reality, at one moment that appeared to be a probable event. Now, had
this been the course of the revolution, an alliance with one of these kingdoms would have tended
to balance the hostility of another (as was in fact the case when Alexander Severus saved himself
from the Persian power by a momentary alliance with Armenia.) But all the elements of disorder
had in that quarter re-combined themselves into severe unity: and thus was Rome, upon her eastern
frontier, laid open to a new power of juvenile activity and vigor, just at the period when
the languor of the decaying Parthian had allowed the Roman discipline to fall into a corresponding
declension. Such was the condition of Rome upon her oriental frontier. [Footnote: And it is
a striking illustration of the extent to which the revolution had gone, that, previously to
the Persian expedition of the last Gordian, Antioch, the Roman capital of Syria, had been occupied
by the enemy.] On the northern, it was much worse. Precisely at the crisis of a great revolution
in Asia, which demanded in that quarter more than the total strength of the empire, and threatened
to demand it for ages to come, did the Goths, under their earliest denomination of Getae with
many other associate tribes, begin to push with their horns against the northern gates of the
empire: the whole line of the Danube, and, pretty nearly about the same time, of the Rhine,
(upon which the tribes from Swabia, Bavaria, and Franconia, were beginning to descend,) now
became insecure; and these two rivers ceased in effect to be the barriers of Rome. Taking a
middle point of time between the Parthian revolution and the fatal overthrow of Forum Terebronii,
we may fix upon the reign of Philip the Arab, [who naturalized himself in Rome by the appellation
of Marcus Julius,] as the epoch from which the Roman empire, already sapped and undermined
by changes from within, began to give way, and to dilapidate from without. And this reign dates
itself in the series by those ever-memorable secular or jubilee games, which celebrated the
completion of the thousandth year from the foundation of Rome. [Footnote: This Arab emperor
reigned about five years; and the jubilee celebration occurred in his second year. Another
circumstance gives importance to the Arabian, that, according to one tradition, he was the
first Christian emperor. If so, it is singular that one of the bitterest persecutors of Christianity
should have been his immediate successor--Decius.]

Resuming our sketch of the Imperial history, we may remark the natural embarrassment which
must have possessed the senate, when two candidates for the purple were equally earnest in
appealing to them, and their deliberate choice, as the best foundation for a valid election.
Scarcely had the ground been cleared for AEmilianus, by the murder of Gallus and his son, when
Valerian, a Roman senator, of such eminent merit, and confessedly so much the foremost noble
in all the qualities essential to the very delicate and comprehensive functions of a Censor,
[Footnote: It has proved a most difficult problem, in the hands of all speculators upon the
imperial history, to fathom the purposes, or throw any light upon the purposes, of the Emperor
Decius, in attempting the revival of the ancient but necessarily obsolete office of a public
censorship. Either it was an act of pure verbal pedantry, or a mere titular decoration of honor,
(as if a modern prince should create a person Arch-Grand-Elector, with no objects assigned
to his electing faculty,) or else, if it really meant to revive the old duties of the censorship,
and to assign the very same field for the exercise of those duties, it must be viewed as the
very grossest practical anachronism that has ever been committed. We mean by an anachronism,
in common usage, that sort of blunder when a man ascribes to one age the habits, customs, or
generally the characteristics of another. This, however, may be a mere lapse of memory, as
to a matter of fact, and implying nothing at all discreditable to the understanding, but only
that a man has shifted the boundaries of chronology a little this way or that; as if, for example,
a writer should speak of printed books as existing at the day of Agincourt, or of artillery
as existing in the first Crusade, here would be an error, but a venial one. A far worse kind
of anachronism, though rarely noticed as such, is where a writer ascribes sentiments and modes
of thought incapable of co-existing with the sort or the degree of civilization then attained,
or otherwise incompatible with the structure of society in the age or the country assigned.
For instance, in Southey's Don Roderick there is a cast of sentiment in the Gothic king's remorse
and contrition of heart, which has struck many readers as utterly unsuitable to the social
and moral development of that age, and redolent of modern methodism. This, however, we mention
only as an illustration, without wishing to hazard an opinion upon the justice of that criticism.
But even such an anachronism is less startling and extravagant when it is confined to an ideal
representation of things, than where it is practically embodied and brought into play amongst
the realities of life. What would be thought of a man who should attempt, in 1833, to revive
the ancient office of Fool, as it existed down to the reign, suppose, of our Henry VIII. in
England? Yet the error of the Emperor Decius was far greater, if he did in sincerity and good
faith believe that the Rome of his times was amenable to that license of unlimited correction,
and of interference with private affairs, which republican freedom and simplicity had once
conceded to the censor. In reality, the ancient censor, in some parts of his office, was neither
more nor less than a compendious legislator. Acts of attainder, divorce bills, &c., illustrate
the case in England; they are cases of law, modified to meet the case of an individual; and
the censor, having a sort of equity jurisdiction, was intrusted with discretionary powers for
reviewing, revising, and amending, pro re nata, whatever in the private life of a Roman citizen
seemed, to his experienced eye, alien to the simplicity of an austere republic; whatever seemed
vicious or capable of becoming vicious, according to their rude notions of political economy;
and, generally, whatever touched the interests of the commonwealth, though not falling within
the general province of legislation, either because it might appear undignified in its circumstances,
or too narrow in its range of operation for a public anxiety, or because considerations of
delicacy and prudence might render it unfit for a public scrutiny. Take one case, drawn from
actual experience, as an illustration: A Roman nobleman, under one of the early emperors, had
thought fit, by way of increasing his income, to retire into rural lodgings, or into some small
villa, whilst his splendid mansion in Rome was let to a rich tenant. That a man, who wore the
laticlave, (which in practical effect of splendor we may consider equal to the ribbon and star
of a modern order,) should descend to such a degrading method of raising money, was felt as
a scandal to the whole nobility. [Footnote: This feeling still exists in France. "One winter,"
says the author of The English Army in France, vol. ii. p. 106-7, "our commanding officer's
wife formed the project of hiring the chateau during the absence of the owner; but a more profound
insult could not have been offered to a Chevalier de St. Louis. Hire his house! What could
these people take him for? A sordid wretch who would stoop to make money by such means? They
ought to be ashamed of themselves. He could never respect an Englishman again." "And yet,"
adds the writer, "this gentleman (had an officer been billeted there) would have sold him a
bottle of wine out of his cellar, or a billet of wood from his stack, or an egg from his hen-house,
at a profit of fifty per cent., not only without scruple, but upon no other terms. It was as
common as ordering wine at a tavern, to call the servant of any man's establishment where we
happened to be quartered, and demand an account of the cellar, as well as the price of the
wine we selected!" This feeling existed, and perhaps to the same extent, two centuries ago,
in England. Not only did the aristocracy think it a degradation to act the part of landlord
with respect to their own houses, but also, except in select cases, to act that of tenant.
Thus, the first Lord Brooke, (the famous Fulke Greville,) writing to inform his next neighbor,
a woman of rank, that the house she occupied had been purchased by a London citizen, confesses
his fears that he shall in consequence lose so valuable a neighbor; for, doubtless, he adds,
your ladyship will not remain as tenant to "such a fellow." And yet the man had notoriously
held the office of Lord Mayor, which made him, for the time, Right Honorable. The Italians
of this day make no scruple to let off the whole, or even part, of their fine mansions to strangers.]

Yet what could be done? To have interfered with his conduct by an express law, would be to
infringe the sacred rights of property, and to say, in effect, that a man should not do what
he would with his own. This would have been a remedy far worse than the evil to which it was
applied; nor could it have been possible so to shape the principle of a law, as not to make
it far more comprehensive than was desired. The senator's trespass was in a matter of decorum;
but the law would have trespassed on the first principles of justice. Here, then, was a case
within the proper jurisdiction of the censor; he took notice, in his public report, of the
senator's error; or probably, before coming to that extremity, he admonished him privately
on the subject. Just as, in England, had there been such an officer, he would have reproved
those men of rank who mounted the coach-box, who extended a public patronage to the "fancy,"
or who rode their own horses at a race. Such a reproof, however, unless it were made practically
operative, and were powerfully supported by the whole body of the aristocracy, would recoil
upon its author as a piece of impertinence, and would soon be resented as an unwarrantable
liberty taken with private rights; the censor would be kicked, or challenged to private combat,
according to the taste of the parties aggrieved. The office is clearly in this dilemma: if
the censor is supported by the state, then he combines in his own person both legislative and
executive functions, and possesses a power which is frightfully irresponsible; if, on the other
hand, he is left to such support as he can find in the prevailing spirit of manners, and the
old traditionary veneration for his sacred character, he stands very much in the situation
of a priesthood, which has great power or none at all, according to the condition of a country
in moral and religious feeling, coupled with the more or less primitive state of manners. How,
then, with any rational prospect of success, could Decius attempt the revival of an office
depending so entirely on moral supports, in an age when all those supports were withdrawn?
The prevailing spirit of manners was hardly fitted to sustain even a toleration of such an
office; and as to the traditionary veneration for the sacred character, from long disuse of
its practical functions, that probably was altogether extinct. If these considerations are
plain and intelligible even to us, by the men of that day they must have been felt with a degree
of force that could leave no room for doubt or speculation on the matter. How was it, then,
that the emperor only should have been blind to such general light?

In the absence of all other, even plausible, solutions of this difficulty, we shall state our
own theory of the matter. Decius, as is evident from his fierce persecution of the Christians,
was not disposed to treat Christianity with indifference, under any form which it might assume,
or however masked. Yet there were quarters in which it lurked not liable to the ordinary modes
of attack. Christianity was creeping up with inaudible steps into high places,--nay, into the
very highest. The immediate predecessor of Decius upon the throne, Philip the Arab, was known
to be a disciple of the new faith; and amongst the nobles of Rome, through the females and
the slaves, that faith had spread its roots in every direction. Some secrecy, however, attached
to the profession of a religion so often proscribed. Who should presume to tear away the mask
which prudence or timidity had taken up? A delator, or professional informer, was an infamous
character. To deal with the noble and illustrious, the descendants of the Marcelli and the
Gracchi, there must be nothing less than a great state officer, supported by the censor and
the senate, having an unlimited privilege of scrutiny and censure, authorized to inflict the
brand of infamy for offences not challenged by express law, and yet emanating from an elder
institution, familiar to the days of reputed liberty. Such an officer was the censor; and such
were the antichristian purposes of Decius in his revival.] that Decius had revived that office
expressly in his behalf, entered Italy at the head of the army from Gaul. He had been summoned
to his aid by the late emperor, Gallus; but, arriving too late for his support, he determined
to avenge him. Both AEmilianus and Valerian recognised the authority of the senate, and professed
to act under that sanction; but it was the soldiery who cut the knot, as usual, by the sword.
AEmilianus was encamped at Spoleto; but as the enemy drew near, his soldiers, shrinking no
doubt from a contest with veteran troops, made their peace by murdering the new emperor, and
Valerian was elected in his stead. This prince was already an old man at the time of his election;
but he lived long enough to look back upon the day of his inauguration as the blackest in his
life. Memorable were the calamities which fell upon himself, and upon the empire, during his
reign. He began by associating to himself his son Gallienus; partly, perhaps, for his own relief,
partly to indulge the senate in their steady plan of dividing the imperial authority. The two
emperors undertook the military defence of the empire, Gallienus proceeding to the German frontier,
Valerian to the eastern. Under Gallienus, the Franks began first to make themselves heard of.
Breaking into Gaul they passed through that country and Spain; captured Tarragona in their
route; crossed over to Africa, and conquered Mauritania. At the same time, the Alemanni, who
had been in motion since the time of Caracalla, broke into Lombardy, across the Rhaetian Alps.
The senate, left without aid from either emperor, were obliged to make preparations for the
common defence against this host of barbarians. Luckily, the very magnitude of the enemy's
success, by overloading him with booty, made it his interest to retire without fighting; and
the degraded senate, hanging upon the traces of their retiring footsteps, without fighting,
or daring to fight, claimed the honors of a victory. Even then, however, they did more than
was agreeable to the jealousies of Gallienus, who, by an edict, publicly rebuked their presumption,
and forbade them in future to appear amongst the legions, or to exercise any military functions.
He himself, meanwhile, could devise no better way of providing for the public security, than
by marrying the daughter of his chief enemy, the king of the Marcomanni. On this side of Europe,
the barbarians were thus quieted for the present; but the Goths of the Ukraine, in three marauding
expeditions of unprecedented violence, ravaged the wealthy regions of Asia Minor, as well as
the islands of the Archipelago; and at length, under the guidance of deserters, landed in the
port of the Pyraeus. Advancing from this point, after sacking Athens and the chief cities of
Greece, they marched upon Epirus, and began to threaten Italy. But the defection at this crisis
of a conspicuous chieftain, and the burden of their booty, made these wild marauders anxious
to provide for a safe retreat; the imperial commanders in Moesia listened eagerly to their
offers: and it set the seal to the dishonors of the state, that, after having traversed so
vast a range of territory almost without resistance, these blood-stained brigands were now
suffered to retire under the very guardianship of those whom they had just visited with military
execution.

Such were the terms upon which the Emperor Gallienus purchased a brief respite from his haughty
enemies. For the moment, however, he did enjoy security. Far otherwise was the destiny of his
unhappy father. Sapor now ruled in Persia; the throne of Armenia had vainly striven to maintain
its independency against his armies, and the daggers of his hired assassins. This revolution,
which so much enfeebled the Roman means of war, exactly in that proportion increased the necessity
for it. War, and that instantly, seemed to offer the only chance for maintaining the Roman
name or existence in Asia, Carrhae and Nisibis, the two potent fortresses in Mesopotamia, had
fallen; and the Persian arms were now triumphant on both banks of the Euphrates. Valerian was
not of a character to look with indifference upon such a scene, terminated by such a prospect;
prudence and temerity, fear and confidence, all spoke a common language in this great emergency;
and Valerian marched towards the Euphrates with a fixed purpose of driving the enemy beyond
that river. By whose mismanagement the records of history do not enable us to say, some think
of Macrianus, the praetorian prefect, some of Valerian himself, but doubtless by the treachery
of guides co-operating with errors in the general, the Roman army was entangled in marshy grounds;
partial actions followed, and skirmishes of cavalry, in which the Romans became direfully aware
of their situation; retreat was cut off, to advance was impossible; and to fight was now found
to be without hope. In these circumstances they offered to capitulate. But the haughty Sapor
would hear of nothing but unconditional surrender; and to that course the unhappy emperor submitted.
Various traditions [Footnote: Some of these traditions have been preserved, which represent
Sapor as using his imperial captive for his stepping-stone, or anabathrum, in mounting his
horse. Others go farther, and pretend that Sapor actually flayed his unhappy prisoner whilst
yet alive. The temptation to these stories was perhaps found in the craving for the marvellous,
and in the desire to make the contrast more striking between the two extremes in Valerian's
life.] have been preserved by history concerning the fate of Valerian: all agree that he died
in misery and captivity; but some have circumstantiated this general statement by features
of excessive misery and degradation, which possibly were added afterwards by scenical romancers,
in order to heighten the interest of the tale, or by ethical writers, in order to point and
strengthen the moral. Gallienus now ruled alone, except as regarded the restless efforts of
insurgents, thirty of whom are said to have arisen in his single reign. This, however, is probably
an exaggeration. Nineteen such rebels are mentioned by name; of whom the chief were Calpurnius
Piso, a Roman senator; Tetricus, a man of rank who claimed a descent from Pompey, Crassus,
and even from Numa Pompilius, and maintained himself some time in Gaul and Spain; Trebellianus,
who founded a republic of robbers in Isauria which survived himself by centuries; and Odenathus,
the Syrian. Others were mere Terra filii, or adventurers, who flourished and decayed in a few
days or weeks, of whom the most remarkable was a working armorer named Marius. Not one of the
whole number eventually prospered, except Odenathus; and he, though originally a rebel, yet,
in consideration of services performed against Persia, was suffered to retain his power, and
to transmit his kingdom of Palmyra to his widow Zenobia. He was even complimented with the
title of Augustus. All the rest perished. Their rise, however, and local prosperity at so many
different points of the empire, showed the distracted condition of the state, and its internal
weakness. That again proclaimed its external peril. No other cause had called forth this diffusive
spirit of insurrection than the general consciousness, so fatally warranted, of the debility
which had emasculated the government, and its incompetency to deal vigorously with the public
enemies. [Footnote: And this incompetency was permanently increased by rebellions that were
brief and fugitive: for each insurgent almost necessarily maintained himself for the moment
by spoliations and robberies which left lasting effects behind them; and too often he was tempted
to ally himself with some foreign enemy amongst the barbarians, and perhaps to introduce him
into the heart of the empire.] The very granaries of Rome, Sicily and Egypt, were the seats
of continued distractions; in Alexandria, the second city of the empire, there was even a civil
war which lasted for twelve years. Weakness, dissension, and misery were spread like a cloud
over the whole face of the empire.

The last of the rebels who directed his rebellion personally against Gallienus was Aureolus.
Passing the Rhaetian Alps, this leader sought out and defied the emperor. He was defeated,
and retreated upon Milan; but Gallienus, in pursuing him, was lured into an ambuscade, and
perished from the wound inflicted by an archer. With his dying breath he is said to have recommended
Claudius to the favor of the senate; and at all events Claudius it was who succeeded. Scarcely
was the new emperor installed, before he was summoned to a trial not only arduous in itself,
but terrific by the very name of the enemy. The Goths of the Ukraine, in a new armament of
six thousand vessels, had again descended by the Bosphorus into the south, and had sat down
before Thessalonica, the capitol of Macedonia. Claudius marched against them with the determination
to vindicate the Roman name and honor: "Know," said he, writing to the senate, "that 320,000
Goths have set foot upon the Roman soil. Should I conquer them, your gratitude will be my reward.
Should I fall, do not forget who it is that I have succeeded; and that the republic is exhausted."
No sooner did the Goths hear of his approach, than, with transports of ferocious joy, they
gave up the siege, and hurried to annihilate the last pillar of the empire. The mighty battle
which ensued, neither party seeking to evade it, took place at Naissus. At one time the legions
were giving way, when suddenly, by some happy manoeuvre of the emperor, a Roman corps found
its way to the rear of the enemy. The Goths gave way, and their defeat was total. According
to most accounts they left 50,000 dead upon the field. The campaign still lingered, however,
at other points, until at last the emperor succeeded in driving back the relics of the Gothic
host into the fastnesses of the Balkan; and there the greater part of them died of hunger and
pestilence. These great services performed, within two years from his accession to the throne,
by the rarest of fates the Emperor Claudius died in his bed at Sirmium, the capitol of Pannonia.
His brother Quintilius who had a great command at Aquileia, immediately assumed the purple;
but his usurpation lasted only seventeen days, for the last emperor, with a single eye to the
public good, had recommended Aurelian as his successor, guided by his personal knowledge of
that general's strategic qualities. The army of the Danube confirmed the appointment; and Quintilius
committed suicide. Aurelian was of the same harsh and forbidding character as the Emperor Severus:
he had, however, the qualities demanded by the times; energetic and not amiable princes were
required by the exigences of the state. The hydra-headed Goths were again in the field on the
Illyrian quarter: Italy itself was invaded by the Alemanni; and Tetricus, the rebel, still
survived as a monument of the weakness of Gallienus. All these enemies were speedily repressed,
or vanquished, by Aurelian. But it marks the real declension of the empire, a declension which
no personal vigor in the emperor was now sufficient to disguise, that, even in the midst of
victory, Aurelian found it necessary to make a formal surrender, by treaty, of that Dacia which
Trajan had united with so much ostentation to the empire. Europe was now again in repose; and
Aurelian found himself at liberty to apply his powers as a reorganizer and restorer to the
East. In that quarter of the world a marvellous revolution had occurred. The little oasis of
Palmyra, from a Roman colony, had grown into the leading province of a great empire. This island
of the desert, together with Syria and Egypt, formed an independent monarchy under the sceptre
of Zenobia. [Footnote: Zenobia is complimented by all historians for her magnanimity; but with
no foundation in truth. Her first salutation to Aurelian was a specimen of abject flattery;
and her last public words were evidences of the basest treachery in giving up her generals,
and her chief counsellor Longinus, to the vengeance of the ungenerous enemy.] After two battles
lost in Syria, Zenobia retreated to Palmyra. With great difficulty Aurelian pursued her; and
with still greater difficulty he pressed the siege of Palmyra. Zenobia looked for relief from
Persia; but at that moment Sapor died, and the Queen of Palmyra fled upon a dromedary, but
was pursued and captured. Palmyra surrendered and was spared; but unfortunately, with a folly
which marks the haughty spirit of the place unfitted to brook submission, scarcely had the
conquering army retired when a tumult arose, and the Roman garrison was slaughtered. Little
knowledge could those have had of Aurelian's character, who tempted him to acts but too welcome
to his cruel nature by such an outrage as this. The news overtook the emperor on the Hellespont.
Instantly, without pause, "like Ate hot from hell," Aurelian retraced his steps--reached the
guilty city--and consigned it, with all its population, to that utter destruction from which
it has never since arisen. The energetic administration of Aurelian had now restored the empire--not
to its lost vigor, that was impossible--but to a condition of repose. That was a condition
more agreeable to the empire than to the emperor. Peace was hateful to Aurelian; and he sought
for war, where it could seldom be sought in vain, upon the Persian frontier. But he was not
destined to reach the Euphrates; and it is worthy of notice, as a providential ordinance, that
his own unmerciful nature was the ultimate cause of his fate. Anticipating the emperor's severity
in punishing some errors of his own, Mucassor, a general officer in whom Aurelian placed especial
confidence, assassinated him between Byzantium and Heraclea. An interregnum of eight months
succeeded, during which there occurred a contest of a memorable nature. Some historians have
described it as strange and surprising. To us, on the contrary, it seems that no contest could
be more natural. Heretofore the great strife had been in what way to secure the reversion or
possession of that great dignity; whereas now the rivalship lay in declining it. But surely
such a competition had in it, under the circumstances of the empire, little that can justly
surprise us. Always a post of danger, and so regularly closed by assassination, that in a course
of two centuries there are hardly to be found three or four cases of exception, the imperatorial
dignity had now become burdened with a public responsibility which exacted great military talents,
and imposed a perpetual and personal activity. Formerly, if the emperor knew himself to be
surrounded with assassins, he might at least make his throne, so long as he enjoyed it, the
couch of a voluptuary. The "ave imperator!" was then the summons, if to the supremacy in passive
danger, so also to the supremacy in power, and honor, and enjoyment. But now it was a summons
to never-ending tumults and alarms; an injunction to that sort of vigilance without intermission,
which, even from the poor sentinel, is exacted only when on duty. Not Rome, but the frontier;
not the aurea domus, but a camp, was the imperial residence. Power and rank, whilst in that
residence, could be had in no larger measure by Caesar as Caesar, than by the same individual
as a military commander-in-chief; and, as to enjoyment, that for the Roman imperator was now
extinct. Rest there could be none for him. Battle was the tenure by which he held his office;
and beyond the range of his trumpet's blare, his sceptre was a broken reed. The office of Caesar
at this time resembled the situation (as it is sometimes described in romances) of a knight
who has achieved the favor of some capricious lady, with the present possession of her castle
and ample domains, but which he holds under the known and accepted condition of meeting all
challenges whatsoever offered at the gate by wandering strangers, and also of jousting at any
moment with each and all amongst the inmates of the castle, as often as a wish may arise to
benefit by the chances in disputing his supremacy.

It is a circumstance, moreover, to be noticed in the aspect of the Roman monarchy at this period,
that the pressure of the evils we are now considering, applied to this particular age of the
empire beyond all others, as being an age of transition from a greater to an inferior power.
Had the power been either greater or conspicuously less, in that proportion would the pressure
have been easier, or none at all. Being greater, for example, the danger would have been repelled
to a distance so great that mere remoteness would have disarmed its terrors, or otherwise it
would have been violently overawed. Being less, on the other hand, and less in an eminent degree,
it would have disposed all parties, as it did at an after period, to regular and formal compromises
in the shape of fixed annual tributes. At present the policy of the barbarians along the vast
line of the northern frontier, was, to tease and irritate the provinces which they were not
entirely able, or prudentially unwilling, to dismember. Yet, as the almost annual irruptions
were at every instant ready to be converted into coup-de-mains upon Aquileia--upon Verona--or
even upon Rome itself, unless vigorously curbed at the outset, --each emperor at this period
found himself under the necessity of standing in the attitude of a champion or propugnator
on the frontier line of his territory--ready for all comers--and with a pretty certain prospect
of having one pitched battle at the least to fight in every successive summer. There were nations
abroad at this epoch in Europe who did not migrate occasionally, or occasionally project themselves
upon the civilized portion of the globe, but who made it their steady regular occupation to
do so, and lived for no other purpose. For seven hundred years the Roman Republic might be
styled a republic militant: for about one century further it was an empire triumphant; and
now, long retrograde, it had reached that point at which again, but in a different sense, it
might be styled an empire militant. Originally it had militated for glory and power; now its
militancy was for mere existence. War was again the trade of Rome, as it had been once before:
but in that earlier period war had been its highest glory now it was its dire necessity.

Under this analysis of the Roman condition, need we wonder, with the crowd of unreflecting
historians, that the senate, at the era of Aurelian's death, should dispute amongst each other--not,
as once, for the possession of the sacred purple, but for the luxury and safety of declining
it? The sad pre-eminence was finally imposed upon Tacitus, a senator who traced his descent
from the historian of that name, who had reached an age of seventy--five years, and who possessed
a fortune of three millions sterling. Vainly did the agitated old senator open his lips to
decline the perilous honor; five hundred voices insisted upon the necessity of his compliance;
and thus, as a foreign writer observes, was the descendant of him, whose glory it had been
to signalize himself as the hater of despotism, under the absolute necessity of becoming, in
his own person, a despot.

The aged senator then was compelled to be emperor, and forced, in spite of his vehement reluctance,
to quit the comforts of a palace, which he was never to revisit, for the hardships of a distant
camp. His first act was strikingly illustrative of the Roman condition, as we have just described
it. Aurelian had attempted to disarm one set of enemies by turning the current of their fury
upon another. The Alani were in search of plunder, and strongly disposed to obtain it from
Roman provinces. "But no," said Aurelian; "if you do that, I shall unchain my legions upon
you. Be better advised: keep those excellent dispositions of mind, and that admirable taste
for plunder, until you come whither I will conduct you. Then discharge your fury, and welcome;
besides which, I will pay you wages for your immediate abstinence; and on the other side the
Euphrates you shall pay yourselves." Such was the outline of the contract; and the Alans had
accordingly held themselves in readiness to accompany Aurelian from Europe to his meditated
Persian campaign. Meantime, that emperor had perished by treason; and the Alani were still
waiting for his successor on the throne to complete his engagements with themselves, as being
of necessity the successor also to his wars and to his responsibilities. It happened, from
the state of the empire, as we have sketched it above, that Tacitus really did succeed to the
military plans of Aurelian. The Persian expedition was ordained to go forward; and Tacitus
began, as a preliminary step in that expedition, to look about for his good allies the barbarians.
Where might they be, and how employed? Naturally, they had long been weary of waiting. The
Persian booty might be good after its kind; but it was far away; and, en attendant, Roman booty
was doubtless good after its kind. And so, throughout the provinces of Cappadocia, Pontus,
&c., far as the eye could stretch, nothing was to be seen but cities and villages in flames.
The Roman army hungered and thirsted to be unmuzzled and slipped upon these false friends.
But this, for the present, Tacitus would not allow. He began by punctually fulfilling all the
terms of Aurelian's contract,--a measure which barbarians inevitably construed into the language
of fear. But then came the retribution. Having satisfied public justice, the emperor now thought
of vengeance: he unchained his legions: a brief space of time sufficed for a long course of
vengeance: and through every outlet of Asia Minor the Alani fled from the wrath of the Roman
soldier. Here, however, terminated the military labors of Tacitus: he died at Tyana in Cappadocia,
as some say, from the effects of the climate of the Caucasus, co-operating with irritations
from the insolence of the soldiery; but, as Zosimus and Zonaras expressly assure us, under
the murderous hands of his own troops. His brother Florianus at first usurped the purple, by
the aid of the Illyrian army; but the choice of other armies, afterwards confirmed by the senate,
settled upon Probus, a general already celebrated under Aurelian. The two competitors drew
near to each other for the usual decision by the sword, when the dastardly supporters of Florian
offered up their chosen prince as a sacrifice to his antagonist. Probus, settled in his seat,
addressed himself to the regular business of those times,--to the reduction of insurgent provinces,
and the liberation of others from hostile molestations. Isauria and Egypt he visited in the
character of a conqueror, Gaul in the character of a deliverer. From the Gaulish provinces
he chased in succession the Franks, the Burgundians, and the Lygians. He pursued the intruders
far into their German thickets; and nine of the native German princes came spontaneously into
his camp, subscribed such conditions as he thought fit to dictate, and complied with his requisitions
of tribute in horses and provisions. This, however, is a delusive gleam of Roman energy, little
corresponding with the true condition of the Roman power, and entirely due to the personal
qualities of Probus. Probus himself showed his sense of the true state of affairs, by carrying
a stone wall, of considerable height, from the Danube to the Neckar. He made various attempts
also to effect a better distribution of barbarous tribes, by dislocating their settlements,
and making extensive translations of their clans, according to the circumstances of those times.
These arrangements, however, suggested often by short-sighted views, and carried into effect
by mere violence, were sometimes defeated visibly at the time, and, doubtless, in very few
cases accomplished the ends proposed. In one instance, where a party of Franks had been transported
into the Asiatic province of Pontus, as a column of defence against the intrusive Alans, being
determined to revisit their own country, they swam the Hellespont, landed on the coasts of
Asia Minor and of Greece, plundered Syracuse, steered for the Straits of Gibraltar, sailed
along the shores of Spain and Gaul, passing finally through the English Channel and the German
Ocean, right onwards to the Frisic and Batavian coasts, where they exultingly rejoined their
exulting friends. Meantime, all the energy and military skill of Probus could not save him
from the competition of various rivals. Indeed, it must then have been felt, as by us who look
back on those times it is now felt, that, amidst so continued a series of brief reigns, interrupted
by murders, scarcely any idea could arise answering to our modern ideas of treason and usurpation.
For the ideas of fealty and allegiance, as to a sacred and anointed monarch, could have no
time to take root. Candidates for the purple must have been viewed rather as military rivals
than as traitors to the reigning Caesar. And hence one reason for the slight resistance which
was often experienced by the seducers of armies. Probus, however, as accident in his case ordered
it, subdued all his personal opponents,-- Saturninus in the East, Proculus and Bonoses in Gaul.
For these victories he triumphed in the year 281. But his last hour was even then at hand.
One point of his military discipline, which he brought back from elder days, was, to suffer
no idleness in his camps. He it was who, by military labor, transferred to Gaul and to Hungary
the Italian vine, to the great indignation of the Italian monopolist. The culture of vineyards,
the laying of military roads, the draining of marshes, and similar labors, perpetually employed
the hands of his stubborn and contumacious troops. On some work of this nature the army happened
to be employed near Sirmium, and Probus was looking on from a tower, when a sudden frenzy of
disobedience seized upon the men: a party of the mutineers ran up to the emperor, and with
a hundred wounds laid him instantly dead. We are told by some writers that the army was immediately
seized with remorse for its own act; which, if truly reported, rather tends to confirm the
image, otherwise impressed upon us, of the relations between the army and Caesar as pretty
closely corresponding with those between some fierce wild beast and its keeper; the keeper,
if not uniformly vigilant as an Argus, is continually liable to fall a sacrifice to the wild
instincts of the brute, mastering at intervals the reverence and fear under which it has been
habitually trained. In this case, both the murdering impulse and the remorse seem alike the
effects of a brute instinct, and to have arisen under no guidance of rational purpose or reflection.
The person who profited by this murder was Carus, the captain of the guard, a man of advanced
years, and a soldier, both by experience and by his propensities. He was proclaimed emperor
by the army; and on this occasion there was no further reference to the senate, than by a dry
statement of the facts for its information. Troubling himself little about the approbation
of a body not likely in any way to affect his purposes (which were purely martial, and adapted
to the tumultuous state of the empire), Carus made immediate preparations for pursuing the
Persian expedition,--so long promised, and so often interrupted. Having provided for the security
of the Illyrian frontier by a bloody victory over the Sarmatians, of whom we now hear for the
first time, Carus advanced towards the Euphrates; and from the summit of a mountain he pointed
the eyes of his eager army upon the rich provinces of the Persian empire. Varanes, the successor
of Artaxerxes, vainly endeavored to negotiate a peace. From some unknown cause, the Persian
armies were not at this juncture disposable against Carus: it has been conjectured by some
writers that they were engaged in an Indian war. Carus, it is certain, met with little resistance.
He insisted on having the Roman supremacy acknowledged as a preliminary to any treaty; and,
having threatened to make Persia as bare as his own skull, he is supposed to have kept his
word with regard to Mesopotamia. The great cities of Ctesiphon and Seleucia he took; and vast
expectations were formed at Rome of the events which stood next in succession, when, on Christmas
day, 283, a sudden and mysterious end overtook Carus and his victorious advance. The story
transmitted to Rome was, that a great storm, and a sudden darkness, had surprised the camp
of Carus; that the emperor, previously ill, and reposing in his tent, was obscured from sight;
that at length a cry had arisen,--"The emperor is dead!" and that, at the same moment, the
imperial tent had taken fire. The fire was traced to the confusion of his attendants; and this
confusion was imputed by themselves to grief for their master's death. In all this it is easy
to read pretty circumstantially a murder committed on the emperor by corrupted servants, and
an attempt afterwards to conceal the indications of murder by the ravages of fire. The report
propagated through the army, and at that time received with credit, was, that Carus had been
struck by lightning: and that omen, according to the Roman interpretation, implied a necessity
of retiring from the expedition. So that, apparently, the whole was a bloody intrigue, set
on foot for the purpose of counteracting the emperor's resolution to prosecute the war. His
son Numerian succeeded to the rank of emperor by the choice of the army. But the mysterious
faction of murderers were still at work. After eight months' march from the Tigris to the Thracian
Bosphorus, the army halted at Chalcedon. At this point of time a report arose suddenly, that
the Emperor Numerian was dead. The impatience of the soldiery would brook no uncertainty: they
rushed to the spot; satisfied themselves of the fact; and, loudly denouncing as the murderer
Aper, the captain of the guard, committed him to custody, and assigned to Dioclesian, whom
at the same time they invested with the supreme power, the duty of investigating the case.
Dioclesian acquitted himself of this task in a very summary way, by passing his sword through
the captain before he could say a word in his defence. It seems that Dioclesian, having been
promised the empire by a prophetess as soon as he should have killed a wild boar [Aper], was
anxious to realize the omen. The whole proceeding has been taxed with injustice so manifest,
as not even to seek a disguise. Meantime, it should be remembered that, first, Aper, as the
captain of the guard, was answerable for the emperor's safety; secondly, that his anxiety to
profit by the emperor's murder was a sure sign that he had participated in that act; and, thirdly,
that the assent of the soldiery to the open and public act of Dioclesian, implies a conviction
on their part of Aper's guilt. Here let us pause, having now arrived at the fourth and last
group of the Caesars, to notice the changes which had been wrought by time, co-operating with
political events, in the very nature and constitution of the imperial office.

If it should unfortunately happen, that the palace of the Vatican, with its thirteen thousand
[Footnote: "Thirteen thousand chambers."--The number of the chambers in this prodigious palace
is usually estimated at that amount. But Lady Miller, who made particular inquiries on this
subject, ascertained that the total amount, including cellars and closets, capable of receiving
a bed, was fifteen thousand.] chambers, were to take fire--for a considerable space of time
the fire would be retarded by the mere enormity of extent which it would have to traverse.
But there would come at length a critical moment, at which the maximum of the retarding effect
having been attained, the bulk and volume of the flaming mass would thenceforward assist the
flames in the rapidity of their progress. Such was the effect upon the declension of the Roman
empire from the vast extent of its territory. For a very long period that very extent, which
finally became the overwhelming cause of its ruin, served to retard and to disguise it. A small
encroachment, made at any one point upon the integrity of the empire, was neither much regarded
at Rome, nor perhaps in and for itself much deserved to be regarded. But a very narrow belt
of encroachments, made upon almost every part of so enormous a circumference, was sufficient
of itself to compose something of an antagonist force. And to these external dilapidations,
we must add the far more important dilapidations from within, affecting all the institutions
of the State, and all the forces, whether moral or political, which had originally raised it
or maintained it. Causes which had been latent in the public arrangements ever since the time
of Augustus, and had been silently preying upon its vitals, had now reached a height which
would no longer brook concealment. The fire which had smouldered through generations had broken
out at length into an open conflagration. Uproar and disorder, and the anarchy of a superannuated
empire, strong only to punish and impotent to defend, were at this time convulsing the provinces
in every point of the compass. Rome herself had been menaced repeatedly. And a still more awful
indication of the coming storm had been felt far to the south of Rome. One long wave of the
great German deluge had stretched beyond the Pyrenees and the Pillars of Hercules, to the very
soil of ancient Carthage. Victorious banners were already floating on the margin of the Great
Desert, and they were not the banners of Caesar. Some vigorous hand was demanded at this moment,
or else the funeral knell of Rome was on the point of sounding. Indeed, there is every reason
to believe that, had the imbecile Carinus (the brother of Numerian) succeeded to the command
of the Roman armies at this time, or any other than Dioclesian, the empire of the west would
have fallen to pieces within the next ten years.

Dioclesian was doubtless that man of iron whom the times demanded; and a foreign writer has
gone so far as to class him amongst the greatest of men, if he were not even himself the greatest.
But the position of Dioclesian was remarkable beyond all precedent, and was alone sufficient
to prevent his being the greatest of men, by making it necessary that he should be the most
selfish. For the case stood thus: If Rome were in danger, much more so was Caesar. If the condition
of the empire were such that hardly any energy or any foresight was adequate to its defence,
for the emperor, on the other hand, there was scarcely a possibility that he should escape
destruction. The chances were in an overbalance against the empire; but for the emperor there
was no chance at all. He shared in all the hazards of the empire; and had others so peculiarly
pointed at himself, that his assassination was now become as much a matter of certain calculation,
as seed-time or harvest, summer or winter, or any other revolution of the seasons. The problem,
therefore, for Dioclesian was a double one,--so to provide for the defence and maintenance
of the empire, as simultaneously (and, if possible, through the very same institution) to provide
for the personal security of Caesar. This problem he solved, in some imperfect degree, by the
only expedient perhaps open to him in that despotism, and in those times. But it is remarkable,
that, by the revolution which he effected, the office of Roman Imperator was completely altered,
and Caesar became henceforwards an Oriental Sultan or Padishah. Augustus, when moulding for
his future purposes the form and constitution of that supremacy which he had obtained by inheritance
and by arms, proceeded with so much caution and prudence, that even the style and title of
his office was discussed in council as a matter of the first moment. The principle of his policy
was to absorb into his own functions all those offices which conferred any real power to balance
or to control his own. For this reason he appropriated the tribunitian power; because that
was a popular and representative office, which, as occasions arose, would have given some opening
to democratic influences. But the consular office he left untouched; because all its power
was transferred to the imperator, by the entire command of the army, and by the new organization
of the provincial governments. [Footnote: In no point of his policy was the cunning or the
sagacity of Augustus so much displayed, as in his treaty of partition with the senate, which
settled the distribution of the provinces, and their future administration. Seeming to take
upon himself all the trouble and hazard, he did in effect appropriate all the power, and left
to the senate little more than trophies of show and ornament. As a first step, all the greater
provinces, as Spain and Gaul, were subdivided into many smaller ones. This done, Augustus proposed
that the senate should preside over the administration of those amongst them which were peaceably
settled, and which paid a regular tribute; whilst all those which were the seats of danger,--either
as being exposed to hostile inroads, or to internal commotions,--all, therefore, in fact, which
could justify the keeping up of a military force, he assigned to himself. In virtue of this
arrangement, the senate possessed in Africa those provinces which had been formed out of Carthage,
Cyrene, and the kingdom of Numidia; in Europe, the richest and most quiet part of Spain (Hispania
Baetica), with the large islands of Sicily, Sardinia, Corsica, and Crete, and some districts
of Greece; in Asia, the kingdoms of Pontus and Bithynia, with that part of Asia Minor technically
called Asia; whilst, for his own share, Augustus retained Gaul, Syria, the chief part of Spain,
and Egypt, the granary of Rome; finally, all the military posts on the Euphrates, on the Danube,
or the Rhine.

Yet even the showy concessions here made to the senate were defeated by another political institution,
settled at the same time. It had been agreed that the governors of provinces should be appointed
by the emperor and the senate jointly. But within the senatorian jurisdiction, these governors,
with the title of Proconsuls, were to have no military power whatsoever; and the appointments
were good only for a single year. Whereas, in the imperatorial provinces, where the governor
bore the title of Propraetor, there was provision made for a military establishment; and as
to duration, the office was regulated entirely by the emperor's pleasure. One other ordinance,
on the same head, riveted the vassalage of the senate. Hitherto, a great source of the senate's
power had been found in the uncontrolled management of the provincial revenues; but at this
time, Augustus so arranged that branch of the administration, that, throughout the senatorian
or proconsular provinces, all taxes were immediately paid into the ararium, or treasury of
the state; whilst the whole revenues of the propraetorian (or imperatorial) provinces, from
this time forward, flowed into the fiscus, or private treasure of the individual emperor.]
And in all the rest of his arrangements, Augustus had proceeded on the principle of leaving
as many openings to civic influences, and impressing upon all his institutions as much of the
old Roman character, as was compatible with the real and substantial supremacy established
in the person of the emperor. Neither is it at all certain, as regarded even this aspect of
the imperatorial office, that Augustus had the purpose, or so much as the wish, to annihilate
all collateral power, and to invest the chief magistrate with absolute irresponsibility. For
himself, as called upon to restore a shattered government, and out of the anarchy of civil
wars to recombine the elements of power into some shape better fitted for duration (and, by
consequence, for insuring peace and protection to the world) than the extinct republic, it
might be reasonable to seek such an irresponsibility. But, as regarded his successors, considering
the great pains he took to discourage all manifestations of princely arrogance, and to develop,
by education and example, the civic virtues of patriotism and affability in their whole bearing
towards the people of Rome, there is reason to presume that he wished to remove them from popular
control, without, therefore, removing them from popular influence.

Hence it was, and from this original precedent of Augustus, aided by the constitution which
he had given to the office of imperator, that up to the era of Dioclesian, no prince had dared
utterly to neglect the senate, or the people of Rome. He might hate the senate, like Severus,
or Aurelian; he might even meditate their extermination, like the brutal Maximin. But this
arose from any cause rather than from contempt. He hated them precisely because he feared them,
or because he paid them an involuntary tribute of superstitious reverence, or because the malice
of a tyrant interpreted into a sort of treason the rival influence of the senate over the minds
of men. But, before Dioclesian, the undervaluing of the senate, or the harshest treatment of
that body, had arisen from views which were personal to the individual Caesar. It was now made
to arise from the very constitution of the office, and the mode of the appointment. To defend
the empire, it was the opinion of Dioclesian that a single emperor was not sufficient. And
it struck him, at the same time, that by the very institution of a plurality of emperors, which
was now destined to secure the integrity of the empire, ample provision might be made for the
personal security of each emperor. He carried his plan into immediate execution, by appointing
an associate to his own rank of Augustus in the person of Maximian--an experienced general;
whilst each of them in effect multiplied his own office still farther by severally appointing
a Caesar, or hereditary prince. And thus the very same partition of the public authority, by
means of a duality of emperors, to which the senate had often resorted of late, as the best
means of restoring their own republican aristocracy, was now adopted by Dioclesian as the simplest
engine for overthrowing finally the power of either senate or army to interfere with the elective
privilege. This he endeavored to centre in the existing emperors; and, at the same moment,
to discourage treason or usurpation generally, whether in the party choosing or the party chosen,
by securing to each emperor, in the case of his own assassination, an avenger in the person
of his surviving associate, as also in the persons of the two Caesars, or adopted heirs and
lieutenants. The associate emperor, Maximian, together with the two Caesars--Galerius appointed
by himself, and Constantius Chlorus by Maximian--were all bound to himself by ties of gratitude;
all owing their stations ultimately to his own favor. And these ties he endeavored to strengthen
by other ties of affinity; each of the Augusti having given his daughter in marriage to his
own adopted Caesar. And thus it seemed scarcely possible that a usurpation should be successful
against so firm a league of friends and relations.

The direct purposes of Dioclesian were but imperfectly attained; the internal peace of the
empire lasted only during his own reign; and with his abdication of the empire commenced the
bloodiest civil wars which had desolated the world since the contests of the great triumvirate.
But the collateral blow, which he meditated against the authority of the senate, was entirely
successful. Never again had the senate any real influence on the fate of the world. And with
the power of the senate expired concurrently the weight and influence of Rome. Dioclesian is
supposed never to have seen Rome, except on the single occasion when he entered it for the
ceremonial purpose of a triumph. Even for that purpose it ceased to be a city of resort; for
Dioclesian's was the final triumph. And, lastly, even as the chief city of the empire for business
or for pleasure, it ceased to claim the homage of mankind; the Caesar was already born whose
destiny it was to cashier the metropolis of the world, and to appoint her successor. This also
may be regarded in effect as the ordinance of Dioclesian; for he, by his long residence at
Nicomedia, expressed his opinion pretty plainly, that Rome was not central enough to perform
the functions of a capital to so vast an empire; that this was one cause of the declension
now become so visible in the forces of the state; and that some city, not very far from the
Hellespont or the Aegean Sea, would be a capital better adapted by position to the exigencies
of the times.

But the revolutions effected by Dioclesian did not stop here. The simplicity of its republican
origin had so far affected the external character and expression of the imperial office, that
in the midst of luxury the most unbounded, and spite of all other corruptions, a majestic plainness
of manners, deportment, and dress, had still continued from generation to generation, characteristic
of the Roman imperator in his intercourse with his subjects. All this was now changed; and
for the Roman was substituted the Persian dress, the Persian style of household, a Persian
court, and Persian manners, A diadem, or tiara beset with pearls, now encircled the temples
of the Roman Augustus; his sandals were studded with pearls, as in the Persian court; and the
other parts of his dress were in harmony with these. The prince was instructed no longer to
make himself familiar to the eyes of men. He sequestered himself from his subjects in the recesses
of his palace. None, who sought him, could any longer gain easy admission to his presence.
It was a point of his new duties to be difficult of access; and they who were at length admitted
to an audience, found him surrounded by eunuchs, and were expected to make their approaches
by genuflexions, by servile "adorations," and by real acts of worship as to a visible god.

It is strange that a ritual of court ceremonies, so elaborate and artificial as this, should
first have been introduced by a soldier, and a warlike soldier like Dioclesian. This, however,
is in part explained by his education and long residence in Eastern countries.

But the same eastern training fell to the lot of Constantine, who was in effect his successor;
[Footnote: On the abdication of Dioclesian and of Maximian, Galerius and Constantius succeeded
as the new Augusti. But Galerius, as the more immediate representative of Dioclesian, thought
himself entitled to appoint both Caesars,--the Daza (or Maximus) in Syria, Severus in Italy.
Meantime, Constantine, the son of Constantius, with difficulty obtaining permission from Galerius,
paid a visit to his father; upon whose death, which followed soon after, Constantine came forward
as a Caesar, under the appointment of his father. Galerius submitted with a bad grace; but
Maxentius, a reputed son of Maximian, was roused by emulation with Constantine to assume the
purple; and being joined by his father, they jointly attacked and destroyed Severus. Galerius,
to revenge the death of his own Caesar, advanced towards Rome; but being compelled to a disastrous
retreat, he resorted to the measure of associating another emperor with himself, as a balance
to his new enemies. This was Licinius; and thus, at one time, there were six emperors, either
as Augusti or as Caesars. Galerius, however, dying, all the rest were in succession destroyed
by Constantine.] and the Oriental tone and standard established by these two emperors, though
disturbed a little by the plain and military bearing of Julian, and one or two more emperors
of the same breeding, finally re-established itself with undisputed sway in the Byzantine court.

Meantime the institutions of Dioclesian, if they had destroyed Rome and the senate as influences
upon the course of public affairs, and if they had destroyed the Roman features of the Caesars,
do, notwithstanding, appear to have attained one of their purposes, in limiting the extent
of imperial murders. Travelling through the brief list of the remaining Caesars, we perceive
a little more security for life; and hence the successions are less rapid. Constantine, who
(like Aaron's rod) had swallowed up all his competitors seriatim, left the empire to his three
sons; and the last of these most unwillingly to Julian. That prince's Persian expedition, so
much resembling in rashness and presumption the Russian campaign of Napoleon, though so much
below it in the scale of its tragic results, led to the short reign of Jovian, (or Jovinian,)
which lasted only seven months. Upon his death succeeded the house of Valentinian, [Footnote:
Valentinian the First, who admitted his brother Valens to a partnership in the empire, had,
by his first wife, an elder son, Gratian, who reigned and associated with himself Theodosius,
commonly called the Great. By his second wife he had Valentinian the Second, who, upon the
death of his brother Gratian, was allowed to share the empire by Theodosius. Theodosius, by
his first wife, had two sons,-- Arcadius, who afterwards reigned in the east, and Honorius,
whose western reign was so much illustrated by Stilicho. By a second wife, daughter to Valentinian
the First, Theodosius had a daughter, (half-sister, therefore, to Honorius,) whose son was
Valentinian the Third.] in whose descendant, of the third generation, the empire, properly
speaking, expired. For the seven shadows who succeeded, from Avitus and Majorian to Julius
Nepos and Romulus Augustulus, were in no proper sense Roman emperors,--they were not even emperors
of the West,--but had a limited kingdom in the Italian peninsula. Valentinian the Third was,
as we have said, the last emperor of the West.

But, in a fuller and ampler sense, recurring to what we have said of Dioclesian and the tenor
of his great revolutions, we may affirm that Probus and Carus were the final representatives
of the majesty of Rome: for they reigned over the whole empire, not yet incapable of sustaining
its own unity; and in them were still preserved, not yet obliterated by oriental effeminacy,
those majestic features which reflected republican consuls, and, through them, the senate and
people of Rome. That, which had offended Dioclesian in the condition of the Roman emperors,
was the grandest feature of their dignity. It is true that the peril of the office had become
intolerable; each Caesar submitted to his sad inauguration with a certainty, liable even to
hardly any disguise from the delusions of youthful hope, that for him, within the boundless
empire which he governed, there was no coast of safety, no shelter from the storm, no retreat,
except the grave, from the dagger of the assassin. Gibbon has described the hopeless condition
of one who should attempt to fly from the wrath of the almost omnipresent emperor. But this
dire impossibility of escape was in the end dreadfully retaliated upon the emperor; persecutors
and traitors were found every where: and the vindictive or the ambitious subject found himself
as omnipresent as the jealous or the offended emperor. The crown of the Caesars was therefore
a crown of thorns; and it must be admitted, that never in this world have rank and power been
purchased at so awful a cost in tranquillity and peace of mind. The steps of Caesar's throne
were absolutely saturated with the blood of those who had possessed it: and so inexorable was
that murderous fate which overhung that gloomy eminence, that at length it demanded the spirit
of martyrdom in him who ventured to ascend it. In these circumstances, some change was imperatively
demanded. Human nature was no longer equal to the terrors which it was summoned to face. But
the changes of Dioclesian transmuted that golden sceptre into a base oriental alloy. They left
nothing behind of what had so much challenged the veneration of man: for it was in the union
of republican simplicity with the irresponsibility of illimitable power, it was in the antagonism
between the merely human and approachable condition of Caesar as a man, and his divine supremacy
as a potentate and king of kings--that the secret lay of his unrivalled grandeur. This perished
utterly under the reforming hands of Dioclesian. Caesar only it was that could be permitted
to extinguish Caesar: and a Roman imperator it was who, by remodelling, did in effect abolish,
by exorcising from its foul terrors, did in effect disenchant of its sanctity, that imperatorial
dignity, which having once perished, could have no second existence, and which was undoubtedly
the sublimest incarnation of power, and a monument the mightiest of greatness built by human
hands, which upon this planet has been suffered to appear.

