MY STUDIO NEIGHBORS

  BY

  WILLIAM HAMILTON GIBSON

  ILLUSTRATED BY THE AUTHOR

  NEW YORK AND LONDON
  HARPER & BROTHERS PUBLISHERS
  1898

  Copyright, 1897, by HARPER & BROTHERS.

  All rights reserved.

                                                                 Page

  A Familiar Guest                                                3

  The Cuckoos and the Outwitted Cow-bird                         23

  Door-step Neighbors                                            57

  A Queer Little Family on the Bittersweet                       87

  The Welcomes of the Flowers                                   105

  A Honey-dew Picnic                                            151

  A Few Native Orchids and Their Insect Sponsors                171

  The Milkweed                                                  227

  Index                                                         239

                                                                 Page

  William Hamilton Gibson                             Frontispiece

  Initial. The Studio Door                                        3

  The Rose-bush Episode                                           9

  A Corner of My Table                                           12

  An Animated Brush                                              14

  A Specimen in Three Stages                                     16

  The Studio Table                                               18

  Initial                                                        23

  The European Cuckoo                                            24

  The Yellow-billed Cuckoo                                       26

  Browsing Kine                                                  29

  A Greedy Foster-child                                          34

  The Yellow Warbler                                             44

  A Blighted Home                                                46

  The Normal Nest of the Yellow Warbler                          47

  The Yellow Warbler at Home                                     49

  A Suspicious Nest of the Yellow Warbler                        50

  The Nest Separated                                             52

  Initial                                                        57

  The Door-step Arena, with its Pitfalls                         60

  Fishing for Tigers                                             65

  Tiger-beetle                                                   68

  The Spider Victim                                              70

  Filling the Spider's Grave                                     71

  Black Digger-wasp                                              73

  Black Digger-wasp and His Victim, Showing the Egg of the
    Wasp Attached                                                 75

  Protecting the Burrow while Searching for Prey                 79

  The "Cow-spit" Mystery Disclosed                               81

  The Tiger's Head, from the Victim's Stand-point                84

  Initial. Branch of the Bittersweet                             87

  A Bittersweet Covey                                            90

  Flushing the Game                                              92

  Specimen Twig                                                  94

  Building Froth-tent                                           100

  Butterflies and Flowers                                       105

  A Row of Stamens                                              106

  The Parts of a Flower                                         109

  Historical Series, Showing the Progress of Discovery of
    Flower Fertilization                                         110

  The Garden Sage                                               120

  Cross-fertilization of the Sage                               121

  Elastic Stamens. Anthers Inserted in their Pockets            124

  Elastic Stamens of Mountain-laurel                            125

  Andromeda Ligustrina                                          127

  Fertilisation of Andromeda                                    128

  The Laurel                                                    130

  Cross-fertilization of the Blue-flag                          131

  Blue-flag                                                     132

  Pogonia and Devil's-bit                                       133

  Devil's-bit                                                   134

  Horse-balm. Collinsonia                                       135

  Cross-fertilization of the Horse-balm--Flowers in Various
    Stages, and in the Order of their Visitation by the Bee      136

  The Cone-flower                                               137

  Cone-flower, Showing Numerous Florets, Some in Pollen,
    Others in Stigmatic Stage                                    139

  Cross-fertilization of Cone-flower                            140

  The Fertilization of the English Arum, 1st Stage              141

  The Fertilization of the English Arum. 2d, 3d, 4th,
    and 5th Stages                                               142

  Pogonia                                                       145

  Cross-fertilization                                           146

  A Pine Branch                                                 151

  Initial                                                       151

  The Picnic                                                    159

  Tail-piece                                                    167

  Habenaria Orbiculata                                          171

  Arethusa Bulbosa                                              177

  The Botanical Distribution of an Ordinary Flower and of
    the Orchid                                                   182

  The "Column" in Various Orchids                               183

  The Result of the Bee's Visit                                 184

  Cross-fertilization of Arethusa                               188

  Habenaria Orbiculata. A Single Flower Enlarged                190

  Orchis Spectabilis                                            191

  Cross-fertilization of H. Orbiculata (Sphinx-moth)            193

  The Flower and Column of Orchis Spectabilis, Enlarged         195

  Orchis Spectabilis                                            195

  Position of Pollen of Orchis Spectabilis Withdrawn on Pencil  197

  The Cross-fertilization of Orchis Spectabilis                 197

  The Purple-fringed Orchid                                     199

  The Ragged Orchid (Front Section)                             200

  The Ragged Orchid (Profile Section)                           202

  The Ragged Orchid (H. Lacera) and the Butterfly's
    Tongue. Cross-fertilization                                  203

  The Yellow Orchid (H. Flava)                                  204

  The Ragged Orchid (H. Lacera)                                 205

  Cypripedium Acaule                                            207

  Moccasin-flower (C. Acaule)                                   208

  The Bee Imprisoned in the Lips of Cypripedium                 210

  Moccasin-flower. Bee Sipping Nectar                           211

  The Bee Passing Beneath the Stigma                            213

  A Bee Receiving Pollen-plaster on His Thorax                  214

  Rattlesnake-Plantain--the Young and the Old                   215

  Cross-fertilization of the Rattlesnake-Plantain.
    Side Sections                                                216

  Cross-fertilisation of the Rattlesnake-Plantain. Front View   217

  The Tongue of a Bumblebee                                     218

  Goodyera, or Periamium Pubescens                              221

  Milkweed Captives                                             231

  The Pollen Masses and the Fissure                             232

  The Tragedy of the Bees                                       235

  A Moth Caught by the Tongue in Dogbane                        237

A FAMILIAR GUEST

Solitude! Where under trees and sky shall you find it? The more solitary the recluse and the
more confirmed and grounded his seclusion, the wider and more familiar becomes the circle of
his social environment, until at length, like a very dryad of old, the birds build and sing
in his branches and the "wee wild beasties" nest in his pockets. If he fails to be aware of
the fact, more's the pity. His desolation is within, not without, in spite of, not because
of, his surroundings.

Here in my country studio--not a hermitage, 'tis true, but secluded among trees, some distance
isolated from my own home and out of sight of any other--what company! What occasional "tumultuous
privacy" is mine! I have frequently been obliged to step out upon the porch and request a modulation
of hilarity and a more courteous respect for my hospitality. But this is evidently entirely
a matter of point of view, and, judging from the effects of my protests at such times, my assumed
superior air of condescension is apparently construed as a huge joke. If the resultant rejoinder
of wild volapük and expressive pantomime has any significance, it is plain that I am desired
to understand that my exact status is that of a squatter on contested territory.

There are those snickering squirrels, for instance! At this moment two of them are having a
rollicking game of tag on the shingled roof--a pandemonium of scrambling, scratching, squealing,
and growling--ever and anon clambering down at the eaves to the top of a blind and peeping
in at the window to see how I like it.

A woodchuck is perambulating my porch--he was a moment ago--presumably in renewed quest of
that favorite pabulum more delectable than rowen clover, the splintered cribbings from the
legs of a certain pine bench, which, up to date, he has lowered about three inches--a process
in which he has considered average rather than symmetry, or the comfort of the too trusting
visitor who happens to be unaware of his carpentry.

The drone of bees and the carol of birds are naturally an incessant accompaniment to my toil--at
least, in these spring and summer months. The tall, straight flue of the chimney, like the
deep diapason of an organ, is softly murmurous with the flurry of the swifts in their afternoon
or vesper flight. There is a robin's nest close by one window, a vireo's nest on a forked dogwood
within touch of the porch, and continual reminders of similar snuggeries of indigo-bird, chat,
and oriole within close limits, to say nothing of an ants' nest not far off, whose proximity
is soon manifest as you sit in the grass--and immediately get up again.

Fancy a wild fox for a daily entertainment! For several days in succession last year I spent
a half-hour observing his frisky gambols on the hillside across the dingle below my porch,
as he jumped apparently for mice in the sloping rowen-field. How quickly he responded to my
slightest interruption of voice or footfall, running to the cover of the alders!

The little red-headed chippy, the most familiar and sociable of our birds, of course pays me
his frequent visit, hopping in at the door and picking up I don't know what upon the floor.
A barn-swallow occasionally darts in through the open window and out again at the door, as
though for very sport, only a few days since skimming beneath my nose, while its wings fairly
tipped the pen with which I was writing. The chipmonk has long made himself at home, and his
scratching footsteps on my door-sill, or even in my closet, is a not uncommon episode. Now
and then through the day I hear a soft pat-pat on the hard-wood floor, at intervals of a few
seconds, and realize that my pet toad, which has voluntarily taken up its abode in an old bowl
on the closet floor, is taking his afternoon outing, and with his always seemingly inconsistent
lightning tongue is picking up his casual flies at three inches sight around the base-board.

A mouse, I see, has heaped a neat little pile of seeds upon the top of the wainscot near by--cherry
pits, polygonum, and ragweed seeds, and others, including some small oak-galls, which I find
have been abstracted from a box of specimens which I had stored in the closet for safe-keeping.
I wonder if it is the same little fellow that built its nest in an old shoe in the same closet
last year, and, among other mischief, removed the white grub in a similar lot of specimen galls
which I also missed, and subsequently found in the shoe and scattered on the closet floor?

I have mentioned the murmur of the bees, but the incessant buzzing of flies and wasps is an
equally prominent sound. Then there is the occasional sortie of the dragon-fly, making his
gauzy, skimming circuit about the room, or suggestively bobbing around against wall or ceiling;
and that occasional audible episode of the stifled, expiring buzz of a fly, which is too plainly
in the toils of Arachne up yonder! For in one corner of my room I boast of a prize dusty "cobweb,"
as yet spared from the household broom, a gossamer arena of two years' standing, which makes
a dense span of a length of about two feet from a clump of dried hydrangea blossoms to the
sill of a transom-window, and which, of course, somewhere in its dusty spread, tapers off into
a dark tunnel, where lurks the eight-eyed schemer, "o'erlooking all his waving snares around."

Sooner or later, it would seem, every too constant buzzing visitor encroaches on its domain,
and is drawn to its silken vortex, and is eventually shed below as a clean dried specimen;
for this is an agalena spider, which dispenses with the winding-sheet of the field species--epeira
and argiope. Last week a big bumble-bee-like fly paid me a visit and suddenly disappeared.
To-day I find him dried and ready for the insect-pin and the cabinet on the window-sill beneath
the web, which affords at all times its liberal entomological assortment--Coleoptera, Hymenoptera,
Diptera, and Lepidoptera. Many are the rare specimens which I have picked from these charnel
remnants of my spider net.

Ah, hark! The talking "robber-fly" (Asilus), with his nasal, twangy buzz! "Waiow! Wha-a-ar
are ye?" he seems to say, and with a suggestive onslaught against the window-pane, which betokens
his satisfied quest, is out again at the window with a bluebottle-fly in the clutch of his
powerful legs, or perhaps impaled on his horny beak.

Solitude! Not here. Amid such continual distraction and entertainment concentration on the
immediate task in hand is not always of easy accomplishment.

Last week, after a somewhat distracted morning with some queer beguiling little harlequins
on the bittersweet-vine about my porch, of which I have previously written, I had finally settled
down to my work, and was engaged in putting the finishing touches upon a long-delayed drawing,
when a new visitor claimed my attention--a small hornet, which alights upon the window-sill
within half a yard from my face. To be sure, she was no stranger here at my studio--even now
there are two of her yonder beneath the spider-nest--and was, moreover, an old friend, whose
ways were perfectly familiar to me; but this time the insect engaged my particular attention
because it was not alone, being accompanied by a green caterpillar bigger than herself, which
she held beneath her body as she travelled along on the window-sill so near my face. "So, so!
my little wren-wasp, you have found a satisfactory cranny at last, and have made yourself at
home. I have seen you prying about here for a week and wondered where you would take up your
abode."

The insect now reaches the edge of the sill, and, taking a fresh grip on her burden, starts
off in a bee-line across my drawing-board and towards the open door, and disappears. Wondering
what her whimsical destination might be, my eye involuntarily began to wander about the room
in quest of nail-holes or other available similar crannies, but without reward, and I had fairly
settled back to my work and forgotten the incident, when the same visitor, or another just
like her, again appeared, this time clearing the window-sill in her flight, and landing directly
upon my drawing-board, across which she sped, half creeping, half in flight, and tugging her
green caterpillar as before--longer than herself--which she held beneath her body.

"This time I shall learn your secret," I thought. "Two such challenges as this are not to be
ignored." So I concluded this time to observe her progress carefully. In a moment she had reached
the right-hand edge of my easel-board, from which she made a short flight, and settled upon
a large table in the centre of the room, littered with its characteristic chaos of professional
paraphernalia--brushes, paints, dishes, bottles, color-boxes, and cloths--among which she disappeared.
It was a hopeless task to disclose her, so I waited patiently to observe the spot from which
she would emerge, assuming that this, like the window-sill and my easel, was a mere way-station
on her homeward travels. But she failed to appear, while I busied my wits in trying to recall
which particular item in the collection had a hole in it. Yes, there was a spool among other
odds and ends in a Japanese boat-basket. That must be it! But on examination the paper still
covered both ends, and I was again at a loss. What, then, can be the attraction on my table?
My wondering curiosity was immediately satisfied, for as I turned back to the board and resumed
my work I soon discovered another wasp, with its caterpillar freight, on the drawing-board.
After a moment's pause she made a quiet short flight towards the table, and what was my astonishment
to observe her alight directly upon the tip of the very brush which I held in my hand, which,
I now noted for the first time, had a hole in its end! In another moment she disappeared within
the cavity, tugging the caterpillar after her!

My bamboo brushes! I had not thought of them! By mere chance a few years since I happened upon
some of these bamboo brushes in a Japanese shop--large, long-handled brushes, with pure white
hair nicely stiffened to a tapering point, which was neatly protected with a sheathing cover
of bamboo. A number of them were at my elbow, a few inches distant, in a glass of water, and
on the table by the vase beyond were a dozen or so in a scattered bundle.

Normally each of these brushes is closed at the end by the natural pith of the bamboo. I now
find them all either open or otherwise tampered with, and the surrounding surface of the table
littered with tiny balls, apparently of sawdust. I picked up one of the nearest brushes, and
upon inverting it and giving it a slight tap, a tiny green worm fell out of the opening. From
the next one I managed to shake out seven of the caterpillars, while the third had passed beyond
this stage, the aperture having been carefully plugged with a mud cork, which was even now
moist. Two or three others were in the same plugged condition, and investigation showed that
no single brush had escaped similar tampering to a greater or less extent. One brush had apparently
not given entire satisfaction, for the plug had been removed, and the caterpillars, eight or
ten in number, were scattered about the opening. But the dissatisfaction probably lay with
one of these caterpillars rather than with the maternal wasp, who had apparently failed in
the full dose of anæsthetic, for one of her victims which I observed was quite lively, and
had probably forced out the soft plug, and in his squirming had ousted his luckless companions.

The caterpillars were all of the same kind, though varying in size, their length being from
one-half to three-quarters of an inch. To all appearances they were dead, but more careful
observation revealed signs of slight vitality. Recognizing the species as one which I had long
known, from its larva to its moth, it was not difficult to understand how my brushes might
thus have been expeditiously packed with them. Not far from my studio door is a small thicket
of wild rose, which should alone be sufficient to account for all those victimized caterpillars.
This species is a regular dependent on the rose, dwelling within its cocoon-like canopy of
leaves, which are drawn together with a few silken webs, and in which it is commonly concealed
by day. A little persuasion upon either end of its leafy case, however, soon brings the little
tenant to view as he wriggles out, backward or forward, as the case may be, and in a twinkling,
spider-like, hangs suspended by a web, which never fails him even in the most sudden emergency.

I can readily fancy the tiny hornet making a commotion at one end of this leafy domicile and
the next instant catching the evicted caterpillar "on a fly" at the other. Grasping her prey
with her legs and jaws, in another moment the wriggling body is passive in her grasp, subdued
by the potent anæsthetic of her sting--a hypodermic injection which instantly produces the
semblance of death in its insect victim, reducing all the vital functions to the point of dissolution,
and then holds them suspended--literally prolongs life, it would sometimes seem, even beyond
its normal duration--by a process which I might call ductile equation. This chemical resource
is common to all the hornets, whether their victims be grasshoppers, spiders, cicadæ, or caterpillars.
In a condition of helpless stupor they are lugged off to the respective dens provided for them,
and then, hermetically sealed on storage, are preserved as fresh living food for the young
hornet larva, which is left in charge of them, and has a place waiting for them all. The developments
within my brush-handles may serve as a commentary on the ways and transformations of the average
hornet.

One after another of the little green caterpillars is packed into the bamboo cell, which is
about an inch deep, and plugged with mud at the base. From seven to ten of the victims are
thus stored, after which the little wasp deposits an egg among them, and seals the doorway
with a pellet of mud. The young larva, which soon hatches from this egg, finds itself in a
land of plenty, surrounded with living food, and, being born hungry, he loses no time in making
a meal from the nearest victim. One after another of the caterpillars is devoured, until his
larder, nicely calculated to carry him to his full growth, is exhausted. Thus the first stage
is passed. The second stage is entered into within a few hours, and is passed within a silken
cocoon, with which the white grub now surrounds itself, and with which, transformed to a pupa,
it bides its time for about three weeks, as I now recall, when--third stage--out pops the mud
cork, and the perfect wasp appears at the opening of the cell. I have shown sections of one
of my brushes in the three stages.

This interesting little hornet is a common summer species, known as the solitary hornet--one
of them--Odynerus flavipes. The insect is about a half-inch in length, and to the careless
observer might suggest a yellow-jacket, though the yellow is here confined to two triangular
spots on the front of the thorax and three bands upon the abdomen.

Like the wren among birds, it is fond of building in holes, and will generally obtain them
ready-made if possible. Burroughs has said of the wren that it "will build in anything that
has a hole in it, from an old boot to a bombshell." In similar whim our little solitary hornet
has been known to favor nail-holes, hollow reeds, straws, the barrels of a pistol, holes in
kegs, worm-holes in wood, and spools, to which we may now add bamboo brushes.

Ovid declared and the ancient Greeks believed that hornets were the direct progeny of the snorting
war-horse. The phrase "mad as a hornet" has become a proverb. Think, then, of a brush loaded
and tipped with this martial spirit of Vespa, this cavorting afflatus, this testy animus! There
is more than one pessimistic "goose-quill," of course, "mightier than the sword," which, it
occurs to me in my now charitable mood, might have been thus surreptitiously voudooed by the
war-like hornet, and the plug never removed.

THE CUCKOOS & THE OUTWITTED COW-BIRD

How has that "blessed bird" and "sweet messenger of spring," the "cuckoo," imposed upon the
poetic sensibilities of its native land!

And what is this cuckoo which has thus bewitched all the poets? What is the personality behind
that "wandering voice?" What the distinguishing trait which has made this wily attendant on
the spring notorious from the times of Aristotle and Pliny? Think of "following the cuckoo,"
as Logan longed to do, in its "annual visit around the globe," a voluntary witness and accessory
to the blighting curse of its vagrant, almost unnatural life! No, my indiscriminate bards;
on this occasion we must part company. I cannot "follow" your cuckoo--except with a gun, forsooth--nor
welcome your "darling of the spring," even though he were never so captivating as a songster.

The song and the singer are here identical and inseparable, to my prosaic and rational senses;
for does not that "blithe new-comer," as Tennyson says, "tell his name to all the hills"--"Cuckoo!
Cuckoo!"

The poet of romance is prompted to draw on his imagination for his facts, but the poet of nature
must first of all be true, and incidentally as beautiful and good as may be; and a half-truth
or a truth with a reservation may be as dangerous as falsehood. The poet who should so paint
the velvety beauty of a rattlesnake as to make you long to coddle it would hardly be considered
a safe character to be at large. Likewise an ode to the nettle, or to the autumn splendor of
the poison-sumac, which ignored its venom would scarcely be a wise botanical guide for indiscriminate
circulation among the innocents.

America is spared the infliction of this notorious "cuckoo." Its nearest congeners, our yellow-billed
and black-billed cuckoos, while suggesting their foreign ally in shape and somewhat in song,
have mended their ways, and though it is true they make a bad mess of it, they at least try
to build their own nest, and rear their own young with tender solicitude. The nest is usually
so sparse and flimsy an affair that you can see through its coarse mesh of sticks from below,
the fledglings lying as on a grid-iron or toaster; and it is, moreover, occasionally so much
higher in the centre than at the sides that the chicks tumble out of bed and perish. Still,
it is a beginning in the right direction.

Yes, it would appear that our American cuckoo is endeavoring to make amends for the sins of
its ancestors; but, what is less to its credit, it has apparently found a scapegoat, to which
it would ever appear anxious to call our attention, as it stammers forth, in accents of warning,
"c, c, cow, cow, cow! cowow, cowow!" It never gets any further than this; but doubtless in
due process of vocal evolution we shall yet hear the "bunting," or "black-bird," which is evidently
what he is trying to say.

Owing to the onomatopoetic quality of the "kow, kow, kow!" of the bird, it is known in some
sections as the "kow-bird," and is thus confounded with the real cow-bird, and gets the credit
of her mischief, even as in other parts of the country, under the correct name of "cuckoo,"
it bears the odium of its foreign relative.

For though we have no disreputable cuckoo, ornithologically speaking, let us not congratulate
ourselves too hastily. We have his counterpart in a black sheep of featherdom which vies with
his European rival in deeds of cunning and cruelty, and which has not even a song to recommend
him--no vocal accomplishment which by the greatest of license could prompt a poet to exclaim,

"I hear thee and rejoice,"

without having his sanity called in question.

The cow-blackbird, it is true, executes a certain guttural performance with its throat--though
apparently emanating from a gastric source--which some ornithologists dignify by the name of
"song." But it is safe to affirm that with this vocal resource alone to recommend him he or
his kind would scarcely have been known to fame. The bird has yet another lay, however, which
has made it notorious. Where is the nest of song-sparrow, or Maryland yellow-throat, or yellow
warbler, or chippy, that is safe from the curse of the cow-bird's blighting visit?

And yet how few of us have ever seen the bird to recognize it, unless perchance in the occasional
flock clustering about the noses and feet of browsing kine and sheep, or perhaps perched upon
their backs, the glossy black plumage of the males glistening with iridescent sheen in the
sunshine.

"Haow them blackbirds doos love the smell o' thet caow's breath!" said an old dame to me once
in my boyhood. "I don't blame um: I like it myself." Whether it was this same authority who
was responsible for my own similar early impression I do not know, but I do recall the surprise
at my ultimate discovery that it was alone the quest of insects that attracted the birds.

Upon the first arrival of the bird in the spring an attentive ear might detect its discordant
voice, or the chuckling note of his mischievous spouse and accomplice, in the great bird medley;
but later her crafty instinct would seem to warn her that silence is more to her interest in
the pursuit of her wily mission. In June, when so many an ecstatic love-song among the birds
has modulated from accents of ardent love to those of glad fruition, when the sonnet to his
"mistress's eyebrow" is shortly to give place to the lullaby, then, like the "worm i' the bud,"
the cow-bird begins her parasitical career. How many thousands are the bird homes which are
blasted in her "annual visit?"

Stealthily and silently she pries among the thickets, following up the trail of warbler, sparrow,
or thrush like a sleuth-hound. Yonder a tiny yellow-bird with a jet-black cheek flits hither
with a wisp of dry grass in her beak, and disappears in the branches of a small tree close
to my studio door. Like the shadow of fate the cow-bird suddenly appears, and has doubtless
soon ferreted out her cradle.

In a certain grassy bank not far from where I am writing, at the foot of an unsuspecting fern,
a song-sparrow has built her nest. It lies in a hollow among the dried leaves and grass, and
is so artfully merged with its immediate surroundings that even though you know its precise
location it still eludes you. Only yesterday the last finishing-touches were made upon the
nest, and this morning, as I might have anticipated from the excess of lisp and twitter of
the mother bird, I find the first pretty brown-spotted egg.

Surely our cow-bird has missed this secret haunt on her rounds. Be not deceived! Within a half-hour
after this egg was laid the sparrow and its mate, returning from a brief absence to view their
prize, discover two eggs where they had been responsible for but one. The prowling foe had
already discovered their secret; for she, too, is "an attendant on the spring," and had been
simply biding her time. The parent birds once out of sight, she had stolen slyly upon the nest,
and after a very brief interval as slyly retreated, leaving her questionable compliments, presumably
with a self-satisfied chuckle. The intruded egg is so like its fellow as to be hardly distinguishable
except in its slightly larger size. It is doubtful whether the sparrow, in particular, owing
to this similarity, ever realizes the deception. Indeed, the event is possibly considered a
cause for self-congratulation rather than otherwise--at least, until her eyes are opened by
the fateful dénouement of a few weeks later. And thus the American cow-bird outcuckoos the
cuckoo as an "attendant on the spring," taking her pick among the nurseries of featherdom,
now victimizing the oriole by a brief sojourn in the swinging hammock in the elm, here stopping
a moment to leave her charge to the care of an indigo-bird, to-morrow creeping through the
grass to the secreted nest of the Maryland yellow-throat, or Wilson's thrush, or chewink. And,
unaccountable as it would appear, here we find the same deadly token safely lodged in the dainty
cobweb nest of the vireo, a fragile pendent fabric hung in the fork of a slender branch which
in itself would barely appear sufficiently strong to sustain the weight of a cow-bird without
emptying the nest.

Indeed, the presence of this intruded egg, like that of the European cuckoo in similar fragile
nests, has given rise to the popular belief that the bird must resort to exceptional means
in these instances. Sir William Jardine, for instance, in an editorial foot-note in one of
Gilbert White's pages, remarks:

"It is a curious fact, and one, I believe, not hitherto noticed by naturalists, that the cuckoo
deposits its egg in the nests of the titlark, robin, and wagtail by means of its foot. If the
bird sat on the nest while the egg was laid, the weight of its body would crush the nest and
cause it to be forsaken, and thus one of the ends of Providence would be defeated. I have found
the eggs of the cuckoo in the nest of a white-throat, built in so small a hole in a garden
wall that it was absolutely impossible for the cuckoo to have got into it."

In the absence of substantiation, this, at best, presumptive evidence is discounted by the
well-attested fact that the cuckoo has frequently been shot in the act of carrying a cuckoo's
egg in its mouth, and there is on record an authentic account of a cuckoo which was observed
through a telescope to lay her egg on a bank, and then take it in her bill and deposit it in
the nest of a wagtail.

There is no evidence to warrant a similar resource in our cow-bird, though the inference would
often appear irresistible, did we not know that Wilson actually saw the cow-bird in the act
of laying in the diminutive nest of a red-eyed vireo, and also in that of the bluebird.

And what is the almost certain doom of the bird-home thus contaminated by the cow-bird?

The egg is always laid betimes, and is usually the first to hatch, the period of incubation
being a day or two less than that of the eggs of the foster-parent. And woe be to the fledglings
whom fate has associated with a young cow-bird! He is the "early bird that gets the worm."
His is the clamoring red mouth which takes the provender of the entire family. It is all "grist
into his mill," and everything he eats seems to go to appetite--his bedfellows, if not thus
starved to death, being at length crushed by his comparatively ponderous bulk, or ejected from
the nest to die. It is a pretty well established fact that the cuckoo of Europe deliberately
ousts its companion fledglings--a fact first noted by the famous Dr. Jenner. And Darwin has
even asserted that the process of anatomical evolution has especially equipped the young cuckoo
for such an accomplishment--a practice in which some accommodating philosophic minds detect
the act of "divine beneficence," in that "the young cuckoo is thus insured sufficient food,
and that its foster-brothers thus perish before they have acquired much feeling."

The following account, written by an eye-witness, bears the stamp of authenticity, and is furthermore
re-enforced by a careful and most graphic drawing made on the spot, which I here reproduce,
and fully substantiates the previous statement by Dr. Jenner. The scene of the tragedy was
the nest of a pipit, or titlark, on the ground beneath a heather-bush. When first discovered
it contained two pipit's eggs and the egg of a cuckoo.

"At the next visit, after an interval of forty-eight hours," writes Mrs. Blackburn, "we found
the young cuckoo alone in the nest, and both the young pipits lying down the bank, about ten
inches from the margin of the nest, but quite lively after being warmed in the hand. They were
replaced in the nest beside the cuckoo, which struggled about till it got its back under one
of them, when it climbed backward directly up the open side of the nest and pitched the pipit
from its back on to the edge. It then stood quite upright on its legs, which were straddled
wide apart, with the claws firmly fixed half-way down the inside of the nest, and, stretching
its wings apart and backward, it elbowed the pipit fairly over the margin so far that its struggles
took it down the bank instead of back into the nest. After this the cuckoo stood a minute or
two feeling back with its wings, as if to make sure that the pipit was fairly overboard, and
then subsided into the bottom of the nest.

"I replaced the ejected one and went home. On returning the next day, both nestlings were found
dead and cold out of the nest.... But what struck me most was this: the cuckoo was perfectly
naked, without a vestige of a feather, or even a hint of future feathers; its eyes were not
yet opened, and its neck seemed too weak to support the weight of the head. The pipit had well-developed
quills on the wings and back, and had bright eyes, partially open, yet they seemed quite helpless
under the manipulations of the cuckoo, which looked a much less developed creature. The cuckoo's
legs, however, seemed very muscular; and it appeared to feel about with its wings, which were
absolutely featherless, as with hands, the spurious wing (unusually large in proportion) looking
like a spread-out thumb."

Considering how rarely we see the cow-bird in our walks, her merciless ubiquity is astonishing.
It occasionally happens that almost every nest I meet in a day's walk will show the ominous
speckled egg. In a single stroll in the country I have removed eight of these foreboding tokens
of misery. Only last summer I discovered the nest of a wood-sparrow in a hazel-bush, my attention
being attracted thither by the parent bird bearing food in her beak. I found the nest occupied,
appropriated, monopolized, by a cow-bird fledgling--a great, fat, clamoring lubber, completely
filling the cavity of the nest, the one diminutive, puny remnant of the sparrow's offspring
being jammed against the side of the nest, and a skeleton of a previous victim hanging among
the branches below, with doubtless others lost in the grass somewhere in the near neighborhood,
where they had been removed by the bereaved mother. The ravenous young parasite, though not
half grown, was yet bigger by nearly double than the foster-mother. What a monster this! The
"Black Douglass" of the bird home; a blot on Nature's page!

As in previous instances, observing that the interloper had a voice fully capable of making
his wants known, I gave the comfortable little beast ample room to spread himself on the ground,
and let the lone little starveling survivor of the rightful brood have his cot all to himself.

And yet, as I left the spot, I confess to a certain misgiving, as the pleading chirrup of the
ousted fledgling followed me faintly and more faintly up the hill, recalling, too, the many
previous similar acts of mine--and one in particular, when I had slaughtered in cold blood
two of these irresponsibles found in a single nest. But sober second thought evoked a more
philosophic and conscientious mood, the outcome of which leading, as always, to a semi-conviction
that the complex question of reconciliation of duty and humanity in the premises was not thus
easily disposed of, considering, as I was bound to do, the equal innocence of the chicks, both
of which had been placed in the nest in obedience to a natural law, which in the case of the
cow-bird was none the less a divine institution because I failed to understand it. Such is
the inevitable, somewhat penitent conclusion which I always arrive at on the cow-bird question;
and yet my next cow-bird fledgling will doubtless follow the fate of all its predecessors,
the reminiscent qualms of conscience finding a ready philosophy equal to the emergency; for
if, indeed, this parasite of the bird home be a factor in the divine plan of Nature's equilibrium,
looking towards the survival of the fittest and the regulation of the sparrow and small-bird
population, which we must admit, how am I to know but that this righteous impulse of the human
animal is not equally a divine, as it is certainly a natural institution looking to the limitations
of the cow-bird? One June morning, a year or two ago, I heard a loud squeaking, as of a young
bird in the grass near my door, and, on approaching, discovered the spectacle of a cow-bird,
almost full-fledged, being fed by its foster-mother, a chippy not more than half its size,
and which was obliged to stand on tiptoe to cram the gullet of the parasite.

The victims of the cow-bird are usually, as in this instance, birds of much smaller size, the
fly-catchers, the sparrows, warblers, and vireos, though she occasionally imposes on larger
species, such as the orioles and the thrushes. The following are among its most frequent dupes,
given somewhat in the order of the bird's apparent choice: song-sparrow, field-sparrow, yellow
warbler, chipping-sparrow, other sparrows, Maryland yellow-throat, yellow-breasted chat, vireos,
worm-eating warbler, indigo-bird, least-flycatcher, bluebird, Acadian flycatcher, Canada flycatcher,
oven-bird, king-bird, cat-bird, phoebe, Wilson's thrush, chewink, and wood-thrush.

But one egg is usually deposited in a single nest; the presence of two eggs probably indicates,
as in the case of the European cuckoo, the visits of two cow-birds rather than a second visit
from the same individual--the presence of two cow-bird chicks of equal size being rather a
proof of this than otherwise, in that kind Nature would seem to have accommodated the bird
with an exceptional physiological resource, which matures its eggs at intervals of three or
more days, as against the daily oviposition of its dupes, thus giving it plenty of time to
make its search and take its pick among the bird-homes. Whether the process of evolution has
similarly equipped our cow-bird I am not aware; but the vicious habits of the two birds are
so identical that the same accommodating functional conditions might reasonably be expected.
It is, indeed, an interesting fact well known to ornithologists that our own American cuckoos,
both the yellow-billed and black-billed, although rudimentary nest-builders, still retain the
same exceptional interval in their egg-laying as do their foreign namesake. The eggs are laid
from four days to a week apart, instead of daily, as with most birds, their period of perilous
nidification on that haphazard apology of a nest being thus possibly prolonged to six weeks.
Thus we find, in consequence, the anomalous spectacle of the egg and full-grown chick, and
perhaps one or two fledglings of intermediate stages of growth, scattered about at once, helter-skelter,
in the same nest. Only two years ago I discovered such a nest not a hundred feet from my house,
containing one chick about two days old, another almost full-fledged, while a fresh-broken
egg lay upon the ground beneath. Such a household condition would seem rather demoralizing
to the cares of incubation, and doubtless the addled or ousted egg is a frequent episode in
our cuckoo's experience.

It is an interesting question which the contrast of the American and European cuckoo thus presents.
Is the American species a degenerate or a progressive nest-builder? Has she advanced in process
of evolution from a parasitical progenitor building no nest, or is the bird gradually retrograding
to the evil ways of her notorious namesake?

The evidence of this generic physiological peculiarity in the intervals of oviposition, taken
in consideration with the fact of the rudimentary nest, would seem to indicate the retention
of a now useless physiological function, and that the bird is thus a reformer who has repudiated
the example of her ancestors, and has henceforth determined to look after her own babes.

With the original presumed object of this remarkable prolonged interval in egg-laying now removed,
the period will doubtless be reduced through gradual evolution to accommodate itself to the
newly adopted conditions. The week's interval, taken in connection with the makeshift nest
or platform of sticks, is now a disastrous element in the life of the bird. Such of the cuckoos,
therefore, as build the more perfect nests, or lay at shortest intervals, will have a distinct
advantage over their less provident fellows, and the law of heredity will thus insure the continual
survival of the fittest.

The cuckoo is not alone among British birds in its intrusion on other nests. Many other species
are occasionally addicted to the same practice, though such acts are apparently accidental
rather than deliberate, so far as parasitical intent is concerned. The lapse is especially
noticeable among such birds as build in hollow trees and boxes, as the woodpeckers and wagtails.
Thus the English starling will occasionally impose upon and dispossess the green woodpecker.
In the process of nature in such cases the stronger of the two birds would retain the nest,
and thus assume the duties of foster-parent. Starting from this reasonable premise concerning
the prehistoric cuckoo, it is not difficult to see how natural selection, working through ages
of evolution by heredity, might have developed the habitual resignation of the evicted bird,
perhaps to the ultimate entire abandonment of the function of incubation. Inasmuch as "we have
no experience in the creation of worlds," we can only presume.

Indeed, the similarities and contrasts afforded by a comparison of the habits of all these
birds--European cuckoo, American cuckoo, and cow-bird--afford an interesting theme for the
student of evolution. What is to be the ultimate outcome of it all? for the murderous cuckoo
must be considered merely as an innocent factor in the great scheme of Nature's equilibrium,
in which the devourer and the parasite would seem to play the all-important parts, the present
example being especially emphasized because of its conspicuousness and its violence to purely
human sentiment. The parasite would often seem to hold the balance of power.

Even the tiny egg of a butterfly has its ichneumon parasite, a microscopic wasp, which lays
its own egg within the larger one, which ultimately hatches a wasp instead of the baby caterpillar.

But who ever heard of anything but good luck falling to the lot of cow-bird or cuckoo, except
as its blighting course is occasionally arrested by the outraged human? They always find a
feathered nest.

In this connection it is interesting to note certain developments in bird life upon the lines
of which evolution might work with revolutionary effect. Most of our birds are helpless and
generally resigned victims to the cow-bird, but there are indications of occasional effective
protest among them. Thus the little Maryland yellow-throat, according to various authorities,
often ousts the intruded egg, and its broken remains are also occasionally seen on the ground
beneath the nests of the cat-bird and the oriole. The red-eyed vireo, on the other hand, though
having apparently an easier task than the latter, in the lesser depth of her pensile nest,
commonly abandons it altogether to the unwelcome speckled ovum--always, I believe, if the cow-bird
has anticipated her own first egg.

But we have a more remarkable example of opposition in the resource of the little yellow warbler,
which I have noted as one of the favorite dupes of the cow-bird--a deliberate, intelligent,
courageous defiance and frequent victory which are unique in bird history, and which, if through
evolutionary process they became the fashion in featherdom, would put the cow-bird's mischief
greatly at a discount. The identity of this pretty little warbler is certainly familiar to
most observant country dwellers, even if unknown by name, though its golden-yellow plumage
faintly streaked with dusky brown upon the breast would naturally suggest its popular title
of "summer yellow-bird." It is one of the commonest of the mnio-tiltidæ, or wood-warblers,
though more properly a bird of the copse and shrubbery than of the woods.

This nest is a beautiful piece of bird architecture. In a walk in search of one only a day
or two ago I procured one, which is now before me. It was built in the fork of an elder-bush,
to which it was moored by strips of fine bark and cobweb, its downy bulk being composed by
a fitted mass of fine grass, willow cotton, fern wood, and other similar ingredients. It is
about three inches in depth, outside measurement. But this depth greatly varies in different
specimens. Our next specimen may afford quite a contrast, for the yellow warbler occasionally
finds it to her interest to extend the elevation of her dwelling to a remarkable height. On
page 50 is shown one of these nests, snugly moored in the fork of a scrub apple-tree. Its depth
from the rim to the base, viewed from the outside, is about five inches, at least two inches
longer than necessity would seem to require, and apparently with a great waste of material
in the lower portion, as the hollow with the pretty spotted eggs is of only the ordinary depth
of about two inches, thus hardly reaching half-way to the base. Let us examine it closely.
There certainly is a suspicious line or division across its upper portion, about an inch below
the rim, and extending more or less distinctly completely around the nest. By a very little
persuasion with our finger-tip the division readily yields, and we discover the summit of the
nest to be a mere rim--a top story, as it were--with a full-sized nest beneath it as a foundation.
Has our warbler, then, come back to his last year's home and fitted it up anew for this summer's
brood? Such would be a natural supposition, did we not see that the foundation is as fresh
in material as the summit. Perhaps, then, the bird has already raised her first spring brood,
and has simply extended her May domicile, and provided a new nursery for a second family. But
either supposition is quickly dispelled as we further examine the nest; for in separating the
upper compartment we have just caught a glimpse of what was, perhaps only yesterday, the hollow
of a perfect nest; and, what is more to the point of my story, the hollow contains an egg--perhaps
two, in which case they will be very dissimilar, one of delicate white with faint spots of
brown on its larger end, the putting of the warbler, the other much larger, with its greenish
surface entirely speckled with brown, and which, if we have had any experience in bird-nesting,
we immediately recognize as the mischievous token of the cow-bird. We have discovered a most
interesting curiosity for our natural-history cabinet--the embodiment of a presumably new form
of intelligence in the divine plan looking to the survival of the fittest. It is not known
how many years or centuries it has taken the little warbler to develop this clever resource
to outwit the cow-bird. It is certain, however, that the little mother has got tired of being
thus imposed upon, and is the first of her kind on record which has taken these peculiar measures
for rising above her besetting trouble.

Who can tell what the future may develop in the nests of other birds whose homes are similarly
invaded? I doubt not that this crying cow-bird and cuckoo evil comes up as a matter of consideration
in bird councils. The two-storied nest may yet become the fashion in featherdom, in which case
the cow-bird and European cuckoo would be forced to build nests of their own or perish.

But have we fully examined this nest of our yellow warbler? Even now the lower section seems
more bulky than the normal nest should be. Can we not trace still another faint outline of
a transverse division in the fabric, about an inch below the one already separated? Yes; it
parts easily with a little disentangling of the fibres, and another spotted egg is seen within.
A three-storied nest! A nest full of stories--certainly. I recently read of a specimen containing
four stories, upon the top of which downy pile the little warbler sat like Patience on a monument,
presumably smiling at the discomfiture of the outwitted cow-bird parasite, who had thus exhausted
her powers of mischief for the season, and doubtless convinced herself of the folly of "putting
all her eggs in one basket."

When we consider the life of the cow-bird, how suggestive is this spectacle which we may see
every year in September in the chuckling flocks massing for their migration, occasionally fairly
blackening the trees as with a mildew, each one the visible witness of a double or quadruple
cold-blooded murder, each the grim substitute for a whole annihilated singing family of song-sparrow,
warbler, or thrush! What a blessing, at least humanly speaking, could the epicurean population
en route in the annual Southern passage of this dark throng only learn what a surpassing substitute
they would prove--on toast--for the bobolinks which as "reed-birds" are sacrificed by the thousands
to the delectable satisfaction of those "fine-mouthed and daintie wantons who set such store
by their tooth"!

And what the cow-bird is, so is the Continental "cuckoo." Shall we not discriminate in our
employment of the superlative? What of the throstle and the lark? Shall we still sing--all
together:

"O cuckoo! I hear thee and rejoice! Thrice welcome darling of the spring."

DOOR-STEP NEIGHBORS

How little do we appreciate our opportunities for natural observation! Even under the most
apparently discouraging and commonplace environment, what a neglected harvest! A back-yard
city grass-plot, forsooth, what an invitation! Yet there is one interrogation to which the
local naturalist is continually called to respond. If perchance he dwells in Connecticut, how
repeatedly is he asked, "Don't you find your particular locality in Connecticut a specially
rich field for natural observation?" The botanist of New Jersey or the ornithologist of Esopus-on-Hudson
is expected to give an affirmative reply to similar questions concerning his chosen hunting-grounds,
if, indeed, he does not avail himself of that happy aphorism with which Gilbert White was wont
to instruct his questioners concerning the natural-history harvest of his beloved Selborne:
"That locality is always richest which is most observed."

The arena of the events which I am about to describe and picture comprised a spot of almost
bare earth less than one yard square, which lay at the base of the stone step to my studio
door in the country.

The path leading to the studio lay through a tangle of tall grass and weeds, with occasional
worn patches showing the bare earth. As it approached the door-step the surface of the ground
was quite clean and baked in the sun, and barely supported a few scattered, struggling survivors
of the sheep's-sorrel, silvery cinquefoil, ragweed, various grasses, and tiny rushes which
rimmed the border. Sitting upon this threshold stone one morning in early summer, I permitted
my eyes to scan the tiny patch of bare ground at my feet, and what I observed during a very
few moments suggested the present article as a good piece of missionary work in the cause of
nature, and a suggestive tribute to the glory of the commonplace. The episodes which I shall
describe represent the chronicle of a single day--in truth, of but a few hours in that day--though
the same events were seen in frequent repetition at intervals for months. Perhaps the most
conspicuous objects--if, indeed, a hole can be considered an "object"--were those two ever-present
features of every trodden path and bare spot of earth anywhere, ant-tunnels and that other
circular burrow, about the size of a quill, usually associated, and which is also commonly
attributed to the ants.

As I sat upon my stone step that morning, I counted seven of these smooth clean holes within
close range, three of them hardly more than an inch apart. They penetrated beyond the vision,
and were evidently very deep. Knowing from past experience the wary tenant which dwelt within
them, I adjusted myself to a comfortable attitude, and remaining perfectly motionless, awaited
developments. After a lapse of possibly five minutes, I suddenly discovered that I could count
but five holes; and while recounting to make sure, moving my eyes as slowly as possible, my
numeration was cut short at four. In another moment two more had disappeared, and the remaining
two immediately followed in obscurity, until no vestige of a hole of any kind was to be seen.
The ground appeared absolutely level and unbroken. Were it not for the circular depression,
or "door-yard," around each hole, their location would, indeed, have been almost impossible.
A slight motion of one of my feet at this juncture, however, and, presto! what a change! Seven
black holes in an instant! And now another wait of five minutes, followed by the same hocus-pocus,
and the black spots, one by one, vanishing from sight even as I looked upon them. But let us
keep perfectly quiet this time and examine the suspected spots more carefully. Locating the
position of the hole by the little circular "door-yard," we can now certainly distinguish a
new feature, not before noted, at the centre of each--two sharp curved prongs, rising an eighth
of an inch or more above the surface and widely extended.

What a danger signal to the creeping insect innocent in its neighborhood! How many a tragedy
in the bug world has been enacted in these inviting, clean-swept little door-yards--these pitfalls,
so artfully closed in order that their design may be the more surely effective. As I have said,
these tunnels are commonly called "ant-holes," perhaps with some show of reason. It is true
that ants occasionally are seen to go into them, but not by their own choice, while the most
careful observer will wait in vain to see the ant come out again. Here at the edge of the grass
we see one approaching now--a big red ant from yonder ant-hill. He creeps this way and that,
and anon is seen trespassing in the precincts of the unhealthy court. He crosses its centre,
when, click! and in an instant his place knows him no more, and a black hole marks the spot
where he met his fate, which is now being duly celebrated in a supplementary fête several inches
belowground.

A poor unfortunate green caterpillar, which, with a very little forcible persuasion in the
interest of science, was induced to take a short-cut across this nice clean space of earth
to the clover beyond, was the next martyr to my passion for original observation. He might
have pursued his even course across the arena unharmed, but he too persisted in trespassing,
and suddenly was seen to transform from a slow creeping laggard into the liveliest acrobat,
as he stood on his head and apparently dived precipitately into the hole which suddenly appeared
beneath him. A certain busy fly made itself promiscuous in the neighborhood, more than once
to the demoralization of my necessary composure, as it crept persistently upon my nose. What
was my delight when I observed the fickle insect in curious contemplation of a pair of calipers
at the centre of one of the little courts! But, whether from past experience or innate philosophy
in the insect I know not, the pronged hooks, though coming together with a click once or twice
at the near proximity of the tempter, failed in their opportunity, and the trap was soon seen
carefully set again, flush with the ground at the mouth of the burrow.

The contrast of these clean-swept door-yards with the mound of débris of the ants suggested
an investigation of the comparative methods of burrowing and the disposal of the excavated
material. Here is a hole evidently some inches in depth; what, then, has become of the earth
removed? Suiting action to the thought, I swept into the openings of two or three of the holes
quite a quantity of loose earth scraped from the close vicinity, and thus completely obliterated
the opening of burrow, door-yard and all.

I awaited in vain any sign of returning activity at the surface, and, my patience being somewhat
taxed, I entered my studio, where I remained for a quarter of an hour, perhaps. Upon stealing
cautiously to the doorway, I observed all the obliterated holes had reappeared, and upon taking
once more my original position I was soon rewarded with a demonstration of the method of excavation.
After a moment or two a pellet of earth seemed suddenly to rise from within the cavity, and
when arrived at the level of the ground was suddenly shot forth a distance of five or six inches,
as though thrown from a tiny round flat shovel, which suddenly flashed from the opening, and
as quickly retired to its depths, though not without a momentary display of two curved prongs
and a formidable show of spider-like legs.

After a short lapse of time the act was repeated, this time a tiny stone being brought to the
surface, and, after a brief pause at the doorway, was jerked to a distance as from a catapult.
I now concluded to try the power of this propelling force, and taking a small stone, about
three-quarters of an inch in length and a quarter-inch in thickness, laid it over the mouth
of the tunnel. A few minutes passed, when I noticed a slight motion in the stone, immediately
followed by a forcible ejectment, which threw it nearly an inch, the propelling instrument
retiring so quickly into the burrow beneath as to scarce afford a glimpse. The stone appeared
almost to have jumped voluntarily.

For an hour or more the bombardment of pellets and small stones continued from the mouth of
the pit, until a small pile of the spent ammunition had accumulated at several inches distance,
and at length the hole entirely disappeared, the earth in its vicinity presenting an apparently
level surface--an armed peace, in truth, with the two touchy curved calipers on duty, as already
described.

Following the hint of past experience, I concluded to explore the depths of one of these tunnels,
especially as I desired a specimen of the wily tenant for portraiture; and it is, indeed, an
odd fish that one may land on the surface if he be sufficiently alert in his angling. No hook
or bait is required in this sort of fishing. Taking a long culm of timothy-grass, I inserted
the tip into the burrow. It progressed without impediment two, three, six, eight inches, and
when at the depth of about ten inches appeared to touch bottom, which in this kind of angling
is the signal for a "strike" and the landing of the game. Instantly withdrawing the grass culm,
I found my fish at its tip, from which he quickly dropped to the ground. His singular identity
is shown in my illustration--an uncouth nondescript among grubs. His body is whitish and soft,
with a huge hump on the lower back armed with two small hooks. His enormous head is now seen
to be apparently circular in outline, and we readily see how perfectly it would fill the opening
of the burrow like an operculum. But a close examination shows us that this operculum is really
composed of two halves, on two separate segments of the body, the segment at the extremity
only being the true head, armed with its powerful, sharp, curved jaws. As he lies there sprawling
on his six spider-like legs, we may now easily test the skill of his trap, and gain some idea
of his voracious personality.

If with the point of our knife-blade, holding it in the direction of the insect's body, we
now touch its tail, what a display of vehement acrobatics! Instantly the agile body is bent
backward in a loop, while the teeth fasten to the knife-blade with an audible click. If our
finger-tip is substituted for the steel, the force of the stroke and the prick and grip of
the jaws are unpleasantly perceptible.

In order to fully comprehend the make-up of this curious cave-dweller we must turn biologists
for the moment. He must be considered from the evolutionary stand-point, or at least from the
stand-point of comparative anatomy.

The first discovery that we make is that as we now see him he is crawling on his back--a fact
which seems to have escaped his biographers heretofore. It is, in truth, the underside of his
head which is uppermost at the mouth of the burrow, and his six zigzag legs are distorted backward
to enable him to keep this contrary position. And what a hideous monster is this, whose flat,
metallic, dirt-begrimed face stares skyward from this circular burrow! Well might it strike
terror to the heart of the helpless insect which should suddenly find himself confronted by
the motionless stare of these four cruel, glistening black eyes! But he is now a "fish out
of water," and is about as helpless, nature never having intended him to be seen outside of
his burrow--at least, in this present form. There he dwells, setting his circular trap at the
mouth of his pitfall, and waiting for the voluntary sacrifice of his insect neighbors to fill
his maw.

But this uncouth shape, which so courts obscurity, is not always thus so reasonably retiring.
A few glass tumblers inverted above as many of these larger holes during the summer will intercept
the winged sprite into which he is shortly to be transfigured--a brilliant metallic-hued beetle,
perhaps flashing with bronzy gold or glittering like an emerald--the beautiful cicindela, or
tiger-beetle, known to the entomologist as the most agile winged among the coleopterous tribe;
known to the populace, perhaps, simply as a bright glittering fly that revels in the hot summer
sands of the sea-shore or dusty country road, making its short spans of glittering flight from
the very feet of the observer.

If we capture one of them with our butterfly-net he will be found to bear a general resemblance
to the portrait here indicated--a slender-legged, proportionably large-headed beetle, with
formidable jaws capable of wide extension, and re-enforced by an insatiate carnivorous hunger
inherited from his former estate.

It will thus be seen that all the holes which we observe in the ground are not ant-holes; nor,
indeed, are they monopolized by the tiger-beetles. There were other tunnels which I saw dug
in my square yard of earth on that morning, which, while not of quite such depth, represented
equally deep-laid plans.

While observing my cicindelas on that morning, my attention was at length diverted by an old
friend of mine, who gave promise of much entertainment--a tiny black wasp, whose restless,
rapid, zigzag, apparently aimless wanderings over the ground brought him into continual danger
of contact with the snatching jaws of the cave-dwelling tiger, from which, however, he somehow
escaped, though I distinctly heard the occasional clicking of the eager jaws.

With short abrupt flights or agile runs of a few inches, accompanied by nervous periodic flirts
of the folded wings, the insect had covered pretty much of the ground in a short time, until
she at length appeared to have discovered the object of her search, as she withdrew from beneath
a sorrel leaf a big fat spider several times as large as herself. Its legs were folded beneath
its body, and it was perfectly plain that this was not the first time that it had been in the
toils of the wasp, which had evidently stung it into submission and stupor some minutes previous.
Tugging bravely at her charge, the little black Amazon dragged her burden nimbly over the ground,
pulling it after her in entire disregard of obstacles, now this way, now that, with the same
exasperating disregard of eternity which she at first displayed, and at length deposited it
on the top of a little flat weed, where it was left, while for five minutes more she pursued
the same zigzag, apparently senseless meandering over the entire field of earth. Now she seems
again to stumble upon her neglected prey, and taking it once more in her formidable jaws, she
lugs it again for a long helter-skelter jaunt, this time depositing it in the neighborhood
of a hole, which at first sight might have been considered an "ant-hole," from the débris which
lay scattered about in its vicinity. After considerable needless delay, she is seen for once
motionless, so far as her legs are concerned, but with her head over the tunnel, while, with
flipping wings and rapidly waving antennæ, she investigates its depths. Satisfied that all
is well, she again reaches her drowsy spider, by a tangled circuit of about a quarter of a
mile--wasp measurement--and taking the victim in her teeth for the third time, finally succeeds
in reaching the burrow, into which, without a particle of ceremony, she instantly retreats,
dragging her helpless burden after her. Both wasp and spider are soon out of sight, and so
remain perhaps for a space of two minutes, when the tips of the nervous antennæ appear at the
doorway and the wasp emerges. What now follows is most curious and interesting. With an energy
and directness in striking contrast to her previous proceedings, she proceeds to fill the cavity,
biting the earth with her mandibles, and with her spiked legs kicking and shoving in the loose
soil thus collected, ever and anon backing up to the hole and inserting the tip of her tail
to force down the mass. As the filling is nearly completed, with the fore feet and jaws the
surrounding earth is scraped for material, which she immediately proceeds to pack by a rhythmic
tamping motion of the tail, until, at the end of five minutes, perhaps, the ground-level is
finally reached, the surface smoothed, and no sign remains to mark the grave of the stupefied
spider victim.

Not an hour after this episode I was treated to another of even more interest. As I took my
seat upon the door-step I started into flight a big black wasp, upon whose doings I had evidently
been intruding.

This wasp was much larger than the one just described, being about an inch in length. Its wings
were pale brown and its body jet-black, with sundry small yellowish spots about the thorax.
But its most conspicuous feature, and one which would ever fix the identity of the creature,
was the long, slender, wire-like waist, occupying a quarter of the length of its entire body.

In a moment or two the wasp had returned, and stood at the mouth of the shallow pit. Eying
me intently for a space, and satisfied that there was nothing to fear, she dived into the hollow
and began to excavate, turning round and round as she gnawed the earth at the bottom, and shovelling
it out with her spiked legs. Now and then she would back out of the burrow to reconnoitre,
and her alert attitude at such times was very amusing--her antennæ drooping towards the burrow
and in incessant motion; the abdomen on its long wire stem bobbing up and down at regular intervals,
accompanied by a flipping motion of the wings; the short fore legs, one or both, upraised with
comical effect.

As the tunnel was deepened a new method of excavation was employed. It has now reached a depth
of an inch, only the extremity of the insect's body appearing, and the two hindermost legs
clinging to surrounding earth for purchase. The deep digging is now accompanied by a continual
buzzing noise, resembling that produced by a bluebottle fly held captive between one's fingers.
At intervals of about ten or fifteen seconds the wasp would quickly back out of the burrow,
bringing a load of sand, which it held between the back of the jaws and its thorax, sustained
at the sides by the two upraised fore legs. After a moment's pause with this burden, the insect
would make a sudden short darting flight of a foot or more in a quick circuit, hurling the
sand a yard or more distant from the burrow. At the end of about fifteen minutes the burrow
was sunk to the depth of an inch and a half, the wasp entirely disappearing, and indicated
only by the continuous buzzing.

At this time, the luncheon hour having arrived, I was obliged to pause in my investigations,
and in order to be able to locate the burrow in the event of its obliteration by the wasp before
my return, I scratched a circle in the hard dirt, the hole being at its exact centre.

Upon my return, an hour later, I was met with a surprise. The ways of the digger-wasps of various
species were familiar, but I now noted a feature of wasp-engineering which indeed seems to
await its chronicler, as I find no mention of it by the wasp-historians.

At the exact centre of my circle, in place of a cavity, I now found a tiny pile of stones,
supported upon a small stick and fragment of leaf, which had been first drawn across the opening.

This was evidently a mere temporary protection of the burrow, I reasoned, while the digger
had departed in search of prey, and my surmise was soon proved to be correct, as I observed
the wasp, with bobbing abdomen and flipping wings, zigzagging about the vicinity. Presently
disappearing beneath a small plantain leaf, she quickly emerged, drawing behind her not a spider,
as in the case of her smaller predecessor, but a big green caterpillar, nearly double her own
length, and as large around as a slate-pencil--a peculiar, pungent, waspy-scented species of
"puss-moth" larva, which is found on the elm, and with which I chanced to be familiar.

The victim being now ready for burial, the wasp sexton proceeded to open the tomb. Seizing
one stone after another in her widely opened jaws, they were scattered right and left, when,
with apparent ease and prompt despatch, the listless larva was drawn towards the burrow, into
whose depths he soon disappeared. Then, after a short and suggestive interval, followed the
emergence of the wasp, and the prompt filling in of the requisite earth to level the cavity,
much as already described, after which the wasp took wing and disappeared, presumably bent
upon a repetition of the performance elsewhere. But she had not simply buried this caterpillar
victim, nor was the caterpillar dead, for these wasp cemeteries are, in truth, living tombs,
whose apparently dead inmates are simply sleeping, narcotized by the venom of the wasp sting,
and thus designed to afford fresh living food for the young wasp grub, into whose voracious
care they are committed.

By inserting my knife-blade deep into the soil in the neighborhood of this burrow I readily
unearthed the buried caterpillar, and disclosed the ominous egg of the wasp firmly imbedded
in its body. The hungry larva which hatches from this egg soon reaches maturity upon the all-sufficient
food thus stored, and before many weeks is transformed to the full-fledged, long-waisted wasp
like its parent.

The disproportion in the sizes of the predatory wasps and their insect prey is indeed astonishing.
The great sand-hornet selects for its most frequent victim the buzzing cicada, or harvest-fly,
an insect much larger than itself, and which it carries off to its long sand tunnels by short
flights from successive elevated points, such as the limbs of trees and summits of rocks, to
which it repeatedly lugs its clumsy prey. In the present instance the contrast between the
slight body of the wasp and the plump dimensions of the caterpillar was even more marked, and
I determined to ascertain the proportionate weight of victor and victim. Constructing a tiny
pair of balances with a dead grass stalk, thread, and two disks of paper, I weighed the wasp,
using small square pieces of paper of equal size as my weights. I found that the wasp exactly
balanced four of the pieces. Removing the wasp and substituting the caterpillar, I proceeded
to add piece after piece of the paper squares until I had reached a total of twenty-eight,
or seven times the number required by the wasp, before the scales balanced. Similar experiments
with the tiny black wasp and its spider victim showed precisely the same proportion, and the
ratio was once increased eight to one in the instance of another species of slender orange-and-black-bodied
digger which I subsequently found tugging its caterpillar prey upon my door-step patch.

The peculiar feature of the piling of stones above the completed burrow was not a mere individual
accomplishment of my wire-waisted wasp. On several occasions since I have observed the same
manoeuvre, which is doubtless the regular procedure with this and other species. The smaller
orange-spotted wasp just alluded to indicated to me the location of her den by pausing suggestively
in front of a tiny cairn. In this instance a small flat stone, considerably larger than the
tunnel, had been laid over the opening, and the others piled upon it. On two occasions I have
surprised this same species of wasp industriously engaged in the selection of a suitable flat
foundation-stone with which to cover her burrow: her widely extended slender jaws enable her
to grasp a pebble nearly a third of an inch in width.

In my opening vignette I have indicated two other door-step neighbors which bore my industrious
wasps company in their arena of one square yard. To the left, surrounding a grass stem, will
be seen an object which is unpleasantly familiar to most country folks--that salivary mass
variously known by the libellous names of "snake-spit," "cow-spit," "cuckoo-spit," "toad-spit,"
and "sheep-spit," or the inelegant though expressive substitute of "gobs." The foam-bath pavilion
of the "spume-bearer," with his glittering, bubbly domicile of suds, is certainly familiar
to most of my readers; but comparatively few, I find, have cared to investigate the mysterious
mass, or to learn the identity of the proprietor of the foamy lavatory.

The common name of "cow-spit," with the implied indignity to our "rural divinity," becomes
singularly ludicrous when we observe not only the frequent generous display of the suds samples,
thousands upon thousands in a single small meadow, but the further fact that each mass is so
exactly landed upon the central stalk of grass or other plant--"spitted" through its centre,
as it were. The true expectorator is within, laved in his own home-made suds. If we care to
blow or scrape off the bubbles, we readily disclose him--- a green speckled bug, about a third
of an inch in length in larger specimens, with prominent black eyes, and blunt, wedge-shaped body.

In the appended sketch I have indicated two views of him, back and profile, creeping upon a
grass stalk. A glance at the insect tells the entomologist just where to place him, as he is
plainly allied to the cicadæ, and thus belongs to the order Hemiptera, or family of "bugs,"
which implies, among other things, that the insect possesses a "beak for sucking." To what
extent this tiny soaker is possessed of such a beak may be inferred from the amount of moisture
with which he manages to inundate himself, which has all been withdrawn from the stem upon
which he has fastened himself, and finally exuded from the pores of his body.

This is the spume-bearer, Aprophora, in his first or larval estate, which continues for a few
weeks only. Erelong he will graduate from these ignominious surroundings, and we shall see
quite another sort of creature--an agile, pretty atom, one of which I have indicated in flight,
its upper wings being often brilliantly colored, and re-enforced by a pair of hind feet which
emulate those of the flea in their powers of jumping, which agility has won the insect the
popular name of "froghopper." They abound in the late summer meadow, and hundreds of them may
be captured by a few sweeps of a butterfly-net among the grass.

My other remaining claimant for notice, shown upon the plant at the right margin of page 60,
is a modest and inconspicuous individual, and might readily escape attention, save that a more
intent observer might possibly wonder at the queer little tubular pinkish blossoms upon the
plant--a rush--while a keen-eyed botanist would instantly challenge the right of a juncus to
such a tubular blossom at all, especially at seed-time, and thus investigate. But the entomologist
will probably classify this peculiar blossom at a glance, from its family resemblance to other
specimens with which he is familiar. He will know, for instance, that this is a sort of peripatetic
or nomadic blossom that will travel about on the plant, with which its open end will always
remain in close contact. Many of the individuals are seen apparently growing upright out of
the rounded seed-pod of the rush; and when the pink or speckled tube finally concludes to take
up its travels, a clean round hole marks the spot of its tarrying, and an empty globular shell
tells the secret of this brief attachment.

For this petal-like tube, so commonly to be seen upon the little rush of our paths, is, in
truth, a tiny silken case enclosing the body of a small larva--a diminutive psychid, or sack-bearer,
which I have not chanced to see described. Only the head and six prolegs of the occupant ever
emerge from its case. Dragging its house along upon the plant, it attaches the open mouth of
the sack close to the green seed-pod, after which the shell is gnawed through at the point
of contact, and the young seeds devoured at pleasure, when a new journey is made to the next
capsule, and thus until the maturity of the larva. At this time the case is about half an inch
in length. It is now firmly attached to the plant. The opening is completely spun over with
silk, and the case becomes a cocoon for the winter; and a few of these September cocoons are
well worth gathering, if only to see the queer little moth which will emerge from them the
following spring.

A QUEER LITTLE FAMILY ON THE BITTERSWEET

In a recent half-hour's relaxation, while comfortably stretched in my hammock upon the porch
of my country studio, I was surprised with a singular entertainment. I soon found myself most
studiously engaged. Entwining the corner post of the piazza, and extending for some distance
along the eaves, a luxuriant vine of bittersweet had made itself at home. The currant-like
clusters of green fruits, hanging in pendent clusters here and there, were now nearly mature,
and were taking on their golden hue, and the long, free shoots of tender growth were reaching
out for conquest on right and left in all manner of graceful curves and spirals. Through an
opening in this shadowy foliage came a glimpse of the hill-side slope across the valley upon
whose verge my studio is perched, and as my eye penetrated this pretty vista it was intercepted
by what appeared to be a shadowed portion of a rose branch crossing the opening and mingling
with the bittersweet stems. In my idle mood I had for some moments so accepted it without a
thought, and would doubtless have left the spot with this impression had I not chanced to notice
that this stem, so beset with conspicuous thorns, was not consistent in its foliage. My suspicions
aroused, I suddenly realized that my thorny stem was in truth merely a bittersweet branch in
masquerade, and that I had been "fooled" by a sly midget who had been an old-time acquaintance
of my boyhood, but whom I had long neglected.

Every one knows the climbing-bittersweet, or "waxwork" (Celastrus scandens), with its bright
berries hanging in clusters in the autumn copses, each yellow berry having now burst open in
thin sections and exposed the scarlet-coated seeds. Almost any good-sized vine, if examined
early in the months of July and August, will show us the thorns, and more sparingly until October,
and queer thorns they are, indeed! Here an isolated one, there two or three together, or perhaps
a dozen in a quaint family circle around the stem, their curved points all, no matter how far
separated, inclined in the same direction, as thorns properly should be. Let us gently invade
the little colony with our finger-tip. Touch one never so gently and it instantly disappears.
Was ever thorn so deciduous? And now observe its fellows. Here one slowly glides up the stem;
another in the opposite direction; another sideways. In a moment more the whole family have
entirely disappeared, as if by hocus-pocus, until we discover, by a change of our point of
view, that they have all congregated on the opposite side of the stem, with an agility which
would have done credit to the proverbial gray squirrel.

This animated thorn is about a quarter of an inch long, and dark brown in color, with two yellowish
spots on the edge of its back.

Nor is this all the witchery of this bittersweet thorn. It is well worth our further careful
study. Seen collectively, the thorny rose branch is instantly suggested, but occasionally,
when we observe a single isolated specimen, especially in the month of July, he will certainly
masquerade in an entirely new guise. Look! quick. Turn your magnifier hither on this green
shoot. No thorn this. Is it not rather a whole covey of quail, mother and young creeping along
the vine? Who would ever have thought of a thorn! Turning now to our original group, how perfectly
do they take the hint, for are they not a family of tiny birds with long necks and swelling
breasts and drooping tails, verily like an autumn brood of "Bob Whites"?

But the little harlequin is as wary a bird as he was a thorn! No sooner do we touch his head
with our finger than with an audible "click" he is off on a most agile jump, which he extends
with buzzing wings, and is even now perhaps aping a thorn among a little group of his fellows
somewhere among the larger bittersweet branches.

It is only as we capture one of the little protean acrobats between our finger-tips and examine
him with a magnifier that we can really make "head or tail" of his queer anatomy. Even thus
enlarged it is difficult to get entirely rid of the idea of a bird. I have shown a group of
the insects in various attitudes, the position of the eyes alone serving as a starting-point
for our comprehension of his singular make-up. The tall neck-like or thorn-like prominence
is then seen to be a mere elongated helmet, which is prolonged into a steep angle behind, so
as to cover the back of the creature like a peaked roof, a feature from which the scientific
name of this particular group of insects is derived, Membracis, meaning sharp-edged, the sides
of the slope being covered by the close-fitting wings, which, though apparently compact with
the body of the insect, are nevertheless always available for instant and most agile flight.
We now discover two pairs of stout legs just beneath the edge of the wings, a third more slender
pair being concealed behind, ready for immediate use in association with these buzzing wings
when the whim of the midget prompts it to leap.

This insect is the tree-hopper, and is but one of many equally curious and mimetic species
to be found among the smaller branches of various trees and shrubs.

Our largest membracis is to be seen--with difficulty--on the terminal twigs of the locust-tree,
its outlines so exactly imitating the thorny growths of the branch as to escape detection even
by the closest scrutiny. Another remarkable species is a protégé of the oak, so closely simulating
the warty bark of the smaller branches upon which it is found that our eyes may rest upon it
repeatedly without recognizing it. The life history of these singular insects is quite similar,
and is soon told. The membracis belongs to the tribe of "Bugs," Hemiptera, which implies that
it possesses a beak instead of jaws, by which it sucks the sap of plants, precisely like the
aphis, or plant-louse. This tiny beak we can readily distinguish bent beneath the body of our
bittersweet hopper. Inserting it deep into the succulent bark, the parasite remains for hours
as motionless as the thorn it imitates, the lower outline of its body hugging close against
the bark. The curious suggestion of the thorn is produced not only by the outline, but by the
curious fact that the hopper never sits across the twig, but always in the direction of its
length; and, what is more, the projecting point of the thorax is always directed towards the
end of the branch, or direction of growth. It is no easy thing even for the casual botanist
to determine this nice point in a given segment of a bittersweet branch placed in his hand,
the position of the chance leaf or leaf scar being his only guide. But the Membracis binotata
rarely--indeed never, so far as I have examined--makes a mistake. Thus the wandering spray
of bittersweet, recurve and twist upon itself as it may, will always disclose the little hopper
or colony of them headed for its tip.

But I have omitted to mention one singular feature which is the usual accompaniment of my group
of hoppers, and is, indeed, the most conspicuous sign of their presence on any given shrub.
In the cut below I have indicated a short section of a bittersweet branch as it commonly appears,
the twig apparently beset with tiny tufts of cotton, occasionally so numerous as to present
a continuous white mass, usually on the lower side of the branch, where its direction is horizontal.
They are thus easily seen from below, and a closer examination will always reveal one or more
of the black animated thorns in their immediate vicinity, suggesting the responsible source.
These tufts are pure white, a little over an eighth of an inch in length, and semicircular
in vertical outline. The natural presumption is the idea of maternity, the mother hopper guarding
her bundles of white eggs, or her infant hoppers, perhaps, snugly tucked up in their downy
swaddling-clothes. But a closer examination completely dispels this illusion. Instead of the
supposed fluffy cotton, we now discover the white substance to be of firm though somewhat sticky
consistency, its surface, moreover, beautifully ridged from base to summit in parallel rounded
flutings, which meet and interfold like a braid along the summit. If with a sharp knife we
now cut downward through and across the mass, we find our tuft to be a mere frothy shell containing
two hollow compartments, with a thin central partition extending through the whole length of
the cavity. But there is no sign of an egg or other life to be disclosed anywhere, either in
its substance or its concealment. What, then, is the office of this tiny fragile house of congealed
foam, with its snowy aerated structure, its double arched chambers, its corrugated walls and
ceilings, and missing tenant or host? Such was the riddle which it propounded to me, and guided
by some previous knowledge of the habits of allied insects, I was soon enabled to witness a
solution of at least a part of its mystery.

This little thorn-like tree-hopper and all of its queer harlequin tribe are near relatives
to the buzzing cicada, or harvest-fly, whose whizzing din in the dog-days has won it the popular
misnomer of "locust."

To the average listener this insect is a mere "wandering voice and a mystery," and its singular
form, wide prominent eyes, glassy wings, and double drums are always a surprise to the tyro
who first identifies the grotesque as his well-known "locust." Its musical accomplishments
during this brief period of its life are known to all, but few have cared to interest themselves
in the early history of the singer, ere it perfected its musical resources "for the delight
of man." But the naturalist, and especially the arboriculturist and fruit-grower, know to their
cost of other tricks of the cicada, or rather of Mrs. Cicada, immortalized by Zenarchus the
Rhodian as his "noiseless wife"--

"Happy the cicadas' lives, Since they all have noiseless wives."

I have alluded to the egg of the cicada "inserted in the bark of a twig." This act is accomplished
by a knife-like ovipositor, which literally gouges a deep gash into the tender wood of various
twigs, a number of the eggs being implanted in its depths, often causing the death of the branch.
Shortly after hatching, the young cicadas leap for the ground, and burrowing beneath the surface,
remain for a period varying from three to seventeen years, according to the species, to complete
their transformations. Now the habits of my little tree-hopper are somewhat modelled after
its big cousin. Knowing that the little insect was provided with a keen-edged ovipositor, and
was in the habit of thrusting its tiny eggs beneath the bark, and realizing, too, that these
strange tufts were of course in some way connected with the maternal instinct, I was led to
investigate. Selecting a branch where the tufts and hoppers seemed most prolific, I brought
my magnifying-glass to bear upon them at a respectful distance. Was ever actual thorn more
motionless or non-committal than most of these?--their under surfaces hugging close against
the bark, their telltale feet closely withdrawn, and all their pointed helmets inclined in
the same parallel direction. One after another of the sly little family was examined without
a revelation. Not until I had reached the upper limit of the group did I get any encouragement.
Here I discovered one of the midgets in a new position, its pointed helmet inclined farther
downward, and its other extremity correspondingly raised, so that I could see beneath its body.
I now observed what at first appeared to be the hind leg of the farther side of the body protruding
beneath, but in another moment noted my error, and saw that its sharp point had penetrated
the bark, into which it soon sank quite deeply, and I realized that the ovipositor was now
conducting its tiny eggs into the cambium layer of the bark. Without waiting for this particular
individual to finish her labors, which might be extended for hours for aught I knew, I turned
my glass upon its nearest neighbor, and a most accommodating specimen she proved, disclosing
all the mysteries of the little froth house, its strange material, and unique method of construction.
What I saw reminded me irresistibly of the technique of the cake-frosting art of the fancy
baker, with its flowing tube of white condiment, and its following tracery of questionable
design in high relief. This accommodating specimen had apparently just completed her egg-laying,
or had perhaps just filled one nest; and while her attitude was precisely similar to that of
her neighbor, I noticed a tiny ball of glistening froth at the tip of the ovipositor. This
was attached to the bark by a touch, and from this starting-point the construction of the glistening
house was continued, the apex of the ovipositor pouring out its endless puffy roll of aerated
cement, which seemed to set as soon as laid.

And what a convenient implement this for a froth-house builder who is compelled to work behind
her back--mortar-feeder, trowel, darby, compass, and level all in one! Beginning with the first
touch of the cement, the flowing point describes a very small half-circle to the right, again
meeting the bark. It is now carried inward and upward, describing a very close circle with
scarcely any space intervening, a similar circle being repeated on the left side. A new tier
is then begun in the same manner, only this time a little larger in the sweep, and leaving
a perceptible opening at the right as the central wall is carried upward with slightly decreased
material. Returning down the central wall again, the white coil is carried to the left along
the bark, and up again on the other outer edge, until it once more meets its fellow at the
ridge-pole, where the two coils appear to interlock as in a braid. And thus the little builder
continues, enlarging the cavity with each circuit, until the full height is reached, and then
decreasing proportionately until the glistening braided dome is tapered off again against the bark.

Now what is the object of this frothy pavilion? The life history of the insect, in contrast
to that of the cicada, will perhaps throw a little light on that question. In the cicada, as
I have shown, the eggs are inserted in the bark, but the young, hatching about six weeks later,
immediately forsake the parent tree and enter the ground. But the young of our bittersweet
membracis are not thus fickle, the entire life of the insect being spent on the plant. Moreover,
its eggs are laid in late summer, and do not hatch until the following spring. What, then,
is this canopy of the tree-hopper but the provision of a thoughtful mother, a pavilion about
her offspring as a shelter through the winter storms? In early July the tiny hoppers emerge
from their egg-cases, and presumably creep out from their luminous domicile, and later on in
the season these broods of varying numbers and all sizes are to be seen among the young stems
of the plant, their beaks inserted, their pointed heads invariably in the same direction--towards
the top of the branch. Even though in flight one of the midgets is seen to alight in violence
to the rule, he instantly recognizes his mistake, and quickly glides round to the orthodox
position.

This curious insect is chiefly confined to the bittersweet, though he is occasionally found
in the company of a much bigger cousin of his on the branches of the locust, where these same
telltale corrugated frothy pavilions are often seen to clothe the young twigs in their white
tufts, the similar product of the larger species, which thus also presumably spends its entire
life upon the locust-tree.

THE WELCOMES OF THE FLOWERS

It is now some thirty years since the scientific world was startled by the publication of that
wonderful volume, "The Fertilization of Orchids," by Charles Darwin; for though slightly anticipated
by his previous work, "Origin of Species," this volume was the first important presentation
of the theory of cross-fertilization in the vegetable kingdom, and is the one that is primarily
associated with the subject in the popular mind. The interpretation and elucidation of the
mysteries which had so long lain hidden within those strange flowers, whose eccentric forms
had always excited the curiosity and awe alike of the botanical fraternity and the casual observer,
came almost like a divine revelation to every thoughtful reader of his remarkable pages. Blossoms
heretofore considered as mere caprices and grotesques were now shown to be eloquent of deep
divine intention, their curious shapes a demonstrated expression of welcome and hospitality
to certain insect counterparts upon whom their very perpetuation depended.

Thus primarily identified with the orchid, it was perhaps natural and excusable that popular
prejudice should have associated the subject of cross-fertilization with the orchid alone;
for it is even to-day apparently a surprise to the average mind that almost any casual wild
flower will reveal a floral mechanism often quite as astonishing as those of the orchids described
in Darwin's volume. Let us glance, for instance, at the row of stamens below (Fig. 1), selected
at random from different flowers, with one exception wild flowers. Almost everybody knows that
the function of the stamen is the secretion of pollen. This function, however, has really no
reference whatever to the external form of the stamen. Why, then, this remarkable divergence?
Here is an anther with its two cells connected lengthwise, and opening at the sides, perhaps
balanced at the centre upon the top of its stalk or filament, or laterally attached and continuous
with it; here is another opening by pores at the tip, and armed with two or four long horns;
here is one with a feathery tail. In another the twin cells are globular and closely associated,
while in its neighbor they are widely divergent. Another is club-shaped, and opens on either
side by one or more upraised lids; and here is an example with its two very unequal cells separated
by a long curved arm or connective, which is hinged at the tip of its filament; and the procession
might be continued across two pages with equal variation.

As far back as botanical history avails us these forms have been the same, each true to its
particular species of flower, each with an underlying purpose which has a distinct and often
simple reference to its form; and yet, incredible as it now seems to us, the botanist of the
past has been content with the simple technical description of the feature, without the slightest
conception of its meaning, dismissing it, perhaps, with passing comment upon its "eccentricity"
or "curious shape." Indeed, prior to Darwin's time it might be said that the flower was as
a voice in the wilderness. In 1735, it is true, faint premonitions of its present message began
to be heard through their first though faltering interpreter, Christian Conrad Sprengel, a
German botanist and school-master, who upon one occasion, while looking into the chalice of
the wild geranium, received an inspiration which led him to consecrate his life thence-forth
to the solution of the floral hieroglyphics. Sprengel, it may be said, was the first to exalt
the flower from the mere status of a botanical specimen.

This philosophic observer was far in advance of his age, and to his long and arduous researches--a
basis built upon successively by Andrew Knight, Köhlreuter, Herbert, Darwin, Lubbock, Müller,
and others--we owe our present divination of the flowers.

In order to fully appreciate this present contrast, it is well to briefly trace the progress,
step by step, from the consideration of the mere anatomical and physiological specimen of the
earlier botanists to the conscious blossom of to-day, with its embodied hopes, aspirations,
and welcome companionships.

Most of my readers are familiar with the general construction of a flower, but in order to
insure such comprehension it is well, perhaps, to freshen our memory by reference to the accompanying
diagram (Fig. 2) of an abstract flower, the various parts being indexed.

The calyx usually encloses the bud, and may be tubular, or composed of separate leaves or sepals,
as in a rose. The corolla, or colored portion, may consist of several petals, as in the rose,
or of a single one, as in the morning-glory. At the centre is the pistil, one or more, which
forms the ultimate fruit. The pistil is divided into three parts, ovary, style, and stigma.
Surrounding the pistil are the stamens, few or many, the anther at the extremity containing
the powdery pollen.

Although these physiological features have been familiar to observers for thousands of years,
the several functions involved were scarcely dreamed of until within a comparatively recent period.

In the writings of ancient Greeks and Romans we find suggestive references to sexes in flowers,
but it was not until the close of the seventeenth century that the existence of sex was generally
recognized.

In 1682 Nehemias Grew announced to the scientific world that it was necessary for the pollen
of a flower to reach the stigma or summit of the pistil in order to insure the fruit. I have
indicated his claim pictorially at A (Fig. 3), in the series of historical progression. So
radical was this "theory" considered that it precipitated a lively discussion among the wiseheads,
which was prolonged for fifty years, and only finally settled by Linnæus, who reaffirmed the
facts declared by Grew, and verified them by such absolute proof that no further doubts could
be entertained. The inference of these early authorities regarding this process of pollination
is perfectly clear from their statements. The stamens in most flowers were seen to surround
the pistil, "and of course the presumption was that they naturally shed the pollen upon the
stigma," as illustrated at B in my series. The construction of most flowers certainly seemed
designed to fulfil this end. But there were other considerations which had been ignored, and
the existence of color, fragrance, honey, and insect association still continued to challenge
the wisdom of the more philosophic seekers. How remarkable were some of those early speculations
in regard to "honey," or, more properly, nectar! Patrick Blair, for instance, claimed that
"honey absorbed the pollen," and thus fertilized the ovary. Pontidera thought that its office
was to keep the ovary in a moist condition. Another botanist argued that it was "useless material
thrown off in process of growth." Krunitz noted that "bee-visited meadows were most healthy,"
and his inference was that "honey was injurious to the flowers, and that bees were useful in
carrying it off"! The great Linnæus confessed himself puzzled as to its function.

For a period of fifty years the progress of interpretation was completely arrested. The flowers
remained without a champion until 1787, when Sprengel began his investigations, based upon
the unsolved mysteries of color and markings of petals, fragrance, nectar, and visiting insects.
The prevalent idea of the insect being a mere idle accessory to the flower found no favor with
him. He chose to believe that some deep plan must lie beneath this universal association. At
the inception of this conviction he chanced to observe in the flower of the wild geranium (G.
sylvaticum) a fact which only an inspired vision could have detected--that the minute hairs
at the base of the petal, while disclosing the nectar to insects, completely protected it from
rain. Investigation showed the same conditions in many other flowers, and the inference he
drew was further strengthened by the remarkable discovery of his "honey-guides" in a long list
of blossoms, by which the various decorations of spots, rings, and converging veins upon the
petals indicated the location of the nectar.

His labors were now concentrated on the work of interpretation, until at length his researches,
covering a period of two or three years, were given to the world. In a volume bearing the following
victorious title, "The Secrets of Nature in Forms and Fertilization of Flowers Discovered,"
he presented a vast chronicle of astonishing facts. The previous discoveries of Grew and Linnæus
were right so far as they went--viz., "the pollen must reach the stigma"--but those learned
authorities had missed the true secret of the process. In proof of which Sprengel showed that
in a great many flowers, as I have shown at C (Fig. 3), this deposit of pollen is naturally
impossible, owing to the relative position of the floral parts, and that the pollen could not
reach the stigma except by artificial aid. He then announced his startling theory:

1. "Flowers are fertilized by insects."

2. Insects in approaching the nectar brush the pollen from the anthers with various hairy parts
of their bodies, and in their motions convey it to the stigma.

But Sprengel's seeming victory was doomed to be turned to defeat. The true "secret" was yet
unrevealed in his pages. He had given a poser to Linnæus (C), yet his own work abounded with
similar strange inconsistencies, which, while being scarcely admitted by himself, or ingeniously
explained, were nevertheless fatal to the full recognition of his wonderful researches. For
seventy years his book lay almost unnoticed.

"Let us not underrate the value of a fact; it will one day flower in a truth." The defects
in Sprengel's work were, after all, not actual defects. The error lay simply in his interpretation
of his carefully noted facts. As Hermann Müller has said, "Sprengel's investigations afford
an example of how even work that is rich in acute observation and happy interpretation may
remain inoperative if the idea at its foundation is defective." What, then, was the flaw in
Sprengel's work? Simply that he had seen but half the "secret" which he claimed to have "discovered."
Starting to prove that insects fertilize the flowers, his carefully observed facts only served
to demonstrate in many cases the reverse--that insects could not fertilize flowers in the manner
he had declared. He was met at every hand, for instance, by floral problems such as are shown
at E and F, where the pollen and the stigma in the same flower matured at different periods;
and even though he recognized and admitted that the pollen must in many cases be transferred
from one flower to another, he failed to divine that such was actually the common vital plan
involved. It may readily be imagined that his great work precipitated an intense and prolonged
controversy, and incited emulous investigation by the botanists of his time. Though a few of
the more advanced of his followers, among them Andrew Knight (1799), Köhlreuter (1811), Herbert
(1837), Gärtner (1844), clearly recognized the principle and foreshadowed the later theory
of cross-fertilization, it was not until the inspired insight of Darwin, as voiced in his "Origin
of Species," contemplated these strange facts and inconsistencies of Sprengel that their full
significance and actual value were discovered and demonstrated, and his remarkable book, forgotten
for seventy years, at last appreciated for its true worth. Alas for the irony of fate! Under
Darwin's interpretation the very "defects" which had rendered Sprengel's work a failure now
became the absolute witness of a deeper truth which Sprengel had failed to discern. One more
short step and he had reached the goal. But this last step was reserved for the later seer.
He took the fatal double problem of Sprengel--as shown at E and F, to express the consummation
pictorially--and by the simple drawing of a line, as it were, as indicated between G and H,
instantly reconciled all the previous perplexities and inconsistencies, thus demonstrating
the fundamental plan involved in floral construction to be not merely "insect fertilization,"
the fatal postulate assumed by Sprengel, but cross-fertilization--a fact which, singularly
enough, the latter's own pages proved without his suspicion.

Thus we see the four successive steps in progressive knowledge, from Grew in 1682, Linnæus,
1735, Sprengel, 1787, to Darwin, 1857-1858, and realize with astonishment that it has taken
over one hundred and seventy-five years for humanity to learn this apparently simple lesson,
which for untold centuries has been noised abroad on the murmuring wings of every bee in the
meadow, and demonstrated in almost every flower.

This infinite field now open before him, Darwin began his investigations, and the whole world
knows his triumphs. He has been followed by a host of disciples, to whom his books have come
as an inspiration and ennobling impulse. Hildebrand, Delpino, Axell, Lubbock, and, latest and
perhaps most conspicuous, Hermann Müller, to whom the American reader is especially referred.
"The Fertilization of Flowers," by this most scholarly and indefatigable chronicler, presents
the most complete compendium and bibliography of the literature on the subject that have yet
appeared. Even to the unscientific reader it will prove full of revelations of this awe-inspiring
interassociation and interdependence of the flower and the insect.

Many years ago the grangers of Australia determined to introduce our red clover into that country,
the plant not being native there. They imported American seed, and sowed it, with the result
of a crop luxuriant in foliage and bloom, but not a seed for future sowing! Why? Because the
American bumblebee had not been consulted in the transaction. The clover and the bee are inseparable
counterparts, and the plant refuses to become reconciled to the separation. Upon the introduction
and naturalization of the American bumblebee, however, the transported clover became reconciled
to its new habitat, and now flourishes in fruition as well as bloom.

Botany and entomology must henceforth go hand-in-hand. The flower must be considered as an
embodied welcome to an insect affinity, and all sorts of courtesies prevail among them in the
reception of their invited guests. The banquet awaits, but various singular ceremonies are
enjoined between the cup and the lip, the stamens doing the hospitalities in time-honored forms
of etiquette. Flora exacts no arbitrary customs. Each flower is a law unto itself. And how
expressive, novel, and eccentric are these social customs! The garden salvia, for instance,
slaps the burly bumblebee upon the back and marks him for her own as he is ushered in to the
feast. The mountain-laurel welcomes the twilight moth with an impulsive multiple embrace. The
desmodium and genesta celebrate their hospitality with a joke, as it were, letting their threshold
fall beneath the feet of the caller, and startling him with an explosion and a cloud of yellow
powder, suggesting the day pyrotechnics of the Chinese. The barberry, in similar vein, lays
mischievous hold of the tongue of its sipping bee, and I fancy, in his early acquaintance,
before he has learned its ways, gives him more of a welcome than he had bargained for. The
evening primrose, with outstretched filaments, hangs a golden necklace about the welcome murmuring
noctuid, while the various orchids excel in the ingenuity of their salutations. Here is one
which presents a pair of tiny clubs to the sphinx-moth at its threshold, gluing them to its
bulging eyes. Another attaches similar tokens to the tongues of butterflies, while the cypripedium
speeds its parting guest with a sticking-plaster smeared all over its back. And so we might
continue almost indefinitely. From the stand-point of frivolous human etiquette we smile, perhaps,
at customs apparently so whimsical and unusual, forgetting that such a smile may partake somewhat
of irreverence. For what are they all but the divinely imposed conditions of interassociation?
say, rather, interdependence, between the flower and the insect, which is its ordained companion,
its faithful messenger, often its sole sponsor--the meadows murmuring with an intricate and
eloquent system of intercommunings beside which the most inextricable tangle of metropolitan
electrical currents is not a circumstance. What a storied fabric were this murmurous tangle
woven day by day, could each one of these insect messengers, like the spider, leave its visible
trail behind it!

As a rule, these blossom ceremonies are of the briefest description. Occasionally, however,
as in the cypripedium and in certain of the arums, or "jack-in-the-pulpit," and aristolochias,
the welcome becomes somewhat aggressive, the guest being forcibly detained awhile after tea,
or, as in the case of our milkweed, occasionally entrapped for life.

From this companionable point of view let us now look again at the strange curved stamen of
the sage. Why this peculiar formation of the long curved arm pivoted on its stalk? Considered
in the abstract, it can have no possible meaning; but taken in association with the insect
to which it is shaped, how perfect is its adaptation, how instantly intelligible it becomes!
Every one is familiar with the sage of the country garden, its lavender flowers arranged in
whorls in a long cluster at the tips of the stems. One of these flowers, a young one from the
top of the cluster, is shown at A (Fig. 4), in section, the long thread-like pistil starting
from the ovary, and curving upward beneath the arch of the flower, with its forked stigma barely
protruding (B). There are two of the queer stamens, one on each side of the opening of the
blossom, and situated as shown, their anthers concealed in the hood above, and only their lower
extremity appears below, the minute growth near it being one of the rudiments of two former
stamens which have become aborted. If we take a flower from the lower portion of the cluster
(D), we find that the thread-like pistil has been elongated nearly a third of an inch, its
forked stigma now hanging directly at the threshold of the flower. The object of this will
be clearly demonstrated if we closely observe this bee upon the blossoms. He has now reached
the top of the cluster among the younger blossoms. He creeps up the outstretched platform of
the flower, and has barely thrust his head within its tube when down comes the pair of clappers
on his back (C). Presently he backs out, bearing a generous dab of yellow pollen, which is
further increased from each subsequent flower. He has now finished this cluster, and flies
to the next, alighting as usual on the lowermost tier of bloom. In them the elongated stigma
now hangs directly in his path, and comes in contact with the pollen on his back as the insect
sips the nectar. Cross-fertilization is thus insured; and, moreover, cross-fertilization not
only from a distinct flower, but from a separate cluster, or even a separate plant. For in
these older stigmatic flowers the anther as it comes down upon his back is seen to be withered,
having shed its pollen several days since, the supply of pollen on the bee's body being sufficient
to fertilize all the stigmas in the cluster, until a new supply is obtained from the pollen-bearing
blossoms above. And thus he continues his rounds.

The sage is a representative of the large botanical order known as the Mint family, the labiates,
or gaping two-lipped flowers, the arched hood here answering to the upper lip, the spreading
base forming the lower lip, which is usually designed as a convenient threshold for the insects
while sipping the nectar deep within the tube. This mechanism of the sage is but one of many
curious and various contrivances in the Mint family, all designed for the same end, the intercrossing
of the flowers.

While each family of plants is apt to favor some particular general plan, the modifications
in the various species seem almost without limit.

Let us now look at the Heath family. The family of the heath, cranberry, pyrola, Andromeda,
and mountain-laurel--how do these blossoms welcome their insect friends? This group is particularly
distinguished by the unusual exception in the form of its anthers, which open by pores at their
tips, instead of the ordinary side fissures. Two or three forms of these anthers are shown
in my row of stamens (Fig. 1).

Seen thus in their detached condition, how incomprehensible and grotesque do they appear! And
yet, when viewed at home, in their bell-shaped corollas, their hospitable expression and greeting
are seen to be quite as expressive and rational as those of the sage. Take the mountain-laurel,
for instance; what a singular exhibition is this which we may observe on any twilight evening
in the laurel copse, the dense clusters of pink-white bloom waited upon by soft-winged fluttering
moths, and ever and anon celebrating its cordial spirit by a mimic display of pyrotechnics
as the anthers hurl aloft their tiny showers of pollen!

Every one is familiar with the curious construction of this flower, with its ten radiating
stamens, each with its anther snugly tucked away in a pouch at the rim of its saucer-shaped
corolla. Thus they appear in the freshly opened flower, and thus will they remain and wither
if the flower is brought indoors and placed in a vase upon our mantel. Why? Because the hope
of the blossom's life is not fulfilled in these artificial conditions; its natural counterpart,
the insect, has failed to respond to its summons.

But the twilight cluster in the woods may tell us a pretty story.

Here a tiny moth hovers above the tempting chalice, and now settles upon it with eager tongue
extended for the nectar at its centre. What an immediate and expressive welcome! No sooner
has this little feathery body touched the filaments than the eager anthers are released from
their pockets, and, springing inwards, clasp their little visitor, at the same time decorating
him with their compliments of webby pollen (A, Fig. 5).

The nectary now drained of its sweets, the moth creeps or flutters to a second blossom, and
its pollen-dusted body thus coming in contact with its stigma, cross-fertilization is accomplished.
The pollen of the laurel differs from that of most of the Heath blooms, its grains being more
or less adherent by a cobwebby connective which permeates the mass as indicated in my magnified
representation (B, Fig. 5).

It is probable that an accessory cross-fertilization frequently results from a mass of the
pollen falling directly upon the stigma of a neighboring blossom, or even upon its own stigma,
but even in the latter case, as has been absolutely demonstrated as a general law by the experiments
of Darwin, the pollen from a separate flower is almost invariably prepotent, and leads to the
most perfect fruition, and thus to the survival of the fittest--the cross-fertilized. And,
in any event, the insect is to be credited for the release of the tiny catapults by which the
pollen is discharged. But the laurel may be considered as an exceptional example of the Heath
family. Let us look at a more perfect type of the order to which it belongs, the globular blossom
of the Andromeda (A. ligustrina).

Only a short walk from my studio door in the country I recently observed its singular reception
to the tiny black-and-white banded bee, which seems to be its especial companion, none the
less constant and forgiving in spite of a hospitality which, from the human stand-point, would
certainly seem rather discouraging. Fancy a morning call upon your particular friend. You knock
at the door, and are immediately greeted at the threshold with a quart of sulphur thrown into
your face. Yet this is precisely the experience of this patient little insect, which manifests
no disposition to retaliate with the concealed weapon which on much less provocation he is
quick to employ. Here he comes, eager for the fray. He alights upon one of the tiny bells scarce
half the size of his body. Creeping down beneath it, he inserts his tongue into the narrowed
opening. Instantly a copious shower of dust is poured down upon his face and body. But he has
been used to it all his life, and by heredity he knows that this is Andromeda's peculiar whim,
and is content to humor it for the sweet recompense which she bestows. The nectar drained,
the insect, as dusty as a miller, visits another flower, but before he enters must of necessity
first pay his toll of pollen to the drooping stigma which barely protrudes beneath the blossom's
throat, and the expectant seed-pod above welcomes the good tidings with visions of fruition.

And how beautiful is the minute mechanical adaptation by which this end is accomplished! This
species of Andromeda is a shrub of about four feet in height, its blossoms being borne in close
panicled clusters at the summit of the branches. The individual flower is hardly more than
an eighth of an inch in diameter. From one of three blossoms I made the accompanying series
of three sectional drawings (Fig. 6). The first shows the remarkable interior arrangement of
the ten stamens surrounding the pistil. The second presents a sectional view of these stamens,
showing their peculiar S-shaped filaments and ring of anthers--one of the latter being shown
separate at the right, with its two pores and exposed pollen. The freshly opened blossom discloses
the entire ring of anthers in perfect equilibrium, each with its two orifices closed by close
contact with the style, thus retaining the pollen. It will readily be seen that an insect's
tongue, as indicated by the needle, in probing between them in search for nectar, must needs
dislocate one or more of the anthers, and thus release their dusty contents, while the position
of the stigma below is such as to escape all contact.

In most flowers, with the exception of the orchids, the stamens and pollen are plainly visible;
but who ever sees the anthers of the blue-flag? Surely none but the analytical botanist and
the companion insect to whom it is so artfully adjusted and so demonstrative. This insect is
likely to be either a bumblebee or a species of large fly. In apt illustration of Sprengel's
theory of the "path-finder" or honey-guide, the insect does not alight at the centre of the
flower, but upon one of the three large drooping sepals, whose veins, converging to the narrow
trough above, indicate the path to the nectar. Closely overarching this portion is a long and
narrow curved roof--one of three divisions to the style, each surmounting its veined sepals.
Beneath this our visiting bee disappears, and a glance at my sectional drawing shows what happens.
Concealed within, against the ridge-pole, as it were, the anther awaits his coming, and in
his passage to and from the nectar below spreads its pollen over his head and back. Having
backed out of this segment of the blossom (A, Fig. 7), he proceeds to the next; but the shelf-like
stigma awaits him at the door, and scrapes off or rubs off a few grains of the pollen from
his back (B). Thus he continues until the third segment is reached, from which he carries away
a fresh load of pollen to another flower. It will be seen that only the outer side of this
appendage is stigmatic, and that it is thus naturally impossible for the blue-flag to self-fertilize--only
one instance of thousands in which the anther and stigma, though placed in the closest proximity,
and apparently even in contact--seemingly with the design of self-fertilization--are actually
more perfectly separated functionally than if in separate flowers, the insect alone consummating
their affinity.

In some flowers this separation is effected, as I have shown, by their maturing at different
periods; in others, as in the iris, by mere mechanical means; while in a long list of plants,
as in the willow, poplar, hemp, oak, and nettle, the cross-fertilization is absolutely necessitated
by the fact of the staminate and stigmatic flowers being either separated on the same stalk
or on different plants, the pollen being carried by insects or the wind. We may see a pretty
illustration of this in the little wild flower known as the devil's-bit (Chamælirium luteum,),
whose long, white, tapering spire of feathery bloom may often be seen rising above the sedges
in the swamp. Two years ago I chanced upon a little colony of four or five plants at the edge
of a bog. The flowers, all of them, were mere petals and stamens (B, Fig. 8). I looked in vain
for a single stigmatic plant or flower; but far across the swamp, a thousand feet distant,
I at length discovered a single spire, composed entirely of pistillate flowers, as shown in
A (Fig. 8), and my magnifying-glass clearly revealed the pollen upon their stigmas--doubtless
a welcome message brought from the isolated affinity afar by some winged sponsor, to whom the
peculiar fragrance of the flower offers a special attraction, and thus to whom the fortunes
of the devil's-bit have been committed.

The presence of fragrance and honey in a dioecious flower may be accepted in the abstract as
almost conclusive of an insect affinity, as in most flowers of this class, notably the beech,
pine, dock, grasses, etc., the wind is the fertilizing agent, and there is absence alike of
conspicuous color, fragrance, and nectar--attributes which refer alone to insects, or possibly
humming-birds in certain species.

Look where we will among the blossoms, we find the same beautiful plan of intercommunion and
reciprocity everywhere demonstrated. The means appear without limit in their evolved--rather,
I should say, involved--ingenuity. Pluck the first flower that you meet in your stroll to-morrow,
and it will tell you a new story.

Only a few days since, while out on a drive, I passed a luxuriant clump of the plant known
as "horse-balm." I had known it all my life, and twenty years previously had made a careful
analytical drawing of the mere botanical specimen. What could it say to me now in my more questioning
mood? Its queer little yellow-fringed flowers hung in profusion from their spreading terminal
racemes. I recalled their singular shape, and the two outstretched stamens protruding from
their gaping corolla, and could distinctly see them as I sat in the carriage. I had never chanced
to read of this flower in the literature of cross-fertilization, and murmuring, half aloud,
"What pretty mystery is yours, my Collinsonia?" prepared to investigate.

What I observed is pictured severally at Fig. 9, the flowers being shown from above, showing
the two spreading stamens and the decidedly exceptional unsymmetrical position of the long
style extending to the side. A small nectar-seeking bumblebee had approached, and in alighting
upon the fringed platform grasped the filaments for support, and thus clapped the pollen against
his sides. Reasoning from analogy, it would of course be absolutely clear that this pollen
has thus been deposited where it will come in contact with the stigma of another flower. So,
of course, it proved. In the bee's continual visits to the several flowers he came at length
to the younger blooms, where the forked stigmas were turned directly to the front, while the
immature stamens were still curled up in the flower tubes. Even the unopened buds showed a
number of species where the early matured stigma actually protruded through a tiny orifice
in precisely the right position to strike the pollen-dusted body of the bee, as he forced his
tongue through the tiny aperture.[A]

[Footnote A: In numerous instances observed since the above was written I have noted the larger
bumblebees upon the blossom. These insects have a different method of approach, hanging beneath
the flower, the anthers being clapped against their thorax at the juncture of the wings, instead
of the abdomen, as in the smaller bee.]

If their dainty mechanism excite our wonder, what shall be said of the revelations in the great
order of the Compositæ, where each so-called flower, as in the dandelion, daisy, cone-flower,
marigold, is really a dense cluster of minute flowers, each as perfect in its construction
as in the examples already mentioned, each with its own peculiar plan designed to insure the
transfer of its own pollen to the stigma of its neighbor, while excluding it from its own?

All summer long the cone-flower, Fig. 10 (Rudbeckia hirta), blooms in our fields, but how few
of us imagine the strange processes which are being enacted in that purple cone! Let us examine
it closely. If we pluck one of the blossom's heads and keep it in a vase over-night, we shall
probably see on the following morning a tiny yellow ring of pollen encircling the outer edge
of the cone. In this way only are we likely to see the ring in its perfection, as in a state
of nature the wind and insects rarely permit it to remain.

If we now with a sharp knife make a vertical section, as shown at A (Fig. 3), we may observe
the conical receptacle studded with its embryo seeds, each bearing a tiny tubular blossom.
Three distinct forms of these flowers are to be seen. The lower and older ones are conspicuous
by their double feathery tails, the next by their extended anthers bearing the pollen at their
extremity, and above these again the buds in all stages of growth. These various states are
indicated in Fig. 11.

As in all the Compositæ, the anthers are here united in a tube, the pollen being discharged
within. At the base of this anther-tube rises the pistil, which gradually elongates, and like
a piston forces out the pollen at the top. Small insects in creeping over the cone quickly
dislodge it. In the next stage the anthers have withered, the flower-tube elongated, and the
top of the two-parted pistil begins to protrude, and at length expands its tips, disclosing
at the centre the stigmatic surface, which has until now been protected by close contact. (See
section.)

A glance at Fig. 11 will reveal the plan involved. The ring of pollen is inevitably scattered
to the stigmas of the neighboring flowers, and cross-fertilization continually insured. Similar
contrivances are to be found in most of the Compositæ, through the same method being variously
applied.

Perhaps even more remarkable than any of the foregoing, which are more or less automatic in
their movements, is the truly astonishing and seemingly conscious mechanism displayed in the
wild arum of Great Britain--the "lords and ladies" of the village lanes, the foreign counterpart
of our well-known jack-in-the-pulpit, or Indian-turnip, with its purple-streaked canopy, and
sleek "preacher" standing erect beneath it. A representation of this arum is shown in Fig.
12, and a cross section at A, properly indexed.

How confidently would the superficial--nay, even careful--examination of one of the old-time
botanists have interpreted its structure: "How simple and perfect the structure! Observe how
the anthers are placed so that pollen shall naturally fall directly on the stigmas and fertilize
them!" Such would indeed appear to be intended, until it is actually discovered that the stigmas
have withered when the pollen is shed--a device which, acting in association with the little
ring of hairs, tells a strange story. It is not my fortune to have seen one of these singular
blossoms, but from the description of the process of fertilization given in Hermann Müller's
wonderful work, aided by a botanical illustration of the structure of the flower, I am readily
enabled to picture the progressive stages of the mechanism.

In the first stage (B, Fig. 13) small flies with bodies dusted with pollen from a previous
arum blossom (for insects, as a rule, remain faithful or partial to one species of flowers
while it is in bloom) are entering the narrowed tube, easily passing through the drooping fringe
of hairs. Nectar is secreted by the stigmas, and here the flies assemble, thus dusting them
with pollen. Their appetite temporarily satisfied, the insects seek escape, but find their
exit effectually barred by the intruding fringe of hairs (C). In this second stage the stigmas,
having now been fertilized, have withered, at the same time exuding a fresh supply of nectar,
which again attracts the flies, whereupon, as shown at D, the anthers open and discharge their
pollen upon the insects. In the fourth stage (E), all the functions of the flower having now
been fulfilled, the fringe of hairs withers, and the imprisoned pollen-laden flies are permitted
to escape to another flower, where the beautiful scheme is again enacted.

In a paper of this kind it is of course possible only to hint at a few representative examples
of floral mechanisms, but these would be indeed incomplete without a closing reference to that
wonderful tribe of flowers with which the theory of cross-fertilization will ever be memorably
associated. I have previously alluded to the absolute dependence of the red clover upon the
bumblebee. This instance may be considered somewhat exceptional, though numerous parallel cases
are known. Among ordinary flowers this intervention of the insect is largely a preferable intention,
and though almost invariably fulfilled, a large proportion of flowers still retain, as a dernier
ressort, the power of at least partial self-fertilization and perpetuity in the absence or
neglect of their insect counterpart.

The numerous and conclusive demonstrations of Darwin, however, have proved that in the competition
for existence such self-fertilized offspring quickly yield before the progeny of cross-fertilization.

But the distinctive feature of the orchids lies in the fact that this dependence on the insect
is wellnigh universally absolute. Here are a great host of plants which are doomed to extinction
if for any reason their insect sponsors should permanently neglect them. The principal botanical
feature which differentiates the orchid from other plants lies in the construction of the floral
organs, the pistil, stigma, and anthers here being united into a distinct part known as the
column. The pollen is, moreover, peculiar, being collected into more or less compact masses,
and variously concealed in the flower. Some of these are club-shaped, with a viscid extremity,
others of the consistency of a sticking-plaster, and all are hidden from external view in pouches
and pockets, from which they never emerge unless withdrawn on the body of an insect. The various
devices by which this removal is insured are most astonishing and awe-inspiring. Nor is it
necessary to go to the conservatory for a tropical specimen, as is commonly supposed. An orchid
is an orchid wherever it grows, and our native list of some fifty species will afford examples
of as strange mechanical adaptations as are to be found among Darwin's pages. Indeed, a few
of our American species are there described. One example will suffice for present illustration--the
sweet-pogonia or grass-pink of our sedgy swamps (Pogonia ophioglossoides). Its solitary rosy
blossom, nodding on its slender stem above the sedges, is always a welcome episode to the sauntering
botanist, and its perfume, suggesting ripe red raspberries, is unique in the wild bouquet.
One of these flowers is shown in profile at Fig. 14, its various parts indexed. Concealed behind
the petals is the column, elsewhere indicated from various points of view. Attracted by its
color and fragrance, the insect seeks the flower; its outstretched fringy lip offers a cordial
invitation at its threshold, and conducts its visitor directly to the sweets above. In his
entrance, as seen at D (Fig. 15), the narrowed passage compresses his back against the underside
of the column, forcing his head and back against the stigma. The effect of this inward pressure,
as will be seen, only serves to force the anther more firmly within its pocket; but as the
insect, having drained the nectar, now backs out, note the result. The lip of the anther catches
upon the back, swings outward on its hinge, and deposits its sticky pollen all over the insect's
back, returning to its original position after his departure. In another moment he is seen
upon another blossom, as at D again, his pollen-laden back now coming in contact with the stigma,
and the intention of the blossom is accomplished; for without this assistance from the insect
the little lid remains close within its pocket, and the pollen is thus retained.

What startling disclosures are revealed to the inward eye within the hearts of all these strange
orchidaceous flowers! Blossoms whose functions, through long eras of adaptation, have gradually
shaped themselves to the forms of certain chosen insect sponsors; blossoms whose chalices are
literally fashioned to bees or butterflies; blossoms whose slender, prolonged nectaries invite
and reward the murmuring sphinx-moth alone, the floral throat closely embracing his head while
it attaches its pollen masses to the bulging eyes, or perchance to the capillary tongue! And
thus in endless modifications, evidences all of the same deep vital purpose.

A HONEY-DEW PICNIC

Several of our notable as well as notorious human, social, and civic customs find their prehistoric
prototypes in the insect kingdom. The monarchical institution sees its singular prophecy in
the domestic economy of the bees. War and slavery have always been carried on systematically
and effectually by ants, and, according to Huber and other authorities, agriculture, gardening,
and an industry very like dairy farming have been time-honored customs among this same wise
and thrifty insect tribe, whose claims to thoughtful consideration were so long ago voiced
by Solomon of proverbial fame. Thévenot mentions "Solomon's ant" as among the "beasts which
shall enter paradise." Indeed, the human saint as well as sluggard may "go to the ant" for
many suggestive hints and commentaries.

These are only a few of the more notable parallelisms which suggest themselves. But others
are not wanting if we care to follow the subject. In addition to the many models of thrift
and virtuous industry, embodying types of many of the trade employments known to humanity,
have we not also among these "meadow tribes" our luxurious "idlers" and "exquisites," the butterflies
and flower-haunting flies and "dandy" beetles; and, opposed to all these, the suggestive antithesis
of the promiscuous marauders, thieves, and brigands everywhere interspersed?

Thus we have our individual insect assassin and assassination organized in war; so, on the
other hand, have we our insect merrymakers; why not, then, our picnic or carnival?

Such I am moved to call the singular episode which I observed last summer, and which I have
endeavored to picture as true to the life as possible in the accompanying presentment The sceptic
will perhaps remark on examination that the scene is characterized by somewhat too free a license
to warrant the ideal of a "picnic." But he is hypercritical. There are picnics and picnics--picnics
of high and of low degree. Do I not recall more than one notorious festive outing of the "next
lower than the angels" in which the personnel seemed about similarly proportioned, and the
fun and attraction comparatively related to the license?

One July afternoon a year ago I was returning home from one of my botanizing strolls. I had
just emerged from a deep wood, and was skirting its border, when my attention was caught by
a small fluttering swarm of butterflies, which started up at my approach and hovered about
a blossoming blackberry bush a few yards in advance of me at the side of my path. The diversity
of the butterfly species in the swarm struck me as singular, and the mere allurement of the
blackberry blossoms--not usually of especial attraction to butterflies--could hardly explain
so extensive a gathering. Here was the great yellow swallow-tail (Turnus), red admiral (Atlanta),
small yellow butterfly (Philodice), white cabbage-butterfly, comma and semicolon, and numerous
small fry, fluttering about me in evident protest against my intrusion. They showed no inclination
to vacate the premises, so, in pursuance of one of the first articles of my saunterer's creed,
I concluded to retreat softly a few paces and watch for developments. One by one the swarm
sought their original haunt, settling on the bramble, and I now noticed that only in occasional
instances did the insects seek the flowers, the attraction seeming to be confined to the leaves.
I stole up softly for a nearer point of observation, and could now distinctly see the beautiful
yellow and black open wings of the swallow-tail softly gliding or gently fluttering as it hung
from the edge of a leaf, while it explored its surface with its uncoiled capillary tongue.
Just beyond my Turnus, on another leaf, I now noted a new presence, the orange Aphrodite butterfly,
silvery spotted, its nether wings being folded over its back, too much absorbed to have been
startled by my first approach. Occasionally, without any cause which I could detect from my
present position--certainly in no way connected with my presence--a small swarm of the butterflies
would rise in a flutter above the bush, as though actuated by a common whim--a brief winged
tangle in which a beautiful sprite of velvety black hovering in a globular halo, shot through
with two white semicircular arcs, was always a momentary feature.

Carefully stealing through the tall grass, I now approached to within touching distance of
the haunt, and was soon lost in mingled wonder, amusement, and surprise at the picnic now disclosed,
the occasional butterfly swarm being now easily explained. From my first point of view only
the top of the bramble spray was visible above the grass, and by far the most interesting portion
of the exercises had been concealed from view. The butterflies, while naturally the most conspicuous
element, were now seen to be in a small minority among the insect gathering, the bramble leaves
being peopled with a most motley and democratic assemblage of insects. Class distinctions were
apparently forgotten in the common enthusiasm; the plebeian bluebottle and blowfly now consorted
with Aphrodite and sipped at the same drop. Many a leaf was begemmed with the blue bodies closely
set side by side or in a close cluster. The meat-fly, house-fly, and horse-fly made themselves
promiscuous in every portion of the spray, and what with the rainbow-eyed and ruby-eyed flies,
black and silver-banded flower-flies, and other tiny, restless, iridescent atoms of the fly
fraternity, the family of Musca was well represented at the feast.

Nor were these all the guests at the banquet--for banquet there certainly was, judging from
the eager sipping and crowding everywhere upon the leaves, the flowers even yet, as I first
noticed, seeming to have little attraction.

I have no direct means of knowing as to the social discrimination of the host as shown in the
entertainment, for that invitations were issued the subsequent facts would show. But I have
good reasons for believing, from the course of events, that the gathering included a number
of questionable personages that were not counted upon.

Here, for instance, was an overwhelming contingent of the whole tough gang of wasps and hornets--brown
wasps from under the eaves and fences; black hornets from the big paper nests; yellow-jackets
from where you please; deep steel-blue wire-waisted wasps from the mud cells in the garret,
to say nothing of an occasional longer-waisted digger-wasp, and a host of their allied lesser
associates scattered around generously among the assemblage.

Every now and then a big darning-needle took a shimmering circuit about the bush, and doubtless
knew what he was about; as did also what at first glimpse appeared to be a big bumblebee, which
seemed to find attraction in the neighborhood, although he seldom alighted upon the leaves,
preferring to sit upon a neighboring weed and watch his opportunities.

I have thus described a few of the more prominent guests or personages present at the feast.
But I have reported little of their "goings on." Doubtless there were appropriate toasts and
responses, or what in bug etiquette answered to this seemingly indispensable human fad, while
as to that other festive social essential of after-dinner speeches, coupled in this case with
most vigorous discussion, I am certain the air was blue with something of this sort, if the
eloquent pantomime bore any significance. Here, for instance, is one isolated, but frequent,
episode. A peaceable little group of plain bluebottle-flies, with but a single thought, are
all sipping at the same drop in contentment. A brief respite, for now the tips of a pair of
inquisitive antennæ appear from the under edge of the leaf upon which they are sipping, and
gingerly explore the upper surface. They are quickly followed by the covetous almond-eyed gaze
of a brown wasp, that now steals cautiously around to the upper surface, and appears wholly
engrossed in licking the leaf. Nearer and nearer he sidles up to the group of flies, and now
with deliberate purpose and open jaws makes a dash among them. But they are too quick for him,
and are away in a glittering blue tangle, which finally concentrates itself upon a neighboring
leaf, where the eager tippling is immediately resumed. The wasp now holds the fort, and seems
in no mood to be trifled with. With head and fore feet upraised and open jaws he seems "spoiling
for a fight," and ready to make war upon the first comer. But no, he is evidently expecting
a friend that, I now observe, approaches him determinedly down the stem of the leaf. The new-comer,
a brown wasp like himself, is now at close range, and in an instant more, without any visible
courteous preliminaries, the two set upon each other with a common enthusiasm, and with jaws
working and stings fencing the interlocked combatants fall to the ground for a finish. I presume
the affair was carried to the fourteenth round without any undue interference.

Another and another of these friendly meetings between them and other wasps took place in the
half-hour in which I watched the sport. There were lulls in hostilities, during which an atmosphere
of perfect peace and harmony seemed to reign around my bramble-bush. The flies were motionless
in their ecstasy, and the hornet element seemed by common consent to keep temporarily shady,
and even the butterflies seemed to forget that they had wings. But not for long, for now with
a shimmering glitter our darning-needle invades the scene, and retires to a convenient perch
with a ruby-eyed fly in his teeth, while a swarm of very startled butterflies tells conspicuously
of the demoralization which he has left in his path. Among the butterfly representatives I
at length observed one individual which at first had escaped me, an exclusive white cabbage-butterfly
which sipped quietly at his leaf in the shade, and seemed to take little interest in the disreputable
actions of his associates. Nothing could move him or entice him away from his convivial employment.
But, alas! his folly soon found him out, for, on happening to look again, I observed he had
found a new acquaintance--a hornet that had evidently been long desirous of meeting him. One
by one I saw my butterfly's dismembered wings fall to the grassy jungle below, while a big
black wasp proceeded to enjoy the collected sweets which he had doubtless observed were being
so carefully stored away there in the shady retreat.

And now my pretty black butterfly--no, it proved to be the little day-flying grape-vine-moth,
the eight-spotted black Alypia--appeared from some unseen source, and spun his crapy white-streaked
halo among the leaves, at length settling among a little company of flies. Softly behind him
creeps a brown wasp (Polistes), with his mouth watering, while from the opposite quarter a
steel-blue mud-wasp approaches, with apparently similar designs. Neither invader sees the other.
Simultaneously, as though answering to a signal, the two make a dash at the moth; but he is
too quick for them. In a twinkling he is off in his pretty halo again, while the two disappointed
contestants have clinched, and with stings and jaws vigorously plying fall to the jungle below,
and seek satisfaction in mortal combat.

Here is a pretty little yellow and black banded flower-fly, which is having a quiet little
picnic all by himself on a bed of yarrow bloom close by. But a big black paper-hornet has suddenly
seen an attraction hither also, and is soon creeping stealthily among the blossoms with a wild
and hungry look. But the hornets seemed to waste their time on the flies. Seemingly confident
in their less complicated wing machinery, the two-winged fly rarely sought escape until within
very close range of his enemy, and his resources never seemed to disappoint him at the critical
moment.

Among the insect assemblage was a large number of ants of all kinds and sizes, the common large
black species being conspicuous. Here is one creeping and sipping along a grass stem. A small
digger-wasp likes this grass stem too, but instead of exchanging courtesies on the subject,
the wasp proceeds to bite the ant's head off without ceremony, and continues sipping at the
stem as though decapitation were a mere casual incident in its daily walk.

On the same stem a big blowfly has alighted. Judging from appearances, he has had his fill
of good things, and is now making his leisurely toilet in the peculiar fashion of his kind,
rubbing down his back and wings with his hind legs, twisting his front feet into spirals, and
ever and anon testing the strength of his elastic neck attachment as he threatens to pull his
head from his body.

This worldly act has been progressing for some moments under the gaze of a big black digger-wasp,
who now concludes to cut it short. When at close range with his prey, the fly suddenly discovers
the unhealthy location which he occupies, and actually protruding his tongue by way of parting
salute, he is off with a buzz. He has barely taken wing, however, when a still louder buzz
is heard, while a great black bumblebee follows closely in his wake, until the sounds of both
are lost in the distance. The hum of this bumblebee is a frequent musical feature of the entertainment,
and many is the dance that is set to its minstrelsy, as the burly insect darts in among the
merrymakers and is off to his perch near by. It is only as we steal away and observe him closely
that we learn the secret of his occasional sorties. There on a clover blossom he sits--sipping
honey? Oh no. It is honey-dew that he is enjoying, and second-hand at that, as he devours the
satiated bluebottle-fly which is empaled on his black horny beak. For this is only a bumblebee
in masquerade--a carnivorous fly, in truth, which, safe in its disguise of respectability,
hovers in the flowery haunts of the innocents and, of course, reaps his reward.

And what is this? A yellow-jacket has found an ambrosial attraction here upon the bramble leaf.
Meanwhile a great black and white paper-hornet has seen his opportunity, and is soon slyly
approaching behind the sipper. That he has designs on that jacket and its contents is apparent.
In a moment the onslaught is consummated, and in the struggle which ensues the black assailant
relieves his victim--of his watch presumably, for he has captured the entire garment, which
he soon rifles and discards with some show of satisfaction.

And so my carnival proceeds. So it began with the dawn; so it will continue till dusk; and
through the night, with new revels, for aught I know, and will be prolonged for days or weeks.

       *       *       *       *       *

Reflective reader, how often, as you have strolled through some nook in the suburban wood,
have you paused in philosophic mood at the motley relics of good cheer which sophisticated
the retreat, so pathetically eloquent of pristine joys to which you had been a stranger? Here
in my present picnic is the suggestive parallel, for even though no such actual episodes as
those I have described had been witnessed by me, an examination of the premises beneath my
bramble were a sufficient commentary. These were the unimpeachable witnesses of the pleasures
which I have pictured. Dismembered butterfly wings strewed the grassy jungle, among which were
a fair sprinkling from that black and white halo already noted. Occasional dead wasps and detached
members of wasp and hornet anatomy were frequent, while the blue glitter of the bodies of flies
lit up a shadowy recess here and there, showing that Musca had not always so correctly gauged
his comparative wing resources as my observation had indicated.

It was interesting to discover, too, down deep among the herbage, another suggestive fact in
the presence of a shrewd spider that showed a keen eye to the main chance, and had spread his
gossamer catch-all beneath the bramble. It was all grist into his mill, and no doubt his charnel-house
at the base of his silken tunnel could have borne eloquent testimony alike to his wise sagacity
and his epicurean luxury.

I have pictured my picnic, and the question naturally arises, what was it all about--what the
occasion for this celebration? There was certainly no distinct visible cause for the social
gathering upon this particular bramble-bush. There were a number of other bramble-bushes in
the near neighborhood which, it would seem, should possess equal attractions, but which were
ignored. In what respect did the one selected differ from the others?

This bramble had become the scene of my carnival simply because it chanced to be directly beneath
an overhanging branch of pine some twenty feet above. Here dwelt mine host who had issued the
invitations and spread the feast, the limb for about a foot space being surrounded by a colony
of aphides, or plant-lice, from whose distilling pipes the rain of sweet honey-dew had fallen
ceaselessly upon the leaves below. The flies, butterflies, and ants had been attracted, as
always, by its sweets; the preoccupied convivial flies, in turn, were a tempting bait for the
wasps and hornets, and my dragon-fly and mock bumblebee found a similar attraction in the neighborhood.

An examination of the trunk of the pine showed the inevitable double procession of ants, both
up and down the tree, with the habitual interchange of comment; and could we but have obtained
a closer glimpse of the pine branch above, we might certainly have observed the queer spectacle
of the small army of ants interspersed everywhere among the swarm of aphides. Not in antagonism;
indeed, quite the reverse; herders, in truth, jealously guarding their feeding flock, creeping
among them with careful tread, caressing them with their antennæ while they sipped at the honeyed
pipes everywhere upraised in most expressive and harmonious welcome.

This intimate and friendly association of the ants and aphides has been the subject of much
interesting scientific investigation and surprising discovery. Huber and Lubbock have given
to the world many startling facts, the significance of which may be gathered from the one statement
that certain species of ants carry their devotion so far as literally to cultivate the aphides,
carrying them bodily into their tunnels, where they are placed in underground pens, reared
and fed and utilized in a manner which might well serve as a pattern for the modern dairy farm.
Indeed, after all that we have already seen upon a single bramble-bush, would it be taking
too much license with fact to add one more pictorial chronicle--an exhilarated and promiscuous
group of butterflies, ants, hornets, wasps, and flies uniting in "a health to the jolly aphis"?

A FEW NATIVE ORCHIDS AND THEIR INSECT SPONSORS

In a previous article I discussed the general subject of the fertilization of flowers, briefly
outlining the several historical and chronological steps which ultimately led to Darwin's triumphant
revelation of the divine plan of "cross-fertilization" as the mystery which had so long been
hidden beneath the forms and faces of the flowers.

In the same paper I presented many illustrative examples among our common wild flowers possessing
marvellous evolved devices, mechanisms, and peculiarities of form by which this necessary cross-fertilization
was assured.

Prior to Darwin's time the flower was a voice in the wilderness, heard only in faintest whispers,
and by the few. But since his day they have bloomed with fresher color and more convincing
perfume. Science brought us their message. Demoralizing as it certainly was to humanity's past
ideals, philosophic, theologic, and poetic, it bore the spirit of absolute conviction, and
must be heard.

What a contrast this winged botany of to-day to that of a hundred years ago! The flower now
no longer the mere non-committal, structural, botanical specimen. No longer the example of
mere arbitrary, independent creation, reverently and solely referred to the orthodox "delight
of man." The blossom whose unhappy fate was bemoaned by the poet because, forsooth, it must
needs "blush unseen," or "waste its sweetness on the desert air," is found alone in that musty
hortus siccus of a blind and deluded past. From the status of mere arbitrary creation, however
"beautiful," "curious," "eccentric," hitherto accepted alone on faith--"it is thus because
it is created thus: what need to ask the reason why?"--it has become a part of our inspiring
heritage, a reasonable, logical, comprehensible result, a manifestation of a beautiful divine
scheme, and is thus an ever-present witness and prophet of divine care and supervision.

The flower of to-day! What an inspiration to our reverential study! What a new revelation is
borne upon its perfume! Its forms and hues, what invitations to our devotion! This spot upon
the petal; this peculiar quality of perfume or odor; this fringe within the throat; this curving
stamen; this slender tube! What a catechism to one who knows that each and all represent an
affinity to some insect, towards whose vital companionship the flower has been adapting itself
through the ages, looking to its own more certain perpetuation!

The great Linnæus would doubtless have claimed to "know" the "orchid," which perhaps he named.
Indeed, did he not "know" it to the core of its physical, if not of its physiological, being?
But could he have solved the riddle of the orchid's persistent refusal to set a pod in the
conservatory? Could he have divined why the orchid blossom continues in bloom for weeks and
weeks in this artificial glazed tropic--perhaps weeks longer than its more fortunate fellows
left behind in their native haunts--and then only to wither and perish without requital? Know
the orchid?--without the faintest idea of the veritable divorce which its kidnapping had involved!

Thanks to the new dispensation, we may indeed claim a deeper sympathy with the flower than
is implied in a mere recognition of its pretty face. We know that this orchid is but the half
of itself, as it were; that its color, its form, however eccentric and incomprehensible, its
twisted inverted position on its individual stalk-like ovary, its slender nectary, its carefully
concealed pollen--all are anticipations of an insect complement, a long-tongued night-moth
perhaps, with whose life its own is mysteriously linked through the sweet bond of perfume and
nectar, and in the sole hope of posterity.

And the flower had been stolen from its haunt while its consort slept, and had awakened in
a glazed prison--doubtless sufficiently comfortable, save for the absence of that one indispensable
counterpart, towards whom we behold in the blossom's very being the embodied expression of welcome.

Blooming day after day in anticipation of his coming, and week after week still hoping against
hope, we see the flower fade upon its stalk, and with what one might verily believe to be evidences
of disconsolation, were it not that the ultra-scientist objects to such a sentimental assumption
with regard to a flower, which is unfortunate enough to show no sign of nerves or gray matter
in its composition. Who shall claim to know his orchid who knows not its insect sponsor?

To take one of our own wild species. Here is the Arethusa bulbosa of Linnæus, for instance.
Its pollen must reach its stigma--so he supposed--in order for the flower to become fruitful.
But this is clearly impossible, as the pollen never leaves its tightly closed box unless removed
by outside aid, which aid must also be required to place it upon the stigma. This problem,
which confronted him in practically every orchid he met, Linnæus, nor none of his contemporaries,
nor indeed his followers for many years, ever solved.

Not until the time of Christian Conrad Sprengel (1735) did this and other similar riddles begin
to be cleared up, that distinguished observer having been the first to discover in the honey-sipping
insect the key to the omnipresent mystery. Many flowers, he discovered, were so constructed
or so planned that their pollen could not reach their own stigmas, as previously believed.
The insect, according to Sprengel, enjoyed the anomalous distinction of having been called
in, in the emergency, to fulfil this apparent default in the plain intentions of nature, as
shown in the flower. Attracted by the color and fragrance of the blossom, with their implied
invitation to the assured feast of nectar, the insect visited the flower, and thus became dusted
with the pollen, and in creeping or flying out from it conveyed the fecundating grains to the
receptive stigma, which they could not otherwise reach. Such was Sprengel's belief, which he
endeavored to substantiate in an exhaustive volume containing the result of his observations
pursuant to this theory.

But Sprengel had divined but half the truth. The insect was necessary, it was true, but the
Sprengel idea was concerned only with the individual flower, and the great botanist was soon
perplexed and confounded by an opposing array of facts which completely destroyed the authority
of his work--facts which showed conclusively that the insect could not thus convey the pollen
as described, because the stigma in the flower was either not yet ready to receive it--perhaps
tightly closed against it--or was past its receptive period, even decidedly withered.

This radical assumption of fertilization in the individual flower, which lay at the base of
Sprengel's theory, thus so completely exposed as false, discredited his entire work. The good
was condemned with the bad, and the noble volume was lost in comparative oblivion--only to
be finally resurrected and its full value and significance revealed by the keen scientific
insight of Darwin (1859). From the new stand-point of evolution through natural selection the
facts in Sprengel's work took on a most important significance. Darwin now reaffirmed the Sprengel
theory so far as the necessity of the insect was concerned, but showed that all those perplexing
floral conditions which had disproved Sprengel's assumption, instead of having for their object
the conveying of pollen to the stigma of the same flower, implied its transfer to the stigma
of another, cross-fertilization being the evident design, or evolved and perpetuated advantage.

This solution was made logical and tenable only on the assumption that such evolved conditions,
insuring cross-fertilization, were of distinct advantage to the flower in the competitive struggle
for existence, and that all cross-fertilized flowers were thus the final result of natural
selection.

The early ancestors of this flower were self-fertilized; a chance seedling at length, among
other continual variations, showed the singular variation of ripening its stigma in advance
of its pollen--or other condition insuring cross-fertilization--thus acquiring a strain of
fresh vigor. The seedlings of this flower, coming now into competition with the existing weaker
self-fertilized forms, by the increased vigor won in the struggle of their immediate surroundings,
and inheriting the peculiarity of their parent, showed flowers possessing the same cross-fertilizing
device. The seeds from these, again scattering, continued the unequal struggle in a larger
and larger field and in increasing numbers, continually crowding out all their less vigorous
competitors of the same species, at length to become entire masters of the field and the only
representatives left to perpetuate the line of descent.

Thus we find in almost every flower we meet some astonishing development by which this cross-fertilization
is effected, by which the transferrence of the pollen from one flower to the stigma of another
is assured, largely through the agency of insects, frequently by the wind and water, occasionally
by birds. In many cases this is assured by the pollen-bearing flowers and stigmatic flowers
being entirely distinct, as in cucumbers and Indian-corn; perhaps on different plants, as in
the palms and willows; again by the pollen maturing and disseminating before the stigma is
mature, as already mentioned, and vice versa.

From these, the simplest forms, we pass on to more and more complicated conditions, anomalies
of form and structure--devices, mechanisms, that are past belief did we not observe them in
actuality with our own eyes, as well as the absolutely convincing demonstration of the intention
embodied: exploding flowers, shooting flowers, flower-traps, stamen embraces, pollen showers,
pollen plasters, pollen necklaces, and floral pyrotechnics--all demonstrations in the floral
etiquette of welcome and au revoir to insects.

From the simplest and regular types of flowers, as in the buttercup, we pass on to more and
more involved and unsymmetrical forms, as the columbine, monk's-hood, larkspur, aristolochia,
and thus finally to the most highly specialized or involved forms of all, as seen in the orchid--the
multifarious, multiversant orchid; the beautiful orchid; the ugly orchid; the fragrant orchid;
the fetid orchid; the graceful, homely, grotesque, uncanny, mimetic, and, until the year 1859,
the absolutely non-committal and inexplicable flower; the blossom which had waited through
the ages for Darwin, its chosen interpreter, ere she yielded her secret to humanity.

And what is an orchid? How are we to know that this blossom which we plucked is an orchid?
The average reader will exclaim, "Because it is an air-plant"--the essential requisite, it
would seem, in the popular mind. Of over 3000 known species of orchids, it is true a great
majority are air-plants, or epiphytes--growing upon trees and other plants, obtaining their
sustenance from the air, and not truly parasitic; but of the fifty-odd native species of the
northeastern United States, not one is of this character, all growing in the ground, like other
plants. It is only by the botanical structure of the flowers that the orchid may be readily
distinguished, the epiphytic character being of little significance botanically.

A brief glance at this structural peculiarity may properly precede our more elaborate consideration
of a few species of these remarkable flowers.

The orchids are usually very irregular, and six-parted. The ovary is one-celled, and becomes
a pod containing an enormous yield of minute, almost spore-like, seeds (Fig. 3) in some species,
as in the vanilla pod, to the number of a million, and in one species of the maxillaria, as
has been carefully computed, 1,750,000.

The pollen, unlike ordinary flowers, is gathered together in waxy masses of varying consistency,
variously formed and disposed in the blossom, its grains being connected with elastic cobwebby
threads, which occasionally permit the entire mass to be stretched to four or five times its
length, and recover its original shape when released. This is noticeable specially in the O.
spectabilis, later described. The grains thus united are readily disentangled from their mass
when brought into contact with a viscid object, as, for instance, the stigma.

But the most significant botanical contrast and distinction is found in the union of the style
and stamens in one organ, called the column (Fig. 2), the stigma and the pollen being thus
disposed upon a single common stalk. The contrast to the ordinary flower will be readily appreciated
by comparison of the accompanying diagrams (Fig. 1).

When, therefore, we find a blossom with the anthers or pollen receptacle united to a stalk
upon which the stigma is also placed, we have an orchid.

The order is further remarkable, as Darwin first demonstrated in his wonderful volume "The
Fertilization of Orchids," in that the entire group, with very few exceptions, are absolutely
dependent upon insects for their perpetuation through seed. They possess no possible resource
for self-fertilization in the neglect of these insect sponsors.

Many of our common wild flowers, as perfectly and effectually planned for cross-fertilization
as the orchids, do retain the reserve power of final self-fertilization if unfertilized by
foreign pollen.

But the orchid has lost such power, and in the progress of evolution has gradually adapted
itself to the insect, often to a particular species of insect, its sole sponsor, which natural
selection has again gradually modified in relation to the flower.

The above work by Darwin was mostly concerned with foreign species, generally under artificial
cultivation, and so startling were the disclosures concerning these hitherto sphinx-like floral
beings that a most extensive bibliography soon attested the widespread inspiration and interest
awakened by its pages.

But it is by no means necessary to visit the tropics or the conservatory for examples of these
wonders. Our own Asa Gray, one of Darwin's instant proselytes, was prompt to demonstrate that
the commonest of our native American species might afford revelations quite as astonishing
as those exotic species which Darwin had described.

During a period of many years the writer has devoted much study to our native species of orchids
from this evolutionary stand-point of their cross-fertilization tendencies. Of the following
examples, selected from his list, some are elaborations of previous descriptions of Gray and
others, though pictorially and descriptively the result of direct original study from nature;
others are from actual observation of the insects at work on the flowers; and others still,
original demonstrations based upon analogy and the obvious intention of the floral construction,
the action of the insect--its head or tongue--having been artificially imitated by pins, bristles,
or other probe-like bodies.

How many an enthusiastic flower-hunter has plucked his fragrant bouquet of the beautiful Arethusa,
in its sedgy haunt, without a suspicion of the beautiful secret which lay beneath its singular
form! Indeed, how many a learned botanist, long perfectly familiar with its peculiarities of
shape and structure, has been entirely content with this simple fact, nor cared to seek further
for its interpretation! But

"All may have the flower now, For all have got the seed."

With Darwin as our guide and the insect as our key--an open sesame--the hidden treasure is
revealed. It is now quite possible, as Darwin demonstrated, to look upon a flower for the first
time and from its structure foretell the method of its intended cross-fertilization; nay, more,
possibly the kind, or even the species, of insect to which this cross-fertilization is intrusted.

Let us look at our Arethusa. The writer has never happened to observe an insect at work upon
this flower, but the intention of its structure is so plain that by a mere examination we may
safely prophesy not only what must happen when the insect seeks its nectar, but with equal
assurance the kind of insect thus invited and expected. I have indicated a group of the orchids
in their usual marshy haunt, and in Fig. 4, separately, a series of diagrams presents sections
of the flower, natural size and duly indexed, which renders detailed description hardly necessary.
The column is here quite elongated, forked at the tip, the space between the forks occupied
by the anther, which is hinged to the upper division. This anther lid is closed tightly, with
the sticky mass of pollen hidden behind it in the cavity. The stigma is on the external inner
side of the lower division, and thus distinctly separated from the pollen. The "lip" is extended
forward as a hospitable threshold to the insect. And to what insect might we assume this invitation
of color, fragrance, nectar, and threshold to be extended?

Let us consider the flower simply as a device to insure its own cross-fertilization. The insect
is welcomed; it must alight and sip the nectar; in departing it must bear away this pollen
upon its body, and convey it to the next Arethusa blossom which it visits, and leave it upon
its stigma. These are the conditions expressed; and how admirably they are fulfilled we may
observe when we examine flower after flower of a group, and find their nectaries drained, their
anther cells empty, and pollen upon all their stigmas. The nectar is here secreted in a well--not
very deep--and the depth of this nectar from the entrance is of great significance among all
the flowers, having distinct reference to the length of the tongue which is expected to sip
it. In the Arethusa, it is true, the butterfly or moth might sip at the throat of the flower,
but the long tongues of these insects might permit the nectary to be drained without bringing
their bodies in contact with the stigma. Smaller insects might creep into the nectary and sip
without the intended fulfilment. It is clear that to neither of such visitors is the welcome
extended. What, then, are the conditions embodied? The insect must have a tongue of such a
length that, when in the act of sipping, its head must pass beyond the anther well into the
opening of the flower. Its body must be sufficiently large to come in contact with the anther.
Such requisites are perfectly fulfilled by the humblebee, and we may well hazard the prophecy
that the Bombus is the welcomed affinity of the flower.

The diagrams (Fig. 4) sufficiently illustrate the efficacy of the beautiful plan involved.
At A the bee is seen sipping the nectar. His forward movement thus far to this point has only
seemed to press the edge of the anther inward, and thus keep it even more effectually closed.
As the bee retires (B), the backward motion opens the lid, and the sticky pollen is thus brought
against the insect's back, where it adheres in a solid mass. He now flies to the next Arethusa
blossom, enters it as before, and in retiring slides his back against the receptive viscid
stigma, which retains a portion of the pollen, and thus effects the cross-fertilization (C).
Professor Gray surmised that the pollen was withdrawn on the insect's head, and it might be
so withdrawn, but in other allied orchids of the tribe Arethusæ, however, in which the structure
is very similar, the pollen is deposited on the thorax, and such is probably the fact in this
species. In either case cross-fertilization would be effected. Nothing else is possible in
the flower, and whether it is Bombus or not that effects it, the method is sufficiently evident.

Having thus had one initiation into this most enticing realm of riddles, each successive orchid
whose structure we examine from this stand-point becomes a most interesting, perhaps a fresh,
problem, whose assumed solution may often be verified by studying the insect in its haunts.
Darwin thus foretold the precise manner of the cross-fertilization of Habenaria mascula, and
also the insect agent, simply by the structural prophecy of the flower itself.

Suppose, for example, an unknown orchid blossom to be placed in our hands. Its nectary tube
is five inches in length, and as slender as a knitting-needle. The nectar is secreted far within
its lip. The evolution of the long nectary implies an adaptation to an insect's tongue of equal
length. What insect has a tongue five inches long, and sufficiently slender to probe this nectary?
The sphinx-moth only. Hence we infer the sphinx-moth to be the insect complement to the blossom,
and we may correctly infer, moreover, that the flower is thus a night-bloomer. Examination
of the flower, with the form of this moth in mind, will show other adaptations to the insect's
form in the position of pollen and stigma, looking to the flower's cross-fertilization. In
some cases this is effected by the aid of the insect's tongue; in others, by its eyes.

In our own native orchids we have a remarkable example of the latter form in the Habenaria
orbiculata, whose structure and mechanism have also been admirably described by Asa Gray.

All orchid-hunters know this most exceptional example of our local flora, and the thrill of
delight experienced when one first encounters it in the mountain wilderness, its typical haunt,
is an event to date from--its two great, glistening, fluted leaves, sometimes as large as a
dinner-plate, spreading flat upon the mould, and surmounted by the slender leafless stalk,
with its terminal loose raceme of greenish-white bloom.

A single blossom of the species is shown in Fig. 5, the parts indexed. The opening to the nectary
is seen just below the stigmatic surface, the nectary itself being nearly two inches in length.
The pollen is in two club-like bodies, each hidden within a fissured pouch on either side of
the stigma, and coming to the surface at the base in their opposing sticky discs as shown.
Many of the group Habenaria or Platanthera, to which this flower belongs, are similarly planned.
But mark the peculiarly logical association of the parts here exhibited. The nectary implies
a welcome to a tongue two inches long, and will reward none other. There are many of these
smaller sphinxes. Let us suppose one to be hovering at the blossom's throat. Its slender capillary
tongue enters the opening. Ere it can reach the sweets the insect's head must be forced well
into the throat of the blossom, where we now observe a most remarkable special provision, the
space between the two pollen discs being exactly adjusted to the diameter of the insect's head.
What follows this entrance of the moth is plainly pictured in the progressive series of illustrations
(Fig. 6). A represents the insect sipping; the sticky discs are brought in contact with the
moth's eyes, to which they adhere, and by which they are withdrawn from their pouches as the
moth departs (B). At this time they are in the upright position shown at C, but in a few seconds
bend determinedly downward and slightly towards each other to the position D. This change takes
place as the moth is flitting from flower to flower. At E we see the moth with its tongue entering
the nectary of a subsequent blossom. By the new position of the pollen clubs they are now forced
directly against the stigma (E). This surface is viscid, and as the insect leaves the blossom
retains the grains in contact (F), which in turn withdraw others from the mass by means of
the cobwebby threads by which the pollen grains are continuously attached. At G we see the
orchid after the moth's visit--the stigma covered with pollen, and the flower thus cross-fertilized.

In effecting the cross-fertilization of one of the younger flowers its eyes are again brought
into contact with this second pair of discs, and these, with their pollen clubs, are in turn
withdrawn, at length perhaps resulting in such a plastering of the insect's eyes as might seriously
impair its vision, were it not fortunately of the compound sort.

In another allied example of the orchids--the Showy Orchid--we have, however, what would appear
a clear adaptation to the head of a bee, though one which might also avail of the service of
an occasional butterfly. A group of this beautiful species is shown in my illustration. A favored
haunt is the dark damp woods, especially beneath hemlocks, and with its deep pink hood and
pure white lip is quite showy enough to warrant its specific title, "spectabilis." An enlarged
view of the blossom is seen in Fig. 7, and in Fig. 8 a still greater enlargement of the column.

I have seen many specimens with the pollen masses withdrawn, and others with their stigmas
well covered with the grains. Though I have never seen an insect at work upon it in its haunt,
the whole form of the opening of the flower would seem to imply a bee, particularly a bumblebee.
If we insert the point of a lead-pencil into this opening, thus imitating the entrance of a
bee, its bevelled surface comes in contact with the viscid discs by the rupture of a veil of
membrane, which has hitherto protected them. The discs adhere to the pencil, and are withdrawn
upon it (Fig. 9). At first in upright position, they soon assume the forward inclination, as
previously described. The nectary is about the length of a bumblebee's tongue, and is, moreover,
so amply expanded at the throat below the stigma as to comfortably admit its wedge-shaped head.
The three progressive diagrams (Fig. 10) indicate the result in the event of such a visit.

The pollen discs are here very close together, and are protected within a membraneous cup,
in which they sit as in a socket. As the insect inserts his head at the opening (A) it is brought
against this tender membrane, which ruptures and exposes the viscid glands of the pollen masses,
which become instantly attached to the face or head, perhaps the eyes, of the burly visitor.
As the insect retreats from the flower, one or both of the pollinia are withdrawn, as at B.
Then immediately follows a downward movement, which exactly anticipates the position of the
stigma, and as the bee enters the next flower the pollen clubs are forced against it (C), as
in the previous example.

In the case of a smaller bee visiting the flower, the insect would find it necessary to creep
further into the opening, and thus might bring its thorax against the pollen-glands. In either
case the change of position in the pollinia would insure the same result.

We have thus seen adaptation to the thorax, the eyes, and the face in the three examples given.
And the entrance of the flower in each instance is so formed as to insure the proper angle
of approach for the insect for the accomplishment of the desired result. This direct approach,
so necessary in many orchids, is insured by various devices--by the position of the lip upon
which the insect must alight; by the narrowed entrance of the throat of the flower in front
of the nectary; by a fissure in the centre of the lip, by which the tongue is conducted, etc.

Many other species allied to the above possess similar devices, with slight variations; and
there is still another group whose structure is distinctly adjusted to the tongues of insects--adaptations
not merely of position of pollen masses, but even to the extent of a special modification in
the entrance to the flower and the shape of the sticky gland, by which it may more securely
adhere to that sipping member.

In the common pretty Purple-fringed Orchid, whose dense cylindrical spikes of plumy blossoms
occasionally empurple whole marshes, we have an arrangement quite similar to the H. orbicularis
just described, with the exception that the pollen-pouches are almost parallel, and not noticeably
spread at the base (Fig. 11). In this case the eyes of sipping butterflies occasionally get
their decoration of a tiny golden club, but more frequently their tongues.

If, however, the butterfly should approach directly in front of the flower, as in a larger
blossom he would be most apt to do, he might sip the nectar indefinitely and withdraw his tongue
without bringing it in contact with the viscid pollen discs. But in the dense crowding of the
flowers, over which the insect flutters indiscriminately, the approach is oftenest made obliquely,
and thus the tongue brushes the disc on the side approached, and the pollen mass is withdrawn.
But an examination of this orchid affords no pronounced evidence of any specific intention.
There is no unmistakable sign to demonstrate which approach is preferred or designed by the
flower, and this dependence on the insect's tongue or eye would seem to be left to chance.

In another closely allied species, however, we have a distinct provision which insures the
proper approach of the tongue--one of many similar devices by which the tongue is conducted
directly to one or the other of the pollen discs.

This is the Ragged Orchid, a near relative of the foregoing, H. psycodes, but far less fortunate
in its attributes of beauty, its long scattered spike of greenish-white flowers being so inconspicuous
in its sedgy haunt as often to conceal the fact of its frequency. Its individual flower is
shown enlarged at Fig. 12--the lip here cut with a lacerated fringe (H. lacera). The pollen-pouches
approach slightly at the base, directly opposite the nectary, where the two viscid pollen-glands
stand on guard. Now were the opening of the nectary at this point unimpeded, the same condition
would exist as in the H. psycodes--the tongue might be inserted between the pollen discs and
withdrawn without touching them. But here comes the remarkable and very exceptional provision
to make this contact a certainty--a suggestive structural feature of this flower of which I
am surprised to find no mention either in our botanies or in the literature of cross-fertilization,
so far as I am familiar with its bibliography. Even Dr. Gray's description of the fertilization
device of this species makes no mention of this singular and very important feature. The nectary
here, instead of being freely open, as in other orchids described, is abruptly closed at the
central portion by a firm protuberance or palate, which projects downward from the base of
the stigma, and closely meets the lip below.

The throat of the nectary, thus centrally divided, presents two small lateral openings, each
of which, from the line of approach through the much-narrowed entrance of the flower, is thus
brought directly beneath the waiting disc upon the same side. The structure is easily understood
from the two diagrams Figs. 12 and 13, both of which are indexed.

The viscid pollen-gland is here very peculiarly formed, elongated and pointed at each end,
and it is not until we witness the act of its removal on the tongue of the butterfly that we
can fully appreciate its significance.

I have often seen butterflies at work upon this orchid, and have observed their tongues generously
decorated with the glands and remnants of the pollen masses.

The series of diagrams (Fig. 14) will, I think, fully demonstrate how this blossom utilizes
the butterfly. At A we see the insect sipping, its tongue now in contact with the elongated
disc, which adheres to and clasps it. The withdrawal of the tongue (B) removes the pollen from
its pouch. At C it is seen entirely free and upright, from which position it quickly assumes
the new attitude shown at D. As the tongue is now inserted into the subsequent blossom this
pollen mass is thrust against the stigma (E), and a few of the pollen grains are thus withheld
upon its viscid surface as the insect departs (F).

In this orchid we thus find a distinct adaptation to the tongue of a moth or butterfly.

Another similar device for assuring the necessary side approach is seen in H. flava (Fig. 15),
a yellowish spiked species, more or less common in swamps and rich alluvial haunts.

Professor Wood remarks, botanically, "The tubercle (or palate) of the lip is a remarkable character."
But he, too, has failed to note the equally remarkable palate of the ragged orchid, just described,
both provisions having the same purpose, the insurance of an oblique approach to the nectary.
In H. flava this "tubercle," instead of depending from the throat, grows upward from the lip,
and, as we look at the flower directly from the front, completely hides the opening to the
nectary, and an insect is compelled to insert its tongue on one side, which direction causes
it to pass directly beneath the pollen disc, as in H. lacera, and with the same result.

Of all our native orchids, at least in the northeastern United States, the Cypripedium, or
Moccasin-Flower, is perhaps the general favorite, and certainly the most widely known. This
is readily accounted for not only by its frequency, but by its conspicuousness. The term "moccasin-flower"
is applied more or less indiscriminately to all species. The flower is also known as the ladies'-slipper,
more specifically Venus's-slipper--as warranted by its generic botanical title--from a fancied
resemblance in the form of the inflated lip, which is characteristic of the genus. We may readily
infer that the fair goddess was not consulted at the christening.

There are six native species of the cypripedium in this Eastern region, varying in shape and
in color--shades of white, yellow, crimson, and pink. The mechanism of their cross-fertilization
is the same in all, with only slight modifications.

The most common of the group, the C. acaule, most widely known as the moccasin-flower, whose
large, nodding, pale crimson blooms we so irresistibly associate with the cool hemlock woods,
will afford a good illustration.

The lip in all the cypripediums is more or less sac-like and inflated. In the present species,
C. acaule, however, we see a unique variation, this portion of the flower being conspicuously
bag-like, and cleft by a fissure down its entire anterior face. In Fig. 16 is shown a front
view of the blossom, showing this fissure. The "column" (B) in the cypripedium is very distinctive,
and from the front view is very non-committal. It is only as we see it in side section, or
from beneath, that we fully comprehend the disposition of stigma and pollen. Upon the stalk
of this column there appear from the front three lobes--two small ones at the sides, each of
which hides an anther attached to its under face--the large terminal third lobe being in truth
a barren rudiment of a former stamen, and which now overarches the stigma. The relative position
of these parts may be seen in the under view.

The anthers in this genus, then, are two, instead of the previous single anther with its two
pollen-cells. The pollen is also quite different in its character, being here in the form of
a pasty mass, whose entire exposed surface, as the anther opens, is coated with a very viscid
gluten.

With the several figures illustrating the cross-fertilization, the reader will readily anticipate
any description of the process, and only a brief commentary will be required in my text.

I have repeatedly examined the flowers of C. acaule in their haunts, have observed groups wherein
every flower still retained its pollen, others where one or both pollen masses had been withdrawn,
and in several instances associated with them I have observed the inflated lip most outrageously
bruised, torn, and battered, and occasionally perforated by a large hole. I had observed these
facts in boyhood. The inference, of course, was that some insect had been guilty of the mutilation;
but not until I read Darwin's description of the cross-fertilization of this species did I
realize the full significance of these telltale evidences of the escape of the imprisoned insect.
Since that time, many years ago, I have often sat long and patiently in the haunt of the cypripedium
awaiting a natural demonstration of its cross-fertilization, but as yet no insect has rewarded
my devotion.

At length, in hopelessness of reward by such means, I determined to see the process by more
prosaic methods. Gathering a cluster of the freshly opened flowers, which still retained their
pollen, I took them to my studio. I then captured a bumblebee, and forcibly persuaded him to
enact the demonstration which I had so long waited for him peaceably to fulfil. Taking him
by the wings, I pushed him into the fissure by which he is naturally supposed to enter without
persuasion. He was soon within the sac, and the inflexed wings of the margin had closed above
him, as shown in section, Fig. 17. He is now enclosed in a luminous prison, and his buzzing
protests are audible and his vehemence visible from the outside of the sac. Let us suppose
that he at length has become reconciled to his condition, and has determined to rationally
fulfil the ideal of his environment, as he may perhaps have already done voluntarily before.
The buzzing ceases, and our bee is now finding sweet solace for his incarceration in the copious
nectar which he finds secreted among the fringy hairs in the upper narrowed portion of the
flower, as shown at Fig. 18 A. Having satiated his appetite, he concludes to quit his close
quarters. After a few moments of more vehement futile struggling and buzzing, he at length
espies, through the passage above the nectary fringe, a gleaming light, as from two windows
(A). Towards these he now approaches. As he advances the passage becomes narrower and narrower,
until at length his back is brought against the overhanging stigma (Fig. 18 B). So narrow is
the pass at this point that the efforts of the bee are distinctly manifest from the outside
in the distension of the part and the consequent slight change in the droop of the lip. In
another moment he has passed this ordeal, and his head is seen protruding from the window-like
opening (A) on one side of the column. But his struggles are not yet ended, for his egress
is still slightly checked by the narrow dimensions of the opening, and also by the detention
of the anther, which his thorax has now encountered. A strange etiquette this of the cypripedium,
which speeds its parting guest with a sticky plaster smeared all over its back. As the insect
works its way beneath the viscid contact, the anther is seen to be drawn outward upon its hinge,
and its yellow contents are spread upon the insect's back (Fig. 18 C), verily like a plaster.
Catching our bee before he has a chance to escape with his generous floral compliments, we
unceremoniously introduce him into another cypripedium blossom, to which, if he were more obliging,
he would naturally fly. He loses no time in profiting by his past experience, and is quickly
creeping the gantlet, as it were, or braving the needle's eye of this narrow passage. His pollen-smeared
thorax is soon crowding beneath the overhanging stigma again, whose forward-pointed papillæ
scrape off a portion of it (Fig. 18 B), thus insuring the cross-fertilizing of the flower,
the bee receiving a fresh effusion of cypripedium compliments piled upon the first as he says
"good-bye." It is doubtful whether in his natural life he ever fully effaces the telltale effects
of this demonstrative au revoir.

Such, with slight modifications, is the plan evolved by the whole cypripedium tribe. Darwin
mentions bees as the implied fertilizers, and doubtless many of the smaller bees do effect
cross-fertilization in the smaller species. But the more ample passage in acaule would suggest
the medium-sized Bombus as better adapted--as the experiment herewith pictured from my own
experience many times would seem to verify, while a honey-bee introduced into the flower failed
to fulfil the demonstration, emerging at the little doorway above without a sign of the cordial
parting token.

Occasionally I suppose a fool bumblebee is entrapped within the petal bower and fails to find
the proper exit, or it may be--much less a fool--having run the gantlet once too often, decides
to escape the ordeal; hence the occasional mutilated blossom already described.

One of the most beautiful of our orchids, though its claims to admiration in this instance
are chiefly confined to the foliage, is the common "Rattlesnake-Plantain," its prostrate rosettes
of exquisitely white reticulated leaves carpeting many a nook in the shadows of the hemlocks,
its dense spikes of yellowish-white blossoms signalling their welcome to the bees, and fully
compensating in interest what they may lack in other attractive attributes.

The single flower is shown enlarged in Fig. 19--A, a young blossom, with analyses B and C,
the latter indexed; D, an older blossom, with similar analyses (E and F). Both sorts are to
be found upon every spike of bloom, as the inflorescence begins at the base and proceeds upward.
As we look into the more open flower we observe a dark-colored speck, which, by analysis, proves
to be the lid of the anther. This portion is further shown enlarged in Fig. 20, A. If we gently
lift it with a pin, we disclose the pollen masses in the cavity (B) thus opened (C, profile
section), the two pairs united to a common viscid gland at the base, this gland again secreted
behind a veil of moist membrane, as also shown at B. This membrane is, moreover, very sensitive
to the touch. Below the flattened tip of the column, and at a sharp inward angle, is the stigma.
In the freshly opened flower (Fig. 19, A) the column inclines forward, bringing the anther
low down, and its base directly opposite the V-shaped orifice in the lip, which also is quite
firmly closed beneath the equally converging upper hood of the blossom. The entrance is thus
much narrowed. If we insert a pin in this V-shaped entrance it comes in contact with the sensitive
membrane below the anther, and it is immediately ruptured, as shown at Fig. 20, D. The sticky
gland is brought into immediate contact, and clasps the pin, which, now being withdrawn, brings
away the pollen, as in E and F. Thus it is naturally removed on the tongue of its sipping bee.

The further demonstration will be better shown by profile sections (Fig. 21). Nectar is secreted
in the hollow of the lip indicated, somewhat as in the cypripedium. If we now imitate with
a probe the habit of the insect and the action of its tongue, we may witness a beautiful contrivance
for cross-fertilization. We will suppose the bee to be working at the top of the spike. He
thrusts his tongue into the narrow opening (G). The membrane protecting the pollen-gland, thus
surely touched, ruptures as described, and the exposed gland attaches itself to the tongue,
being withdrawn as at H, and located on the insect's tongue, as in F, Fig. 20. The bee leaves
this flower cluster and flies to another, upon which it will usually begin operation at the
bottom. The flower thus first encountered is an old bloom, as in Fig. 19, D. Its sepals are
more spreading, the lip slightly lowered, and the column so changed as to present the plane
of the stigma, before out of sight, in such a new position as to invariably receive the pollen.
The tongue of a bee entering this flower conveys the pollen directly against the stigmatic
surface (I), which retains its disentangled fecundating grains, as at J, and the flower's functional
adaptations are fulfilled.

In the allied Spiranthes, or "Lady's-Tresses," a somewhat similar mechanism prevails, by which
fertilization is largely effected by the changed position or angle of the stigma plane.

And thus we might proceed through all the orchid genera, each new device, though based upon
one of the foregoing plans, affording its new surprise in its special modification in adaptation
to its insect sponsor--all these various shapes, folds of petals, positions, colors, the size,
length, and thickness of nectary, the relative positions of pollen and stigma, embodying an
expression of welcome to the insect with which its life is so marvellously linked. Occasionally
this astounding affinity is faithful to a single species of insect, which thus becomes the
sole sponsor of the blossom, without whose association the orchid would become extinct. A remarkable
instance of this special adaptation is seen in the great Angræcum orchid of Madagascar, described
by Darwin; and inasmuch as this species glorifies Darwin's faith in the truth of his theory,
and marks a notable victory in the long battle for its supremacy, it affords an inspiring theme
for my closing paragraphs.

Among the host of sceptics--and were they not legion?--who met this evolutionary and revolutionary
theory with incredulity, not to say ridicule or worse, was one who thus challenged its author
shortly after the appearance of his "Fertilization of Orchids," addressing Darwin from Madagascar
substantially as follows: "Upon your theory of evolution through natural selection all the
various contrasting structural features of the orchids have direct reference to some insect
which shall best cross-fertilize them. If an orchid has a nectary one inch long, an insect's
tongue of equivalent length is implied; a nectary six inches in length likewise implies a tongue
six inches long. What have you to say in regard to an orchid which flourishes here in Madagascar
possessing a long nectary as slender as a knitting-needle and eleven inches in length? On your
hypothesis there must be a moth with a tongue eleven inches long, or this nectary would never
have been elaborated."

Darwin's reply was magnificent in its proof of the sublime conviction of the truth of his belief:
"The existence of an orchid with a slender nectary eleven inches in length, and with nectar
secreted at its tip, is a conclusive demonstration of the existence of a moth with a tongue
eleven inches in length, even though no such moth is known."

Many of us remember the ridicule which was heaped upon him for this apparently blind adherence
to an untenable theory. But victory complete and demoralizing to his opponents awaited this
oracular utterance when later a disciple of Darwin, led by the same spirit of faith and conviction,
visited Madagascar, and was soon able to affirm that he had caught the moth, a huge sphinx-moth,
and that its tongue measured eleven inches in length.

Here we see the prophecy of the existence of an unknown moth, founded on the form of a blossom.
At that time the moth had not been actually seen at work on the orchid, but who shall question
for a moment that had the flower been visited in its twilight or moonlight haunt the murmur
of humming wings about the blossom's throat would have attested the presence of the flower's
affinity, for without the kiss of this identical moth the Angræcum must become extinct. No
other moth can fulfil the conditions necessary to its perpetuation. The floral adaptation is
such that the moth must force its large head far into the opening of the blossom in order to
reach the sweets in the long nectary. In so doing the pollen becomes attached to the base of
the tongue, and is withdrawn as the insect leaves the flower, and is thrust against the stigma
in the next blossom visited. This was clearly demonstrated by Darwin in specimens sent to him,
by means of a probe of the presumable length and diameter of the moth's tongue. Shorter-tongued
moths would fail to remove the pollen, and also to reach the nectar, and would thus soon learn
to realize that they were not welcome.

The Angræcum also affords in this long pendent nectary a most lucid illustration of the present
workings of natural selection. The normal length of that nectary should be about eleven inches,
but in fact this length varies considerably in the flowers of different plants, this tendency
to variation in all organic life being an essential and amply demonstrated postulate of the
entire theory of natural selection. Let us suppose a flower whose nectary chances to be only
six inches in length. The moth visits this flower, but the tip of its tongue reaches the nectar
long before it can bring its head into the opening of the tube. This being a vital condition,
the moth fails to withdraw the pollen; and inasmuch as the pollen is usually deposited close
to the head of the moth, this flower would receive no pollen upon its stigma. This particular
blossom would thus be both barren and sterile. None of its pollen would be carried to other
stigmas, nor would it set a seed to perpetuate by inheritance its shorter nectary.

Again, let us suppose the variation of an extra long nectary, and the writer recently saw a
number of these orchids with nectaries thirteen inches in length. The moth comes, and now must
needs insert its head to the utmost into the opening of the flower. This would insure its fertilization
by the pollen on the insect's tongue; and even though the sipper failed to reach the nectar,
the pollen would be withdrawn upon the tongue, to be carried to other flowers, which might
thus be expected to inherit from the paternal side the tendency to the longer nectary. The
tendency towards the perpetuation of the short nectary is therefore stopped, while that of
the longer nectary is insured.

THE MILKWEED

The singular hospitality of our milkweed blossom is nowhere matched among Flora's minions,
and would seem occasionally in need of supervision.

Just outside the door here at my country studio, almost in touch of its threshold, year after
year there blooms a large clump of milkweed (Asclepias cornuta), and, what with the fragrance
of its purple pompons and the murmurous music of its bees, its fortnight of bloom is not permitted
to be forgotten for a moment. Only a moment ago a whiff of more than usual redolence from the
open window at which I am sitting reminded me that the flowers were even now in the heyday
of their prime, and the loud droning music betokened that the bees were making the most of
their opportunities.

Yielding to the temptation, I was soon standing in the midst of the plants. The purple fragrant
umbels of bloom hung close about me on all sides, each flower, with its five generous horns
of plenty, drained over and over again by the eager sipping swarm.

But the July sun is one thing to a bee and quite another thing to me. I have lingered long
enough, however, to witness again the beautiful reciprocity, and to realize anew, with awe
and reverence, how divinely well the milkweed and the bee understand each other. After a brief
search among the blossom clusters I return to my seclusion with a few interesting specimens,
which may serve as a text here at my desk by the open window.

Two months hence an occasional silky messenger will float away from the glistening clouds about
the open milkweed pods, but who ever thanks the bees of June for them? The flower is but a
bright anticipation--an expression of hope in the being of the parent plant. It has but one
mission. All its fragrance, all its nectar, all its beauty of form and hue are but means towards
the consummation of the eternal edict of creation--"Increase and multiply." To that end we
owe all the infinite forms, designs, tints, decorations, perfumes, mechanisms, and other seemingly
inexplicable attributes. Its threshold must bear its own peculiar welcome to its insect, or
perhaps to its humming-bird friend, or counterpart; its nectaries must both tempt and reward
his coming, and its petals assist his comfortable tarrying.

Next to the floral orchids, the mechanism of our milkweed blossom is perhaps the most complex
and remarkable, and illustrates as perfectly as any of the orchid examples given in Darwin's
noble work the absolute divine intention of the dependence of a plant species upon the visits
of an insect.

Our milkweed flower is a deeply planned contrivance to insure such an end. It fills the air
with enticing fragrance. Its nectaries are stored with sweets, and I fancy each opening bud
keenly alert with conscious solicitude for its affinity. Though many other flowers manage imperfectly
to perpetuate their kind in the default of insect intervention, the milkweed, like most of
the orchids, is helpless and incapable of such resource. Inclose this budded umbel in tarlatan
gauze and it will bloom days after its fellow-blooms have fallen, anticipating its consummation,
but no pods will be seen upon this cluster.

What a singular decree has Nature declared with reference to the milkweed! She says, in plainest
terms, "Your pollen must be removed on the leg of an insect, preferably a bee, or your kind
shall perish from the face of the earth." And what is the deep-laid plan by which this end
is assured? My specimens here on the desk will disclose it all.

Here are two bees, a fly, and a beetle, each hanging dead by its legs from a flower, an extreme
sacrificial penalty, which is singularly frequent, but which was certainly not exacted nor
contemplated in the design of the flower. A careful search among almost any good-sized cluster
of milkweeds will show us many such prisoners. As in all flowers, the pollen of the milkweed
blossom must come in contact with its stigma before fruition is possible. In this peculiar
family of plants, however, the pollen is distinct in character, and closely suggests the orchids
in its consistency and disposition. The yellow powdery substance with which we are all familiar
in ordinary flowers is here absent, the pollen being collected in two club-shaped or, more
properly, spatula-shaped masses, linked in pairs at their slender prolonged tips, each of which
terminates in a sticky disc-shaped appendage united in V-shape below. These pollen masses are
concealed in pockets (B) around the cylindrical centre of the flower, the discs only being
exposed at the surface, at five equidistant points around its rim, where they lie in wait for
the first unwary foot that shall touch them. A glance at the two views of this central portion
of the flower, as it appears through my magnifying-glass--the honey-horns and sepals having
been removed--will, I think, indicate its peculiar anatomy or mechanism. No stigma is to be
seen in the flower, the stigmatic surface which is to receive the pollen being concealed within
five compartments, each of which is protected by a raised tent-like covering, cleft along its
entire apex by a fine fissure (A). Outside of each of these, and entirely separated from the
stigma in the cavity, lie the pollen masses within their pockets, each pair uniting at the
rim below in V-shape, the union at the lower limit of the fissure.

With this more intimate knowledge of the floral anatomy, let us now visit our milkweed-plant
and observe closely.

A bee alights upon the flower--the object of its visit being, of course, the sweets located
in the five horn-shaped nectaries. In order to reach this nectar the insect must hang to the
bulky blossom. Instantly, and almost of necessity, it would seem, one or more of the feet are
seen to enter the upper opening of the fissure, and during the insect's movements are drawn
through to the base. The foot is thus conducted directly between the two viscid discs, which
immediately cling closer than a brother, and as the foot is finally withdrawn, the pollen is
pulled from its cell. The member now released seeks a fresh hold, and the same result follows,
the leg almost inevitably entering the fissure, and this time drawing in the pollen directly
against the sticky stigmatic surface within. The five honey-horns have now been drained, and
as our bee leaves the flower he is plainly detained by this too hearty "shake" or "grip" of
his host, and quite commonly must exert a slight struggle to free himself. As the foot is thus
forcibly torn away, the pollen mass is commonly scraped entirely off and retained within the
fissure, or perhaps parts at the stalk, leaving the terminal disc clinging on the insect's
leg. Occasionally, when more than one leg is entangled, the dangling blossom is tossed and
swayed for several seconds by the vigorous pulling and buzzing, and a number of these temporary
captives upon a single milkweed-plant are always to be seen.

Not unfrequently the mechanism so well adapted exceeds its functions and proves a veritable
trap, as indicated in my specimens. I have found three dead bees thus entrapped in a single
umbel of blossoms, having been exhausted in their struggles for escape; and a search among
the flowers at any time will show the frequency of this fatality, the victims including gnats,
flies, crane-flies, bugs, wasps, beetles, and small butterflies. In every instance this prisoner
is found dangling by one or more legs, with the feet firmly held in the grip of the fissure.

Almost any bee which we may catch at random upon a milkweed gives perfect evidence of his surroundings,
its toes being decorated with the tiny yellow tags, each successive flower giving and taking,
exchanging compliments, as it were, with his fellows. Ordinarily this fringe can hardly prove
more than an embarrassment; but we may frequently discern an individual here and there which
for some reason has received more than his share of the milkweed's compliments. His legs are
conspicuously fringed with the yellow tags. He rests with a discouraged air upon a neighboring
leaf, while honey, and even wings, are seemingly forgotten in his efforts to scrape off the
cumbersome handicap.

An interesting incident, apropos of our embarrassed bee, was narrated to me by the late Alphonso
Wood, the noted botanist. He had received by mail from California a small box containing a
hundred or more dead bees, accompanied by a letter. The writer, an old bee-keeper, had experience,
and desired enlightenment and advice. The letter stated that his bees were "dying by thousands
from the attacks of a peculiar fungus." The ground around the hive was littered with the victims
in all stages of helplessness, and the dead insects were found everywhere at greater distances
scattered around his premises. It needed only a casual glance at the encumbered insects to
see the nature of the malady. They were laden two or three pairs deep, as it were, with the
pollen masses of a milkweed. The botanist wrote immediately to his anxious correspondent, informing
him, and suggesting as a remedy the discovery and destruction of the mischievous plants, which
must be thriving somewhere in his neighborhood. A subsequent letter conveyed the thanks of
the bee-keeper, stating that the milkweeds--a whole field of them--had been found and destroyed,
and the trouble had immediately ceased. I am not aware that Mr. Wood ever ascertained the particular
species of milkweed in this case. It is not probable that our Eastern species need ever seriously
threaten the apiary, though unquestionably large numbers of bees are annually destroyed by
its excessive hospitality. I have repeatedly found honey-bees dead beneath the plants, and
my cabinet shows a specimen of a large bumblebee which had succumbed to its pollen burden,
its feet, and even the hairs upon its body, being fringed deep with the tiny clubs--one of
the many specimens which I have discovered as the "grist in the mill" of that wise spider which
usually spreads his catch-all beneath the milkweeds.

       *       *       *       *       *

Allied to the milkweed is another plant, the dogbane (Apocynum), which has a similar trick
of entrapping its insect friends. Its drooping, fragrant, bell-shaped white flowers and long
slender pods will help to recall it. But its method of capture is somewhat similar to the milkweed.
The anthers are divided by a V-shaped cavity, into which the insect's tongue is guided as it
is withdrawn from the flower, and into which it often becomes so tightly wedged as to render
escape impossible. I have found small moths dangling by the tongue, as seen in the illustration
below.

INDEX

  Agalena, house-spider, 7.

  Alypia, grape-vine-moth, 160.

  Andromeda (A. ligustrina),
    singular greeting to the bee, 126;
    interior arrangement of flower, 128;
    release of the pollen, 129.

  Angræcum, orchid of Madagascar, with nectary eleven inches long, 219.

  Ants,
    herding the aphides, 166;
    a model honey-farm, 167.

  "Ant-holes," 61.

  Aphides, plant-lice,
    founders of the feast, 165;
    herded by ants, 167.

  Apocynum, dogbane, 236.

  Aprophora, spume-bearer, 82.

  Arethusa bulbosa, orchid, 175.

  Argiope, field spider, 8.

  Aristolochias, 119.

  Aristotle, 23.

  Arum, wild:
    --Position of the anthers, 141;
    progressive stages of change, 142.

  Asclepias cornuta, milkweed, 227.

  Asilus, "robber-fly", 8.

  Axell, a follower of Darwin, 116.

  Bees:
    --The drone of, 5;
    a counterpart of clover; dependence of clover on, 117;
    manner of approach, 121;
    black-and-white banded, 126;
    approach to the blue-flag, 131;
    experiment with the bumblebee, 209;
    his escape from the flower, 210;
    manner of cross-fertilizing, 212;
    manner of conveying the pollen, 218;
    his difficulties with the milkweed flower, 233;
    the cumbersome handicap, 234;
    destroyed by the milkweed, 235.

  Beetles (Cicindela), tiger, 68.

  Birds:
    --Swifts, 5;
    robin, 5;
    vireo, 5, 45;
    indigo, 5;
    chat, 5, 40;
    oriole, 5, 32;
    red-headed chippy; barn-swallow, 6, 28, 39, 40;
    cuckoo, 23;
    "kow-bird"; cow black-bird; bunting, 27;
    song-sparrow, 30, 40;
    Maryland yellow-throat, 28, 45;
    Wilson's thrush; chewink, 32;
    fly-catcher; bluebird; oven-bird; cat-bird; phoebe, 40;
    bobolink; "reed-bird," 53;
    humming, 227.

  Birds' nests:
    --Flimsy structure of the cuckoo's, 26;
    song-sparrow's, 30;
    oriole's swinging hammock; cobweb structure of the vireo's, 32;
    size of yellow-bird's; summer yellow-bird's beautiful home, 47;
    a four-story house, a possible fashion in featherdom, 51;
    pipit's, 35;
    wood-sparrow's, 37.

  Bittersweet (Celastrus scandens), queer little harlequins on, 9;
    its scarlet-coated seeds, 88.

  Blackburn, Mrs., quoted, 35.

  Blair, Patrick, his claims concerning pollen, 111.

  Blossom ceremonies, 119.

  Blue-flag,
    its hidden anthers reached only by the bumblebee or large fly,129;
    manner of the bee's approach, 131.

  Burroughs on wren-building, 17.

  Butterflies:
    --Great yellow swallow-tail (Papilio turnus); red admiral
      (Pyrameis Atlanta); small yellow (Philodice); semicolon
      (Grapta interrogationis); comma (Vanessa comma), 153;
    orange; white (Aphrodite), 154;
    white cabbage (Pontia oleracea) 153.

  Cactus, prickly-pear, its golden bower, 118.

  Collinsonia, horse-balm, 136.

  Caterpillars, 10, 14, 15, 62.

  Celastrus scandens, bittersweet, 88.

  Chamælirium luteum, devil's-bit, 133.

  Chipmonk, 6.

  Cicada,
    victim of the sand-hornet, 77;
    manner of depositing its eggs; period of transformation, 97;
    time of hatching, 100.

  Cicindela, tiger-beetle, 68.

  Clover, cause of failure of crop in Australia, 117.

  Cobwebs:
    --A dusty prize; a two year's span, 7;
    a mixed assortment in, 8.

  Cone-flower (Rudbeckia hirta), 138;
    embryo seeds; arrangement of the anthers, 139.

  Cow black-bird, 27;
    his favorite perch; old dame's theory, 28;
    an unwelcome intruder, 30;
    a prowling foe, 31.

  Cow-bird:
    --Ravenous young parasite, 31;
    a clamoring lubber, 37;
    "Black Douglas" of the bird-home, 38;
    selected victims, 39;
    distribution of its eggs; vicious habits, 40;
    egg-laying intervals; demoralizing conditions; American species
      an improvement, 41;
    survival of the fittest, 42;
    balance of power, 44;
    outwitted, 51;
    massing for migration, 52.

  "Cow-spit," 80.

  Cross-fertilization, 115, 122, 178, 189, 194.

  "Cuckoo-spit," 80.

  Cuckoos:
    --Poetic misnomer, 23;
    outrage on maternal affection; yellow-billed; black-billed;
      imagination versus facts, 25;
    bad workmanship of nest, 26;
    its stammering cry, 27;
    manner of depositing its eggs; handling the egg with her bill, 33;
    short period of incubation; voracious appetite of the young;
      aggressive selfishness, 34;
    the tragedy of the nest, 35;
    manner of disposing of its nest-mates, 36.

  Cypripedium acaule, moccasin-flower; ladies'-slipper;
     Venus's-slipper, 205.

  Darwin:
    --Process of anatomical evolution, 35;
    theory of cross-fertilization, 105;
    inspired insight, 115;
    his disciples, 116;
    experiments with pollen, 126;
    weakness of self-fertilizing flowers, 144;
    triumphant revelation, 171;
    reaffirming Sprengel's theory, 178;
    a chosen interpreter, 181;
    dependence on insects, 183;
    revealing the hidden treasure, 185;
    foretelling the manner of cross-fertilization, 189;
    description of the cross-fertilization, 209;
    bees as implied fertilizers, 212;
    truth of his belief, 220.

  Darning-needle, dragon-fly (Libellulidæ), 156;
    his dainty morsel, 160.

  Delpino, a follower of Darwin, 116.

  Desmodium, its hospitable welcome, 118.

  Devil's-bit (Chamælirium luteum), 133.

  Digger wasp,
    its color and wire-like waist, 72;
    manner of working, 74;
    covering its tracks; opening the tomb, 76;
    living food for the young grub, 77;
    its remarkable carrying power, 78.

  Dogbane (Apocynum),
    its fragrant, bell-shaped flowers, 236;
    trapping moths, 237.

  Dogwood, 5.

  Door-Step Neighbors:
    --Chronicle of a day, 58;
    disappearing holes, 59, 16;
    "ant-holes"; a danger signal; an unhealthy court, 61;
    a transformation, 62;
    an experiment; method of excavation, 63;
    a stalwart worker, 64;
    an uncouth nondescript; spider-like legs, 66;
    crawls on his back, 67;
    a tiny black wasp; a spider-catcher, 69;
    resting on her wings; inspecting her burrow, 70;
    manner of burying her prey; skilful workmanship, 71;
    a new-comer; her wire-like waist; digging her tunnel, 72;
    manner of working; sound of labor, 74;
    covering her tracks; opening the tomb, 76;
    fresh living food, 77;
    carrying seven times its weight; peculiar features of stone-piling, 78;
    color of the wasp, 79;
    the spume-bearer, 81;
    nomadic blossoms; a sack bearer, 83;
    winter quarters, 84.

  Epeira, field spider, 8.

  Epiphytes, air-plants, 181.

  Evening primrose, its golden necklace, 118.

  "Fertilization of Flowers," 116;
    wrong theory, 114.

  Fertilization of orchids, 105, 183.

  Flies:
    --Robber, 8;
    bluebottle, 8;
    harvest ichneumon, 45, 77, 96.

  Foxes, wild gambols of, 6.

  Froghopper. See Spume-bearer (Aprophora), 82.

  Gärtner, recognizing the theory of cross-fertilization, 115.

  Genesta, its reception of insects, 118.

  Geranium, wild (G. sylvaticum), 112.

  Gilbert, concerning cuckoo's eggs, 25.

  "Gobs," 80.

  Gray, Asa:
    --Demonstration concerning orchids, 184;
    surmise concerning the withdrawal of pollen, 188;
    orchid structure, 190.

  Grew, Nehemias, discovery concerning pollen, 110;
    discoveries about pollen, 113;
    first step in progress, 116.

  Habenaria flava:
    --Yellow-spiked, 203;
    H. lacera, ragged, 200;
    H. orbicularis, showy, 194, 199;
    H. psycodes, purple-fringed, 200;
    H. mascula, 189.

  Heath, its distinguishing characteristics, 123.

  Hemiptera, bugs with sucking beaks, 81.

  Herbert:
    --A follower of Sprengel, 108;
    recognizing the principle of cross-fertilization, 115.

  "Honey-dew Picnic":
    --Gathering of the clans, 153;
    a selected spot, 154;
    a motley assemblage, 155;
    an outlaw, 157;
    a finish fight, 158;
    funeral baked meats, 164;
    gathering his grist;
    the founder of the feast, 158.

  Honey-guides, 112, 129.

  Hornets:
    --Its heavy load, 9;
    on the watch, 15;
    "solitary," 17;
    queer home of, 18;
    great sand, 77;
    black paper, 161.

  Horse-balm (Collinsonia), its singular shape, 136;
    manner of bee's approach to, 138.

  Huber:
    --On insect slavery, 151;
    on the cultivation of the aphides, 166.

  Insect Fertilization, 115.

  Jack-in-the-Pulpit, detaining its guests, 119.

  Jardine, Sir William, concerning cuckoo's eggs, 32.

  Jenner, Dr., habits of the young cuckoo, 35.

  Knight, Andrew:
    --On the divination of flowers, 108;
    theory of cross-fertilization, 115.

  Köhlreuter:
    --Recognizing Sprengel's principles, 108;
    a botanical pioneer, 115.

  Krunitz, on flower honey, 111.

  Labiates, flowers with lips, 122.

  Ladies'-tresses (Spiranthes), 218.

  Larva:
    --Hornet, 16;
    "puss-moth," 76;
    psychid, 83.

  Linnæus:
    --Settling the theory of fertilization, 110;
    puzzled as to the function of honey, 111;
    a second step, 116;
    imperfect knowledge of the orchid, 173.

  Logan, concerning the cuckoo, 23.

  Lubbock:
    --On the divination of flowers, 108;
    follower of Darwin, 116;
    on the cultivation of aphides, 166.

  Martial Spirit of Vespa, 19.

  Membracis binotata, insect with a sharp beak, a tree-hopper, 91.

  Milkweed:
    --Its matchless hospitality;
    purple pompons;
    its five horns, 227;
    its one mission;
    the humming-bird its friend, 228;
    complex mechanism;
    enticing fragrance;
    removal of pollen on insects' legs, 229;
    four captives, 230;
    its honey trap;
    its tenacious grip, 233;
    an assortment of victims;
    cumbersome handicap, 234;
    a wholesale destroyer, 235.

  Mint family, 122.

  Mnio-tiltidæ, summer yellow-bird, 47.

  Moccasin-flower (Cypripedium acaule), 205.

  Moths:
    --Twilight;
    sphinx, 118, 190, 220;
    grape-vine, 160.

  Mountain laurel:
    --Showers of pollen of;
    curious construction of flower of;
    withers if brought indoors, 124;
    character of the pollen, 125.

  Mouse, motley collection of food of;
    mischief of, 7.

  Müller, Hermann:
    --On the divination of flowers, 108;
    on defective observation, 114;
    the relations between the flower and insect, 116;
    on fertilization, 142

  Nature's Equilibrium, 39.

  Natural observation, 57.

  Nomadic blossoms, 83.

  Orchids:
    --Dependence on insects, 144;
    strange mechanical adaptation;
    sweet-pogonia;
    perfume suggesting raspberries, 145;
    intention of the blossom, 146;
    adaptation for insects, 147;
    its fragrance a perfumed whisper of welcome, 148;
    a contrast, 172;
    form of invitation, 173;
    insect complement, 174;
    Arethusa bulbosa, 175;
    theories concerning the conveyance of the pollen, 176;
    the most highly specialized form of flowers, 180;
    distinguished by its structure;
    American varieties not air-plants;
    form of flower, 181;
    elasticity of the pollen of the Spectabilis, 182;
    self-fertilizing, 183;
    American and exotic species, 184;
    Arethusa's fragrance, 185;
    its structure, 186;
    significant depth of nectar wells;
    conditions demanded of insects, 187;
    Gray's surmise, 188;
    sphinx-moth its only complement, 190;
    manner of carrying the pollen by sphinx-moth, 193;
    extracting the pollen with a pencil;
    length of the nectary, 196;
    purple-fringed, 198;
    ragged, 200;
    very exceptional provision, 201;
    yellow-spiked, 203;
    moccasin-flower;
    ladies'-slipper;
    Venus's-slipper;
    the color of, 205;
    distinctive character of, 206;
    practical experiment, 209;
    imprisonment of the bee;
    manner of its release, 210;
    rattlesnake-plantain, 213;
    Angræcum, its long nectary, 219;
    tongue of a sphinx-moth eleven inches long, 220;
    nectary thirteen inches long, 223.

  "Origin of Species":
    --First important presentation of the theory of
      cross-fertilization, 105;
    tardy appreciation of the work, 115.

  Odynerus flavipes, wren-wasp, 10.

  Ovid, concerning hornets, 18.

  Parallels in Nature, 152.

  Platanthera, orchid group, 192.

  Pliny, 23.

  Pogonia ophioglossoides, sweet-pogonia, 145.

  Polistes, brown wasp, 161.

  Primrose, evening, 118.

  Psychid:
    --A sack-bearer; drags its house with it; feeds on seed-pods, 83;
    winter quarters of silk, 84.

  Queer Little Family:
    --Tree-hopper (Membracis binotata); a singular entertainment;
      graceful curves, 87;
    a branch in masquerade; queer thorns, 88;
    a sudden disappearance; animated thorns; like a covey of quails, 89;
    like "Bob White," 90;
    singular agility; queer anatomy; always ready for flight, 91;
    fondness for locust and oak-trees, simulating the color and character
      of the branches, 92;
    manner of sitting on the branches, 93;
    always headed towards the top; tiny tufts of cotton, 94;
    color and size of the tufts; a mere frothy shell; a riddle, 95;
    its relations, 96;
    an investigation, 97;
    its technique, 98;
    aërated cement; froth-house builder, 99;
    period of hatching, 100;
    a house for the winter; not a wanderer, 101.

  Ragged Orchid (H. lacera), 200.

  "Rattlesnake-plantain," 213.

  Rudbeckia hirta, cone-flower, 138.

  Sage (Salvia officinalis), strange curved stamen, 119;
    nature's arrangement, 112.

  Salvia, its welcome to the bee, 117.

  Self-fertilization, 141.

  Sheep-spit, 80.

  Showy orchid (H. orbicularis),194.

  Snorting war-horse, 18.

  Solitude, the pleasures of, 3.

  "Solomon's ant," 152.

  Spectabilis, orchid, 182;
    its favorite haunt, 195.

  Spiders, agalena, epeira, argiope, 8;
    a two years' span, 7;
    a silken vortex;
    miscellaneous food, 8.

  Spiranthes, "Lady's-tresses," 218.

  Sprengel, Christian Conrad:
    --Inspiration from the wild geranium, 108;
    on the mystery of color, 112;
    theory of fertilization;
    a poser to Linnæus, 113;
    his wrong theory, 114;
    divining half the truth, 176;
    assumption disproved, 178.

  Spume-bearer (Aprophora), its domicile of suds;
    wonderful power of jumping, 82.

  Starling, dispossessing woodpecker from nest, 43.

  Studio Company:
    --"Tumultuous privacy"; contested territory; snickering squirrels, 4;
    selected food; unsymmetrical carpentry; drone of bees; carol of birds;
      flurry of swifts; accompaniments to my toil, 5;
    wild fox; pet chipmonk; pet toad; his lightning tongue;
      home in a bowl, 6;
    an old friend, 9.

  Summer yellow-bird (Mnio-tiltidæ), 47.

  Sweet-pogonia (P. ophioglossoides), 145.

  Swift, Jonathan, on parasites, 44.

  Tennyson, quoted, 24.

  "The Secrets of Nature in Forms and Fertilization of Flowers Discovered,"
    Sprengel's work, 113.

  Thévenot, concerning the thrift of insects, 152.

  Tiger-beetle (Cicindela), 68.

  Toads, 6.

  Toad-spit, 80.

  Tree-hopper, 93.

  Venus's-slipper (Cypripedium acaule), 205.

  Vireo, abandons its nest, 45.

  Wasps:
    --Wren, 10;
    microscopic, 45;
    tiny black, 69;
    digger, 72, 162;
    orange-spotted, 79;
    brown; mud, 161.

  "Waxwork" bittersweet (Celastrus scandens), 88.

  Welcome of the flowers:
    --The function of the stamen, 106;
    difference in cells, 107;
    condition of the flower, 108;
    physiological features; recognition of sex in flowers, 109;
    exchange of courtesies; each flower a law unto itself, 117;
    action of "jack-in-the-pulpit"; cypripedium and aristolochias;
      peculiarity of the sage, 119;
    queer stamens; nature's arrangement, 121;
    cross-fertilization insured, 122;
    showers of laurel pollen; curious construction of flower, 124;
    singular greeting to the bee, 126;
    remarkable interior arrangement of the Andromeda, 128;
    hidden anthers of the blue-flag, 129;
    intercommunication and reciprocity, 135.

  Wild geranium (G. sylvaticum), 112.

  Wild volapük, 4.

  Wilson, cow-bird's eggs, 33.

  Wind as a fertilizing agent, 154.

  White, Gilbert, cuckoo's eggs, 32;
    rich localities, 58.

  Wood, Alphonso:
    --On tubercles, 203;
    on embarrassed bees, 235.

  Woodchucks, 5.

  Wren-wasp (Odynerus flavipes):
    --A cumbersome prize, 10;
    selecting a home; way stations; a second instalment, 11;
    very familiar, 12;
    a well-stocked home, 13;
    impotent anæsthetic, 14;
    manner of catching her prey; a hypodermic injection, 15;
    food on storage; closing the cell after depositing egg, 16;
    living food; preference for ready-made houses; resemblance to
      the yellow-jacket, 17.

  Zenarchus, concerning the cicada, 96.

  THE END

  WILLIAM HAMILTON GIBSON'S WORKS.

  ILLUSTRATED BY THE AUTHOR.

  EYE SPY. Afield with Nature among Flowers and Animate Things. 8vo,
  Cloth, Ornamental, $2 50.

  OUR EDIBLE TOADSTOOLS AND MUSHROOMS, and How to Distinguish Them.
  Thirty Colored Plates, and Fifty-seven other Illustrations. 8vo,
  Cloth, Uncut Edges and Gilt Top, $7 50. (In a Box.)

  SHARP EYES. A Rambler's Calendar, New Edition. 8vo, Cloth,
  Ornamental, $2 50.

  STROLLS BY STARLIGHT AND SUNSHINE. Royal 8vo, Cloth, Gilt Edges, $3
  50.

  HAPPY HUNTING-GROUNDS. A Tribute to the Woods and Fields. 4to,
  Cloth, Gilt Edges, $7 50. (In a Box.)

  HIGHWAYS AND BYWAYS; or, Saunterings in New England. New Edition.
  8vo, Cloth, Ornamental, $2 50.

  PASTORAL DAYS; or, Memories of a New England Year. 4to, Cloth, Gilt
  Edges, $7 50. (In a Box.)

  CAMP LIFE IN THE WOODS, and the Tricks of Trapping and Trap-making.

