Three of the frigates, whose presence would have been so essential a few weeks sooner, joined
the squadron on the twelfth day after the action. The fourth joined a few days after them.
Nelson thus received despatches, which rendered it necessary for him to return to Naples. Before
he left Egypt he burned three of the prizes; they could not have been fitted for a passage
to Gibraltar in less than a month, and that at a great expense, and with the loss of the services
of at least two sail of the line. "I rest assured," he said to the Admiralty, "that they will
be paid for, and have held out that assurance to the squadron. For if an admiral, after a victory,
is to look after the captured ships, and not to the distressing of the enemy, very dearly,
indeed, must the nation pay for the prizes. I trust that L60,000 will be deemed a very moderate
sum for them: and when the services, time, and men, with the expense of fitting the three ships
for a voyage to England, are considered, government will save nearly as much as they are valued
at. Paying for prizes," he continued, "is no new idea of mine, and would often prove an amazing
saving to the state, even without taking into calculation what the nation loses by the attention
of admirals to the property of the captors; an attention absolutely necessary, as a recompence
for the exertions of the officers and men. An admiral may be amply rewarded by his own feelings,
and by the approbation of his superiors; but what reward have the inferior officers and men
but the value of the prizes? If an admiral takes that from them, on any consideration, he cannot
expect to be well supported." To Earl St. Vincent he said, "If he could have been sure that
government would have paid a reasonable value for them, he would have ordered two of the other
prizes to be burnt, for they would cost more in refitting, and by the loss of ships attending
them, than they were worth."

Having sent the six remaining prizes forward, under Sir James Saumarez, Nelson left Captain
Hood, in the ZEALOUS off Alexandria, with the SWIFTSURE, GOLIATH, Alcmene, ZEALOUS, and EMERALD,
and stood out to sea himself on the seventeenth day after the battle.

CHAPTER VI

1798 - 1800

Nelson returns to Naples--State of that Court and Kingdom--General Mack--The French approach
Naples--Flight of the Royal Family--Successes of the Allies in Italy--Transactions in the Bay
of Naples--Expulsion of the French from the Neapolitan and Roman States--Nelson is made Duke
of Bronte--He leaves the Mediterranean and returns to England.

NELSON's health had suffered greatly while he was in the AGAMEMNON. "My complaint," he said,
"is as if a girth were buckled taut over my breast, and my endeavour in the night is to get
it loose." After the battle of Cape St. Vincent he felt a little rest to be so essential to
his recovery, that he declared he would not continue to serve longer than the ensuing summer,
unless it should be absolutely necessary; for in his own strong language, he had then been
four years and nine months without one moment's repose for body or mind. A few months' intermission
of labour he had obtained--not of rest, for it was purchased with the loss of a limb; and the
greater part of the time had been a season of constant pain. As soon as his shattered frame
had sufficiently recovered for him to resume his duties, he was called to services of greater
importance than any on which he had hitherto been employed, which brought with them commensurate
fatigue and care.

The anxiety which he endured during his long pursuit of the enemy, was rather changed in its
direction than abated by their defeat; and this constant wakefulness of thought, added to the
effect of his wound, and the exertions from which it was not possible for one of so ardent
and wide-reaching a mind to spare himself, nearly proved fatal. On his way back to Italy he
was seized with fever. For eighteen hours his life was despaired of; and even when the disorder
took a favourable turn, and he was so far recovered as again to appear on deck, he himself
thought that his end was approaching--such was the weakness to which the fever and cough had
reduced him. Writing to Earl St. Vincent on the passage, he said to him, "I never expect, my
dear lord, to see your face again. It may please God that this will be the finish to that fever
of anxiety which I have endured from the middle of June; but be that as it pleases his goodness.
I am resigned to his will."

The kindest attentions of the warmest friendship were awaiting him at Naples. "Come here,"
said Sir William Hamilton, "for God's sake, my dear friend, as soon as the service will permit
you. A pleasant apartment is ready for you in my house, and Emma is looking out for the softest
pillows to repose the few wearied limbs you have left." Happy would it have been for Nelson
if warm and careful friendship had been all that waited him there. He himself saw at that time
the character of the Neapolitan court, as it first struck an Englishman, in its true light;
and when he was on the way, he declared that he detested the voyage to Naples, and that nothing
but necessity could have forced him to it. But never was any hero, on his return from victory,
welcomed with more heartfelt joy. Before the battle of Aboukir the Court at Naples had been
trembling for its existence. The language which the Directory held towards it was well described
by Sir William Hamilton as being exactly the language of a highwayman. The Neapolitans were
told that Benevento might be added to their dominions, provided they would pay a large sum,
sufficient to satisfy the Directory; and they were warned, that if the proposal were refused,
or even if there were any delay in accepting it, the French would revolutionise all Italy.
The joy, therefore, of the Court at Nelson's success was in proportion to the dismay from which
that success relieved them. The queen was a daughter of Maria Theresa, and sister of Maria
Antoinette. Had she been the wisest and gentlest of her sex, it would not have been possible
for her to have regarded the French without hatred and horror; and the progress of revolutionary
opinions, while it perpetually reminded her of her sister's fate, excited no unreasonable apprehensions
for her own. Her feelings, naturally ardent, and little accustomed to restraint, were excited
to the highest pitch when the news of the victory arrived. Lady Hamilton, her constant friend
and favourite, who was present, says, "It is not possible to describe her transports; she wept,
she kissed her husband, her children, walked frantically about the room, burst into tears again,
and again kissed and embraced every person near her; exclaiming, 'O brave Nelson! O God! bless
and protect our brave deliverer! O Nelson! Nelson! what do we not owe you! O conqueror--saviour
of Italy! O that my swollen heart could now tell him personally what we owe to him!'" She herself
wrote to the Neapolitan ambassador at London upon the occasion, in terms which show the fulness
of her joy, and the height of the hopes which it had excited. "I wish I could give wings,"
said she, "to the bearer of the news, and at the same time to our most sincere gratitude. The
whole of the sea-coast of Italy saved; and this is owing alone to the generous English. This
battle, or, to speak more correctly, this total defeat of the regicide squadron, was obtained
by the valour of this brave admiral, seconded by a navy which is the terror of its enemies.
The victory is so complete that I can still scarcely believe it; and if it were not the brave
English nation, which is accustomed to perform prodigies by sea, I could not persuade myself
that it had happened. It would have moved you to have seen all my children, boys and girls,
hanging on my neck, and crying for joy at the happy news. Recommend the hero to his master:
he has filled the whole of Italy with admiration of the English. Great hopes were entertained
of some advantages being gained by his bravery, but no one could look for so total a destruction.
All here are drunk with joy."

Such being the feelings of the royal family, it may well be supposed with what delight, and
with what honours Nelson would be welcomed. Early on the 22nd of September the poor wretched
VANGUARD, as he called his shattered vessel, appeared in sight of Naples. The CULLODEN and
ALEXANDER had preceded her by some days, and given notice of her approach. Many hundred boats
and barges were ready to go forth and meet him, with music and streamers and every demonstration
of joy and triumph. Sir William and Lady Hamilton led the way in their state barge. They had
seen Nelson only for a few days, four years ago, but they then perceived in him that heroic
spirit which was now so fully and gloriously manifested to the world. Emma Lady Hamilton, who
from this time so greatly influenced his future life, was a woman whose personal accomplishments
have seldom been equalled, and whose powers of mind were not less fascinating than her person.
She was passionately attached to the queen; and by her influence the British fleet had obtained
those supplies at Syracuse, without which, Nelson always asserted, the battle of Aboukir could
not have been fought. During the long interval which passed before any tidings were received,
her anxiety had been hardly less than that of Nelson himself, while pursuing an enemy of whom
he could obtain no information; and when the tidings were brought her by a joyful bearer, open-mouthed,
its effect was such that she fell like one who had been shot. She and Sir William had literally
been made ill by their hopes and fears, and joy at a catastrophe so far exceeding all that
they had dared to hope for. Their admiration for the hero necessarily produced a degree of
proportionate gratitude and affection; and when their barge came alongside the VANGUARD, at
the sight of Nelson, Lady Hamilton sprang up the ship's side, and exclaiming, "O God! is it
possible!" fell into his arms more, he says, like one dead than alive. He described the meeting
as "terribly affecting." These friends had scarcely recovered from their tears, when the king,
who went out to meet him three leagues in the royal barge, came on board and took him by the
hand, calling him his deliverer and preserver. From all the boats around he was saluted with
the same appellations: the multitude who surrounded him when he landed repeated the same enthusiastic
cries; and the lazzaroni displayed their joy by holding up birds in cages, and giving them
their liberty as he passed.

His birth-day, which occurred a week after his arrival, was celebrated with one of the most
splendid fetes ever beheld at Naples. But, notwithstanding the splendour with which he was
encircled, and the flattering honours with which all ranks welcomed him, Nelson was fully sensible
of the depravity, as well as weakness, of those by whom he was surrounded. "What precious moments,"
said he, "the courts of Naples and Vienna are losing! Three months would liberate Italy! but
this court is so enervated that the happy moment will be lost. I am very unwell; and their
miserable conduct is not likely to cool my irritable temper. It is a country of fiddlers and
poets, whores and scoundrels." This sense of their ruinous weakness he always retained; nor
was he ever blind to the mingled folly and treachery of the Neapolitan ministers, and the complication
in iniquities under which the country groaned; but he insensibly, under the influence of Lady
Hamilton, formed an affection for the court, to whose misgovernment the miserable condition
of the country was so greatly to be imputed. By the kindness of her nature, as well as by her
attractions, she had won his heart. Earl St. Vincent, writing to her at this time, says, "Pray
do not let your fascinating Neapolitan dames approach too near our invaluable friend Nelson,
for he is made of flesh and blood, and cannot resist their temptations." But this was addressed
to the very person from whom he was in danger.

The state of Naples may be described in few words. The king was one of the Spanish Bourbons.
As the Caesars have shown us to what wickedness the moral nature of princes may be perverted,
so in this family, the degradation to which their intellectual nature can be reduced has been
not less conspicuously evinced. Ferdinand, like the rest of his race, was passionately fond
of field sports, and cared for nothing else. His queen had all the vices of the house of Austria,
with little to mitigate, and nothing to ennoble them--provided she could have her pleasures,
and the king his sports, they cared not in what manner the revenue was raised or administered.
Of course a system of favouritism existed at court, and the vilest and most impudent corruption
prevailed in every department of state, and in every branch of administration, from the highest
to the lowest. It is only the institutions of Christianity, and the vicinity of better-regulated
states, which prevent kingdoms, under such circumstances of misrule, from sinking into a barbarism
like that of Turkey. A sense of better things was kept alive in some of the Neapolitans by
literature, and by their intercourse with happier countries. These persons naturally looked
to France, at the commencement of the Revolution, and during all the horrors of that Revolution
still cherished a hope that, by the aid of France, they might be enabled to establish a new
order of things in Naples. They were grievously mistaken in supposing that the principles of
liberty would ever be supported by France, but they were not mistaken in believing that no
government could be worse than their own; and therefore they considered any change as desirable.
In this opinion men of the most different characters agreed. Many of the nobles, who were not
in favour, wished for a revolution, that they might obtain the ascendancy to which they thought
themselves entitled; men of desperate fortunes desired it, in the hope of enriching themselves;
knaves and intriguers sold themselves to the French to promote it; and a few enlightened men,
and true lovers of their country, joined in the same cause, from the purest and noblest motives.
All these were confounded under the common name of Jacobins; and the Jacobins of the continental
kingdoms were regarded by the English with more hatred than they deserved. They were classed
with Phillippe Egalite, Marat, and Hebert; whereas they deserved rather to be ranked, if not
with Locke, and Sydney, and Russell, at least with Argyle and Monmouth, and those who, having
the same object as the prime movers of our own Revolution, failed in their premature but not
unworthy attempt.

