They in thir time did many a noble dede,
  And for their worthines full oft have bore
  The crown of laurer leavés on the hede,
  As ye may in your oldé bookés rede:
  And how that he that was a conquerour
  Had by laurer alway his most honour.
                DAN CHAUCER: The Flowre and the Leaf.

It is to be lamented that antiquarian zeal is so often diverted from subjects of real to those
of merely fanciful interest. The mercurial young gentlemen who addict themselves to that exciting
department of letters are open to censure as being too fitful, too prone to flit, bee-like,
from flower to flower, now lighting momentarily upon an indecipherable tombstone, now perching
upon a rusty morion, here dipping into crumbling palimpsests, there turning up a tattered reputation
from heaps of musty biography, or discovering that the brightest names have had sad blots and
blemishes scoured off by the attrition of Time's ceaseless current. We can expect little from
investigators so volatile and capricious; else should we expect the topic we approach in this
paper to have been long ago flooded with light as of Maedler's sun, its dust dissipated, and
sundry curves and angles which still baffle scrutiny and provoke curiosity exposed even to
Gallio-llke wayfarers. It is, in fact, a neglected topic. Its derivatives are obscure, its
facts doubtful. Questions spring from it, sucker-like, numberless, which none may answer. Why,
for instance, in apportioning his gifts among his posterity, did Phoebus assign the laurel
to his step-progeny, the sons of song, and pour the rest of the vegetable world into the pharmacopoeia
of the favored Æsculapius? Why was even this wretched legacy divided in aftertimes with the
children of Mars? Was its efficacy as a non-conductor of lightning as reliable as was held
by Tiberius, of guileless memory, Emperor of Rome? Were its leaves really found green as ever
in the tomb of St. Humbert, a century and a half after the interment of that holy confessor?
In what reign was the first bay-leaf, rewarding the first poet of English song, authoritatively
conferred? These and other like questions are of so material concern to the matter we have
in hand, that we may fairly stand amazed that they have thus far escaped the exploration of
archaeologists. It is not for us to busy ourselves with other men's affairs. Time and patience
shall develope profounder mysteries than these. Let us only succeed in delineating in brief
monograph the outlines of a natural history of the British Laurel,--Laurea nobilis, sempervirens,
florida,--and in posting here and there, as we go, a few landmarks that shall facilitate the
surveys of investigators yet unborn, and this our modest enterprise shall be happily fulfilled.

One portion of it presents no serious difficulty. There is an uninterrupted canon of the Laureates
running as far back as the reign of James I. Anterior, however, to that epoch, the catalogue
fades away in undistinguishable darkness. Names are there of undoubted splendor, a splendor,
indeed, far more glowing than that of any subsequent monarch of the bays; but the legal title
to the garland falls so far short of satisfactory demonstration, as to oblige us to dismiss
the first seven Laureates with a dash of that ruthless criticism with which Niebuhr, the regicide,
dispatched the seven kings of Rome. To mark clearly the bounds between the mythical and the
indubitable, a glance at the following brief of the Laureate fasti will greatly assist us,
speeding us forward at once to the substance of our story.

I. The MYTHICAL PERIOD, extending from the supposititious coronation of Laureate CHAUCER, in
temp. Edv. III., 1367, to that of Laureate JONSON, in temp. Caroli I. To this period belong,

  GEOFFREY CHAUCER,     1367-1400
  JOHN SCOGAN,          1400-1413
  JOHN KAY,             1465-
  ANDREW BERNARD,       1486-
  JOHN SKELTON,         1509-1529
  EDMUND SPENSER,       1590-1599
  SAMUEL DANIEL,   }
  MICHAEL DRAYTON, }    1600-1630
  BEN JONSON,      }

II. The DRAMATIC, extending from the latter event to the demise of Laureate SHADWELL, in temp.
Gulielmi III., 1692. Here we have

  BEN JONSON,           1630-1637
  WILL DAVENANT,        1637-1668
  JOHN DRYDEN,          1670-1689
  THOMAS SHADWELL,      1689-1692

III. The LYRIC, from the reign of Laureate TATE, 1693, to the demise of Laureate PYE, 1813:--

  NAHUM TATE,           1693-1714
  NICHOLAS ROWE,        1714-1718
  LAURENCE EUSDEN,      1719-1730
  COLLEY CIBBER,        1730-1757
  WILLIAM WHITEHEAD,    1758-1785
  THOMAS WARTON,        1785-1790
  HENRY JAMES PYE,      1790-1813

IV. The VOLUNTARY, from the accession of Laureate SOUTHEY, 1813, to the present day:--

  ROBERT SOUTHEY,       1813-1843
  WILLIAM WORDSWORTH,   1843-1850
  ALFRED TENNYSON,      1850-

Have no faith in those followers of vain traditions who assert the existence of the Laureate
office as early as the thirteenth century, attached to the court of Henry III. Poets there
were before Chaucer,--vixere fortes ante Agamemnona,--but search Rymer from cord to clasp and
you shall find no documentary evidence of any one of them wearing the leaf or receiving the
stipend distinctive of the place. Edward the Third--resplendent name in the constitutional
history of England--is supposed to have been so deeply impressed with Chaucer's poetical merits,
as to have sought occasion for appropriate recognition. Opportunely came that high festival
at the capital of the world, whereat

  "Franccis Petrark, the laureat poete,
  ... whos rethorike swete
  Enlumined all Itaille of poetrie,"[4]

received the laurel crown at the hands of the Senate of Rome, with a magnificence of ceremonial
surpassed only by the triumphs of imperial victors a thousand years before. Emulous of the
gorgeous example, the English monarch forthwith showered corresponding honors upon Dan Chaucer,
adding the substantial perquisites of a hundred marks and a tierce of Malvoisie, a year. To
this agreeable story, Laureate Warton, than whom no man was more intimately conversant with
the truth there is in literary history, appears in one of his official odes to yield assent:--

  "Victorious Edward gave the vernal bough
  Of Britain's bay to bloom on Chaucer's brow:
  Fired with the gift, he changed to sounds sublime
  His Norman minstrelsy's discordant chime."[5]

The legend, however, does not bear inquiry. King Edward, in 1367, certainly granted an annuity
of twenty marks to "his varlet, Geoffrey Chaucer." Seven years later there was a further grant
of a pitcher of wine daily, together with the controllership of the wool and petty wine revenues
for the port of London. The latter appointment, to which the pitcher of wine was doubtless
incident, was attended with a requirement that the new functionary should execute all the duties
of his post in person,--a requirement involving as constant and laborious occupation as that
of Charles Lamb, chained to his perch in the India House. These concessions, varied slightly
by subsequent patents from Richard II. and Henry IV., form the entire foundation to the tale
of Chaucer's Laureateship.[6] There is no reference in grant or patent to his poetical excellence
or fame, no mention whatever of the laurel, no verse among the countless lines of his poetry
indicating the reception of that crowning glory, no evidence that the third Edward was one
whit more sensitive to the charms of the Muses than the third William, three hundred years
after. Indeed, the condition with which the appointment of this illustrious custom-house officer
was hedged evinced, if anything, a desire to discourage a profitless wooing of the Nine, by
so confining his mind to the incessant routine of an uncongenial duty as to leave no hours
of poetic idleness. Whatever laurels Fame may justly garland the temples of Dan Chaucer withal,
she never, we are obliged to believe, employed royal instrument at the coronation.

John Scogan, often confounded with an anterior Henry, has been named as the Laureate of Henry
IV., and immediate successor of Chaucer. Laureate Jonson seems to encourage the notion:--

  "Mere Fool. Skogan? What was he?

  "Jophiel.

  "Mere Fool. But he wrote like a gentleman?

  "Jophiel. In rhyme, fine, tinkling rhyme, and flowand verse,
   With now and then some sense; and he was paid for't,
   Regarded and rewarded; which few poets
   Are nowadays."[7]

But Warton places Scogan in the reign of Edward IV., and reduces him to the level of Court
Jester, his authority being Dr. Andrew Borde, who, early in the sixteenth century, published
a volume of his platitudes.[8] There is nothing to prove that he was either poet or Laureate;
while, on the other hand, it must be owned, one person might at the same time fill the offices
of Court Poet and Court Fool. It is but fair to say that Tyrwhitt, who had all the learning
and more than the accuracy of Warton, inclines to Jonson's estimate of Scogan's character and
employment.

One John Kay, of whom we are singularly deficient in information, held the post of Court Poet
under the amorous Edward IV. What were his functions and appointments we cannot discover.

Andrew Bernard held the office under Henry VII. and Henry VIII. He was a churchman, royal historiographer,
and tutor to Prince Arthur. His official poems were in Latin. He was living as late as 1522.

John Skelton obtained the distinction of Poet-Laureate at Oxford, a title afterward confirmed
to him by the University of Cambridge: mere university degrees, however, without royal indorsement.
Henry VIII. made him his "Royal Orator," whatever that may have been, and otherwise treated
him with favor; but we hear nothing of sack or salary, find nothing among his poems to intimate
that his performances as Orator ever ran into verse, or that his "laurer" was of the regal sort.

A long stride carries us to the latter years of Queen Elizabeth, where, and in the ensuing
reign of James, we find the names of Edmund Spenser, Samuel Daniel, and Michael Drayton interwoven
with the bays. Spenser's possession of the laurel rests upon no better evidence than that,
when he presented the earlier books of the "Faery Queen" to Elizabeth, a pension of fifty pounds
a year was conferred upon him, and that the praises of Gloriana ring through his realm of Faëry
in unceasing panegyric. But guineas are not laurels, though for sundry practical uses they
are, perhaps, vastly better; nor are the really earnest and ardent eulogia of the bard of Mulla
the same in kind with the harmonious twaddle of Tate, or the classical quiddities of Pye. He
was of another sphere, the highest heaven of song, who

             "Waked his lofty lay
    To grace Eliza's golden sway;
  And called to life old Uther's elfin-tale,
  And roved through many a necromantic vale,
    Portraying chiefs who knew to tame
    The goblin's ire, the dragon's flame,
    To pierce the dark, enchanted hall
    Where Virtue sat in lonely thrall.
    From fabling Fancy's inmost store
    A rich, romantic robe he bore,
  A veil with visionary trappings hung,
  And o'er his Virgin Queen the fairy-texture flung."[9]

Samuel Daniel was not only a favorite of Queen Elizabeth, but more decidedly so of her successor
in the queendom, Anne of Denmark. In the household of the latter he held the position of Groom
of the Chamber, a sinecure of handsome endowment, so handsome, indeed, as to warrant an occasional
draft upon his talents for the entertainment of her Majesty's immediate circle, which held
itself as far as possible aloof from the court, and was disposed to be self-reliant for its
amusements. Daniel had entered upon the vocation of courtier with flattering auspices. His
precocity while at Oxford has found him a place in the "Bibliotheca Eruditorum Præcocium."
Anthony Wood bears witness to his thorough accomplishments in all kinds, especially in history
and poetry, specimens of which, the antiquary tells us, were still, in his time, treasured
among the archives of Magdalen. He deported himself so amiably in society, and so inoffensively
among his fellow-bards, and versified his way so tranquilly into the good graces of his royal
mistresses, distending the thread, and diluting the sense, and sparing the ornaments, of his
passionless poetry,--if poetry, which, by the definition of its highest authority, is "simple,
sensuous, passionate," can ever be unimpassioned,--that he was the oracle of feminine taste
while he lived, and at his death bequeathed a fame yet dear to the school of Southey and Wordsworth.
Daniel was no otherwise Laureate than his position in the queen's household may authorize that
title. If ever so entitled by contemporaries, it was quite in a Pickwickian and complimentary
sense. His retreat from the busy vanity of court life, an event which happened several years
before his decease in 1619, was hastened by the consciousness of a waning reputation, and of
the propriety of seeking better shelter than that of his laurels. His eloquent "Defense of
Rhyme" still asserts for him a place in the hearts of all lovers of stately English prose.

Old Michael Drayton, whose portrait has descended to us, surmounted with an exuberant twig
of bays, is vulgarly classed with the legitimate Laureates. With enough of patience and pedantry
to prompt the composition of that most laborious, and, upon the whole, most humdrum and wearisome
poem of modern times, the "Polyolbion," he nevertheless possessed an abounding exuberance of
delicate fancy and sound poetical judgment, traces of which flash not unfrequently even athwart
the dulness of his magnum opus, and through the mock-heroism of "England's Heroical Epistles,"
while they have full play in his "Court of Faëry." Drayton's great defect was the entire absence
of that dramatic talent so marvellously developed among his contemporaries,--a defect, as we
shall presently see, sufficient of itself to disqualify him for the duties of Court Poet. But,
what was still worse, his mind was not gifted with facility and versatility of invention, two
equally essential requisites; and to install him in a position where such faculties were hourly
called into play would have been to put the wrong man in the worst possible place. Drayton
was accordingly a court-pensioner, but not a court-poet. His laurel was the honorary tribute
of admiring friends, in an age when royal pedantry rendered learning fashionable and a topic
of exaggerated regard. Southey's admission is to this purpose. "He was," he says, "one of the
poets to whom the title of Laureate was given in that age,--not as holding the office, but
as a mark of honor, to which they were entitled." And with the poetical topographer such honors
abounded.

The Laureateship, we thus discover, had not, down to the days of James, become an institution.
Our mythical series shrink from close scrutiny. But in the gayeties of the court of the Stuarts
arose occasion for the continuous and profitable employment of a court-poet, and there was
enough thrift in the king to see the advantage of securing the service for a certain small
annuity, rather than by the payment of large sums as presents for occasional labors. The masque,
a form of dramatic representation, borrowed from the Italian, had been introduced into England
during the reign of Elizabeth. The interest depended upon the development of an allegorical
subject apposite to the event which the performance proposed to celebrate, such as a royal
marriage, or birthday, or visit, or progress, or a marriage or other notable event among the
nobility and gentry attached to the court, or an entertainment in honor of some distinguished
personage. To produce startling and telling stage effects, machinery of the most ingenious
contrivance was devised; scenery, as yet unknown in ordinary exhibitions of the stage, was
painted with elaborate finish; goddesses in the most attenuated Cyprus lawn, bespangled with
jewels, had to slide down upon invisible wires from a visible Olympus; Tritons had to rise
from the halls of Neptune through waters whose undulations the nicer resources of recent art
could not render more genuinely marine; fountains disclosed the most bewitching of Naiads;
and Druidical oaks, expanding, surrendered the imprisoned Hamadryad to the air of heaven. Fairies
and Elves, Satyrs and Forsters, Centaurs and Lapithae, played their parts in these gaudy spectacles
with every conventional requirement of shape, costume, and behavior point-de-vice, and were
supplied by the poet, to whom the letter-press of the show had been confided, with language
and a plot, both pregnant with more than Platonic morality. Some idea of the magnificence of
these displays, which beggared the royal privy-purse, drove household-treasurers mad, and often
left poet and machinist whistling for pay, may be gathered from the fact that a masque sometimes
cost as much as two thousand pounds in the mechanical getting-up, a sum far more formidable
in the days of exclusively hard money than in these of paper currency. Scott has described,
for the benefit of the general reader, one such pageant among the "princely pleasures of Kenilworth";
while Milton, in his "Masque performed at Ludlow Castle," presents the libretto of another,
of the simpler and less expensive sort. During the reign of James, the passion for masques
kindled into a mania. The days and nights of Inigo Jones were spent in inventing machinery
and contriving stage-effects. Daniel, Middleton, Fletcher, and Jonson were busied with the
composition of the text; and the court ladies and cavaliers were all from morning till night
in the hands of their dancing and music masters, or at private study, or at rehearsal, preparing
for the pageant, the representation of which fell to their share and won them enviable applause.
Of course the burden of original invention fell upon the poets; and of the poets, Daniel and
Jonson were the most heavily taxed. In 1616, James I., by patent, granted to Jonson an annuity
for life of one hundred marks, to him in hand not often well and truly paid. He was not distinctly
named as Laureate, but seems to have been considered such; for Daniel, on his appointment,
"withdrew himself," according to Gifford, "entirely from court." The strong-boxes of James
and Charles seldom overflowed. Sir Robert Pye, an ancestor of that Laureate Pye whom we shall
discuss by-and-by, was the paymaster, and often and again was the overwrought poet obliged to raise

      "A woful cry
    To Sir Robert Pye,"

before some small instalment of long arrearages could be procured. And when, rarely, very rarely,
his Majesty condescended to remember the necessities of "his and the Muses' servant," and send
a present to the Laureate's lodgings, its proportions were always so small as to excite the
ire of the insulted Ben, who would growl forth to the messenger, "He would not have sent me
this, (scil. wretched pittance,) did I not live in an alley."

We now arrive at the true era of the Laureateship. Charles, in 1630, became ambitious to signalize
his reign by some fitting tribute to literature. A petition from Ben Jonson pointed out the
way. The Laureate office was made a patentable one, in the gift of the Lord Chamberlain, as
purveyor of the royal amusements. Ben was confirmed in the office. The salary was raised from
one hundred marks to one hundred pounds, an advance of fifty per cent, to which was added yearly
a tierce of Canary wine,--an appendage appropriate to the poet's convivial habits, and doubtless
suggested by the mistaken precedent of Chaucer's daily flagon of wine. Ben Jonson was certainly,
of all men living in 1630, the right person to receive this honor, which then implied, what
it afterward ceased to do, the primacy of the diocese of letters. His learning supplied ballast
enough to keep the lighter bulk of the poet in good trim, while it won that measure of respect
which mere poetical gifts and graces would not have secured. He was the dean of that group
of "poets, poetaccios, poetasters, and poetillos," [11] who beset the court. If a display of
erudition were demanded, Ben was ready with the heavy artillery of the unities, and all the
laws of Aristotle and Horace, Quintilian and Priscian, exemplified in tragedies of canonical
structure, and comedies whose prim regularity could not extinguish the most delightful and
original humor--Robert Burton's excepted--that illustrated that brilliant period. But if the
graceful lyric or glittering masque were called for, the boundless wealth of Ben's genius was
most strikingly displayed. It has been the fashion, set by such presumptuous blunderers as
Warburton and such formal prigs as Gifford, to deny our Laureate the possession of those ethereal
attributes of invention and fancy which play about the creations of Shakspeare, and constitute
their exquisite charm. This arbitrary comparison of Jonson and Shakspeare has, in fact, been
the bane of the former's reputation. Those who have never read the masques argue, that, as
"very little Latin and less Greek," in truth no learning of any traceable description, went
to the creation of Ariel and Caliban, Oberon and Puck, the possession of Latin, Greek, and
learning generally, incapacitates the proprietor for the same happy exercise of the finer and
more gracious faculties of wit and fancy. Of this nonsense Jonson's masques are the best refutation.
Marvels of ingenuity in plot and construction, they abound in "dainty invention," animated
dialogue, and some of the finest lyric passages to be found in dramatic literature. They are
the Laureate's true laurels. Had he left nothing else, the "rare arch-poet" would have held,
by virtue of these alone, the elevated rank which his contemporaries, and our own, freely assign
him. Lamb, whose appreciation of the old dramatists was extremely acute, remarks,--"A thousand
beautiful passages from his 'New Inn,' and from those numerous court masques and entertainments
which he was in the daily habit of furnishing, might be adduced to show the poetical fancy
and elegance of mind of the supposed rugged old bard." [12] And in excess of admiration at
one of the Laureate's most successful pageants, Herrick breaks forth,--

    "Thou hadst the wreath before, now take the tree,
     That henceforth none be laurel-crowned but thee." [13]

An aspiration fortunately unrealized.

  "Apollo stopt him there, and bid him not go on;
  'Twas merit, he said, and not presumption,
  Must carry it; at which Ben turned about,
  And in great choler offered to go out;

  "But those who were there thought it not fit
  To discontent so ancient a wit,
  And therefore Apollo called him back again,
  And made him mine host of his own 'New Inn.'"

This jeu d'esprit of Suckling, if of no value otherwise, would be respectable as an original
which the Duke of Buckinghamshire,[15] Leigh Hunt,[16] and our own Lowell[17] have successfully
and happily imitated.

In due course, Laureate Jonson shared the fate of all potentates, and was gathered to the laurelled
of Elysium. The fatality occurred in 1637. When his remains were deposited in the Poet's Corner,
with the eloquent laconism above them, "O Rare Ben Jonson!" all the wits of the day stood by
the graveside, and cast in their tribute of bays. The rite over, all the wits of the day hurried
from the aisles of Westminster to the galleries of Whitehall to urge their several claims to
the successorship. There were, of the elder time, Massinger, drawing to the close of a successful
career,--Ford, with his growing fame,--Marmion, Heywood, Carlell, Wither. There was Sandys,
especially endeared to the king by his orthodox piety, so becoming the son of an archbishop,
and by his versions of the "Divine Poems," which were next year given to the press, and which
found a place among the half-dozen volumes which a decade later solaced the last hours of his
royal master. There were the names, in the junior class, of Tom Carew, noted for his amatory
songs and his one brilliant masque,--Tom Killigrew, of pleasant humor, and no mean writer of
tragedy,--Suckling, the wittiest of courtiers, and the most courtly of wits,--Cartwright, Crashaw,
Davenant, and May. But of all these, the contest soon narrowed down to the two latter. William
Davenant was in all likelihood the son of an innkeeper at Oxford; he was certainly the son
of the innkeeper's wife. A rumor, which Davenant always countenanced, alleged that William
Shakspeare, a poet of some considerable repute in those times, being in the habit of passing
between Stratford-on-the-Avon and London, was wont to bait and often lodge at this Oxford hostelry.
At one of these calls the landlady had proved more than ordinarily frail or the poet more than
ordinarily seductive,--who can wonder at even virtue stooping to folly when the wooer was the
Swan of Avon, beside whom the bird that captivated Leda was as a featherless gosling?--and
the consequence had been Will Davenant, born in the year of our Lord 1605, Shakspeare standing
as godfather at the baptism. A boy of lively parts was Will, and good-fortune brought those
parts to the notice of the grave and philosophic Greville, Lord Brooke, whose dearest boast
was the friendship in early life of Sir Philip Sidney. The result of this notice was a highly
creditable education at school and university, and an ultimate introduction into the foremost
society of the capital. Davenant, finding the drama supreme in fashionable regard, devoted
himself to the drama. He also devoted himself to the cultivation of Ben Jonson, then at the
summit of renown, assisting in an amateur way in the preparation of the court pageants, and
otherwise mitigating the Laureate's labors. From 1632 to 1637, these aids were frequent, and
established a very plausible claim to the succession. Thomas May, who shortly became his sole
competitor, was a man of elevated pretensions. As a writer of English historical poems and
as a translator of Lucan he had earned a prominent position in British literature; as a continuator
of the "Pharsalia" in Latin verse of exemplary elegance, written in the happiest imitation
of the martyred Stoic's unimpassioned mannerism, he secured for British scholarship that higher
respect among Continental scholars which Milton's Latin poems and "Defensio pro Populo Anglicano"
presently after confirmed. Of the several English writers of Latin verse, May stands unquestionably
in the front rank, alongside of Milton and Bourne,--taking precedence easily of Owen, Cowley,
and Gray. His dramatic productions were of a higher order than Davenant's. They have found
a place in Dodsley's and the several subsequent collections of early dramas, not conceded to
the plays of the latter. Masque-making, however, was not in his line. His invention was not
sufficiently alert, his dialogue not sufficiently lively, for a species of poetry which it
was the principal duty of the Laureate to furnish. Besides, it is highly probable, his sympathies
with rebellious Puritanism were already so far developed as to make him an object of aversion
to the king. Davenant triumphed. The defeated candidate lived to see the court dispersed, king
and Laureate alike fugitive, and to receive from the Long Parliament the place of Historiographer,
as a compensation for the lost bays. When, in 1650, he died, Cromwell and his newly-inaugurated
court did honor to his obsequies. The body was deposited in Westminster Abbey; but the posthumous
honor was in reserve for it, of being torn from the grave after the Restoration, and flung
into a ditch along with the remains of three or four other republican leaders.

Davenant's career in office was unfortunate. There is reason to doubt whether, even before
the rebellion broke out, his salary was regularly paid him. During the Civil War he exchanged
the laurel for a casque, winning knighthood by his gallant carriage at the siege of Gloucester.
Afterward, he was so far in the confidence of Queen Henrietta Maria, as to be sent as her envoy
to the captive king, beseeching him to save his head by conceding the demands of Parliament.
When, the errand proving abortive, the royal head was lost, Davenant returned to Paris, consoled
himself by finishing the first two books of his "Gondibert," and then, despairing of a restoration,
embarked (in 1650) from France for Virginia, where monarchy and the rights of Charles II were
unimpaired. Fate, however, had not destined him for a colonist and backwoodsman. His ship,
tempest-tossed, was driven into an English port, and the poet was seized and carried close
prisoner to London. There the intervention of Milton, the Latin Secretary of the Council, is
said to have saved his life. He was kept in the Tower for at least two years longer, however.
The date of his release is uncertain, but, once at liberty, Davenant returned ardently to his
former pursuits. A license was procured for musical exhibitions, and the phrase "musical exhibitions"
was interpreted, with official connivance, as including all manner of dramatic performances.
To the Laureate and to this period belongs the credit of introducing scenery, hitherto restricted
to court masques, into the machinery of the ordinary drama. The substitution of female for
male actors, in feminine characters, was also an innovation of this period. And as an incident
of the Laureateship there is still another novelty to be noted. There is no crown without its
thorns. The laurel renders the pillow of the wearer as knotty, uneasy, and comfortless as does
a coronal of gold and jewels. Among the receipts of the office have been the jokes, good and
bad, the sneers, the satire of contemporary wits,--such being the paper currency in which the
turbulent subjects of the laurel crown think proper to pay homage to their sovereign. From
the days of Will Davenant to these of ours, the custom has been faithfully observed. Davenant's
earliest assailants were of his own political party, followers of the exiled Charles, the men
whom Milton describes as "perditissimus ille peregrinantium aulieorum grex." This was published
in 1653. The effect of the onslaught has not been recorded. We know only that Davenant, surviving
it, continued to prosper in his theatrical business, writing most of the pieces produced on
his stage until the Restoration, when he drew forth from its hiding-place his wreath of laurel-evergreen,
and resumed it with honor.

A fair retrospect of Davenant's career enables us to select without difficulty that one of
his labors which is most deserving of applause. Not his "Gondibert," notwithstanding it abounds
in fine passages,--notwithstanding Gay thought it worth continuation and completion, and added
several cantos,--notwithstanding Lamb eulogized it with enthusiasm, Southey warmly praised,
and Campbell and Hazlitt coolly commended it. Nor his comedies, which are deservedly forgotten;
nor his improvements in the production of plays, serviceable as they were to the acting drama.
But to his exertions Milton owed impunity from the vengeance otherwise destined for the apologist
of regicide, and so owed the life and leisure requisite to the composition of "Paradise Lost."
Davenant, grateful for the old kindness of the ex-secretary, used his influence successfully
with Charles to let the offender escape.[18] This is certainly the greenest of Davenant's laurels.
Without it, the world might not have heard one of the sublimest expressions of human genius.

Davenant died in 1668. The laurel was hung up unclaimed until 1670, when John Dryden received
it, with patent dated back to the summer succeeding Davenant's death. Dryden assures us that
it was Sir Thomas Clifford, whose name a year later lent the initial letter to the "Cabal,"
who presented him to the king, and procured his appointment.[19] Masques had now ceased to
be the mode. What the dramatist could do to amuse the blasé court of Charles II. he was obliged
to do within the limits of legitimate dramatic representation, due care being taken to follow
French models, and substitute the idiom of Corneille and Molière for that of Shakspeare. Dryden,
whose plays are now read only by the curious, was, in 1670, the greatest of living dramatists.
He had expiated his Cromwellian backslidings by the "Astraea Redux," and the "Annus Mirabilis."
He had risen to high favor with the king. His tragedies in rhyming couplets were all the vogue.
Already his fellow-playwrights deemed their success as fearfully uncertain, unless they had
secured, price three guineas, a prologue or epilogue from the Laureate. So fertile was his
own invention, that he stood ready to furnish by contract five plays a year,--a challenge fortunately
declined by the managers of the day. Thus, if the Laureate stipend were not punctually paid,
as was often the case, seeing the necessitous state of the royal finances and the bevy of fair
ladies, whose demands, extravagant as they were, took precedence of all others, his revenues
were adequate to the maintenance of a family, the matron of which was a Howard, educated, as
a daughter of nobility, to the enjoyment of every indulgence. These were the Laureate's brightest
days. His popularity was at its height, a fact evinced by the powerful coalitions deemed necessary
to diminish it. Indeed, the laurel had hardly rested upon Dryden's temples before he experienced
the assaults of an organized literary opposition. The Duke of Buckingham, then the admitted
leader of fashionable prodigacy, borrowed the aid of Samuel Butler, at whose "Hudibras" the
world was still laughing,--of Thomas Sprat, then on the high-road to those preferments which
have given him an important place in history,--of Martin Clifford, a familiar of the green-room
and coffee-house,--and concocted a farce ridiculing the person and office of the Laureate.
"The Rehearsal" was acted in 1671. The hero, Mr. Bayes, imitated all the personal peculiarities
of Dryden, used his cant phrases, burlesqued his style, and exposed, while pretending to defend,
his ridiculous points, until the laugh of the town was fairly turned upon the "premier-poet
of the realm." The wit was undoubtedly of the broadest, and the humor at the coffee-room level;
but it was so much the more effective. Dryden affected to be indifferent to the satire. He
jested at the time taken[20] and the number of hands employed upon the composition. Twenty
years later he was at pains to declare his perfect freedom from rancor in consequence of the
attack.

There, is much reason to suspect, however, that "The Rehearsal" was not forgotten, when the
"Absalom and Achitophel" was written, and that the character of Zimri gathered much of its
intense vigor and depth of shadow from recollections of the ludicrous Mr. Bayes. The portrait
has the look of being designed as a quittance in full of old scores. "The Rehearsal," though
now and then recast and reënacted to suit other times, is now no otherwise remembered than
as the suggester of Sheridan's "Critic."

Upon the heels of this onslaught others followed rapidly. Rochester, disposed to singularity
of opinion, set up Elkanah Settle, a young author of some talent, as a rival to the Laureate.
Anonymous bardings lampooned him. Mr. Bayes was a broad target for every shaft, so that the
complaint so feelingly uttered in his latter days, that "no man living had ever been so severely
libelled" as he, had a wide foundation of fact. Sometimes, it must be owned, the thrusts were
the natural result of controversies into which the Laureate indiscreetly precipitated himself;
sometimes they came of generous partisanship in behalf of friends, such friends, for example,
as Sir Robert Howard, his brother-in-law, an interminable spinner of intolerable verse, who
afflicted the world in his day with plays worse than plagues, and poems as worthless as his
plays. It was to a quarrel for and a quarrel against this gentleman that we are indebted for
the most trenchant satire in the language. Sir Robert had fallen out with Dryden about rhyming
tragedies, of which he disapproved; and while it lasted, the contest was waged with prodigious
acrimony. Among the partisans of the former was Richard Flecknoe, a Triton among the smaller
scribbling fry. Flecknoe--blunderingly classed among the Laureates by the compiler of "Cibber's
Lives of the Poets"--was an Irish priest, who had cast his cassock, or, as he euphuistically
expressed it, "laid aside the mechanic part of priesthood," in order to fulfil the loftier
mission of literary garreteer in London. He had written poems and plays without number; of
the latter, but one, entitled "Love's Dominion," had been brought upon the stage, and was summarily
hissed off. Jealousy of Dryden's splendid success brought him to the side of Dryden's opponent,
and a pamphlet, printed in 1668, attacked the future Laureate so bitterly, and at points so
susceptible, as to make a more than ordinary draft upon the poet's patience, and to leave venom
that rankled fourteen years without finding vent.[21] About the same time, Thomas Shadwell,
who is represented in the satire as likewise an Irishman, brought Sir Robert on the stage in
his "Sullen Lovers," in the character of Sir Positive At-all, a caricature replete with absurd
self-conceit and impudent dogmatism. Shadwell was of "Norfolcian" family, well-born, well-educated,
and fitted for the bar, but drawn away from serious pursuits by the prevalent rage for the
drama. The offence of laughing at the poet's brother-in-law Shadwell had aggravated by accepting
the capricious patronage of Lord Rochester, by subsequently siding with the Whigs, and by aiding
the ambitious designs of Shaftesbury in play and pamphlet,--labors the value of which is not
to be measured by the contemptuous estimate of the satirist. The first outburst of the retributive
storm fell upon the head of Shadwell. The second part of "Absalom and Achitophel," which appeared
in the autumn of 1682, contains the portrait of Og, cut in outlines so sharp as to remind us
of an unrounded alto-rilievo:--

  Now stop your noses, readers, all and some,
  For here's a tun of midnight work to come,
  Og, from a treason-tavern rolling home;
  Round as a globe, and liquored every chink,
  Goodly and great he sails behind his link.
  Drink, swear, and roar, forbear no lewd delight
  Fit for thy bulk; do anything but write.
  Eat opium, mingle arsenic in thy drink,
  Still thou mayst live, avoiding pen and ink.

Of the multitudinous rejoinders and counterblasts provoked by this thunder, Dryden, it is supposed,
ascribed the authorship of one of the keenest to Shadwell. We are to conceive some new and
immediate provocation as added to the old grudge, to call for a second attack so soon; for
it was only a month later that the "MacFlecknoe" appeared; not in 1689, as Dr. Johnson states,
who, mistaking the date, also errs in assuming the cause of Dryden's wrath to have been the
transfer of the laurel from his own to the brows of Shadwell. "MacFlecknoe" is by common consent
the most perfect and perfectly acrid satire in English literature. The topics selected, the
foibles attacked, the ingenious and remorseless ridicule with which they are overwhelmed, the
comprehensive vindictiveness which converted every personal characteristic into an instrument
for the more refined torment of the unhappy victim, conjoin to constitute a masterpiece of
this lower form of poetical composition;--poetry it is not. While Flecknoe's pretensions as
a dramatist were fairly a subject of derision, Shadwell was eminently popular. He was a pretender
to learning, and, entertaining with Dryden strong convictions of the reality of a literary
metempsychosis, believed himself the heir of Jonson's genius and erudition. The title of the
satire was, therefore, of itself a biting sarcasm. His claims to sonship were transferred from
Jonson, then held the first of dramatic writers, to Flecknoe, the last and meanest; and to
aggravate the insult, the "Mac" was inserted as an irritating allusion to the alleged Irish
origin of both,--an allusion, however harmless and senseless now, vastly significant at that
era of Irish degradation. Of the immediate effect of this scarification upon Shadwell we have
no information; how it ultimately affected his fortunes we shall see presently.

During the closing years of Charles, and through the reign of James, Dryden added to the duties
of Court Poet those of political pamphleteer and theological controversialist. The strength
of his attachment to the office, his sense of the honor it conferred, and his appreciation
of the salary we may infer from the potent influence such considerations exercised upon his
conversion to Romanism. In the admirable portrait, too, by Lely, he chose to be represented
with the laurel in his hand. After his dethronement, he sought every occasion to deplore the
loss of the bays, and of the stipend, which in the increasing infirmity and poverty of his
latter days had become important. The fall of James necessarily involved the fall of his Laureate
and Historiographer. Lord Dorset, the generous but sadly undiscriminating patron of letters,
having become Lord Chamberlain, it was his duty to remove the reluctant Dryden from the two
places,--a duty not to be postponed, and scarcely to be mitigated, so violent was the public
outcry against the renegade bard. The entire Protestant feeling of the nation, then at white
heat, was especially ardent against the author of the "Hind and Panther," who, it was said,
had treated the Church of England as the persecutors had treated the primitive martyr, dressed
her in the skin of a wild beast, and exposed her to the torments of her adversaries. It was
not enough to eject him from office,--his inability to subscribe the test oaths would have
done so much,--but he was to be replaced by that one of his political and literary antagonists
whom he most sincerely disliked, and who still writhed under his lash. Dorset appears to have
executed the disagreeable task with real kindness. He is said to have settled upon the poet,
out of his own fortune, an annuity equal to the lost pension,--a statement which Dr. Johnson
and Macaulay have repeated upon the authority of Prior. What Prior said on the subject may
be found in the Dedication of Tonson's noble edition of his works to the second Earl of Dorset:--"When,
as Lord Chamberlain, he was obliged to take the king's pension from Mr. Dryden, (who had long
before put himself out of a possibility of receiving any favor from the court,) my Lord allowed
him an equivalent out of his own estate. However displeased with the conduct of his old acquaintance,
he relieved his necessities; and while he gave him his assistance in private, in public he
extenuated and pitied his error." But there is some reason for thinking this equivalent was
only the equivalent of one year's salary, and this assistance casual, not stated; else we are
at a loss to understand the continual complaints of utter penury which the poet uttered ever
after. This passage was the sole authority, we suspect, Prior had for a story which was nevertheless
sufficiently true to figure in an adulatory dedication; and, indeed, Prior may have used the
word "equivalent" loosely, and had Dorset's gift been more than a year's income, Dryden would
hardly have called it a "present,"--a phrase scarcely applicable to the grant of a pension.[22]

Dismissed from office and restored to labors more congenial than the dull polemics which had
recently engaged his mind, Dryden found himself obliged to work vigorously or starve. He fell
into the hands of the booksellers. The poems, it deserves remark, upon which his fame with
posterity must finally rest, were all produced within the period bounded by his deposition
and his death. The translations from Juvenal, the versions of Persius and of Virgil, the Fables,
and the "Ode upon St. Cecilia's Day," were the works of this period. He lived to see his office
filled successively by a rival he despised and a friend who had deserted him, and in its apparently
hopeless degradation perhaps found consolation for its loss.

Thomas Shadwell was the Poet-Laureate after Dryden, assuming the wreath in 1689. We have referred
to his origin; Langbaine gives 1642 as the date of his birth; so that he must have set up as
author early in life, and departed from life shortly past middle-age. Derrick assures us that
he was lusty, ungainly, and coarse in person,--a description answering to the full-length of
Og. The commentators upon "MacFlecknoe" have not made due use of one of Shadwell's habits,
in illustration of the reason why a wreath of poppies was selected for the crown of its hero.
The dramatist, Warburton informs us, was addicted to the use of opium, and, in fact, died of
an overdose of that drug. Hence

  "His temples, last, with poppies were o'er-spread,
  That nodding seemed to consecrate his head."

A couplet which Pope echoes in the "Dunciad":--

  "Shadwell nods, the poppy on his brows."

A similar allusion may be found in the character of Og:--

  "Eat opium, mingle arsenic in thy drink," etc.

That the Laureate was heavy-gaited in composition, taking five years to finish one comedy,--that
he was, on the other hand, too swift, trusting Nature rather than elaborate Art,--that he was
dull and unimaginative,--that he was keen and remarkably sharp-witted,--that he affected a
profundity of learning of which he gave no evidences,--that his plays were only less numerous
than Dryden's, are other particulars we gather from conflicting witnesses of the period. Certainly,
no one of the Laureates, Cibber excepted, was so mercilessly lampooned. What Cibber suffered
from the "Dunciad" Shadwell suffered from "MacFlecknoe." Incited by Dryden's example, the poets
showered their missiles at him, and so perseveringly as to render him a traditional butt of
satire for two or three generations. Thus Prior:--

  "Thus, without much delight or grief,
  I fool away an idle life,
  Till Shadwell from the town retires,
  Choked up with fame and sea-coal fires,
  To bless the wood with peaceful lyric:
  Then hey for praise and panegyric;
  Justice restored, and nations freed,
  And wreaths round William's glorious head."

And Parnell:--

  "But hold! before I close the scene,
  The sacred altar should be clean.
  Oh, had I Shadwell's second bays,
  Or, Tate! thy pert and humble lays,--
  Ye pair, forgive me, when I vow
  I never missed your works till now,--
  I'd tear the leaves to wipe the shrine,
  That only way you please the Nine;
  But since I chance to want these two,
  I'll make the songs of Durfey do."

And in a far more venomous and violent style, the noteless mob of contemporary writers.

Shadwell, after all, was very far from being the blockhead these
references imply. His "Third Nights" were probably far more
profitable than Dryden's.[23] By his friends he was classed with the
liveliest wits of a brilliant court.
  Shadwell's unfinished works do yet impart
  Great proofs of force of nature, none of art;
  With just, bold strokes, he dashes here and there,
  Showing great mastery with little care,
  Scorning to varnish his good touches o'er
  To make the fools and women praise them more.
  These, only these, support the crowded stage,
  From eldest Heywood down to Cibber's age."[25]

Sedley joined him in the composition of more than one comedy. Macaulay, in seeking illustrations
of the times and occurrences of which he writes, cites Shadwell five times, where he mentions
Etherege, Wycherley, and Congreve once.[26] From his last play, "The Stockjobbers," performed
in November, 1692, while its author was on his death-bed, the historian introduces an entire
scene into his text.[27] Any one, indeed, who can clear his mind from the unjust prejudice
produced by Dryden's satire, and read the comedies of Shadwell with due consideration for the
extemporaneous haste of their composition, as satires upon passing facts and follies, will
find, that, so far from never deviating into sense, sound common-sense and fluent wit were
the Laureate's staple qualities. If his comedies have not, like those of his contemporaries
just named, enjoyed the good-fortune to be collected and preserved among the dramatic classics,
the fact is primarily owing to the ephemeral interest of the hits and allusions, and secondarily
to "MacFlecknoe."

[To be continued.]

Footnote 1: SPENSER: Faery Queen. See also the Two Cantos of Mutability, Cant. VII.:--

  "That old Dan Geffrey, in whose gentle spright
  The pure well-head of poesie did dwell."

Footnote 2: MILTON: Il Penseroso.

Footnote 3: WORDSWORTH: Poems of Later Years.

Footnote 4: CHAUCER: Clerke's Tale, Prologue.

Footnote 5: WARTON: Ode on his Majesty's Birthday, 1787.

Footnote 6: Tyrwhitt's Chaucer: Historical Notes on his Life.

Footnote 7: Masque of the Fortunate Islands.

Footnote 8: History of English Poetry, Vol. II. pp. 335-336, ed. 1840.

Footnote 9: WARTON: Birthday Ode, 1787.

Footnote 10: See his British Poets, from Chaucer to Jonson, Art. Daniel. Southey contemplated
a continuation of Warton's History, and, in preparing for that labor, learned many things he
had never known of the earlier writers.

Footnote 11: Jonson's classification. See his Poetaster.

Footnote 12: Lamb's Works, and Life, by Talfourd, Vol. IV. p. 89.

Footnote 13: Hesperides, Encomiastic Verses.

Footnote 14: Herrick, ubi supra.--To the haunts here named must be added the celebrated Mermaid,
of which Shakspeare was the Magnus Apollo, and The Devil, where Pope imagines Ben to have gathered
peculiar inspiration:--

    "And each true Briton is to Ben so civil,
    He swears the Muses met him at The Devil."
        Imitation of Horace, Bk. ii. Epist. i.

Footnote 15: Election of a Poet-Laureate, 1719, Works, Vol. II.

Footnote 16: Feast of the Poets, 1814.

Footnote 17: Fable for Critics, 1850.

Footnote 18: This story rests on the authority of Thomas Betterton, the actor, who received
it from Davenant.

Footnote 19: Dedication of the Pastorals of Virgil, to Hugh, Lord Clifford, the son of Sir Thomas.

Footnote 20: There were some indications that portions of the farce had been written while
Davenant was living and had been intended for him. Mr. Bayes appears in one place with a plaster
on his nose, an evident allusion to Davenant's loss of that feature. In a lively satire of
the time, by Richard Duke, it is asserted that Villiers was occupied with the composition of
The Rehearsal from the Restoration down to the day of its production on the stage:--

  "But with playhouses, wars, immortal wars,
  He waged, and ten years' rage produced a farce.
  As many rolling years he did employ,
  And hands almost as many, to destroy
  Heroic rhyme, as Greece to ruin Troy.
  Once more, says Fame, for battle he prepares,
  And threatens rhymers with a second farce:
  But, if as long for this as that we stay,
  He'll finish Clevedon sooner than his play."
                            The Review

Footnote 21: It is little to the credit of Dryden, that, having saved up his wrath against
Flecknoe so long, he had not reserved it altogether. Flecknoe had been dead at least four years
when the satire appeared.

Laurus, of course, stands for Dryden, and Sakil for Dorset.

Footnote 23: The Squire of Alsatia is said to have realized him £130.

Footnote 24: An Allusion to the Tenth Satire of the First Book of Horace.--The word "censure"
will, of course, be understood to mean judgment, not condemnation.

Footnote 25: Imitation of Horace, Bk. ii. Epist. i.

Footnote 26: See the History of England, Vol. IV., Chapter 17, for reference to Shadwell's
Volunteers.

Footnote 27: History of England, Chapter 19.

THE ROMANCE OF A GLOVE.

"Halt!" cried my travelling companion. "Property overboard!"

The driver pulled up his horses; and, before I could prevent him, Westwood leaped down from
the vehicle, and ran back for the article that had been dropped.

It was a glove,--my glove, which I had inadvertently thrown out, in taking my handkerchief
from my pocket.

"Go on, driver!" and he tossed it into my hand as he resumed his seat in the open stage.

"Take your reward," I said, offering him a cigar; "but beware of rendering me another such
service!"

"If it had been your hat or your handkerchief, be sure I should have let it lie where it fell.
But a glove,--that is different. I once found a romance in a glove. Since then, gloves are
sacred." And Westwood gravely bit off the end of his cigar.

"A romance? Tell me about that. I am tired of this endless stretch of sea-like country, these
regular ground-swells; and it's a good two-hours' ride yet to yonder headland, which juts out
into the prairie, between us and the setting sun. Meanwhile, your romance."

"Did I say romance? I fear you would hardly think it worthy of the name," said my companion.
"Every life has its romantic episodes, or, at least, incidents which appear such to him who
experiences them. But these tender little histories are usually insipid enough when told. I
have a maiden aunt, who once came so near having an offer from a pale stripling, with dark
hair, seven years her junior, that to this day she often alludes to the circumstance, with
the remark, that she wishes she knew some competent novel-writer in whom she could confide,
feeling sure that the story of that period of her life would make the groundwork of a magnificent
work of fiction. Possibly I inherit my aunt's tendency to magnify into extraordinary proportions
trifles which I look at through the double convex lens of a personal interest. So don't expect
too much of my romance, and you shall hear it.

"I said I found it in a glove. It was by no means a remarkable glove,--middle-sized, straw-colored,
and a neat fit for this hand, in which I now hold your very excellent cigar. Of course, there
was a young lady in the case;--let me see,--I don't believe I can tell you the story," said
Westwood, "after all!"

I gently urged him to proceed.

"Pshaw!" said he, after kindling his cigar with a few vigorous whiffs, "what's the use of being
foolish? My aunt was never diffident about telling her story, and why should I hesitate to
tell mine? The young lady's name,--we'll call her simply Margaret. She was a blonde, with hazel
eyes and dark hair. Perhaps you never heard of a blonde with hazel eyes and dark hair? She
was the only one I ever saw; and there was the finest contrast imaginable between her fair,
fresh complexion, and her superb tresses and delicately-traced eyebrows. She was certainly
lovely, if not handsome; and--such eyes! It was an event in one's life, Sir, just to look through
those luminous windows into her soul. That could not happen every day, be sure! Sometimes for
weeks she kept them turned from me, the ivory shutters half-closed, or the mystic curtains
of reserve drawn within; then, again, when I was tortured with unsatisfied yearnings, and almost
ready to despair, she would suddenly turn them upon me, the shutters thrown wide, the curtains
away, and a flood of radiance streaming forth, that filled me so full of light and gladness,
that I had no shadowy nook left in me for a doubt to hide in. She must have been conscious
of this power of expression. She used it so sparingly, and, it seemed to me, artfully! But
I always forgave her when she did use it, and cherished resentment only when she did not.

"Margaret was shy and proud; I could never completely win her confidence; but I knew, I knew
well at last, that her heart was mine. And a deep, tender, woman's heart it was, too, despite
her reserve. Without many words, we understood each other, and so----Pshaw!" said Westwood,
"my cigar is out!"

"On with the story!"

"Well, we had our lovers' quarrels, of course. Singular, what foolish children love makes of
us!--rendering us sensitive, jealous, exacting, in the superlative degree. I am sure, we were
both amiable and forbearing towards all the world besides; but, for the powerful reason that
we loved, we were bound to misinterpret words, looks, and actions, and wound each other on
every convenient occasion. I was pained by her attentions to others, or perhaps by an apparent
preference of a book or a bouquet to me. Retaliation on my part and quiet persistence on hers
continued to estrange us, until I generally ended by conceding everything, and pleading for
one word of kindness, to end my misery.

"I was wrong,--too quick to resent, too ready to concede. No doubt, it was to her a secret
gratification to exercise her power over me; and at last I was convinced that she wounded me
purposely, in order to provoke a temporary estrangement, and enjoy a repetition of her triumph.

"It was at a party; the thing she did was to waltz with a man whom she knew I detested, whom
I knew she could not respect, and whose half-embrace, as he whirled her in the dance, almost
put murder into my thoughts.

"'Margaret,' I said, 'one last word! If you care for me, beware!'

"That was a foolish speech, perhaps. It was certainly ineffectual. She persisted, looking so
calm and composed, that a great weight fell upon my heart. I walked away; I wandered about
the saloons; I tried to gossip and be gay; but the wound was too deep.

"I accompanied her home, late in the evening. We scarcely spoke by the way. At the door, she
looked me sadly in the face,--she gave me her hand; I thought it trembled.

"'Good-night!' she said, in a low voice.

"'Good-bye!' I answered, coldly, and hurried from the house.

"It was some consolation to hear her close the door after I had reached the corner of the street,
and to know that she had been listening to my footsteps. But I was very angry. I made stern
resolutions; I vowed to myself, that I would wring her heart, and never swerve from my purpose
until I had wrung out of it abundant drops of sorrow and contrition. How I succeeded you shall
hear.

"I had previously engaged her to attend a series of concerts with me; an arrangement which
I did not now regret, and for good reasons. Once a week, with famous punctuality, I called
for her, escorted her to the concert-room, and carefully reconducted her home,--letting no
opportunity pass to show her a true gentleman's deference and respect,--conversing with her
freely about music, books, anything, in short, except what we both knew to be deepest in each
other's thoughts. Upon other occasions, I avoided her, and even refrained from going to places
where she was expected,--especially where she knew that I knew she was expected.

"Well," continued Westwood, "my designs upon her heart, which I was going to wring so unmercifully,
did not meet with very brilliant success. To confess the humiliating truth, I soon found that
I was torturing myself a good deal more than I was torturing her. As a last and desperate resort,
what do you think I did?"

"You probably asked her to ask your forgiveness."

"Not I! I have a will of adamant, as people find, who tear away the amiable flowers and light
soil that cover it; and she had reached the impenetrable, firm rock. I neither made any advances
towards a reconciliation nor invited any. But I'll tell you what I did do, as a final trial
of her heart. I had, for some time, been meditating a European tour, and my interest in her
had alone kept me at home. Some friends of mine were to sail early in the spring, and I now
resolved to accompany them. I don't know how much pride and spite there was in the resolution,--probably
a good deal. I confess I wished to make her suffer,--to show her that she had calculated too
much upon my weakness,--that I could be strong and happy without her. Yet, with all this bitter
and vindictive feeling, I listened to a very sweet and tender whisper in my heart, which said,
'Now, if her love speaks out,--now, if she says to me one true, kind, womanly word,--she shall
go with me, and nothing shall ever take her from me again!' The thought of what might be, if
she would but say that word, and of what must be, irrevocably, if her pride held out, shook
me mightily. But my resolution was taken: I would trust the rest to fate.

"On the day of the last concert, I imparted the secret of my intended journey to a person who,
I felt tolerably sure, would rush at once to Margaret with the news. Then, in the evening,
I went for her; I was conscious that my manner towards her was a little more tender, or rather,
a little less coldly courteous, that night, than it had usually been of late; for my feelings
were softened, and I had never seen her so lovely. I had never before known what a treasure
I was about to lose. The subject of my voyage was not mentioned, and if she had heard of it,
she accepted the fact without the least visible concern. Her quietness under the circumstances
chilled me,--disheartened me quite. I am not one of those who can give much superfluous love,
or cling with unreasonable, blind passion to an object that yields no affection in return.
A quick and effectual method of curing a fancy in persons of my temperament is to teach them
that it is not reciprocated. Then it expires like a flame cut off from the air, or a plant
removed from the soil. The death-struggle, the uprooting, is the painful thing; but when the
heart is thoroughly convinced that its love is misplaced, it gives up, with one last sigh as
big as fate, sheds a few tears, says a prayer or two, thanks God for the experience, and becomes
a wiser, calmer,--yes, and a happier heart than before."

"True," I said; "but our hearts are not thus easily convinced."

"Ay, there's the rub. It is for want of a true perception. There cannot be a true love without
a true perception. Love is for the soul to know, from its own intuition,--not for the understanding
to believe, from the testimony of those very unreliable witnesses, called eyes and ears. This
seems to have been my case,--my soul was aware of her love, and all the evidence of my external
senses could not altogether destroy that interior faith. But that evening I said,--'I believe
you now, my senses! I doubt you now, my soul!--she never loved me!' So I was really very cold
towards her--for about twenty minutes.

"I walked home with her;--we were both silent; but at the door she asked me to go in. Here
my calmness deserted me, and I could hardly hold my heart, while I replied,--

"'If you particularly wish it.'

"'If I did not, I should not ask you,' she said; and I went in.

"I was ashamed and vexed at myself for trembling so,--for I was in a tremor from head to foot.
There was company in the parlors,--some of Margaret's friends. I took my seat upon a sofa,
and soon she came and sat by my side.

"'I suppose,' said one, 'Mr. Westwood has been telling Margaret all about it.'

"'About what?' Margaret inquired,--and here the truth flashed upon me,--the news of my proposed
voyage had not yet reached her! She looked at me with a troubled, questioning expression, and
said,--

"'I felt that something was going to happen. Tell me what it is.'

"I answered,--'Your friend can best explain what she means.'

"Then out came the secret. A shock of surprise sent the color from Margaret's face; and raising
her eyes, she asked, quite calmly, but in a low and unnatural tone,--

"'Is this so?'

"I said, 'I suppose I cannot deny it.'

"'You are really going?'

"'I am really going.'

"She could not hide her agitation. Her white face betrayed her. Then I was glad, wickedly glad,
in my heart,--and vain enough to be gratified that others should behold and know I held a power
over her. Well,--but I suffered for that folly.

"'I feel hurt,' she said, after a little while, 'because you have not told me this. You have
no sister,' (this was spoken very quietly,) 'and it would have been a privilege for me to take
a sister's place, and do for you those little things which sisters do for brothers who are
going on long journeys.'

"I was choked;--it was a minute before I could speak. Then I said that I saw no reason why
she should tax her time or thoughts to do anything for me.

"'Oh, you know,' she said, 'you have been kind to me,--so much kinder than I have deserved!'

"It was unendurable,--the pathos of the words! I was blinded, stifled,--I almost groaned aloud.
If we had been alone, there our trial would have ended. I should have snatched her to my soul.
But the eyes of others were upon us, and I steeled myself.

"'Besides,' I said, 'I know of nothing that you can do for me.'

"'There must be many little things;--to begin with, there is your glove, which you are tearing
to pieces.'

"True, I was tearing my glove,--she was calm enough to observe it! That made me angry.

"'Give it to me; I will mend it for you. Haven't you other gloves that need mending?'

"I, who had triumphed, was humbled.

"My heart was breaking,--and she talked of mending gloves! I did not omit to thank her. I coldly
arose to go.

"Well, I felt now that it was all over. The next day I secured my passage in the steamer in
which my friends were to sail. I took pains that Margaret should hear of that, too. Then came
the preparations for travel,--arranging affairs, writing letters, providing myself with a compact
and comfortable outfit. Europe was in prospect,--Paris, Switzerland, Italy, lands to which
my dreams had long since gone before me, and to which I now turned my eyes with reawakening
aspirations. A new glory arose upon my life, in the light of which Margaret became a fading
star. It was so much easier than I had thought, to give her up, to part from her! I found that
I could forget her, in the excitement of a fresh and novel experience; while she--could she
forget me? When lovers part, happy is he who goes! alas for the one that is left behind!

"One day, when I was busy with the books which I was to take with me, a small package was handed
in. I need not tell you that I experienced a thrill, when I saw Margaret's handwriting upon
the wrapper. I tore it open,--and what think you I found? My glove! Nothing else. I smiled
bitterly, to see how neatly she had mended it; then I sighed; then I said, 'It is finished!'
and tossed the glove disdainfully into my trunk.

"On the day before that fixed for the sailing of the steamer, I made farewell calls upon many
of my friends,--among others, upon Margaret. But, through the perversity of pride and will,
I did not go alone,--I took with me Joseph, a mutual acquaintance, who was to be my compagnon
de voyage. I felt some misgivings, to see how Margaret had changed; she was so softened, and
so pale!

"The interview was a painful one, and I cut it short. As we were going out, she gently detained
me, and said,--

"'Did you receive--your glove?'

"'Oh, yes,' I said, and thanked her for mending it.

"'And is this all--all you have to say?' she asked.

"'I have nothing more to say--except good-bye.'

"She held my hand. 'Nothing else?'

"'No,--it is useless to talk of the past, Margaret; and the future--may you be happy!--Good-bye!'

"I thought she would speak; I could not believe she would let me go; but she did! I bore up
well, until night. Then came a revulsion. I walked three times past the house, wofully tempted,
my love and my will at cruel warfare; but I did not go in. At midnight I saw the light in her
room extinguished; I knew she had retired, but whether to sleep, or weep, or pray--how could
I tell? I went home. I did not close my eyes that night. I was glad to see the morning come,
after such a night!

"The steamer was to sail at ten. The bustle of embarkation; strange scenes and strange faces;
parting from friends; the ringing of the bell; last adieus,--some, who were to go with us,
hurrying aboard, others, who were to stay behind, as hastily going ashore; the withdrawal of
the plank,--sad sight to many eyes! casting off the lines, the steamer swinging heavily around,
the rushing, irregular motion of the great, slow paddles; the waving of handkerchiefs from
the decks, and the responsive signals from the crowd lining the wharf; off at last,--the faces
of friends, the crowd, the piers, and, lastly, the city itself, fading from sight; the dash
of spray, the freshening breeze, the novel sight of our little world detaching itself and floating
away; the feeling that America was past, and Europe was next;--all this filled my mind with
animation and excitement, which shut out thoughts of Margaret. Could I have looked with clairvoyant
vision, and beheld her then, locked in her chamber, should I have been so happy? Oh, what fools
vanity and pride make of us! Even then, with my heart high-strung with hope and courage, had
I known the truth, I should have abandoned my friends, the voyage, and Europe, and returned
in the pilot's boat, to find something more precious than all the continents and countries
of the globe, in the love of that heart which I was carelessly flinging away."

Here Westwood took breath. The sun was now almost set. The prairie was still and cool; the
heavy dews were beginning to fall; the shadows of the green and flowered undulations filled
the hollows, like a rising tide; the headland, seen at first so far and small, was growing
gradually large and near; and the horses moved at a quicker pace. Westwood lighted his cigar,
drew a few whiffs, and proceeded.

"We had a voyage of eleven days. But to me an immense amount of experience was crowded into
that brief period. The fine exhilaration of the start,--the breeze gradually increasing to
a gale; then horrible sea-sickness, home-sickness, love-sickness; after which, the weather
which sailors love, games, gayety, and flirtation. There is no such social freedom to be enjoyed
anywhere as on board an ocean steamer. The breaking-up of old associations, the opening of
a fresh existence, the necessity of new relationships,--this fuses the crust of conventionality,
quickens the springs of life, and renders character sympathetic and fluent. The past is easily
put away; we become plastic to new influences; we are delighted at the discovery of unexpected
affinities, and astonished to find in ourselves so much wit, eloquence, and fine susceptibility,
which we did not before dream we possessed.

"This freedom is especially provocative of flirtation. We see each fair brow touched with a
halo whose colors are the reflection of our own beautiful dreams. Loveliness is ten-fold more
lovely, bathed in this atmosphere of romance; and manhood is invested with ideal graces. The
love within us rushes, with swift, sweet heart-beats, to meet the love responsive in some other.
Don't think I am now artfully preparing your mind to excuse what I am about to confess. Take
these things into consideration, if you will; then think as you please of the weakness and
wild impulse with which I fell in love with----

"We will call her Flora. The most superb, captivating creature that ever ensnared the hearts
of the sons of Adam. A fine olive complexion; magnificent dark auburn hair; eyes full of fire
and softness; lips that could pout or smile with incomparable fascination; a figure of surprising
symmetry, just voluptuous enough. But, after all, her great power lay in her freedom from all
affectation and conventionality,--in her spontaneity, her free, sparkling, and vivacious manners.
She was the most daring and dazzling of women, without ever appearing immodest or repulsive.
She walked with such proud, secure steps over the commonly accepted barriers of social intercourse,
that even those who blamed her and pretended to be shocked were compelled to admire. She was
the belle, the Juno, of the saloon, the supreme ornament of the upper deck. Just twenty,--not
without wit and culture,--full of poetry and enthusiasm. Do you blame me?"

"Not a whit," I said; "but for Margaret"----

"Ah, Margaret!" said Westwood, with a sigh. "But, you see, I had given her up. And when one
love is lost, there sink such awful chasms into the soul, that, though they cannot be filled,
we must at least bridge them over with a new affection. The number of marriages built in this
way, upon false foundations of hollowness and despair, is incomputable. We talk of jilted lovers
and disappointed girls marrying 'out of spite.' No doubt, such petty feeling hurries forward
many premature matches. But it is the heart, left shaken, unsupported, wretchedly sinking,
which reaches out its feelers for sympathy, catches at the first penetrable point, and clings
like a helpless vine to the sunny-sided wall of the nearest consolation. If you wish to marry
a girl and can't, and are weak enough to desire her still, this is what you should do: get
some capable man to jilt her. Then seize your chance. All the affections which have gone out
to him, unmet, ready to droop, quivering with the painful, hungry instinct to grasp some object,
may possibly lay hold of you. Let the world sneer; but God pity such natures, which lack the
faith and fortitude to live and die true to their best love!

"Out of my own mouth do I condemn myself? Very well, I condemn myself; peccavi! I If I had
ever loved Margaret, then I did not love Flora. The same heart cannot find its counterpart
indifferently in two such opposites. What charmed me in one was her purity, softness, and depth
of soul. What fascinated me in the other was her bloom, beauty, and passion. Which was the
true sympathy?

"I did not stop to ask that question when it was most important that it should be seriously
considered. I rushed into the crowd of competitors for Flora's smiles, and distanced them all.
I was pleased and proud that she took no pains to conceal her preference for me. We played
chess; we read poetry out of the same book; we ate at the same table; we sat and watched the
sea together, for hours, in those clear, bright days; we promenaded the deck at sunset, her
hand upon my arm, her lips forever turning up tenderly towards me, her eyes pouring their passion
into me. Then those glorious nights, when the ocean was a vast, wild, fluctuating stream, flashing
and sparkling about the ship, spanned with a quivering bridge of splendor on one side, and
rolling off into awful darkness and mystery, on the other; when the moon seemed swinging among
the shrouds like a ball of white fire; when the few ships went by like silent ghosts; and Flora
and I, in a long trance of happiness, kept the deck, heedless of the throng of promenaders,
forgetful of the past, reckless of the future, aware only of our own romance, and the richness
of the present hour.

"Joseph, my travelling-companion, looked on, and wrote letters. He showed me one of these,
addressed to a friend of Margaret's. In it he extolled Flora's beauty, piquancy, and supremacy;
related how she made all the women jealous and all the men mad; and hinted at my triumph. I
knew that that letter would meet Margaret's eyes, and was vain enough to be pleased.

"At last, one morning, at daybreak, I went on deck, and saw the shores of England. Only a few
days before, we had left America behind us, brown and leafless, just emerging from the long
gloom of winter; and now the slopes of another world arose green and inviting in the flush
of spring. There was a bracing breeze; the dingy waters of the Mersey rolled up in wreaths
of beauty; the fleets of ships, steamers, sloops, lighters, pilot-boats, bounding over the
waves, meeting, tacking, plunging, swaying gracefully under the full-swelling canvas, presented
a picture of wonderful animation; and the mingling hues of sunshine and mist hung over all.
I paced the deck, solemnly joyful, swift thoughts pulsing through me of a dim far-off Margaret,
of a near radiant Flora, of hope and happiness superior to fate. It was one of those times
when the excited soul transfigures the world, and we marvel how we could ever succumb to a
transient sorrow while the whole universe blooms, and an infinite future waits to open for
us its doors of wonder and joy.

"In this state of mind I was joined by Flora. She laid her hand on my arm, and we walked up
and down together. She was serious, almost sad, and she viewed the English hills with a pensiveness
which became her better than mirth.

"'So,' she sighed, 'all our little romances come to an end!'

"'Not so,' I said; 'or if one romance ends, it is to give place to another, still truer and
sweeter. Our lives may be all a succession of romances, if we will make them so. I think now
I will never doubt the future; for I find, that, when I have given up my dearest hopes, my
best-beloved friends, and accepted the gloomy belief that all life besides is barren,--then
comes some new experience, filling my empty cup with a still more delicious wine.'

"'Don't vex me with your philosophy!' said Flora. 'I don't know anything about it. All I know
is this present,--this sky, this earth, this sea, and the joy between, which I can't give up
quite so easily as you can, with your beautiful theory, that something better awaits you.'

"'I have told you,' I replied,--for I had been quite frank with her,--'how I left America,--what
a blank life was to me then; and did I not turn my back upon all that to meet face to face
the greatest happiness which I have ever yet known? Ought not this to give me faith in the
divinity that shapes our ends?'

"'And so,' she answered, 'when I have lost you, I shall have the satisfaction of thinking that
you are enjoying some still more exquisite consolation for the slight pangs you may have felt
at parting from me! Your philosophy will make it easy for you to say, "Good-bye! it was a pretty
romance; I go to find prettier ones still"; and then forget me altogether!'

"'And you,' I said, 'will that be easy for you?'

"'Yes,' she cried, with spirit,--'anything is easy to a proud, impetuous woman, who finds that
the brief romance of a ten-days' acquaintance has already become tiresome to the second party.
I am glad I have enjoyed what I have; that is so much gain, of which you cannot rob me; and
now I can say good-bye as coolly as you, or I can die of shame, or I can at once walk over
this single rail into the water, and quench this little candle, and so an end!'

"She sprang upon a bench, and, I swear to you, I thought she was going down! I was so exalted
by this passionate demonstration, that I should certainly have gone over with her, and felt
perfectly content to die in her arms,--at least, until I began to realize what a very disagreeable
bath we had chosen to drown in.

"I drew her away; I walked up and down with that superb creature panting and palpitating almost
upon my heart; I poured into her ear I know not what extravagant vows; and before the slow-handed
sailors had fastened their cable to the buoy in the channel, we had knotted a more subtile
and difficult noose, not to be so easily undone!

"Now see what strange, variable fools we are! Months of tender intercourse had failed to bring
about anything like a positive engagement between Margaret and myself; and here behold me irrevocably
pledged to Flora, after a brief ten-days' acquaintance!

"Six mortal hours were exhausted in making the steamer fast,--in sending off her Majesty's
mails, of which the cockney speaks with a tone of reverence altogether disgusting to us free-minded
Yankees,--and in entertaining the custom-house inspectors, who paid a long and tedious visit
to the saloon and our luggage. Then we were suffered to land, and enter the noisy, solid streets
of Liverpool, amid the donkeys and beggars and quaint scenes which strike the American so oddly
upon a first visit. All this delay, the weariness and impatience, the contrast between the
morning and the hard, grim reality of mid-day, brought me down from my elevation. I felt alarmed
to think of what had passed. I seemed to have been doing some wild, unadvised act in a fit
of intoxication. Margaret came up before me, sad, silent, reproachful; and as I gazed upon
Flora's bedimmed face, I wondered how I had been so charmed.

"We took the first train for London, where we arrived at midnight. Two weeks in that vast Babel,--then,
ho! for Paris! Twelve hours by rail and steamer carried us out of John Bull's dominions into
the brilliant metropolis of his French neighbor. Joseph accompanied us, and wrote letters home,
filled with gossip which I knew, or hoped, would make Margaret writhe. I had not found it so
easy to forget her as I had supposed it would be. Flora's power over me was sovereign; but
when I was weary of the dazzle and whirl of the life she led me,--when I looked into the depths
of my heart, and saw what the thin film of passion and pleasure concealed,--in those serious
moments which would come, and my soul put stern questions to me,--then, Sir,--then--Margaret
had her revenge.

"A month, crowded and glittering with novelty and incident, preceded our departure for Switzerland.
I accompanied Flora's party; Joseph remained behind. We left Paris about the middle of June,
and returned in September. I have no words to speak of that era in my life. I saw, enjoyed,
suffered, learned so much! Flora was always glad, magnificent, irresistible. But, as I knew
her longer, my moments of misgiving became more frequent and profound. If I had aspired to
nothing higher than a life of sensuous delights, she would have been all I could wish. But----

"We were to spend the winter in Italy. Meanwhile, we had another month in Paris. Here I had
found Joseph again, who troubled me a good deal with certain rumors he had received concerning
Margaret. According to these, she had been in feeble health ever since we left, and her increasing
delicacy was beginning to alarm her friends. 'But,' added another of Joseph's correspondents,
'don't let Westwood flatter himself that he is the cause, for she is cured of him; and there
is talk of an engagement between her and a handsome young clergyman, who is both eloquent and
fascinating.'

"This bit of gossip made me very bitter and angry. 'Forget me so soon?' I said; 'and receive
the attentions of another man?' You see how consistent I was, to condemn her for the very fault
I had myself been so eager to commit!

"Well, the round of rides, excursions, soirées, visits to the operas and theatres, walks on
the Boulevards, and in the galleries of the Louvre, ended at last. The evening before we were
to set out for the South of France, I was at my lodgings, unpacking and repacking the luggage
which I had left in Joseph's care during my absence among the Alps; I was melancholy, dissatisfied
with the dissipations which had exhausted my time and energies, and thinking of Margaret. I
had not preserved a single memento of her; and now I wished I had one,--if only a withered
leaf, or a line of her writing. In this mood, I chanced to cast my eye upon a stray glove,
in the bottom of my trunk. I snatched at it eagerly, and, in the impulse of the moment,--before
I reflected that I was wronging Flora,--pressed it to my lips. Yes, I found the place where
it had been mended, the spot Margaret's fingers had touched, and gave it a kiss for every stitch.
Then, incensed at myself, I flung it from me, and hurried from the room. I walked towards the
Place de la Concorde, where the brilliant lamps burned like a constellation. I strolled through
the Elysian Fields, and watched the lights of the carriages swarming like fire-flies up the
long avenue; stopped by the concert gardens, and listened to the glorified girls singing under
rosy and golden pavilions the last songs of the season; wandered about the fountains,--by the
gardens of the Tuileries, where the trees stood so shadowy and still, and the statues gleamed
so pale,--along the quays of the Seine, where the waves rolled so dark below,--trying to settle
my thoughts, to master myself, to put Margaret from me.

"Weary at length, I returned to my chamber, seated myself composedly, and looked down at the
glove which lay where I had thrown it, upon the polished floor. Mechanically I stooped and
took up a bit of folded paper. It was written upon,--I unrolled it, and read. It was as if
I had opened the record of doom! Had the apparition of Margaret herself risen suddenly before
me, I could not have been more astounded. It was a note from her,--and such a note!--full of
love, suffering, and humility,--poured out of a heart so deep and tender and true, that the
shallowness of my own seemed utterly contemptible, in comparison with it. I cannot tell you
what was written, but it was more than even my most cruel and exacting pride could have asked.
It was what would once have made me wild with joy,--now it almost maddened me with despair.
I, who had often talked fine philosophy to others, had not a grain of that article left to
physic my own malady. But one course seemed plain before me, and that was, to go quietly and
drown myself in the Seine, which I had seen flowing so swift and dark under the bridges, an
hour ago, when I stood and mused upon the tragical corpses its solemn flood had swallowed.

"I am a little given to superstition, and the mystery of the note excited me. I have no doubt
but there was some subtile connection between it and the near presence of Margaret's spirit,
of which I had that night been conscious. But the note had reached me by no supernatural method,
as I was at first half inclined to believe. It was, probably, the touch, the atmosphere, the
ineffably fine influence which surrounded it, which had penetrated my unconscious perceptions,
and brought her near. The paper, the glove, were full of Margaret,--full of something besides
what we vaguely call mental associations,--full of emanations of the very love and suffering
which she had breathed into the writing.

"How the note came there upon the floor was a riddle which I was too much bewildered to explain
by any natural means. Joseph, who burst in upon me, in my extremity of pain and difficulty,
solved it at once. It had fallen out of the glove, where it had lain folded, silent, unnoticed,
during all this intervening period of folly and vexation of soul. Margaret had done her duty,
in time; I had only myself to blame for the tangle in which I now found myself. I was thinking
of Flora, upon the deck of the steamship, when, in a moment of chagrin, she had been so near
throwing herself over; wondering to what fate her passion and impetuosity would hurry her now,
if she knew; cursing myself for my weakness and perfidy; while Joseph kept asking me what I
intended to do.

"'Do? do?' I said, furiously,--'I shall kill you, that is what I shall do, if you drive me
mad with questions which neither angels nor fiends can answer!'

"'I know what you will do,' said Joseph; 'you will go home and marry Margaret.'

"You can have no conception of the effect of these words,--Go home and marry Margaret. I shook
as I have seen men shake with the ague. All that might have been,--what might be still,--the
happiness cast away, and perhaps yet within my reach,--the temptation of the Devil, who appealed
to my cowardice, to fly from Flora, break my vows, risk my honor and her life, for Margaret,--all
this rushed through me tumultuously. At length I said,--

"'No, Joseph; I shall do no such thing. I can never be worthy of Margaret; it will be only
by fasting and prayer that I can make myself worthy of Flora.'

"'Will you start for Italy in the morning?' he asked, pitilessly.

"'For Italy in the morning?' I groaned. Meet Flora, travel with her, play the hypocrite, with
smiles on my lips and hell in my heart,--or thunderstrike her at once with the truth;--what
was I to do? To some men the question would, perhaps, have presented few difficulties. But
for me, Sir, who am not quite devoid of conscience, whatever you may think,--let me tell you,
I'd rather hang by sharp hooks over a roasting fire than be again suspended as I was betwixt
two such alternatives, and feel the torture of both!

"Having driven Joseph away, I locked myself into my room, and suffered the torments of the
damned in as quiet a manner as possible, until morning. Then Joseph returned, and looked at
me with dismay.

"'For Heaven's sake!' he said, 'you ought not to let this thing kill you,--and it will, if
you keep on.'

"'So much the better,' I said, 'if it kills nobody but me. But don't be alarmed. Keep perfectly
cool, and attend to the commission I am going to trust to you. I can't see Flora this morning;
I must gain a little time. Go to the station of the Lyons railway, where I have engaged to
meet her party; say to her that I am detained, but that I will join her on the journey. Give
her no time to question you, and be sure that she does not stay behind.'

"'I'll manage it,--trust me!' said Joseph. And off he started. At the end of two hours, which
seemed twenty, he burst into my room, crying,--

"'Good news! she is gone! I told her you had lost your passport, and would have to get another
from our minister.'

"'What!' I exclaimed, 'you lied to her?'

"'Oh! there was no other way!' said Joseph, ingenuously,--'she is so sharp! They're to wait
for you at Marseilles. But I'll manage that, too. On their arrival at the Hotel d'Orient, they'll
find a telegraphic dispatch from me. I wager a hat, they'll leave in the first steamer for
Naples. Then you can follow at your leisure.'

"'Thank you, Joseph.'

"I felt relieved. Then came a reaction. The next day I was attacked by fever. I know not how
long I struggled against it, but it mastered me. The last things I remember were the visits
of friends, the strange talk of a French physician, whispers and consultations, which I knew
were about me, yet took no interest in,--and at length Joseph rushing to my bedside, in a flutter
of agitation, and gasping,--

"'Flora!'

"'What of Flora?' I demanded.

"'I telegraphed, but she wouldn't go; she has come back; she is here!'

"I was sinking back into the stupor from which I had been roused, when I heard a rustling which
seemed afar off, yet was in my chamber; then a vision appeared to my sickened sight,--a face
which I dimly thought I had seen before,--a flood of curls and a rain of kisses showering upon
me,--sobs and devouring caresses,--Flora's voice calling me passionate names; and I lying so
passive, faintly struggling to remember, until my soul sank whirling in darkness, and I knew
no more.

"One morning, I cannot tell you how long after, I awoke and found myself in a strange-looking
room, filled with strange objects, not the least strange of which was the thing that seemed
myself. At first I looked with vague and motionless curiosity out of the Lethe from which my
mind slowly emerged; painless, and at peace; listlessly questioning whether I was alive or
dead,--whether the limp weight lying in bed there was my body,--the meaning of the silence
and the closed curtains. Then, with a succession of painful flashes, as if the pole of an electrical
battery had been applied to my brain, memory returned,--Margaret, Flora, Paris, delirium. I
next remember hearing myself groan aloud,--then seeing Joseph at my side. I tried to speak,
but could not. Upon my pillow was a glove, and he placed it against my cheek. An indescribable,
excruciating thrill shot through me; still I could not speak. After that, came a relapse. Like
Mrs. Browning's poet, I lay

    ''Twixt gloom and gleam,
    With Death and Life at each extreme.'

"But one morning I was better. I could talk. Joseph bent over me, weeping for joy.

"'The danger is past!' he said. 'The doctors say you will get well!'

"'Have I been so ill, then?'

"'Ill?' echoed Joseph. 'Nobody thought you could live. We all gave you up, except her;--and
she'----

"'She!' I said,--'is she here?'

"'From the moment of her arrival,' replied Joseph, 'she has never left you. Oh, if you don't
thank God for her,'--he lowered his voice,--'and live all the rest of your life just to reward
her, you are the most ungrateful wretch! You would certainly have died but for her. She has
scarcely slept, till this morning, when they said you would recover.'

"Joseph paused. Every word he spoke went down like a weight of lead into my soul. I had, indeed,
been conscious of a tender hand soothing my pillow, of a lovely form flitting through my dreams,
of a breath and magnetic touch of love infusing warm, sweet life into me,--but it had always
seemed Margaret, never Flora.

"'The glove?' I asked.

"'Here it is,' said Joseph. 'In your delirium you demanded it; you would not be without it;
you caressed it, and addressed to it the tenderest apostrophes.'

"'And Flora,--she heard?'

"'Flora?' repeated Joseph. 'Don't you know--haven't you any idea--what has happened? It has
been terrible!'

"'Tell me at once!' I said. 'Keep nothing back!'

"'Immediately on her return from Marseilles,--you remember that?'

"'Yes, yes! go on!'

"'She established herself here. Nobody could come between her and you; and a brave, true girl
she proved herself. Oh, but she was wild about you! She offered the doctors extravagant sums--she
would have bribed Heaven itself, if she could--not to let you die. But there came a time,--one
night, when you were raving about Margaret,--I tell you, it was terrible! She would have the
truth, and so I told her,--everything, from the beginning. It makes me shudder now to think
of it,--it struck her so like death!'

"'What did she say?--what did she do?'

"'She didn't say much,--"Oh, my God! my God!"--something like that. The next morning she showed
me a letter which she had written to Margaret.'

"'To Margaret?' I started up, but fell back again, helpless, with a groan.

"'Yes,' said Joseph,--'and it was a letter worthy of the noblest woman. I wrote another, for
I thought Margaret ought to know everything. It might save her life, and yours, too. In the
mean time, I had got worse news from her still,--that her health continued to decline, and
that her physician saw no hope for her except in a voyage to Italy. But that she resolutely
refused to undertake, until she got those letters. You know the rest.'

"'The rest?' I said, as a horrible suspicion flashed upon me. 'You told me something terrible
had happened.'

"'Yes,--to Flora. But you have heard the worst. She is gone; she is by this time in Rome.'

"'Flora gone? But you said she was here.'

"'She? So she is! But did you think I meant Flora? I supposed you knew. Not Flora,--but Margaret!
Margaret!'

"I shrieked out, 'Margaret?' That's the last I remember,--at least, the last I can tell. She
was there,--I was in her arms;--she had crossed the sea, not to save her own life, but mine.
And Flora had gone, and my dreams were true; and the breath and magnetic touch of love, which
infused warm, sweet life into me, and seemed not Flora's, but Margaret's, were no illusion,
and----what more can I tell?

"From the moment of receiving those letters, Margaret's energies were roused, and she had begun
to regain her health. There is no such potent medicine as hope and love. It had saved her,
and it saved me. My recovery was sure and speedy. The happiness which had seemed too great,
too dear to be ever possible, was now mine. She was with me again, all my own! Only the convalescent,
who feels the glow of love quicken the pure pulses of returning health, knows what perfect
bliss is.

"As soon as I was strong enough to travel, we set out for Italy, the faithful Joseph accompanying
us. We enjoyed Florence, its palaces and galleries of art, the quaint old churches, about which
the religious sentiment of ages seems to hang like an atmosphere, the morning and evening clamor
of musical bells, the Arno, and the olive-crowned Tuscan hills,--all so delightful to the senses
and the soul. After Florence, Naples, with its beautiful, dangerous, volcanic environs, where
the ancients aptly located their heaven and hell, and where a luxurious, passionate people
absorbs into its blood the spirit of the soil, and the fire and languor of the clime. From
Naples to Rome, where we saw St Peter's, that bubble on the surface of the globe, which the
next earthquake may burst, the Vatican, with its marvels of statuary, the ruined temples of
the old gods and heroes, the Campagna, the Pope, and--Flora. We had but a glimpse of her. It
was one night, at the Colosseum. We had been musing about that vast and solemn pile by the
moonlight, which silvered it over with indescribable beauty, and at last, accompanied by our
guides, bearing torches, we ascended through dark and broken passages to the upper benches
of the amphitheatre. As we were passing along one side, we saw picturesquely moving through
the shadows of the opposite walls, with the immense arena between, the red-flaring torches
and half-illuminated figures of another party of visitors. I don't know whether it was instinct,
or acuteness of vision, that suggested Flora; but, with a sudden leap of the heart, I felt
that she was there. We descended, and passed out under the dark arches of the stupendous ruin.
The other visitors walked a little in advance of us,--two of the number lingering behind their
companions; and certain words of tenderness and passion we heard, which strangely brought to
my mind those nights on the ocean-steamer.

"'What is the matter with you?' said Margaret, looking in my face.

"'Hush!' I whispered,--'there--that woman--is Flora!'

"She clung to me,--I drew her closer, as we paused; and the happy couple went on, over the
ancient Forum, by the silent columns of the ruined temples, and disappeared from sight upon
the summit of the Capitoline Hill.

"A few months later, we heard of the marriage of Flora to an English baronet; she is now my
Lady, and I must do her the justice to say that I never knew a woman better fitted to bear
that title. As for Margaret,--if you will return with me to my home on the Hudson, after we
have finished our hunt after those Western lands, you shall see her, together with the loveliest
pair of children that ever made two proud parents happy.

"And here," added Westwood, "we have arrived at the end of our day's journey; we have had the
Romance of the Glove, and now--let's have some supper."

TO ----.

ON RECEIVING HIS "FEW VERSES FOR A FEW FRIENDS."

THE SINGING-BIRDS AND THEIR SONGS.

Those persons enjoy the most happiness, if possessed of a benevolent heart and favored by ordinary
circumstances of fortune, who have acquired by habit and education the power of deriving pleasure
from objects that lie immediately around them. But these common sources of happiness are opened
to those only who are endowed with genius, or who have received a certain kind of intellectual
training. The more ordinary the mental and moral organization and culture of the individual,
the more far-fetched and dear-bought must be his enjoyments. Nature has given us in full development
only those appetites which are necessary to our physical well-being. She has left our moral
appetites and capacities in the germ, to be developed by education and circumstances. Hence
those agreeable sensations that come chiefly from the exercise of the imagination, which may
be called the pleasures of sentiment, are available only to persons of a peculiar refinement
of mind. The ignorant and rude may be dazzled and delighted by physical beauty, and charmed
by loud and stirring sounds; but those more simple melodies and less attractive colors and
forms that appeal to the mind for their principal effect act more powerfully upon individuals
of superior culture.

In proportion as we have been trained to be agreeably affected by the outward forms of Nature,
and the sounds that proceed from the animate and inanimate world, are we capable of being made
happy without resorting to expensive and vulgar recreations. It ought, therefore, to be one
of the chief points in the education of youth, while teaching them the still more important
offices of humanity, to cultivate and enliven their susceptibility to the charms of natural
objects. Then would the aspects of Nature, continually changing with the progress of the seasons
and the sounds that enliven their march, satisfy, in a great measure, that craving for agreeable
sensations which leads mankind away from humble and healthful pursuits to those of a more artificial
and exciting life. The value of such pleasures consists not so much in their cheapness as in
their favorable moral influences, which improve the heart, while they lead the mind to observations
that pleasantly exercise and develope, without tasking its powers. The quiet emotions, half
musical and half poetical, which are awakened by listening to the songs of birds, belong to
this class of refined enjoyments.

But the music of birds, though agreeable to all, conveys positive and durable pleasure only
to those who have learned to associate with their notes, in connection with the scenes of Nature,
a thousand interesting and romantic images. To many persons of this character it affords more
delight than the most brilliant music of the opera or the concert. In vain, therefore, will
it be said, as an objection, that the notes of birds have no charm, save that which is derived
from association, and that, considered as music, they do not equal that of the most simple
reed or flageolet. It is sufficient to remark, that the most delightful influences of Nature
proceed from those sights and sounds that appeal to the imagination and affections through
the medium of slight and almost insensible impressions made upon the eye and the ear. At the
moment when these physical impressions exceed a certain mean, the spell is broken, and the
enjoyment becomes sensual, not intellectual. How soon, indeed, would the songs of birds lose
their effect, if they were loud and brilliant, like a band of instruments! It is their simplicity
that gives them their charm.

As a further illustration of this point, it may be remarked that simple melodies have among
all people exercised a greater power over the imagination than louder and more complicated
music. Nature employs a very small amount of physical sensation to create an intellectual passion,
and when an excess is used a diminished effect is produced. I am persuaded that the effect
of a great part of our sacred music is lost by an excess of harmony and a too great volume
of sound. On the same principle, a loud crash of thunder deafens and terrifies; but its low
and distant rumbling produces an agreeable emotion of sublimity.

The songs of birds are as intimately allied with poetry as with music. The lark has been aptly
denominated a "feathered lyric" by one of the English poets; and the analogy becomes apparent
when we consider how much the song of a bird resembles a lyrical ballad in its influence on
the mind. Though it utters no words, how plainly it suggests a long train of agreeable images
of love, beauty, friendship, and home! When a young person has suffered any severe wound of
the affections, he seldom fails, if endowed with a sensitive mind, to listen to the birds as
sharers in his affliction. Through them the deities of the groves seem to offer him their consolation.
By indulging this habit of making companionship with the objects of Nature, all pleasing sights
and sounds gradually become certain anodynes for his sorrow; and those who have this mental
alembic for turning grief into a poetic melancholy can seldom be reduced to a state of absolute
despondency. Poetry, or rather the poetic sentiment, exalts all our pleasures and soothes all
our afflictions by some illusive charm, whether it be turned into the channel of religion or
romance. Without this reflection of light from the imagination, what is the passion of love?
and what is our love of beauty and of sweet sounds, but a mere gravitation?

The voice of every singing-bird has its associations in the minds of all susceptible persons
who were born and nurtured within the precincts of its untutored minstrelsy. The music of birds
is modulated in pleasant unison with all the chords of affection and imagination, filling the
soul with a lively consciousness of happiness and beauty, and soothing it with romantic visions
of memory,--of love, when it was an ethereal sentiment of adoration and not a passion, and
of friendship, when it was a passion and not an expedience,--of dear and simple adventures,
and of comrades who had part in them,--of dappled mornings, and serene and glowing sunsets,--of
sequestered nooks and mossy seats in the old wood,--of paths by the riverside, and flowers
that smiled a bright welcome to our rambling,--of lingering departures from home, and of old
by-ways, overshadowed by trees and hedged with roses and viburnums, that spread their shade
and their perfume around our path to gladden our return. By this pleasant instrumentality has
Nature provided for the happiness of those who have learned to be delighted with the survey
of her works, and with the sound of those voices which she has appointed to communicate to
the human soul the joys of her inferior creation.

The singing-birds, with reference to their songs, may be divided into four classes. First,
the Rapid Singers, whose song is uninterrupted, of considerable length, and uttered with fervor,
and in apparent ecstasy. Second, the Moderate Singers, whose notes are slowly modulated, but
without pauses or rests between their different strains. Third, the Interrupted Singers, who
seldom modulate their notes with rapidity, and make decided pauses between their several strains,
of which there are in general from five to eight or nine. Fourth, the Warblers, whose notes
consist of only one or two strains, not combined into a song.

The canary, among foreign birds, and the linnet and bobolink, among American birds, are familiar
examples of the first class; the common robin and the veery of the second; the wood-thrush,
the cat-bird, and the mocking-bird, of the third; and the blue-bird, the pewee, and the purple
martin, of the fourth class. It may be added, that some birds are nearly periodical in their
habits of singing, preferring the morning and evening, and occasional periods in other parts
of the day, while others sing almost indifferently at all hours. The greater number of species,
however, are more tuneful in the early morning than at any other hour.

June, in this part of the world, is the most vocal month of the year. Many of our principal
songsters do not arrive until near the middle of May; and all, whether they come early or late,
continue in song throughout the month of June. The bobolink, which is one of the first to become
silent, continues vocal until the second week in July. So nearly simultaneous is the discontinuance
of the songs of this species, that it might seem as if their silence were preconcerted, and
that by a vote they had, on a certain day, adjourned over to another year. If an unusually
genial day occurs about the seventh of July, we may hear multitudes of them singing merrily
on that occasion. Should this time be followed by two or three successive days of chilly and
rainy weather, their tunefulness is so generally brought to a close during this period, that
we may not hear another musical note from a single individual after the seventh. The songs
of birds are discontinued as soon as their amorous dalliances and the care of their offspring
have ceased. Hence those birds that raise but one brood of young during the season, like the
bobolink, are the first to become silent.

No one of the New England birds is an autumnal warbler; though the song-sparrow often greets
the fine mornings in October with his lays, and the shore-lark, after spending the summer in
Labrador and about the shores of Hudson's Bay, is sometimes heard in autumn, soaring and singing
at the dawn of day, while on his passage to the South. The bobolink, the veery, or Wilson's
thrush, the red thrush, and the golden robin, are silent after the middle of July; the wood-thrush,
the cat-bird, and the common robin, not until a month later; but the song-sparrow alone continues
to sing throughout the summer. The tuneful season of the year, in New England, embraces a period
of about four months, from the middle of April to the middle of August.

There are certain times of the day, as well as certain seasons of the year, when the birds
are most musical. The grand concert of the feathered tribe takes place during the hour between
dawn and sunrise. During the remainder of the day they sing less in concert, though many species
are very musical at noonday, and seem, like the nocturnal birds, to prefer the hour when others
are silent. At sunset there is an apparent attempt to unite once more in chorus, but this is
far from being so loud or so general as in the morning. The little birds which I have classed
in the fourth division are a very important accompaniment to the anthem of dawn, their notes,
though short, serving agreeably to fill up the pauses made by the other musicians. Thus, the
hair-bird (Fringilla Socialis) has a sharp and trilling note, without any modulation, and not
at all melodious, when heard alone; but in the morning it is the chief harmonizer of the whole
chorus, and serves, more than any other voice, to give unity and symphony to the multitude
of miscellaneous parts.

There are not many birds whose notes could be accurately described upon the gamut. The nearest
approach we can make to accuracy is to give some general idea of their time and modulation.
Their musical intervals can be distinguished but with difficulty, on account of the rapidity
of their utterance. I have often attempted to transcribe some of their notes upon the musical
scale, but I am persuaded that such sketches can be only approximations to literal correctness.
As different individuals of the same species sing very differently, the notes, as transcribed
from the song of one individual, will never exactly represent the song of another. If we listen
attentively, however, to a number of songs, we shall detect in all of them a theme, as it is
termed by musicians, of which the different individuals of the species warble their respective
variations. Every song is, technically speaking, a fantasia constructed upon this theme, from
which none of the species ever departs.

It is very generally believed that the singing-birds are confined to temperate latitudes, and
that the tropical birds have not the gift of song. That this is an error is apparent from the
testimony of travellers, who speak of the birds in the Sandwich Islands and New Zealand as
singing delightfully, and some fine songsters are occasionally imported in cages from tropical
climates. The origin of this notion may be explained in several ways. It is worthy of notice
that within the tropics the singing season of different species of birds does not occur at
the same time. One species may be musical in the spring, another in summer, and others in autumn
and winter. When one species, therefore, has begun to sing, another has ceased, so that, at
whatever time of the year the traveller stops, he hears but few birds engaged in song.

In the temperate latitudes, on the contrary, as soon as the birds arrive, they commence building
their nests, and become musical at the same time. If a stranger from a tropical climate should
arrive in this country in the spring, and remain here during the months of May and June, he
would hear more birds singing together than he ever heard at once in his own clime; but were
he to arrive about the middle of July, when the greater number of our birds have discontinued
their songs, he would probably, if he knew the reputation of the Northern birds, marvel a little
at their silence. If there are as many birds singing at one time during the whole year, in
the hot climates, as we hear in this country in the latter half of summer, the greater average
would appear to be on the side of the former.

It may also be remarked, that the singing-birds of the tropics are not so well known as those
of temperate latitudes which are inhabited by civilized men. The savages and barbarians, who
are the principal inhabitants of hot countries, are seldom observant of the habits or the voices
of the singing-birds. A musician of the feathered race, as well as a harpist or violinist,
must have an appreciating audience, or his powers can never be made known to the world. But
even with the same audience, the tropical singing-birds would probably be less esteemed than
songsters of equal merit in the temperate latitudes; for, amid the stridulous and deafening
sounds made by the insects in warm climates, the notes of birds would be scarcely audible.

We are still inclined to believe, however, that there is a larger proportion of musical birds
in the temperate than in the torrid zone, because in the former region there are more of those
species that build low and live among the grass and shrubbery, and it is well known that the
singing-birds are mostly of the latter description. In warm climates the vegetation consists
chiefly of trees and tall vines, forming together an umbrageous canopy overhead, with but a
scanty undergrowth. In temperate latitudes the shrubbery predominates, especially in the most
northerly parts. Moreover, the grasses that furnish by their seeds a great proportion of the
food of the smaller birds are almost entirely wanting in the torrid zone.

The birds that live in trees are remarkable for their brilliant plumage; those that live upon
the ground and in the shrubbery are plainly dressed. This is a provision of Nature for their
protection, as the ground-birds must have a predominance of tints that resemble the general
hues of the surface of the earth. I do not know a single brightly-plumed bird that nestles
upon the ground, unless the bobolink may be considered an exception. They are almost invariably
colored like sparrows. The birds that inhabit the trees, on the other hand, need less of this
protection, though the females are commonly of an olive or greenish yellow, which harmonizes
with the general hue of the foliage, and screens them from observation, while sitting upon
the nest. The male, on the contrary, who seldom sits upon the nest, requires a plumage that
will render him conspicuous to the female and to the young, after they have left their nest.
It is remarkable, that Nature, in all cases in which she has created a difference in the plumage
of the male and female, has used the hues of their plumage only for the protection of the mother
and the young, for whose advantage she has dressed the male parent in colors that must somewhat
endanger his own safety.

The color of the plumage of birds seems to bear less relation to their powers of song than
to their habitats; and as the birds that live in trees are commonly less tuneful, they are
more brilliantly arrayed. The bird employs his song in wooing his mate, as well as in entertaining
her after she is wedded; and it is not unlikely that Nature may have compensated those which
are deficient in song by giving them a superior beauty of plumage. As the offices of courtship
devolve entirely upon the males, it is the more necessary that they should be possessed of
conspicuous attractions; but as the task of sitting upon the nest devolves upon the female,
she requires more of that protection which arises from the conformity of her plumage with the
general hue of the objects that surround her nest. While she is sitting, the plain hues of
her dress protect her from observation; but when she leaves her nest to seek her companion,
she is enabled by his brilliant colors the more easily to discover him. The male is diligent
in providing for the wants of the offspring, and hence it is important that his dress should
render him conspicuous. When the young birds have left the nest, upon seeing the flash of his
plumage, they immediately utter their call, and by this note, which might not otherwise be
sounded at the right moment, he detects them and supplies them with food. Should a bird of
prey suddenly come into their neighborhood, he overlooks the plainly-dressed mother and off-spring,
and gives chase to the male parent, who not only escapes, but at the same time diverts the
attention of the foe from his defenceless progeny.

But the birds that build low, either upon the ground or among the shrubbery, are exposed to
a greater number and variety of enemies. Hence it becomes necessary that the males as well
as the females should have that protection which is afforded by sobriety of color. Not being
made conspicuous by their plumage, they are endowed with the gift of song, that they may make
known their presence to their mate and their young by their voice. I have often thought that
the song of the bird was designed by Nature for the benefit of the young, no less than for
the entertainment of his mate. The sounds uttered by birds on account of their young always
precede the period of incubation. The common hen begins to cluck several days before she begins
to sit upon her eggs. In like manner the male singing-bird commences his song when the pair
are making ready to build their nest. While his mate is sitting, his song reminds her of his
presence, and inspires her with a feeling of security and content, during the period of her
confinement. As soon as the young are hatched, they begin to learn his voice and grow accustomed
to it, and when they fly from the nest they are prevented by the sound of it from wandering
and getting bewildered. If they happen to fly beyond certain bounds, the song of the male parent
warns them of their distance, and causes them to turn and draw near the place from which it
seems to issue. Thus the song of the male bird, always uttered within a certain circumference,
of which the nest is the centre, becomes a kind of sentinel voice, to keep the young birds
within prudent limits.

It is not easy to explain why a larger proportion of the birds that occupy trees should be
destitute of song, except on the supposition that in such elevated situations the young are
more easily guided by sight than by hearing. Still there are many songsters which are dressed
in brilliant plumage, and of these we have some examples among our native birds. These, however,
are evident exceptions to the general fact, and we may trace a plain analogy in this respect
between birds and insects. The musical insects are, we believe, invariably destitute of brilliant
plumage. Butterflies and moths do not sing; the music of insects comes chiefly from the plainly-dressed
locust and grasshopper tribes.

OUR TALKS WITH UNCLE JOHN.

TALK NUMBER ONE.

We were happy children, Alice and I, when, on Alice's sixteenth birthday, we persuaded our
father, the most indulgent parent in Cincinnati, that there was no need of our going to school
any longer; not that our education was finished,--we did not even put up such a preposterous
plea as that,--but because Mrs. C. did not intend to send Laura, and we did not believe any
of our set of girls would go back after the holidays.

There is no being so facile as an American father, especially where his daughters are concerned;
and our dear father was no exception to the general rule. So our school education was finished.
For the rest, for the real education of our minds and hearts, we took care of ourselves.

How could it be otherwise? Our father, a leading merchant in Cincinnati, spent his days in
his counting-room, and his evenings buried in his newspapers or in his business calculations,
on the absorbing nature of which we had learned to build with such certainty, that, when his
consent was necessary to some scheme of pleasure, we preferred our requests with such a nice
adjustment of time, that the answer generally was, "January 3d,--two thousand bales,--yes,
my dear,--and twelve are sixteen,--yes, Alice, don't bother me, child!" and, armed with that
unconscious assent, we sought our mother.

"Papa says that we may go. Do you think, mamma, that Miss D. can have our dresses in time?"

Our dear mother, most faithful and indefatigable in her care for our bodily wants, what time
had she for aught else? With feeble health, with poor servants, with a large house crowded
with fine furniture, and with the claims of a numerous calling and party-giving acquaintance,--claims
which both my father and herself imagined his business and her social position made imperative,--what
could she do more than to see that our innumerable white skirts were properly tucked, embroidered,
washed, and starched, that our party dresses were equal to those which Mrs. C. and Mrs. D.
provided for their girls, and that our bonnets were fashionable enough for Fourth Street? Could
she find time for anything more? Yes,--on our bodily ailments she always found time to bestow
motherly care, watchfulness, and sympathy; of our mental ills she knew nothing.

So we cared for ourselves, Alice and I, through those merry, thoughtless two years that followed,--merry
(not happy) in our Fourth-Street promenades, our Saturday-afternoon assignations at the dancing-school
rooms, our parties and picnics; and merry still, but thoughtless always, in our eager search
for excitement in the novels, whose perusal was our only literary enjoyment.

Somehow we woke up,--somehow we groped our way out of our frivolity. First came weariness,
then impatience, and last a passing-away of all things old and a putting-on of things new.

I remember well the day when Alice first spoke out her unrest. My pretty Alice! I see her now,
as she flung herself across the foot of the bed, and, her chin on her hand, watched me combing
and parting my hair. I see again those soft, dark brown eyes, so deep in their liquid beauty
that you lost yourself gazing down into them; again I see falling around her that wealth of
auburn hair of the true Titian color, the smooth, low forehead, and the ripe, red lips, whose
mobility lent such varying expression to her face.

At that moment the eyes drooped and the lips trembled with weariness.

"Must we go to that tiresome party, Kate? We have been to three this week; they are all alike."

I looked at her. "Are you in earnest? will you stay at home? I know I shall be tired to death;
but what will Laura C. say? what will all the girls think?"

Alice raised herself on her elbow. "Kate, I don't believe it is any matter what they think.
Do we really care for any of them, except to wish them well? and we can wish them well without
being with them all the time. Do you know, Kate, I have been tired to death of all this for
these three months? It was very well at first, when we first left school; parties were pleasant
enough then, but now"--and Alice sprang from the bed and seated herself in a low chair at my
feet, as, glowing and eager, she went on, her face lighting with her rapid speech,--"Kate,
I have thought it over and over again, this tiresome, useless life; it wears me out, and I
mean to change it. You know we may do just as we please; neither papa nor mamma will care.
I shall stay at home."

"But what will people say?" I put in, feebly.

Alice's eyes flashed. "You know, Kate, I don't care for 'people,' as you call them. I only
know that I am utterly weary of this petty visiting and gossiping, this round of parties, concerts,
and lectures, where we meet the same faces. There is no harm in it that I know of, but it is
simply so stupid. If we met new people, it would be something; but the same girls, the same beaux."

"And George W. and Henry B., what will they do for partners to-night? what will become of them?"

Alice put up her lip. "They will console themselves with Laura C. and those Kentucky girls
from Louisville. For my part, I shall put on my walking-dress, and go over the river to spend
the evening with Uncle John, and, what is more, I shall ask mamma to let me stay two or three
days." And, suiting the action to the word, she began to dress hurriedly.

"You will surely never go without me, Alice?"

"You will never stay behind, if I do go, Kate," said she, looking back at me laughingly. "But
make haste, I shall gain mamma over in five minutes; and we must be quick, if we are to reach
Uncle John's before tea-time."

Uncle John,--even now that long years have passed, so long that it seems to me as if I had
gone into another state of existence, as if I were not the same person as in those times,--even
now the thought of him makes my heart beat quick and the blood thrill more rapidly through
my veins. He was the delight of my childhood; far better, he was the comfort and support of
my after years. Even as a child, I knew, knew by some intuitive perception, that Uncle John
was not happy. How soon I learned that he was a disappointed man I cannot tell; but long before
I grew up into womanhood I was conscious that he had made some mistake in life, that some cloud
hung over him. I never asked, I never talked on the subject, even to Alice; there was always
an understanding between us that we should be silent about that which each of us felt with
all the certainty of knowledge.

But if Uncle John was unhappy himself, who was there that he did not make happy? No one who
came near him,--from his nieces whom he petted and spoiled, down to the little negroes who
rolled, unrebuked, over the grass before his window in summer, or woke him on a Christmas morning
with their shrill "Christmas gift, Massa John!" Not that Uncle John was a busybody, troubling
himself about many things, and seeking out occasions for obtruding his kindnesses. He lived
so secluded a life in the old family-house on the outskirts of Newport, (we were a Kentucky
family,) as to raise the gossiping curiosity of all new residents, and to call forth the explanatory
remark from the old settlers, that the Delanos were all queer people, but John Delano was the
queerest of them all.

So Uncle John spent his time between his library and his garden, while Old Aunt Molly took
upon herself the cares of the household, and kept the pantry always in a condition to welcome
the guests, to whom, with Kentucky hospitality, Uncle John's house was always open. Courteous
he was as the finest gentleman of olden times, and sincerely glad to see his friends, but I
have thought sometimes that he was equally glad to have them go away. While they were with
him he gave them the truest welcome, leaving garden and books to devote himself to their entertainment;
but I have detected a look of relief on his face as he shut the gate upon them and sought the
shelter of his own little study, that sanctum which even we children were not allowed to enter
except on special occasions, on a quiet winter evening, or, perhaps, on as quiet a summer morning.

Uncle John had not always lived in the old house. We knew, that, after Grandpapa's death, it
had been shut up,--for my father's business engagements would not allow my mother to reside
in it, and Uncle John had been for years among the Indians in the far Northwest. We had heard
of him sometimes, but we had never seen him, we hardly realized that he was a living person,
till one day he suddenly appeared among us, rough-looking and uncouth in his hunter's dress,
with his heavy beard and his long hair, bringing with him his multifarious assortment, so charming
to our eyes, of buffalo-robes and elk-horns, wolf-skins and Indian moccasins.

He staid with us that winter, and very merry and happy he seemed to us at first;--looking back
upon it now, I should call it, not happiness, but excitement;--but as the winter passed on,
even we children saw that all was not right with him. He gradually withdrew himself from the
constant whirl of society in our house, and, by the spring, had settled himself in the old
home at Newport, adding to his old furniture only his books, which he had been all winter collecting,
and the primitive inconveniences of his own room, which his rough Western life had rendered
indispensable to him. His study presented a singular mixture of civilization and barbarism,
and its very peculiarities made it a delight to Alice and me. There were a few rare engravings
on the walls, hung between enormous antlers which supported rough-looking rifles and uncouth
hunting-shirts,--cases of elegantly bound and valuable books, half hidden by heavy buffalo-robes
marked all over with strange-looking hieroglyphics which told the Indian coups,--study-chairs
of the most elaborate manufacture, with levers and screws to incline them to any, the idlest,
inclination, over the backs of which hung white wolf-skins, mounted, claws and all, with brilliant
red cloth,--and in the corner, on the pretty Brussels carpet, the prettiest that mamma could
find at Shellito's, lay the bag of Indian weed (Uncle John scorned tobacco) with which he filled
his pipe every evening, and the moccasins which he always wore when at home.

In vain did Alice and I spend our eyesight in embroidering slippers for him; our Christmas
gifts were received with a kiss or a stroke of the head, and then put into Aunt Molly's hands
to be taken care of, while he still wore the rough moccasins, made far up among the Blackfoot
Indians, which he laughingly declared were warmer, cooler, softer, and stronger than any slippers
or boots that civilized shoemaker ever turned off his last.

Quiet as it was at the old house, it had always been a source of happiness to us to be allowed
to make a visit to Uncle John. There, if that were possible, we did more as we pleased than
even at home; there were not even the conventionalities of society to restrain us; we were
in the country, comparatively. And who like Uncle John knew what real country pleasures were?
who like him could provide for every contingency? who was so full of expedients in those happy
gypsying expeditions which we would entice him into, and which sometimes lasted for days, nay,
weeks? He would mount Alice and myself on two of his sure-footed little Indian ponies, with
which his trader friends always kept him supplied; and throwing a pair of saddle-bags, filled
with what he called our woman's traps, over his own, he would start with us for a trip across
the country for miles, stopping at the farm-houses at night, laughing us out of our conventional
notions about the conveniences of lodging, and so forth,--and camping out during the day, making
what we called a continuous picnic. And then the stories he would tell us of his adventures
among the Blackfeet,--of his trading expeditions,--his being taken prisoner by the Sioux,--his
life in the forts,--till Alice would creep nearer to him in her nervous excitement, as if to
be sure that he was really with her, and then beg him to go on and tell us something more.
Once I asked him how he happened to go out among the Indians. His face darkened,--"My little
Kate, you must not ask questions,"--and as I turned to Alice, her eyes were full of tears.
She had been looking at him while I spoke, and she told me afterwards that something about
Uncle John's lips made her cry, they quivered so, and were set afterwards so tight. We never
asked him that question again.

But the ferry-boat, "The Belle of Newport," has neared the landing while I have been introducing
Uncle John, and the soft summer twilight saw us wending our way through the town towards the
Kentucky hills, whose rounded outlines were still bright with the evening red. Just on the
rise of the nearest was the Old House,--for it went with us by no other name,--and at the garden-gate
stood Uncle John, his face brightening as he saw us, while behind him a row of eager faces
showed their wide-stretched mouths and white teeth.

"Come to spend two or three days, Alice?" said Uncle John, that evening, as we sat with shaded
lamp in the study, his moccasined feet resting on the window-seat, while he sank into the depths
of his leather-covered Spanish chair. "Why, what has become of the parties that Aunt Molly
heard about in your kitchen on her way to market yesterday? Where are all our handsome young
students that were coming home for the holidays? Remember, I'll have none of them following
you over here, and disarranging my books by way of showing off their knowledge."

Alice laughed. "Not a soul knows where we are, Uncle John, except mamma, and she promised not
to tell. Laura C. has a party to-night, and she will be provoked enough at our running away;
but the truth is,----well, Uncle John, I am tired of parties; indeed, I am tired of our way
of living, and--and Kate and I thought we would come and ask you what we ought to do about it."

Uncle John puckered up his face with a comical expression, and then, looking out of the window,
whistled the Indian buffalo-call.

Alice sprung up. "Don't whistle that provoking thing, Uncle John! Indeed, I am thoroughly in
earnest,--parties are so tiresome,--all exactly alike; we always see the same people, or the
same sort of people. There is nothing about them worth having, except the dancing; and even
that is not as good as a scamper over the hills with you and the ponies. You know we have been
going to parties for these two years; we have seen so much of society, no wonder we are tired
of it."

"Sit down, Alice," said Uncle John; "you do look really in earnest, so I suppose you must not
be whistled at. And you have come all the way over here this evening to get me to solve Life's
problem for you? My dear, I cannot work it out for myself. You are 'tired of society'? Why,
little one, you have not seen society yet. Suppose I could put you down to-night in the midst
of some European court,--could show you men whose courage, wit, or learning had made them world-famous,--women
whose beauty, grace, and cultivation brought those world-famous men to their side, and who
held them there by the fascination that high-breeding knows how to use. Should you talk of
sameness then?"

Alice's eyes sparkled for a moment, then she said,--

"Yes, I should tire even of that, after a while, glorious as it would be at first."

"Have you reached such sublime heights of philosophy already? Then, perhaps, I shall not seem
to be talking nonsense, when I tell you that there is nothing in the world of which you would
not tire after the first joy of possession was over, no position which would not seem monotonous.
You do not believe me? Of course not. We all buy our own experience in life; on one of two
rocks we split: either we do not want a thing after we have got it, or we do not get it till
we no longer want it. Some of us suffer shipwreck both ways. But, Alice, you must find that
out for yourself."

"Can we not profit by each other's mistakes, Uncle?"

"No, child. To what purpose should I show you the breakers where my vessel struck? Do you suppose
you will steer exactly in my path? But what soberness is this? you are not among breakers yet;
you are simply 'tired of living';" and Uncle John's smile was too genial to be called satirical.

"Tired of not living, I think," replied Alice,--"tired of doing nothing, of having nothing
to do. The girls, Laura and the rest of them, find so much excitement in what seems to me so
stupid!"

"You are not exactly like 'Laura and the rest of them,' I fancy, my dear, and what suits them
is rather too tame for you. But what do you propose to do with yourself now that you are beginning
to live?"

"Now you are laughing at me, Uncle, and you will laugh more when I tell you that I mean to
study and to make Kate study with me."

"Poor Kate!--if you should fancy swimming, shooting, or any other unheard-of pursuit, Kate
would be obliged to swim and shoot with you. But I will not laugh any more. Study, if you will,
Alice; you will learn fast enough, and, in this age of fast-advancing civilization, when the
chances of eligible matrimony for young ladies in your station are yearly becoming less and
less,--oh, you need not put up your lip and peep into my bachelor's shaving-glass!--let me
tell you that a literary taste is a recourse not to be despised. Of course you will study now
to astonish me, or to surprise your young friends, or for some other equally wise reason; but
the time may come when literature will be its own exceeding great reward."

"Uncle, answer me one thing,--are you as happy here in your quiet study as you were in your
exciting life among the Indians? Do you not tire of this everyday sameness?"

"Close questioning, Alice, but I will answer you truly. Other things being equal, I confess
to you that the Indian life was the more monotonous of the two. I look back now on my twenty
years of savage life and see nothing to vary its dreary sameness; the dangers were always alike,
the excitements always the same, and the rest was a dead blank. The whole twenty years might
be comprised in four words,--we fought, we hunted, we eat, we slept. No, there is no monotony
like that,--no life so stupid as that of the savage, with his low wants and his narrow hopes
and fears. My life here among my books, which seems to you so tame, is excitement itself compared
with that. Your stupidest party is full of life, intelligence, wit, when put beside an Indian
powwow. There is but one charm in that wandering life, Alice,--the free intercourse with Nature;
that never tires; but then you must remember that to enjoy it you must be cultivated up to
it. There needs all the teaching of civilization, nay, the education of life, to enjoy Nature
truly. These quiet hills, these beech forests, are more to me now than Niagara was at eighteen;
and Niagara itself, which raises the poet above the earth, falls tame on the mind of the savage.
Believe one who knows,--the man of civilization who goes back to the savage state throws away
his life; his very mind becomes, like the dyer's hand, 'subdued to what it works in.'

"But I am going out of your depth again, girls," continued he, looking at our wondering, half-puzzled
faces. "Let it go, Alice; Life is a problem too hard for you to solve as yet; perhaps it will
solve itself. Meantime, we will brighten ourselves up to-morrow by a good scamper over the
hills, and, the next day, if your fancy for study still holds, we will plan out some hard work,
and I will show you what real study is. Now go to bed; but see first that Aunt Molly has her
sandwiches and gingerbread ready for the morning."

TALK NUMBER TWO.

Uncle John was well qualified to show us what real study was, for in his early youth he had
read hard and long to fit himself for a literary life. What had changed his course and driven
him to the far West we did not know, but since his return he had brought the perseverance and
judgment of middle life to the studies of his youth, and in his last ten years of leisure had
made himself that rarest of things among Americans, a scholar, one worthy of the name.

Under his guidance our studies took life, and Alice threw herself into them with all the energy
of her nature. In vain papa pished and pshawed, and mamma grieved, and begged John not to spoil
the girls by making bookworms of them; in vain "Laura C. and the rest of them" entreated us
to join this picnic or show ourselves at that party; in vain the young men professed themselves
afraid of us, and the girls tossed their heads and called us blue-stockings. Alice's answer
to all was, "I like studying; it is a great deal more entertaining than going to parties; Uncle
John's study is pleasanter than Mrs. C.'s parlor, and a ride on his little Winnebago better
fun than dancing." And so the years went on. We were not out of society,--that could not be
in our house,--but our associates changed; young men of a higher standing frequented the house;
we knew intimately the cultivated women, to whom, before, we had simply bowed at parties; and
mamma and papa grew quite satisfied.

Not so Alice; the spirit of unrest was on her again, but this time it was not because of the
weariness of life, but that she was oppressed by the fulness of her own happiness. She had
waked up to life in waking up to love, and had poured out on Herbert B. the whole wealth of
her heart. There was everything in her engagement to satisfy her friends, everything to gratify
papa and mamma; and if I sometimes thought Herbert's too feeble a nature to guide hers, or
if Uncle John sometimes talked with or listened to him as if he were measuring his depth and
then went away with an anxious expression of face, who shall say how much of selfishness influenced
us both? for was he not to take from us the pet and pride of our lives?

They were to be married in a few weeks, on Alice's twentieth birthday, and then leave for New
York, where Herbert was connected in business with his father.

It was on a gloomy December afternoon that Alice came running up to our room, where I was reading
my Italian lesson, and exclaimed,--

"Quick, Kate! put away those stupid books, and let us go over to Uncle John's for the night."

"Where is Herbert?"

"Herbert? Nonsense! I have sent him off with orders not to look for me again till to-morrow,
and to-night I mean to pretend that there is no Herbert in the world. Perhaps this will be
my last talk with Uncle John."

We walked quickly through the streets, shrouded in the dark winter-afternoon atmosphere heavy
with coal-smoke, the houses on each side dripping with the fog-drops and looking dirty and
cheerless with the black streaks running from the corners of each window, like tears down the
face of some chimney-sweep or coal-boy, till, reaching the foot of Ludlow Street, we stood
ankle-deep in mud, waiting for the little steamer, which still ploughed its way through the
dark, sullen-looking water thick with the red mud which the late rise had brought down, and
with here and there heavy pieces of ice floating by.

"Uncle John will never expect us to-night, Alice."

"I cannot help it,--I must go; for I shall never be satisfied without one good talk with him
before I leave, and Herbert will never spare me another evening. Besides, Uncle John will be
only too glad to see us in this suicidal weather, as he will call it." And she sprang upon
the boat, laughing at my woebegone face.

"You are glad to see us here, Uncle John,--glad we came in spite of the fog, and sleet, and
ice, and Kate's long face. How anybody can have a long face because of the weather, I cannot
understand,--or, indeed, why there should be long faces at all in the world, when everything
is so gloriously full of life."

"How many years is it, Alice,--three, I think,--since you were tired of living, found life
so wearisome?"

"Yes, just about three years since Kate and I ran away from Laura C.'s party and came over
here to ask you to help us out of our stupidity. I remember it all,--how you puzzled me by
telling me that every position in life had its sameness. Ah, Uncle John, you forgot one thing
when you told me that nothing satisfied us in this world." And Alice looked up from her little
stool, where she sat before the fire at Uncle John's feet, with the flush of deep feeling coloring
her cheeks and the dewy light of happiness in her eyes.

"And that one thing, Alice?"

"You are lying in wait for my answer, to give it that smile that I hate,--it is so unbelieving
and so sad; I will not have you wear it on your face to-night, Uncle John. You cannot, if I
speak my whole heart out. And why should I not, before you and Kate,--Kate, who is like my
other self, and you, dear Uncle John, who, ever since the time we were talking about, have
been so much to me? Do you know, I never told anybody before? but all you said that night never
left me. I thought of it so much! Was it true that life was so dissatisfying? You who had tried
so thoroughly, who had gone through such a life of adventure, had seemed to me really to live,
was all as flat and unprofitable to you as one of our tiresome parties or morning calls? And
something in my own heart told me it was true, something that haunted me all through my greatest
enjoyments, through my studies that I took up then, and which have been to me, oh, Uncle John,
so much more than ever I expected they would be! Yes, through all that I believed you, believed
you till now, believed you till I knew Herbert."

"And has Herbert told you better?"

"Uncle John, you do not know how the whole of life is glorified for me,--glorified by his love.
I do not deserve it; all I can do is to return it ten-fold; but this I know, that, while I
keep it, there can be nothing tame or dull,--life, everything, is gilded by my own happiness."

"And if you lose it?"

The flush on her face fell. "I should be miserable!--I should not--no, I could not live any
longer!"

"Alice," said Uncle John, his face losing its half-mocking smile with which he had been watching
her eager countenance, "Alice, did you know that I had been married?"

We started. "Married? No. How was it, and when?"

"It is no matter now, my girls. Some time I may tell you about it. I should not have spoken
of it now, but that I know my little Alice would not believe a word I am going to tell her,
if she thought she was listening to an old bachelor's croakings. Now I can speak with authority.
You think you could not live without Herbert's love? My dear, we can live without a great many
things that we fancy indispensable. Nor is it so very easy to die. There comes many a time
in life when it would seem quite according to the fitness of things, just the proper ending
to the romance, to lie down and die; but, unfortunately, or rather fortunately, dying is a
thing that we cannot do so just in the nick of time; and indeed"--and Uncle John's face assumed
its strange smile, which seemed to take you, as it were, suddenly behind the scenes, to show
you the wrong side of the tapestry,--"and indeed," he continued, "when I look back on the times
in my life that I should have died, when it was fitting and proper to die, when I felt that
dying would be such a trump card to play, if only I could manage it, I must say that I am glad
now that it was beyond my power to arrange things according to the melodramatic rules. As it
is, I am alive now. I shake my fist at all the ghosts of my departed tragedies and say, 'I
am worth two of you. I am alive. I have all the chances of the future in my favor.'"

Here he caught sight of Alice's wide-opened eyes, and his smile changed into his own genial
laugh, as he kissed her forehead and went on.

"That was a little aside, Alice, made to my other self, my metaphysical man,--not meant at
all for my audience. I was meditating a lecture on the causes of conjugal happiness, but I
seem to have stumbled upon a knot in the very first unwinding of the thread of my discourse."

"I'll listen to the lecture, Uncle, though I see but one simple and all-sufficient cause for
my happiness."

"That Herbert loves you, ha? Know, my pretty neophyte, that happiness, married happiness especially,
does not come from being loved, but from loving. What says our Coleridge?

  "'For still the source, not fountain, gives
  The daily food on which Love lives.'

"And he is right, although you shake your curls. In most marriages, in all that are not matters
of convenience, one party has a stronger heart, will, character, than the other. And that one
loves the most from the very necessity of his nature, and, loving most, is the happier. The
other falls, after a while, into a passive state, becomes the mere recipient of love, and finds
his or her happiness in something else, or perhaps does not find it at all."

"Neither side would satisfy me, Uncle John; I hardly know which fate would be the more terrible.
Do you think I would accept such a compromise in exchange for all I am living and feeling now?
I would rather be miserable at once than so half-happy."

"But, my darling, Colin and Chloe cannot spend their whole lives singing madrigals and stringing
daisies. It is not in human nature to support, for any length of time, such superhuman bliss.
The time will come when Colin will find no more rhymes to 'dove,' and when Chloe will tire
of hearing the same one. It is possible that Herbert will some time tire of reading Shelley
to you,--nay, it is even possible that the time may come when you will tire of hearing him;
it is of that time I would talk. The present is as perfectly satisfactory to me as to you and
Herbert, though not exactly in the same degree."

"Well, Uncle, what is your advice to Chloe disillusioned,--if you insist that such a thing
must be?"

"Simply this, my own dear little child," answered Uncle John, and his voice took almost a solemn
tone in its deep tenderness,--"when that time comes, as come it must, do not worry your husband
with idle regrets for the past; remember that the husband is not the lover; remember that your
sex love through your imagination, and look always for that clothing and refining of passion
with sentiment, which, with us, belong only to the poetry and chivalry of youthful ardor. We
may love you as well afterward,--nay, we may love you a great deal better,--but we cannot take
the trouble of telling you so every day; we expect you to believe it once for all; and you,--you
like to hear it over and over again, and, not hearing it, you begin to fancy it no longer true,
and fall to trying experiments on your happiness. A fatal error this, Alice. There is nothing
that men so often enjoy as the simply being let alone; but not one woman in a hundred can be
made to believe in such a strange enjoyment. Then the wife becomes exigeante and impatient,
and the husband, after fruitless attempts to find out what he has done, never suspecting that
the real trouble is what he has left undone, finds her unreasonable, and begins to harden himself
to griefs which he classes, like Miss Edgeworth, under the head of 'Sorrows of my Lord Plumcake.'"

"Miserable fate of the nobler sex, Uncle,--disturbed, even in the sublime heights of philosophical
self-possession, by the follies and unreasonablenesses of the weaker vessel! I suppose you
allow men to live out their natures unrebuked, while women must live down theirs?"

"Not I, Alice,--but I am by nature a special pleader, and, just now, I am engaged on Herbert's
side of the case. Fee me well, my darling, by a kiss or a merry look, and bring Herbert up
to judgment, and I will tell him home truths too."

"Let me hear your argument for the other side, most subtile of reasoners, and I may, perhaps,
be able to repeat them at second-hand, when occasion calls for them."

"Don't think of it, my dear! Second-hand arguments are like second-hand coffee,--the aroma
and the strength have disappeared, never to be brought back again. But if the husband were
really here, and the wife had paid well for properly-administered advice, I should say to him,
'Do not fancy that you have done everything for your wife when you have given her house, servants,
and clothes; she really wants a little attention now and then. Try to turn your thoughts away
from your more important affairs long enough to notice the pretty morning-wrapper or the well-fitting
evening-dress which has cost her some thought for your sake; do not let a change in the furniture
or a new ornament in the parlor go unnoticed till the bill comes in. And while, of course,
you claim from her the most ready sympathy in all your interests and enthusiasms, give her,
once in a great while, say every year or so, a little genuine interest in the housekeeping
trials or dressmaker grievances that meet her at every turn.

"Moreover, I would recommend to you, should your wife happen to have some literary or artistic
tastes, not to ignore them entirely because they do not pay so well as your counting-room accounts
do, and are not so entertaining to you as billiards. I would even indulge her by sacrificing
a whole evening to her, once in a while, even to the detriment of your own business or pleasure.
Depend upon it, it will pay in the end."

"Now, Uncle, like Rosalind, you have simply misused your whole sex in your special pleadings,
both for and against. If Herbert were here, I would appeal to him to know if the time can ever
come when what I do can be uninteresting to him. But I know, for myself, that such a thing
cannot be. You are not talking from your own experience, Uncle?" added she, suddenly looking
up in his face.

"My dear Alice, were it possible, should it ever seem likely, that my experience might benefit
you, how readily I would lay it open before you! But those who have lived their lives are like
the prophets of old,--their words are believed only when they are fulfilled. The meaning of
life is never understood till it is past. Like Moses on the rock, our faces are covered when
the Lord passes by, and we see only his back. But look behind you, my darling!"

Alice turned suddenly and her face lighted up into the full beauty of happiness as she saw
Herbert standing in the doorway.

"I hope you have room for me, Mr. Delano," said he, advancing, "for here I am, weather-bound,
as well as Miss Alice and Kate. There is a drizzling rain falling out-of-doors, and your Kentucky
roads are fast growing impassable for walkers."

Uncle John put into words the question that Alice's eyes had been asking so eagerly.

"Where did you stumble from, my dear fellow,--and at this time of night, too?"

"Why, I could not find any one at home on Fourth Street, so I took the last ferry-boat and
came over, on a venture, to try the Kentucky hospitality, of which we New-Yorkers hear so much;
and my stumbling walk through the mud made me so unpresentable, that I found the way round
the house to Aunt Molly's premises, and left the tracks of my muddy boots all over her white
kitchen, till she, in despair, provided me with a pair of your moccasins, and, shod in these
shoes of silence, I came quietly in upon you. I do hope you are all glad to see me," he added,
sitting down on the low seat that Alice had left, and looking up in her face as she stood by
her uncle.

Alice shook her head with a pretty assumption of displeasure, as she said, "I told you I did
not want to see you till to-morrow." But hardly half an hour had elapsed before she and Herbert
had wandered off into the parlor, and Uncle John and I were left to watch them through the
open door.

"If he were not so impulsive," said Uncle John, abruptly,--"if he were not so full of fancies!
Kate, you are a wise and discreet little lady, and we understand each other. Did I say too much?"

Just then Alice looked back.

"Chloe is the one who sings madrigals to-night, Uncle; she is going to read Colin a lesson";
and, sitting down at the piano, she let her hands run over the keys and burst out joyously
into that variation of Raleigh's pretty pastoral song,--

  "Shepherd, what's Love? I prithee tell."
  "It is a fountain and a well,
    Where pleasure and repentance dwell;
    And this is Love, as I've heard tell:
  Repentance, repentance, repentance!"

TALK NUMBER THREE.

Five years have passed since Alice sat at Uncle John's feet and listened to his words that
gave lessons of wisdom while they seemed only to amuse; and now she sits again on the low stool,
looking up in his face, while I stand behind him and look down on her, marking the changes
that those years have wrought. She has come back to us, our own Alice still,--but how different
from the impetuous, impulsive girl who left us five years ago! Her face has lost its early
freshness, though it seems to me lovelier than before, in its matured, womanly expression;
but her eyes, which used to be lifted so eagerly, to glance so rapidly in their varying expression,
are now hidden by their lashes even when she is talking earnestly; her lips have lost their
mobility, and have even something stern in their fixedness; whilst her hair, brought down smoothly
over her forehead and twisted firmly in the low knot behind, and her close-fitting widow's
dress add to the sobriety and almost matronliness of her appearance.

For Alice is a widow now, and has come back to us in her bereavement. We have known but little
of her real self for some years, so guarded have been her letters; and not until the whole
terrible truth burst upon us, did we do more than suspect that her married life had not brought
the happiness she anticipated. She is talking freely now she is at home again among her own people.

"I have sometimes thought, Uncle John, that all you said to me, the last night I spent here,
had some meaning deeper than met the ear. Had you second sight? Did you foresee the future?
Or was there that in the present which foreshadowed it to you?"

"I am no prophet, Alice. I spoke only from what I knew of life, and from my knowledge of your
character and Herbert's. But I am yet to know how my words have been fulfilled."

"It makes no difference now," said she, slowly, and with a touching weariness. "And yet," she
added, rousing herself, "it would make all the difference in the world to me, if I could see
clearly where it was that I was to blame. Certainly I must have done wrong; such wretchedness
could not have come otherwise."

Uncle John drew her hand within his, while he answered calmly,--"It is very probable you have
done wrong, my darling; who of us are wise and prudent, loving and forbearing, as we should be?"

"You think so? How glad I am to hear you say so! Yes, I can see it now; I can see how I did
that very thing against which you warned me. First came the time when Herbert forgot to admire
everything which I did and said, and I--I tried little pouting ways, that I did not feel. Then
they were so successful, that I carried them too far, and Herbert did not pet me out of them.
Then I grew anxious and began to guess at that truth which was only too clear to me at last,
that he did not love me as I loved him. Next,--oh, Uncle John, how much I was to blame!--I
watched every word and look, gave meanings to things that had none, asked explanations where
Herbert had none to give, and fairly put him under such restraint that he could neither look
nor act himself. He fretted under it,--who would not?--and then began the thousand excuses
for being away from home, business engagements, club-meetings, some country-customers of the
firm, who must be taken to the theatre, and, at last, no excuse at all but want of time. I
knew then that his love for me had never been more than a passing fancy, and, woman-like, I
grew proud, shut my heart up from him, buried myself in my books. I never studied before as
I did then, Uncle John, for I studied to get away from myself, and, looking back, I wonder
even now at what I accomplished. Yes, you were right, books are fast friends,--and mine would
have brought me their own exceeding great reward, had not my spirit been so bitter.

"It was then that mamma was so sick and I came home. Did you think me wonderfully calm, Kate?
I think somebody said I showed astonishing self-control; but, in truth, I was frightened at
myself,--I had no feeling about anything, Mamma's sickness seemed something entirely removed
from me, something which concerned me not in the least. I was calm because I felt nothing.
I wondered then and wonder now that you did not find me out, for I knew how unlike I was to
my former self. Then mamma got well, and I was not glad; I went back to New York, and felt
no sorrow at parting with you all.

"But when I got back, oh, Uncle John, I was too late!--too late to do right, even had I wished
it! I don't know,--I made good resolutions on my way back: Heaven knows if I should have had
strength to put them in practice. But it was all over; not only had I lost Herbert, but he
had lost himself. The first time I saw him he was not himself,--I might as well say it,--he
was drunk.

"There is no need of going through the rest, Uncle,--you will not ask it. I think I did everything
I could;--I threw away my books; I devoted myself to making his home pleasant to him; never,
no, never, in my girlish days, did I take half the pains to please him that I did now to win
him from himself. I read to him, I sang to him, I filled the house with people that I knew
were to his taste, I dressed for him, I let myself be admired by others that he might feel
proud of me, might think me more worthy of admiration,--but all to no purpose. Sometimes I
hoped, but more often I despaired; his fall seemed to me fearfully rapid, though now the three
years seem to have been interminable. At last I had no hope but that of concealing the truth
from you all. You thought me churlish, Kate, in my answer to your proposal to spend last winter
with me? My darling, I dared not have you in my house. But it is over now. I knew how that
last horrible attack would end when I sent for papa. He had gone through two before that, and
the doctor told me the third would be fatal. Poor Herbert!--Uncle John, can I ever forgive myself?"

Alice looked up with dry and burning eyes into Uncle John's face, over which the tears were
streaming.

"My child, it is right that you should blame yourself. What sorrow do we meet in life that
we do not in part bring upon ourselves? Who is there of us who is not wise after time? which
of us has not made some fatal mistake?"

I felt half indignant that Uncle John did not tell her how much more to blame, how weak, how
reckless Herbert had been; but the calmer expression which came over Alice's countenance showed
me that he was right, that he best knew her heart. She could not now be just to herself; she
was happier in being unjust.

We were still and silent for a long time. The light wood-fire on the hearth crackled and burned
to ashes, but it had done its office in tempering the chill of the autumn evening, and through
the half-open door stole the 'sweet decaying smell' of the fallen leaves, while the hush of
an Indian-summer night seemed to calm our very hearts with its stillness.

Uncle John spoke at last. His voice was very gentle and subdued as he said:

"I told you once, Alice, that my life should be opened to you, if ever its errors could be
either warning or consolation to you. But who am I, to judge what beacon-lights we may hold
out to each other? There is as much egotism, sometimes, in silence as in the free speech which
asks for sympathy. Perhaps I have been too proud to lay open my follies before you and my little
Kate."

Alice looked up, with a touch of her old eagerness, as Uncle John went on.

"It was long before you were born, my dear, that, for some college peccadilloes,--it is so
long ago that I have almost forgotten now what they were,--I was suspended (rusticated we called
it) for a term, and advised by the grave and dignified president to spend my time in repenting
and in keeping up with my class. I had no mind to come home; I had no wish, by my presence,
to keep the memory of my misdemeanors before my father's mind for six months; so I asked and
gained leave to spend the summer in a little town in Western Massachusetts, where, as I said,
I should have nothing to tempt me from my studies. I had heard from a classmate what famous
shooting and fishing were to be found there, and I knew something of the beauty of Berkshire
scenery; but I honorably intended to study well and faithfully, taking only the moderate amount
of recreation necessary for my health.

"I went, and soon established myself in a quiet farm-house with my books, gun, and fishing-rod,
and had passed there a whole month with an approving conscience and tolerable success both
in studies and sport, when the farmer announced one morning, that, as he had one boarder, he
might as well take another, and that a New York lady had been inquiring of his neighbor Johnson,
when he was in the city last week, for some farm-house where they would be willing to take
her cheap for the summer. She could have the best room, and he didn't suppose she'd be in anybody's
way, so he had told Johnson that she might come, if she would put up with their country fare.

"She came the next week. She was a widow, some thirty years old, ten years older than I was.
I did not think her pretty,--perhaps piquante, but that was all. In my first fastidiousness,
I thought her hardly lady-like, and laughed at her evident attempts to attract my notice,--at
her little vanities and affectations. But I do not know; we were always together; I saw no
other woman but the farmer's wife. There were the mountain walks, the trees, the flowers, the
moonlight; she talked so well upon them all! In short, you do not know, no young girl can know,
the influence which a woman in middle life, if she has anything in her, has over a young man;
and she,--she had shrewdness and a certain talent, and, I think now, knew what she was doing,--at
any rate, I fell madly in love. I knew my father would never consent to my marrying then; I
knew I was ruining my prospects by doing so; but that very knowledge only made me more eager
to secure her.

"She was entirely independent of control, being left a widow with some little property, and
threw no obstacles in my way. We were married there, in that little village, and for a few
weeks I lived in a fool's paradise.

"I could not tell you--indeed, I would not tell you, if I could--how by degrees I found out
what I had done,--that I had flung away my heart on a woman who married me simply to secure
herself the position in society which her own imprudence had lost; how, when she found I had
nothing to offer her but a home in my father's house, entirely dependent upon him, she accused
me of having deceived her for the sake of her own miserable pittance; how she made herself
the common talk of Newport by her dissipation, her extravagance, her affectations; how her
love of excitement led her into such undisguised flirtations, under the name of friendships,
with almost every man she met, that her imprudences, to call them by no harsher name, made
my father insist, that, for my mother's sake, I should seek another home.

"I did so, but it was only to go through a repetition of similar scenes, of daring follies
on her part, and reproaches on mine. At last, desperate, I induced my father to settle on her
what would have been my share of his property on condition that she should return to New York,--while
I, crushed down, mortified, and ashamed to look my friends in the face, and sick of the wrongs
and follies of civilized life, grasped eagerly at an opportunity to join a fur-trading party,
and buried myself alive in the wilds of the Northwest.

"I had no object in going there but to escape from my wife and from myself; but, once there,
the charm of that free life took possession of me; adventure followed adventure; opportunities
opened to me, and I grew to be an influential person, and made myself a home among the Indians.
It is a wild life that the Indian traders live up in that far-away country, and many a reckless
deed is done there which public opinion would frown upon here. I am afraid I was no better
than my companions; I lived my life and drew from it whatever enjoyment it would bring; but,
at least, I did not brutalize myself as some of them did; for that I may thank the refining
influence of my early education. Meantime, I was almost lost to my family and, indeed, I hardly
regretted it, for nothing would have brought me back while my wife lived, and, if I were not
to be with my friends, why eat my heart out with longings for them? So, for nearly twenty years,
I lived the life of adventure, danger, and privation, that draws its only charm from its independence.

"At last came a letter from your mother. It found its way to me from fort to fort, brought
up part of the way with the letters to the troops stationed at our upper forts, then carried
by the Indian runners to the trading-posts of the fur-companies till it reached me in the depths
of the Rocky Mountains. My wife was dead,--she had died suddenly; my property, all that she
had not squandered, (and it was so tied up by my father's forethought that she could only throw
away a part of it,) was my own again; my sister longed to see me, and promised me a welcome
to her house and heart. I grew restless from that moment, and, converting into money the not
inconsiderable wealth with which I had surrounded myself in the shape of furs, horses, buffalo-robes,
and so forth, I came down to the States again to begin life anew, a man of forty-five, my head
whitened, and my features marked before their time from the life of exposure which I had led.
Alice, I, too, was too late. I had dropped out of the tide of life and progress in my twenty
years' seclusion, and, struggle as I might, I could not retrieve the time lost. The present
age knew not of me,--I had lost my place in it; the thoughts, feelings, habits, of all around
were strange to me; I had been pushed out of the line of march, and never could I fall into
step again. In society, in business, in domestic life, it was all the same. Trial after trial
taught me, at last, the truth; and when I had learned not only to believe it, but to accept
it, I came home to my father's house, now mine, and made myself friends of my books,--those
faithful ones who were as true to me as if I had never deserted them. They have brought me
content, if not happiness; and you, Alice, you and Kate, you have filled fully an old man's heart."

Alice's tears were dropping fast on Uncle John's hand as she said,--

"I will be more to you henceforward than ever before. I have nothing else to live for now.
Kate is the home child; but I--I will stay with you, and you shall teach me, too, to be contented,--to
find my happiness, as you do, in making the happiness of all around."

Uncle John passed his other hand over her hair,--

"You shall stay with me for the present, my darling,--perhaps as long as I live. But life is
not over for you, Alice. You have youth,--you have years in store. For you it is not too late."

AN EVENING MELODY.

  Oh that yon pines which crown the steep
    Their fires might ne'er surrender!
  Oh that yon fervid knoll might keep,
    While lasts the world, its splendor!

  Pale poplars on the wind that lean,
    And in the sunset shiver,
  Oh that your golden stems might screen
    For aye yon glassy river!

  That yon white bird on homeward wing
    Soft-sliding without motion,
  And now in blue air vanishing
    Like snow-flake lost in ocean,

  Beyond our sight might never flee,
    Yet onward still be flying;
  And all the dying day might be
    Immortal in its dying!

  Pellucid thus in golden trance,
    Thus mute in expectation,
  What waits the Earth? Deliverance?
    Ah, no! Transfiguration!

  She dreams of that New Earth divine,
    Conceived of seed immortal:
  She sings, "Not mine the holier shrine,
    But mine the cloudy portal!"

CHESUNCOOK

[Concluded.]

Early the next morning we started on our return up the Penobscot, my companion wishing to go
about twenty-five miles above the Moosehead carry to a camp near the junction of the two forks,
and look for moose there. Our host allowed us something for the quarter of the moose which
we had brought, and which he was glad to get. Two explorers from Chamberlain Lake started at
the same time that we did. Red flannel shirts should be worn in the woods, if only for the
fine contrast which this color makes with the evergreens and the water. Thus I thought when
I saw the forms of the explorers in their birch, poling up the rapids before us, far off against
the forest. It is the surveyor's color also, most distinctly seen under all circumstances.
We stopped to dine at Ragmuff, as before. My companion it was who wandered up the stream to
look for moose this time, while Joe went to sleep on the bank, so that we felt sure of him;
and I improved the opportunity to botanize and bathe. Soon after starting again, while Joe
was gone back in the canoe for the frying-pan, which had been left, we picked a couple of quarts
of tree-cranberries for a sauce.

I was surprised by Joe's asking me how far it was to the Moosehorn. He was pretty well acquainted
with this stream, but he had noticed that I was curious about distances, and had several maps.
He, and Indians generally, with whom I have talked, are not able to describe dimensions or
distances in our measures with any accuracy. He could tell, perhaps, at what time we should
arrive, but not how far it was. We saw a few wood-ducks, sheldrakes, and black ducks, but they
were not so numerous there at that season as on our river at home. We scared the same family
of wood-ducks before us, going and returning. We also heard the note of one fish-hawk, somewhat
like that of a pigeon-woodpecker, and soon after saw him perched near the top of a dead white-pine
against the island where we had first camped, while a company of peetweets were twittering
and teetering about over the carcass of a moose on a low sandy spit just beneath. We drove
the fish-hawk from perch to perch, each time eliciting a scream or whistle, for many miles
before us. Our course being up-stream, we were obliged to work much harder than before, and
had frequent use for a pole. Sometimes all three of us paddled together, standing up, small
and heavily laden as the canoe was. About six miles from Moosehead, we began to see the mountains
east of the north end of the lake, and at four o'clock we reached the carry.

The Indians were still encamped here. There were three, including the St. Francis Indian who
had come in the steamer with us. One of the others was called Sabattis. Joe and the St. Francis
Indian were plainly clear Indian, the other two apparently mixed Indian and white; but the
difference was confined to their features and complexions, for all that I could see. We here
cooked the tongue of the moose for supper,--having left the nose, which is esteemed the choicest
part, at Chesuncook, boiling, it being a good deal of trouble to prepare it. We also stewed
our tree-cranberries, (Viburnum opulus,) sweetening them with sugar. The lumberers sometimes
cook them with molasses. They were used in Arnold's expedition. This sauce was very grateful
to us who had been confined to hard bread, pork, and moose-meat, and, notwithstanding their
seeds, we all three pronounced them equal to the common cranberry; but perhaps some allowance
is to be made for our forest appetites. It would be worth the while to cultivate them, both
for beauty and for food. I afterward saw them in a garden in Bangor. Joe said that they were
called ebeemenar.

While we were getting supper, Joe commenced curing the moose-hide, on which I had sat a good
part of the voyage, he having already cut most of the hair off with his knife at the Caucomgomoc.
He set up two stout forked poles on the bank, seven or eight feet high, and as much asunder
east and west, and having cut slits eight or ten inches long, and the same distance apart,
close to the edge, on the sides of the hide, he threaded poles through them, and then, placing
one of the poles on the forked stakes, tied the other down tightly at the bottom. The two ends
also were tied with cedar bark, their usual string, to the upright poles, through small holes
at short intervals. The hide, thus stretched, and slanted a little to the north, to expose
its flesh side to the sun, measured, in the extreme, eight feet long by six high. Where any
flesh still adhered, Joe boldly scored it with his knife to lay it open to the sun. It now
appeared somewhat spotted and injured by the duck shot. You may see the old frames on which
hides have been stretched at many camping-places in these woods.

For some reason or other, the going to the forks of the Penobscot was given up, and we decided
to stop here, my companion intending to hunt down the stream at night. The Indians invited
us to lodge with them, but my companion inclined to go to the log-camp on the carry. This camp
was close and dirty, and had an ill smell, and I preferred to accept the Indians' offer, if
we did not make a camp for ourselves; for, though they were dirty, too, they were more in the
open air, and were much more agreeable, and even refined company, than the lumberers. The most
interesting question entertained at the lumberers' camp was, which man could "handle" any other
on the carry; and, for the most part, they possessed no qualities which you could not lay hands
on. So we went to the Indians' camp or wigwam.

It was rather windy, and therefore Joe concluded to hunt after midnight, if the wind went down,
which the other Indians thought it would not do, because it was from the south. The two mixed
bloods, however, went off up the river for moose at dark, before we arrived at their camp.
This Indian camp was a slight, patched-up affair, which had stood there several weeks, built
shed-fashion, open to the fire on the west. If the wind changed, they could turn it round.
It was formed by two forked stakes and a cross-bar, with rafters slanted from this to the ground.
The covering was partly an old sail, partly birch-bark, quite imperfect, but securely tied
on, and coming down to the ground on the sides. A large log was rolled up at the back side
for a headboard, and two or three moose-hides were spread on the ground with the hair up. Various
articles of their wardrobe were tucked around the sides and corners, or under the roof. They
were smoking moose-meat on just such a crate as is represented by With in De Bry's "Collectio
Peregrinationum," published in 1588, and which the natives of Brazil called boucan, (whence
buccaneer,) on which were frequently shown pieces of human flesh drying along with the rest.
It was erected in front of the camp over the usual large fire, in the form of an oblong square.
Two stout forked stakes, four or five feet apart and five feet high, were driven into the ground
at each end, and then two poles ten feet long were stretched across over the fire, and smaller
ones laid transversely on these a foot apart. On the last hung large, thin slices of moose-meat
smoking and drying, a space being left open over the centre of the fire. There was the whole
heart, black as a thirty-two pound ball, hanging at one corner. They said, that it took three
or four days to cure this meat, and it would keep a year or more. Refuse pieces lay about on
the ground in different stages of decay, and some pieces also in the fire, half buried and
sizzling in the ashes, as black and dirty as an old shoe. These last I at first thought were
thrown away, but afterwards found that they were being cooked. Also a tremendous rib-piece
was roasting before the fire, being impaled on an upright stake forced in and out between the
ribs. There was a moose-hide stretched and curing on poles like ours, and quite a pile of cured
skins close by. They had killed twenty-two moose within two months, but, as they could use
but very little of the meat, they left the carcasses on the ground. Altogether it was about
as savage a sight as was ever witnessed, and I was carried back at once three hundred years.
There were many torches of birch-bark, shaped like straight tin horns, lying ready for use
on a stump outside.

For fear of dirt, we spread our blankets over their hides, so as not to touch them anywhere.
The St. Francis Indian and Joe alone were there at first, and we lay on our backs talking with
them till midnight. They were very sociable, and, when they did not talk with us, kept up a
steady chatting in their own language. We heard a small bird just after dark, which, Joe said,
sang at a certain hour in the night,--at ten o'clock, he believed. We also heard the hylodes
and tree-toads, and the lumberers singing in their camp a quarter of a mile off. I told them
that I had seen pictured in old books pieces of human flesh drying on these crates; whereupon
they repeated some tradition about the Mohawks eating human flesh, what parts they preferred,
etc., and also of a battle with the Mohawks near Moosehead, in which many of the latter were
killed; but I found that they knew but little of the history of their race, and could be entertained
by stories about their ancestors as readily as any way. At first I was nearly roasted out,
for I lay against one side of the camp, and felt the heat reflected not only from the birch-bark
above, but from the side; and again I remembered the sufferings of the Jesuit missionaries,
and what extremes of heat and cold the Indians were said to endure. I struggled long between
my desire to remain and talk with them, and my impulse to rush out and stretch myself on the
cool grass; and when I was about to take the last step, Joe, hearing my murmurs, or else being
uncomfortable himself, got up and partially dispersed the fire. I suppose that that is Indian
manners,--to defend yourself.

While lying there listening to the Indians, I amused myself with trying to guess at their subject
by their gestures, or some proper name introduced. There can be no more startling evidence
of their being a distinct and comparatively aboriginal race, than to hear this unaltered Indian
language, which the white man cannot speak nor understand. We may suspect change and deterioration
in almost every other particular, but the language which is so wholly unintelligible to us.
It took me by surprise, though I had found so many arrow-heads, and convinced me that the Indian
was not the invention of historians and poets. It was a purely wild and primitive American
sound, as much as the barking of a chickaree, and I could not understand a syllable of it;
but Paugus, had he been there, would have understood it. These Abenakis gossiped, laughed,
and jested, in the language in which Eliot's Indian Bible is written, the language which has
been spoken in New England who shall say how long? These were the sounds that issued from the
wigwams of this country before Columbus was born; they have not yet died away; and, with remarkably
few exceptions, the language of their forefathers is still copious enough for them. I felt
that I stood, or rather lay, as near to the primitive man of America, that night, as any of
its discoverers ever did.

In the midst of their conversation, Joe suddenly appealed to me to know how long Moosehead
Lake was.

Meanwhile, as we lay there, Joe was making and trying his horn, to be ready for hunting after
midnight. The St. Francis Indian also amused himself with sounding it, or rather calling through
it; for the sound is made with the voice, and not by blowing through the horn. The latter appeared
to be a speculator in moose-hides. He bought my companion's for two dollars and a quarter,
green. Joe said that it was worth two and a half at Oldtown. Its chief use is for moccasins.
One or two of these Indians wore them. I was told, that, by a recent law of Maine, foreigners
are not allowed to kill moose there at any season; white Americans can kill them only at a
particular season, but the Indians of Maine at all seasons. The St. Francis Indian accordingly
asked my companion for a wighiggin, or bill, to show, since he was a foreigner. He lived near
Sorel. I found that he could write his name very well, Tahmunt Swasen. One Ellis, an old white
man of Guilford, a town through which we passed, not far from the south end of Moosehead, was
the most celebrated moose-hunter of those parts. Indians and whites spoke with equal respect
of him. Tahmunt said, that there were more moose here than in the Adirondack country in New
York, where he had hunted; that three years before there were a great many about, and there
were a great many now in the woods, but they did not come out to the water. It was of no use
to hunt them at midnight,--they would not come out then. I asked Sabattis, after he came home,
if the moose never attacked him. He answered, that you must not fire many times so as to mad
him. "I fire once and hit him in the right place, and in the morning I find him. He won't go
far. But if you keep firing, you mad him. I fired once five bullets, every one through the
heart, and he did not mind 'em at all; it only made him more mad." I asked him if they did
not hunt them with dogs. He said, that they did so in winter, but never in the summer, for
then it was of no use; they would run right off straight and swiftly a hundred miles.

Another Indian said, that the moose, once scared, would run all day. A dog will hang to their
lips, and be carried along till he is swung against a tree and drops off. They cannot run on
a "glaze," though they can run in snow four feet deep; but the caribou can run on ice. They
commonly find two or three moose together. They cover themselves with water, all but their
noses, to escape flies. He had the horns of what he called "the black moose that goes in low
lands." These spread three or four feet. The "red moose" was another kind, "running on mountains,"
and had horns which spread six feet. Such were his distinctions. Both can move their horns.
The broad flat blades are covered with hair, and are so soft, when the animal is alive, that
you can run a knife through them. They regard it as a good or bad sign, if the horns turn this
way or that. His caribou horns had been gnawed by mice in his wigwam, but he thought that the
horns neither of the moose nor of the caribou were ever gnawed while the creature was alive,
as some have asserted. An Indian, whom I met after this at Oldtown, who had carried about a
bear and other animals of Maine to exhibit, told me that thirty years ago there were not so
many moose in Maine as now; also, that the moose were very easily tamed, and would come back
when once fed, and so would deer, but not caribou. The Indians of this neighborhood are about
as familiar with the moose as we are with the ox, having associated with them for so many generations.
Father Rasles, in his Dictionary of the Abenaki Language, gives not only a word for the male
moose, (aianbé) and another for the female, (hèrar,) but for the bone which is in the middle
of the heart of the moose (!), and for his left hind-leg.

There were none of the small deer up there; they are more common about the settlements. One
ran into the city of Bangor two years before, and jumped through a window of costly plate glass,
and then into a mirror, where it thought it recognized one of its kind, and out again, and
so on, leaping over the heads of the crowd, until it was captured. This the inhabitants speak
of as the deer that went a-shopping. The last-mentioned Indian spoke of the lunxus or Indian
devil, (which I take to be the cougar, and not the Gulo luscus,) as the only animal in Maine
which man need fear; it would follow a man, and did not mind a fire. He also said, that beavers
were getting to be pretty numerous again, where we went, but their skins brought so little
now that it was not profitable to hunt them.

I had put the ears of our moose, which were ten inches long, to dry along with the moose-meat
over the fire, wishing to preserve them; but Sabattis told me that I must skin and cure them,
else the hair would all come off. He observed, that they made tobacco-pouches of the skins
of their ears, putting the two together inside to inside. I asked him how he got fire; and
he produced a little cylindrical box of friction-matches. He also had flints and steel, and
some punk, which was not dry; I think it was from the yellow birch. "But suppose you upset,
and all these and your powder get wet." "Then," said he, "we wait till we get to where there
is some fire." I produced from my pocket a little vial, containing matches, stoppled water-tight,
and told him, that, though we were upset, we should still have some dry matches; at which he
stared without saying a word.

We lay awake thus a long while talking, and they gave us the meaning of many Indian names of
lakes and streams in the vicinity,--especially Tahmunt. I asked the Indian name of Moosehead
Lake. Joe answered, Sebamook; Tahmunt pronounced it Sebemook. When I asked what it meant, they
answered, Moosehead Lake. At length, getting my meaning, they alternately repeated the word
over to themselves, as a philologist might,--Sebamook,--Sebamook,--now and then comparing notes
in Indian; for there was a slight difference in their dialects; and finally Tahmunt said, "Ugh!
I know,"--and he rose up partly on the moose-hide,--"like as here is a place, and there is
a place," pointing to different parts of the hide, "and you take water from there and fill
this, and it stays here; that is Sebamook." I understood him to mean that it was a reservoir
of water which did not run away, the river coming in on one side and passing out again near
the same place, leaving a permanent bay. Another Indian said, that it meant Large-Bay Lake,
and that Sebago and Sebec, the names of other lakes, were kindred words, meaning large open
water. Joe said that Seboois meant Little River. I observed their inability, often described,
to convey an abstract idea. Having got the idea, though indistinctly, they groped about in
vain for words with which to express it. Tahmunt thought that the whites called it Moosehead
Lake, because Mount Kineo, which commands it, is shaped like a moose's head, and that Moose
River was so called "because the mountain points right across the lake to its mouth." John
Josselyn, writing about 1673, says, "Twelve miles from Casco Bay, and passable for men and
horses, is a lake, called by the Indians Sebug. On the brink thereof, at one end, is the famous
rock, shaped like a moose deer or helk, diaphanous, and called the Moose Rock." He appears
to have confounded Sebamook with Sebago, which is nearer, but has no "diaphanous" rock on its
shore.

I give more of their definitions, for what they are worth,--partly because they differ sometimes
from the commonly received ones. They never analyzed these words before. After long deliberation
and repeating of the word, for it gave much trouble, Tahmunt said that Chesuncook meant a place
where many streams emptied in (?), and he enumerated them,--Penobscot, Umbazookskus, Cusabesex,
Red Brook, etc.--"Caucomgomoc,--what does that mean?" "What are those large white birds?" he
asked. "Gulls," said I. "Ugh! Gull Lake."--Pammadumcook, Joe thought, meant the Lake with Gravelly
Bottom or Bed.--Kenduskeag, Tahmunt concluded at last, after asking if birches went up it,
for he said that he was not much acquainted with it, meant something like this: "You go up
Penobscot till you come to Kenduskeag, and you go by, you don't turn up there. That is Kenduskeag."
(?) Another Indian, however, who knew the river better, told us afterward that it meant Little
Eel River.--Mattawamkeag was a place where two rivers meet. (?)--Penobscot was Rocky River.
One writer says, that this was "originally the name of only a section of the main channel,
from the head of the tide-water to a short distance above Oldtown."

A very intelligent Indian, whom we afterward met, son-in-law of Neptune, gave us also these
other definitions:--Umbazookskus, Meadow Stream; Millinoket, Place of Islands; Aboljacarmegus,
Smooth-Ledge Falls (and Dead-Water); Aboljacarmeguscook, the stream emptying in; (the last
was the word he gave when I asked about Aboljacknagesic, which he did not recognize;) Mattahumkeag,
Sand-Creek Pond; Piscataquis, Branch of a River.

I asked our hosts what Musketaquid, the Indian name of Concord, Mass., meant; but they changed
it to Musketicook, and repeated that, and Tahmunt said that it meant Dead Stream, which is
probably true. Cook appears to mean stream, and perhaps quid signifies the place or ground.
When I asked the meaning of the names of two of our hills, they answered that they were another
language. As Tahmunt said that he traded at Quebec, my companion inquired the meaning of the
word Quebec, about which there has been so much question. He did not know, but began to conjecture.
He asked what those great ships were called that carried soldiers. "Men-of-war," we answered.
"Well," he said, "when the English ships came up the river, they could not go any further,
it was so narrow there; they must go back,--go-back,--that's Que-bec." I mention this to show
the value of his authority in the other cases.

Late at night the other two Indians came home from moose-hunting, not having been successful,
aroused the fire again, lighted their pipes, smoked awhile, took something strong to drink,
and ate some moose-meat, and, finding what room they could, lay down on the moose-hides; and
thus we passed the night, two white men and four Indians, side by side.

When I awoke in the morning the weather was drizzling. One of the Indians was lying outside,
rolled in his blanket, on the opposite side of the fire, for want of room. Joe had neglected
to awake my companion, and he had done no hunting that night. Tahmunt was making a cross-bar
for his canoe with a singularly shaped knife, such as I have since seen other Indians using.
The blade was thin, about three quarters of an inch wide, and eight or nine inches long, but
curved out of its plane into a hook, which he said made it more convenient to shave with. As
the Indians very far north and northwest use the same kind of knife, I suspect that it was
made according to an aboriginal pattern, though some white artisans may use a similar one.
The Indians baked a loaf of flour bread in a spider on its edge before the fire for their breakfast;
and while my companion was making tea, I caught a dozen sizable fishes in the Penobscot, two
kinds of sucker and one trout. After we had breakfasted by ourselves, one of our bedfellows,
who had also breakfasted, came along, and, being invited, took a cup of tea, and finally, taking
up the common platter, licked it clean. But he was nothing to a white fellow, a lumberer, who
was continually stuffing himself with the Indians' moose-meat, and was the butt of his companions
accordingly. He seems to have thought that it was a feast "to eat all." It is commonly said
that the white man finally surpasses the Indian on his own ground, and it was proved true in
this case. I cannot swear to his employment during the hours of darkness, but I saw him at
it again as soon as it was light, though he came a quarter of a mile to his work.

The rain prevented our continuing any longer in the woods; so giving some of our provisions
and utensils to the Indians, we took leave of them. This being the steamer's day, I set out
for the lake at once. At the carry-man's camp I saw many little birds, brownish and yellowish,
with some white tail-feathers, hopping on the wood-pile, in company with the slate-colored
snow-bird, (Fringilla hiemalis,) but more familiar than they. The lumberers said that they
came round their camps, and they gave them a vulgar name. Their simple and lively note, which
was heard in all the woods, was very familiar to me, though I had never before chanced to see
the bird while uttering it, and it interested me not a little, because I had had many a vain
chase in a spring-morning in the direction of that sound, in order to identify the bird. On
the 28th of the next month, (October,) I saw in my yard, in a drizzling day, many of the same
kind of birds flitting about amid the weeds, and uttering a faint chip merely. There was one
full-plumaged Yellow-crowned Warbler (Sylvia coronata) among them, and I saw that the others
were the young birds of that season. They had followed me from Moosehead and the North. I have
since frequently seen the full-plumaged ones while uttering that note in the spring.

I walked over the carry alone and waited at the head of the lake. An eagle, or some other large
bird, flew screaming away from its perch by the shore at my approach. For an hour after I reached
the shore there was not a human being to be seen, and I had all that wide prospect to myself.
I thought that I heard the sound of the steamer before she came in sight on the open lake.
I noticed at the landing, when the steamer came in, one of our bedfellows, who had been a-moose-hunting
the night before, now very sprucely dressed in a clean white shirt and fine black pants, a
true Indian dandy, who had evidently come over the carry to show himself to any arrivers on
the north shore of Moosehead Lake, just as New York dandies take a turn up Broadway and stand
on the steps of a hotel.

Midway the lake we took on board two manly-looking middle-aged men, with their bateau, who
had been exploring for six weeks as far as the Canada line, and had let their beards grow.
They had the skin of a beaver, which they had recently caught, stretched on an oval hoop, though
the fur was not good at that season. I talked with one of them, telling him that I had come
all this distance partly to see where the white-pine, the Eastern stuff of which our houses
are built, grew, but that on this and a previous excursion into another part of Maine I had
found it a scarce tree; and I asked him where I must look for it. With a smile, he answered,
that he could hardly tell me. However, he said that he had found enough to employ two teams
the next winter in a place where there was thought to be none left. What was considered a "tip-top"
tree now was not looked at twenty years ago, when he first went into the business; but they
succeeded very well now with what was considered quite inferior timber then. The explorer used
to cut into a tree higher and higher up, to see if it was false-hearted, and if there was a
rotten heart as big as his arm, he let it alone; but now they cut such a tree, and sawed it
all around the rot, and it made the very best of boards, for in such a case they were never shaky.

One connected with lumbering operations at Bangor told me that the largest pine belonging to
his firm, cut the previous winter, "scaled" in the woods four thousand five hundred feet, and
was worth ninety dollars in the log at the Bangor boom in Oldtown. They cut a road three and
a half miles long for this tree alone. He thought that the principal locality for the white-pine
that came down the Penobscot now was at the head of the East Branch and the Allegash, about
Webster Stream and Eagle and Chamberlain Lakes. Much timber has been stolen from the public
lands. (Pray, what kind of forest-warden is the Public itself?) I heard of one man who, having
discovered some particularly fine trees just within the boundaries of the public lands, and
not daring to employ an accomplice, cut them down, and by means of block and tackle, without
cattle, tumbled them into a stream, and so succeeded in getting off with them without the least
assistance. Surely, stealing pine-trees in this way is not so mean as robbing hen-roosts.

We reached Monson that night, and the next day rode to Bangor, all the way in the rain again,
varying our route a little. Some of the taverns on this road, which were particularly dirty,
were plainly in a transition state from the camp to the house.

       *     *     *     *     *

The next forenoon we went to Oldtown. One slender old Indian on the Oldtown shore, who recognized
my companion, was full of mirth and gestures, like a Frenchman. A Catholic priest crossed to
the island in the same bateau with us. The Indian houses are framed, mostly of one story, and
in rows one behind another, at the south end of the island, with a few scattered ones. I counted
about forty, not including the church and what my companion called the council-house. The last,
which I suppose is their town-house, was regularly framed and shingled like the rest. There
were several of two stories, quite neat, with front-yards inclosed, and one at least had green
blinds. Here and there were moose-hides stretched and drying about them. There were no cart-paths,
nor tracks of horses, but foot-paths; very little land cultivated, but an abundance of weeds,
indigenous and naturalized; more introduced weeds than useful vegetables, as the Indian is
said to cultivate the vices rather than the virtues of the white man. Yet this village was
cleaner than I expected, far cleaner than such Irish villages as I have seen. The children
were not particularly ragged nor dirty. The little boys met us with bow in hand and arrow on
string, and cried, "Put up a cent." Verily, the Indian has but a feeble hold on his bow now;
but the curiosity of the white man is insatiable, and from the first he has been eager to witness
this forest accomplishment. That elastic piece of wood with its feathered dart, so sure to
be unstrung by contact with civilization, will serve for the type, the coat-of-arms of the
savage. Alas for the Hunter Race! the white man has driven off their game, and substituted
a cent in its place. I saw an Indian woman washing at the water's edge. She stood on a rock,
and, after dipping the clothes in the stream, laid them on the rock, and beat them with a short
club. In the grave-yard, which was crowded with graves, and overrun with weeds, I noticed an
inscription in Indian, painted on a wooden grave-board. There was a large wooden cross on the
island.

Since my companion knew him, we called on Governor Neptune, who lived in a little "ten-footer,"
one of the humblest of them all. Personalities are allowable in speaking of public men, therefore
I will give the particulars of our visit. He was a-bed. When we entered the room, which was
one half of the house, he was sitting on the side of the bed. There was a clock hanging in
one corner. He had on a black frock-coat, and black pants, much worn, white cotton shirt, socks,
a red silk handkerchief about his neck, and a straw hat. His black hair was only slightly grayed.
He had very broad cheeks, and his features were decidedly and refreshingly different from those
of any of the upstart Native American party whom I have seen. He was no darker than many old
white men. He told me that he was eighty-nine; but he was going a-moose-hunting that fall,
as he had been the previous one. Probably his companions did the hunting. We saw various squaws
dodging about. One sat on the bed by his side and helped him out with his stories. They were
remarkably corpulent, with smooth, round faces, apparently full of good-humor. Certainly our
much-abused climate had not dried up their adipose substance. While we were there,--for we
stayed a good while,--one went over to Oldtown, returned and cut out a dress, which she had
bought, on another bed in the room. The Governor said, that "he could remember when the moose
were much larger; that they did not use to be in the woods, but came out of the water, as all
deer did. Moose was whale once. Away down Merrimack way, a whale came ashore in a shallow bay.
Sea went out and left him, and he came up on land a moose. What made them know he was a whale
was, that at first, before he began to run in bushes, he had no bowels inside, but"----and
then the squaw who sat on the bed by his side, as the Governor's aid, and had been putting
in a word now and then and confirming the story, asked me what we called that soft thing we
find along the sea-shore. "Jelly-fish," I suggested. "Yes," said he, "no bowels, but jelly-fish."

There may be some truth in what he said about the moose growing larger formerly; for the quaint
John Josselyn, a physician who spent many years in this very district of Maine in the seventeenth
century, says, that the tips of their horns "are sometimes found to be two fathoms asunder,"--and
he is particular to tell us that a fathom is six feet,--"and [they are] in height, from the
toe of the forefoot to the pitch of the shoulder, twelve foot, both which hath been taken by
some of my sceptique readers to be monstrous lies"; and he adds,--"There are certain transcendentia
in every creature, which are the indelible character of God, and which discover God." This
is a greater dilemma to be caught in than is presented by the cranium of the young Bechuana
ox, apparently another of the transcendentia, in the collection of Thomas Steel, Upper Brook
Street, London, whose "entire length of horn, from tip to tip, along the curve, is 13 ft. 5
in.; distance (straight) between the tips of the horns, 8 ft. 8-1/2 in." However, the size
both of the moose and the cougar, as I have found, is generally rather underrated than overrated,
and I should be inclined to add to the popular estimate a part of what I subtracted from Josselyn's.

But we talked mostly with the Governor's son-in-law, a very sensible Indian; and the Governor,
being so old and deaf, permitted himself to be ignored, while we asked questions about him.
The former said, that there were two political parties among them,--one in favor of schools,
and the other opposed to them, or rather they did not wish to resist the priest, who was opposed
to them. The first had just prevailed at the election and sent their man to the legislature.
Neptune and Aitteon and he himself were in favor of schools. He said, "If Indians got learning,
they would keep their money." When we asked where Joe's father, Aitteon, was, he knew that
he must be at Lincoln, though he was about going a-moose-hunting, for a messenger had just
gone to him there to get his signature to some papers. I asked Neptune if they had any of the
old breed of dogs yet. He answered, "Yes." "But that," said I, pointing to one that had just
come in, "is a Yankee dog." He assented. I said that he did not look like a good one. "Oh,
yes!" he said, and he told, with much gusto, how, the year before, he had caught and held by
the throat a wolf. A very small black puppy rushed into the room and made at the Governor's
feet, as he sat in his stockings with his legs dangling from the bedside. The Governor rubbed
his hands and dared him to come on, entering into the sport with spirit. Nothing more that
was significant transpired, to my knowledge, during this interview. This was the first time
that I ever called on a governor, but, as I did not ask for an office, I can speak of it with
the more freedom.

An Indian who was making canoes behind a house, looking up pleasantly from his work,--for he
knew my companion,--said that his name was Old John Pennyweight. I had heard of him long before,
and I inquired after one of his contemporaries, Joe Four-pence-ha'penny; but, alas! he no longer
circulates. I made a faithful study of canoe-building, and I thought that I should like to
serve an apprenticeship at that trade for one season, going into the woods for bark with my
"boss," making the canoe there, and returning in it at last.

While the bateau was coming over to take us off, I picked up some fragments of arrow-heads
on the shore, and one broken stone chisel, which were greater novelties to the Indians than
to me. After this, on Old Fort Hill, at, the bend of the Penobscot, three miles above Bangor,
looking for the site of an Indian town which some think stood thereabouts, I found more arrow-heads,
and two little dark and crumbling fragments of Indian earthenware, in the ashes of their fires.
The Indians on the Island appeared to live quite happily and to be well treated by the inhabitants
of Oldtown.

We visited Veazie's mills, just below the Island, where were sixteen sets of saws,--some gang
saws, sixteen in a gang, not to mention circular saws. On one side, they were hauling the logs
up an inclined plane by water-power; on the other, passing out the boards, planks, and sawed
timber, and forming them into rafts. The trees were literally drawn and quartered there. In
forming the rafts, they use the lower three feet of hard-wood saplings, which have a crooked
and knobbed butt-end, for bolts, passing them up through holes bored in the corners and sides
of the rafts, and keying them. In another apartment they were making fence-slats, such as stand
all over New England, out of odds and ends,--and it may be that I saw where the picket-fence
behind which I dwell at home came from. I was surprised to find a boy collecting the long edgings
of boards as fast as cut off, and thrusting them down a hopper, where they were ground up beneath
the mill, that they might be out of the way; otherwise they accumulate in vast piles by the
side of the building, increasing the danger from fire, or, floating off, they obstruct the
river. This was not only a saw-mill, but a grist-mill, then. The inhabitants of Oldtown, Stillwater,
and Bangor cannot suffer for want of kindling-stuff, surely. Some get their living exclusively
by picking up the drift-wood and selling it by the cord in the winter. In one place I saw where
an Irishman, who keeps a team and a man for the purpose, had covered the shore for a long distance
with regular piles, and I was told that he had sold twelve hundred dollars' worth in a year.
Another, who lived by the shore, told me that he got all the material of his out-buildings
and fences from the river; and in that neighborhood I perceived that this refuse wood was frequently
used instead of sand to fill hollows with, being apparently cheaper than dirt.

I got my first clear view of Katadn, on this excursion, from a hill about two miles northwest
of Bangor, whither I went for this purpose. After this I was ready to return to Massachusetts.

       *     *     *     *     *

Humboldt has written an interesting chapter on the primitive forest, but no one has yet described
for me the difference between that wild forest which once occupied our oldest townships, and
the tame one which I find there to-day. It is a difference which would be worth attending to.
The civilized man not only clears the land permanently to a great extent, and cultivates open
fields, but he tames and cultivates to a certain extent the forest itself. By his mere presence,
almost, he changes the nature of the trees as no other creature does. The sun and air, and
perhaps fire, have been introduced, and grain raised where it stands. It has lost its wild,
damp, and shaggy look, the countless fallen and decaying trees are gone, and consequently that
thick coat of moss which lived on them is gone too. The earth is comparatively bare and smooth
and dry. The most primitive places left with us are the swamps, where the spruce still grows
shaggy with usnea. The surface of the ground in the Maine woods is everywhere spongy and saturated
with moisture. I noticed that the plants which cover the forest floor there are such as are
commonly confined to swamps with us,--the Clintonia borealis, orchises, creeping snowberry,
and others; and the prevailing aster there is the Aster acuminatus, which with us grows in
damp and shady woods. The asters cordifolias and macrophyllus also are common, asters of little
or no color, and sometimes without petals. I saw no soft, spreading, second-growth white-pines,
with smooth bark, acknowledging the presence of the wood-chopper, but even the young white-pines
were all tall and slender rough-barked trees.

Those Maine woods differ essentially from ours. There you are never reminded that the wilderness
which you are threading is, after all, some villager's familiar wood-lot, some widow's thirds,
from which her ancestors have sledded fuel for generations, minutely described in some old
deed which is recorded, of which the owner has got a plan too, and old bound-marks may be found
every forty rods, if you will search. 'Tis true, the map may inform you that you stand on land
granted by the State to some academy, or on Bingham's purchase; but these names do not impose
on you, for you see nothing to remind you of the academy or of Bingham. What were the "forests"
of England to these? One writer relates of the Isle of Wight, that in Charles the Second's
time "there were woods in the island so complete and extensive, that it is said a squirrel
might have travelled in several parts many leagues together on the top of the trees." If it
were not for the rivers, (and he might go round their heads,) a squirrel could here travel
thus the whole breadth of the country.

We have as yet had no adequate account of a primitive pine-forest. I have noticed that in a
physical atlas lately published in Massachusetts, and used in our schools, the "wood land"
of North America is limited almost solely to the valleys of the Ohio and some of the Great
Lakes, and the great pine-forests of the globe are not represented. In our vicinity, for instance,
New Brunswick and Maine are exhibited as bare as Greenland. It may be that the children of
Greenville, at the foot of Moosehead Lake, who surely are not likely to be scared by an owl,
are referred to the valley of the Ohio to get an idea of a forest; but they would not know
what to do with their moose, bear, caribou, beaver, etc., there. Shall we leave it to an Englishman
to inform us, that "in North America, both in the United States and Canada, are the most extensive
pine-forests in the world"? The greater part of New Brunswick, the northern half of Maine,
and adjacent parts of Canada, not to mention the northeastern part of New York and other tracts
further off, are still covered with an almost unbroken pine-forest.

But Maine, perhaps, will soon be where Massachusetts is. A good part of her territory is already
as bare and common-place as much of our neighborhood, and her villages generally are not so
well shaded as ours. We seem to think that the earth must go through the ordeal of sheep-pasturage
before it is habitable by man. Consider Nahant, the resort of all the fashion of Boston,--which
peninsula I saw but indistinctly in the twilight, when I steamed by it, and thought that it
was unchanged since the discovery. John Smith described it in 1614 as "the Mattahunts, two
pleasant isles of groves, gardens, and cornfields"; and others tell us that it was once well
wooded, and even furnished timber to build the wharves of Boston. Now it is difficult to make
a tree grow there, and the visitor comes away with a vision of Mr. Tudor's ugly fences a rod
high, designed to protect a few pear-shrubs. And what are we coming to in our Middlesex towns?--a
bald, staring town-house, or meeting-house, and a bare liberty-pole, as leafless as it is fruitless,
for all I can see. We shall be obliged to import the timber for the last, hereafter, or splice
such sticks as we have;--and our ideas of liberty are equally mean with these. The very willow-rows
lopped every three years for fuel or powder,--and every sizable pine and oak, or other forest
tree, cut down within the memory of man! As if individual speculators were to be allowed to
export the clouds out of the sky, or the stars out of the firmament, one by one. We shall be
reduced to gnaw the very crust of the earth for nutriment.

They have even descended to smaller game. They have lately, as I hear, invented a machine for
chopping up huckleberry-bushes fine, and so converting them into fuel!--bushes which, for fruit
alone, are worth all the pear-trees in the country many times over. (I can give you a list
of the three best kinds, if you want it.) At this rate, we shall all be obliged to let our
beards grow at least, if only to hide the nakedness of the land and make a sylvan appearance.
The farmer sometimes talks of "brushing up," simply as if bare ground looked better than clothed
ground, than that which wears its natural vesture,--as if the wild hedges, which, perhaps,
are more to his children than his whole farm beside, were dirt. I know of one who deserves
to be called the Tree-hater, and, perhaps, to leave this for a new patronymic to his children.
You would think that he had been warned by an oracle that he would be killed by the fall of
a tree, and so was resolved to anticipate them. The journalists think that they cannot say
too much in favor of such "improvements" in husbandry; it is a safe theme, like piety; but
as for the beauty of one of these "model farms," I would as lief see a patent churn and a man
turning it. They are, commonly, places merely where somebody is making money, it may be counterfeiting.
The virtue of making two blades of grass grow where only one grew before does not begin to
be superhuman.

Nevertheless, it was a relief to get back to our smooth, but still varied landscape. For a
permanent residence, it seemed to me that there could be no comparison between this and the
wilderness, necessary as the latter is for a resource and a background, the raw material of
all our civilization. The wilderness is simple, almost to barrenness. The partially cultivated
country it is which chiefly has inspired, and will continue to inspire, the strains of poets,
such as compose the mass of any literature. Our woods are sylvan, and their inhabitants woodmen
and rustics,--that is, selvaggia, and the inhabitants are salvages. A civilized man, using
the word in the ordinary sense, with his ideas and associations, must at length pine there,
like a cultivated plant, which clasps its fibres about a crude and undissolved mass of peat.
At the extreme North, the voyagers are obliged to dance and act plays for employment. Perhaps
our own woods and fields,--in the best wooded towns, where we need not quarrel about the huckleberries,--with
the primitive swamps scattered here and there in their midst, but not prevailing over them,
are the perfection of parks and groves, gardens, arbors, paths, vistas, and landscapes. They
are the natural consequence of what art and refinement we as a people have,--the common which
each village possesses, its true paradise, in comparison with which all elaborately and wilfully
wealth-constructed parks and gardens are paltry imitations. Or, I would rather say, such were
our groves twenty years ago.

But there are spirits of a yet more liberal culture, to whom no simplicity is barren. There
are not only stately pines, but fragile flowers, like the orchises, commonly described as too
delicate for cultivation, which derive their nutriment from the crudest mass of peat. These
remind us, that, not only for strength, but for beauty, the poet must, from time to time, travel
the logger's path and the Indian's trail, to drink at some new and more bracing fountain of
the Muses, far in the recesses of the wilderness.

The kings of England formerly had their forests "to hold the king's game," for sport or food,
sometimes destroying villages to create or extend them; and I think that they were impelled
by a true instinct. Why should not we, who have renounced the king's authority, have our national
preserves, where no villages need be destroyed, in which the bear and panther, and some even
of the hunter race, may still exist, and not be "civilized off the face of the earth,"--our
forests, not to hold the king's game merely, but to hold and preserve the king himself also,
the lord of creation,--not for idle sport or food, but for inspiration and our own true re-creation?
or shall we, like villains, grub them all up, poaching on our own national domains?

MY CHILDREN.

  Have you seen Annie and Kitty,
    Two merry children of mine?
  All that is winning and pretty
    Their little persons combine.

  Annie is kissing and clinging
    Dozens of times in a day,--
  Chattering, laughing, and singing,
    Romping, and running away.

  Annie knows all of her neighbors.
    Dainty and dirty alike,--
  Learns all their talk, and, "be jabers,"
    Says she "adores little Mike!"

  Annie goes mad for a flower,
    Eager to pluck and destroy,--
  Cuts paper dolls by the hour,
    Always her model--a boy!

  Annie is full of her fancies,
    Tells most remarkable lies,
  (Innocent little romances,)
    Startling in one of her size.

  Three little prayers we have taught her,
    Graded from winter to spring;
  Oh, you should listen my daughter
    Saying them all in a string!

  Kitty--ah, how my heart blesses
    Kitty, my lily, my rose!
  Wary of all my caresses,
    Chary of all she bestows.

  Kitty loves quietest places,
    Whispers sweet sermons to chairs,
  And, with the gravest of faces,
    Teaches old Carlo his prayers.

  Matronly, motherly creature!
    Oh, what a doll she has built--
  Guiltless of figure or feature--
    Out of her own little quilt!

  Nought must come near it to wake it;
    Noise must not give it alarm;
  And when she sleeps, she must take it
    Into her bed, on her arm.

  Kitty is shy of a caller,
    Uttering never a word;
  But when alone in the parlor,
    Talks to herself like a bird.

  Kitty is contrary, rather,
    And, with a comical smile,
  Mutters, "I won't," to her father,--
    Eyeing him slyly the while.

  Loving one more than the other
    Isn't the thing, I confess;
  And I observe that their mother
    Makes no distinction in dress.

  Preference must be improper
    In a relation like this;
  I wouldn't toss up a copper--
    (Kitty, come, give me a kiss!)

THE KINLOCH ESTATE, AND HOW IT WAS SETTLED.

[Continued.]

CHAPTER VII.

Early Monday morning, Mr. Hardwick walked across the green to call upon Mrs. Kinloch. Lucy
Ransom, the house-maid, washing in the back-yard, saw him coming, and told her mistress;--before
he rang, Mrs. Kinloch had time to tie on her lace cap, smooth her hair, and meet him in the hall.

"Good mum-morning, Mrs. Kinloch!"

"Walk in, Mr. Hardwick,--this way, into the sitting-room."

He took a seat quietly by the maple-shaded window. Mrs. Kinloch was silent and composed. Her
coolness nerved instead of depressing him, and he began at once.

"I've ker-come to see you about the debt which my nun-nephew, Mark, owes the estate."

"I don't know what I can do about it," she replied, in a placid tone.

"We've ben nun-neighbors, now, these f-fifteen years, Mrs. Kinloch, and never h-had any difficulty
th-that I know on. An' as the ler-law had been used per-pretty ha'sh toward Mark, I th-thought
I'd see ef 'twa'n't per-possible't some mistake had ben made."

"I don't know what mistake there has been. Squire Clamp must collect whatever is due. It isn't
harsh to do that, is it?"

"Not ha'sh to a-ask for it, but not jest the ker-kind thing to bring ser-suit before askin'.
Mark got a word and a ber-blow, but the blow came f-first. We didn't treat yer-you so when
you was a widder."

"So you go back to old times, and bring up my poverty and your charity, do you?" said the widow,
bitterly.

"By nun-no means," replied the blacksmith. "I don't w-wish to open 'counts th-that've ben settled
so long; an' more, I don't intend to ber-ber-beg from you, nor a-anybody else. We pay our debts,
an' don't 'xpect nor don't wer-want to do any different."

"Then I don't see what you are so flurried about."

"Ef so be Squire Ker-Kinloch was alive, I could tell you ber-better; or rather, I shouldn't
have to go to yer-you about it. He allers give Mark to underst-hand that he shouldn't be hard
upon him,--th-that he could pay along as he ger-got able."

"Why should he favor him more than others? I am sure not many men would have lent the money
in the first place, and I don't think it looks well to be hanging back now."

"As to why yer-your husband was disposed to favor Mark, I have my opinion. But the der-dead
shall rest; I sh-sha'n't call up their pale faces." He drew his breath hard, and his eyes looked
full of tender memories.

After a moment he went on. "I don't w-wish to waste words; I mum-merely come to say that Mark
has five hunderd dollars, and that I can scrape up a couple o' hunderd more, and will give
my note w-with him for the balance. Th-that's all we can handily do; an' ef that'll arnswer,
we should ler-like to have you give word to stop the suit."

"You will have to go to Squire Clamp," was the reply. "I don't presume to dictate to my lawyer,
but shall let him do what he thinks best. You haven't been to him, I conclude? I don't think
he will be unreasonable."

Mr. Hardwick looked steadily at her.

"Wer-well, Mrs. Kinloch," said he, slowly, "I th-think I understand. Ef I don't, it isn't because
you don't mum-make the matter plain. I sha'n't go to Squire Clamp till I have the mum-money,
all of it. I hope no a-a-enemy of yourn will be so hard to y-you as my friends are to me."

With singular command over her tongue and temper, Mrs. Kinloch contented herself with hoping
that he would find no difficulty in arranging matters with the lawyer, bade him good-morning,
civilly, and shut the door behind him. But when he was gone, her anger, kept so well under
control before, burst forth.

"Stuttering old fool!" she exclaimed, "to come here to badger me!--to throw up to me the wood
he cut, or the apples he brought me!--as though Mr. Kinloch hadn't paid that ten times over!
He'll find how it is before long."

"What's the matter?" asked Mildred, meeting her step-mother in the hall, and noticing her flushed
cheek, her swelling veins, and contorted brows.

"Why, nothing, but a talk with Uncle Ralph, who has been rather saucy."

"Saucy? Uncle Ralph saucy? Why, he is the most kindly man in the world,--sometimes hasty, but
always well-mannered. I don't see how he could be saucy."

"I advise you not to stand up for him against your mother."

"I shouldn't defend him in anything wrong; but I think there must be some misunderstanding."

"He is like Mark, I suppose, always perfect in your eyes."

This was the first time since Mr. Kinloch's death that the step-mother had ever alluded to
the fondness which had existed between Mark and Mildred as school-children, and her eyes were
bent upon the girl eagerly. It was as though she had knocked at the door of her heart, and
waited for its opening to look into the secret recesses. A quick flush suffused Mildred's face
and neck.

"You are unkind, mother," she said; for the glance was sharper than the words; and then, bursting
into tears, she went to her room.

"So it has come to this!" said Mrs. Kinloch to herself. "Well, I did not begin at all too soon."

She walked through the hall to the back piazza. She heard voices from beyond the shrubbery
that bordered the grass-plot where the clothes were hung on lines to dry. Lucy, the maid, evidently
was there, for one; indeed, by shifting her position so as to look through an opening in the
bushes, Mrs. Kinloch could see the girl; but she was not busy with her clothes-basket. An arm
was bent around her plump and graceful figure. The next instant, as Mrs. Kinloch saw by standing
on tiptoe, two forms swayed toward each other, and Lucy, no way reluctantly, received a kiss
from--Hugh Branning!

Very naughty, certainly,--but it is incumbent on me to tell the truth, and accordingly I have
put it down.

Now my readers are doubtless prepared for a catastrophe. They will expect to hear Mrs. Kinloch
cry, "Lucy Ransom, you jade, what are you doing? Take your clothes and trumpery and leave this
house!" You will suppose that her son Hugh will be shut up in the cellar on bread and water,
or sent off to sea in disgrace. That is the traditional way with angry mistresses, I know;
but Mrs. Kinloch was not one of the common sort. She did not know Talleyrand's maxim,--"Never
act from first impulses, for they are always--right!" Indeed, I doubt if she had ever heard
of that slippery Frenchman; but observation and experience had led her to adopt a similar line
of policy.

Therefore she did not scold or send away Lucy; she could not well do without her; and besides,
there were reasons which made it desirable that the girl should remain friendly. She did not
call out to her hopeful son, either,--although her fingers did itch to tweak his profligate
ears. She knew that a dispute with him would only end in his going off in a huff, and she thought
she could employ him better. So she coughed first and then stepped out into the yard. Hugh
presently came sauntering down the walk, and Lucy sang among the clothes-lines as blithely
and unconcerned as though her lips had never tasted any flavor more piquant than bread and butter.

It was rather an equivocal look which the mistress cast over her shoulder at the girl. It might
have said,--"Poor fool! singe your wings in the candle, if you will." It might have been only
the scorn of outraged virtue.

"Hugh," said Mrs. Kinloch, "come into the house a moment. I want to speak with you."

The young man looked up rather astonished, but he could not read his mother's placid face.
Her hair lay smooth on her temples, under her neat cap; her face was almost waxy pale, her
lips gently pressed together; and if her clear, gray eyes had beamed with a warm or more humid
light, she might have served a painter as a model for a

  "steadfast nun, devout and pure."

When they reached the sitting-room, Mrs. Kinloch began.

"Hugh, do you think of going to sea again? Now that I am alone in the world, don't you think
you can make up your mind to stay at home?"

"I haven't thought much about it, mother. I suppose I should go when ordered, as a matter of
course; I have nothing else to do."

"That need not be a reason. There is plenty to do without waiting for promotion in the navy
till you are gray."

"Why, mother, you know I have no profession, and, I suppose I may say, no money. At least,
the Squire made no provision for me that I know of, and I'm sure you cannot wish me to live
on your 'thirds.'"

"My son, you should have some confidence in my advice, by this time. It doesn't require a great
fortune to live comfortably here."

"Yes, but it is deused dull in this old town. No theatre,--no concert,--no music at all, but
from organ-grinders,--no parties,--nothing, in fact, but prayer-meetings from one week's end
to another. I should die of the blues here."

"Only find something to do, settle yourself into a pleasant home, and you'll forget your uneasiness."

"That's very well to say"----

"And very easy to do. But it isn't the way to begin by flirting with every pretty, foolish
girl you see. Oh, Hugh! you are all I have now to love. I shall grow old soon, and I want to
lean upon you. Give up the navy; be advised by me."

Hugh whistled softly. He did not suppose that his mother knew of his gallantry. He was amused
at her sharp observation.

"So you think I'm a flirt, mother?" said he. "You are out, entirely. I'm a pattern of propriety
at home!"

"You need not tell me, Hugh! I know more than you think. But I didn't know that a son of mine
could be so simple as I find you are."

"She's after me," thought Hugh. "She saw me, surely."

His mother went on.

"With such an opportunity as you have to get yourself a wife----Don't laugh! I want to see
you married, for you will never sow your wild oats until you are. With such a chance as you
have"----

"Why, mother," broke in Hugh, "it isn't so bad as that."

"Isn't so bad? What do you mean?"

"Why, you know what you're driving at, and so do I. Lucy is a good girl enough, but I never
meant anything serious. There's no need of my marrying her."

"What are you talking about?"

"Now, mother, what's the use? You are only trying to read me a moral lecture, because I gave
Lucy a harmless smack."

"Lucy Ransom!" repeated Mrs. Kinloch, with ineffable scorn. "Lucy Ransom! I hope my son isn't
low enough to dally with a housemaid, a scullion! If I had seen such a spectacle, I should
have kept my mouth shut for shame. 'A guilty conscience needs no accuser'; but I am sorry you
had not pride enough to keep your disgusting fooleries to yourself."

"Regularly sold!" muttered Hugh, as he beat a rat-tattoo on the window-pane.

"I gave you credit for more penetration, Hugh. Now, just look a minute. What would you think
of the shrewdness of a young man, who had no special turn for business, but a great fondness
for taking his ease,--with no money nor prospect of any,--and who, when he had the opportunity
to step at once into fortune and position, made no movement to secure it?"

"Well, the application?"

"The fortune may be yours, if you will."

"Don't tell me riddles. Show me the prize, and I'm after it."

"But it has an incumbrance."

"Well?"

"A pretty, artless, affectionate little woman, who will make you the best wife in the world."

"Splendid, by Jove! Who is she?"

"You needn't look far. We generally miss seeing the thing that is under our nose."

"Why, mother, there isn't an heiress in Innisfield except my sister Mildred."

"Mildred is not your sister. You are no more to each other than the two farthest persons on earth."

"True enough! Well, mother, you are an old 'un!"

"Don't!"--with a look of disgust,--"don't use your sailor slang here! To see that doesn't require
any particular shrewdness."

"But Mildred never liked me much. She always ran from me, like the kitten from old Bose. She
has always looked as though she thought I would bite, and that it was best she should keep
out of reach under a chair."

"Any young man of good address and fair intelligence can make an impression on a girl of eighteen,
if he has the will, the time, and the opportunity. You have everything in your favor, and if
you don't take the fortune that lies right in your path, you deserve to go to the poor-house."

Hugh meditated.

"Good-morning," said Mrs. Kinloch. "You know the horse and carriage, or the saddle-ponies,
are always yours when you want to use them."

Great discoveries seem always so simple, that we wonder they were not made from the first.
The highest truths are linked with the commonest objects and events of daily life.

Hugh looked about him as much astonished as though he had been shown a gold mine in old Quobbin,
where he could dig for the asking. What determination he made, the course of our story will show.

CHAPTER VIII.

Hugh had ordered George, the Asiatic, to saddle the ponies after dinner, intending to ask Mildred
to take a ride northward, through the pine woods; but on making inquiries, he found that she
had walked out, leaving word that she should be absent all day.

"Confound it!" thought he,--"a mishap at the start! I'm afraid the omen isn't a good one. However,
I must kill time some way. I can't lay up here, like a ship in ordinary; better be shaken by
storms or covered with barnacles at sea than be housed up, worm-eaten or crumbled into powder
by dry-rot on shore."

He went to ride alone, but did not go in the direction of the pine woods.

Mildred could not get over the unpleasant impressions of the morning, so, rather than remain
in her room this fine day, she had walked across the meadow, east of the mill-pond, to a farm-house,
where she was a frequent and welcome visitor. On her way, she called for Lizzy Hardwick, the
blacksmith's daughter, who accompanied her. Mr. Alford, the farmer, was a blunt, good-humored,
and rather eccentric man, shrewd and well to do, but kindly and charitable. He had no children,
and he enjoyed the occasional visits of his favorites heartily; so did his wife, Aunt Mercy.
Her broad face brightened as she saw the girls coming, and her plump hands were both extended
to greet them. They went to the dairy to see the creaking cheese-presses, ate of the fresh
curd, saw the golden stores of butter;--thence to the barn, where they clambered upon the hay-mow,
found the nest of a bantam, took some of the little eggs in their pockets;--then coming into
the yard, they patted the calves' heads, scattered oats for the doves, that, with pink feet
and pearly blue necks, crowded around them to be fed, and next began to chase a fine old gander
down to the brook, when Mr. Alford, getting over the fence, called out, "Hold on, girls! don't
bother Uncle Ralph!--don't!"

"Where is Uncle Ralph?" asked Mildred.

"Why, that gander you've been chasin'; and he's about the harn'somest bird I know on, too.
Talk about swans! there never was a finer neck, nor a prettier coat of feathers on anything
that ever swum. His wings are powerful; only let him spread 'em, and up he goes; but as for
his feet, he limps just a little, as you see. No offence, Lizzy. I love your father as well
as you do; but when I hear him, with his idees so grand,--the minister don't begin with him,--and
yet to be bothered, as he is sometimes, to get a word out, I think of my good old fellow here,
whose wings are so much better'n his legs. Come here, Ralph! You see he knows his name. There!"--patting
his head,--"that's a good fellow! Now go and help marm attend to your goslins."

The kindly tone and the caress took away from the comparison any idea of disrespect, and the
girls laughed at the odd conceit,--Lizzy, at least, not a little proud of the implied compliment.
Mr. Alford left them, to attend to his affairs, and they went on with their romp,--running
on the top of the smooth wall beside the meadow, gathering clusters of lilac blossoms from
the fatherly great posy that grew on the sunny side of the house, and admiring the solitary
state of the peacock, as, with dainty step, he trailed his royal robe over the sward. Soon
they heard voices at the house, and, going round the corner of the shed, saw Uncle Ralph and
Mark Davenport talking with Mr. Alford at the door.

Not to make a mystery of a simple matter, the blacksmith had come to borrow of Mr. Alford the
money necessary to make up the amount owing by Mark to the Kinloch estate.

The young man had shown great readiness to accompany his uncle; praiseworthy, certainly; but
I am inclined to think he had somehow got an intimation that the girls had preceded him.

Fortunately, the farmer was able to lend the sum wanted, and, as he had an errand in town,
he took Mr. Hardwick with him in his wagon.

Mark was left, nothing loath, to walk home with the girls. Do not think he was wanting in affection
for his cousin Lizzy, if he wished that she were, just for one hour, a hundred miles away.
They took a path that led over the plain to the river, intending to cross upon a foot-bridge,
a short distance above the village. But though Mark was obliged to be silent on the matter
he had most at heart, Mildred was not unaware of his feelings. A tone, a look, a grasp of the
hand serves for an index, quite as well as the most fervent speech. The river makes a beautiful
bend near the foot-bridge, and its bank is covered with a young growth of white pines. They
sat down on a hillock, under the trees, whose spicy perfume filled the air, and looked down
the stream towards the village. How fair it lay in the soft air of that June day! The water
was deep and blue, with a reflected heaven. The mills that cluster about the dam, a mile below,
were partially concealed by young elms, silver-poplars, and water-maples. Gardens sloped on
either bank to the water's edge. Neat, white houses gleamed through the trees and shrubbery
around the bases of the hills that hem in the valley; and the tall, slender spire of the meeting-house
shewed fairly against its densely-wooded background. Verily, if I were a painter, I should
desire no lovelier scene for my canvas than that on which Mark and Mildred looked. Lizzy walked
away, and began hunting checkerberries with an unusual ardor. She did understand; she would
not be Mademoiselle de Trop any longer. Kind soul! so unlike young women in general, who won't
step aside gracefully, when they should! Further I can vouch, that she neither hemmed, nor
made eyes, nor yet repeated the well-worn proverb, "Two's company, but three's none." No, she
gathered berries and sang snatches of songs as though she were quite alone.

Now those of my readers who have the good-fortune still to linger in teens are expecting that
I shall treat them to a report of this delightful tête-à-tête. But it must not be told. The
older people would skip it, or say, "Pshaw!" And besides, if it were set down faithfully, you
would be sadly disappointed; the cleverest men, even, are quite sure to appear silly (to other
people) when in love. The speeches of the Romeos and Claude Melnottes, with which you have
been so enchanted, would be common-place enough, if translated into the actual prose in which
they were delivered. When Shakspeare wooed Anne Hathaway, it might have been different; but
consider, you will wait some time before you find a lover like him. No, when your time comes,
it will be soon enough. You will see your hero in his velvet cloak and plumed hat, with the
splendor of scenery and the intoxication of the music. I don't choose to show him to you in
morning dress at rehearsal, under daubed canvas and dangling machinery.

However full of poetry and passion Mark's declaration was for Mildred, to him it was tame and
hesitating enough. It seemed to him that he could not force into the cold formula of words
the emotion that agitated him. But with quickening breath he poured out his love, his hopes,
and his fears,--the old burden! She trembled, her eyelids fell; but at length, roused by his
pleading tones, she looked up. Their eyes met; one look was enough; it was a reciprocal electric
flash. With a sudden energy he clasped her in his arms; and it was a very pretty tableau they
made! But in the quick movement his heedless foot chanced to touch a stone, which rolled down
the bank and fell into the stream with a splash. The charm was broken.

"What's that?" cried Lizzy from a distance, forgetting her discretion. "Did a pickerel jump?"

"No," replied Mark, "the pickerel know me of old, and don't come about for fear that I have
a hook and line in my pocket. It was only a stone rolling into the river."

"You come here a moment," continued the unthoughtful Lizzy; "here's a beautiful sassafras sapling,
and I can't pull it up by the roots alone."

"Send for the dentist, then."

"Go and help her," said Mildred, softly.

"Well," said Mark, with a look of enforced resignation,--"if I must."

The sapling grew on the steep bank, perhaps fifty yards from where he had been sitting. He
did not use sufficient care to brace himself, as he pulled with all his might, and in a moment,
he knew not how, he rolled down into the river. The girls first screamed, and then, as he came
out of the water, shaking himself like a Newfoundland dog, they laughed immoderately. The affair
did not seem very funny to Mark, and he joined in the laugh with no great heartiness. The shock
had effectually dispelled all the romance of the hour.

"I'm so sorry!" said Lizzy, still laughing at his grotesque and dripping figure.

"You must hurry and get dry clothes on, Mark," said Mildred. "Squire Clamp's is the nearest
house across the bridge."

"Hang Squire Clamp! his clothes would poison me. I'd as lief go to a quarantine hospital to
be dressed."

"Don't!" said Lizzy.

But he kept on in the same mercurial strain.--"Clamp lives on poison, like Rappaccini's daughter,
in Hawthorne's story; only it makes him ugly instead of fair, as that pretty witch was. His
wife never had any trouble with spiders as long as she lived; he had only to blow into a nest,
and the creatures would tumble out, and give up their venomous ghosts. No vermin but himself
are to be seen in his neighborhood; the rats even found they couldn't stand it, and had to
emigrate."

"The breath that killed spiders must have been a little too powerful, at times, for Mrs. Clamp,
one would think," said Mildred.

"It was," said Mark. "She died one day, after Clamp had cheated a widow out of her dower."

"Don't stop longer for your fun," said Mildred, "you'll surely take cold. Besides, I can't
have you making any disparaging remarks upon my guardian."

"Bless my soul! your guardian! how imprudent, to be sure!"--with a significant twinkle. "Well,
I'm going. Banfield's is the nearest house; so we'll part here."

The girls went towards the village; and Mark, making vigorous strides across the meadow, took
a straight line for Banfield's. Near the house is a piece of woods,--one corner of the leafy
mantle that covers the hill slipped down its side and trailing upon the borders of the fertile
field below. Just as he passed the woods he saw Hugh Branning letting down the bars and leading
his pony out into the road. The only bridle-path through the woods led over the hill to the
little house on the westerly slope, where lived Dame Ransom, Lucy's bowed and wrinkled grandmother.
Mark wondered not a little where the midshipman had been; but as he still retained the memory
of the old quarrel, he did not accost him, and presently thought no more of it. Reaching the
house, he got some dry clothes and then went home with bounding steps. The earth was never
so beautiful nor the sky so benign. The cloud of doubt had furled off and left his heaven blue.
He had spoken and found that the dream of his boyhood and the hope of his youth had become
the proud triumph of his manhood. Mildred Kinloch loved him! loved him as sincerely as when
they were both children! What higher felicity was to be thought of? And what a motive for exertion
had he now! He would be worthy of her, and the world should acknowledge that the heiress had
not stooped when she mated with him.

CHAPTER IX.

Mrs. Kinloch was surprised at finding that neither Hugh nor Mildred, nor yet Lucy Ransom, was
in the house.

Mildred came home first and was not accompanied by Hugh, as Mrs. Kinloch had hoped. He had
not found her, then,--perhaps he had not sought for her. Next Lucy returned, coming through
the garden which stretched up the hill. Being questioned, she answered that she had been to
her grandmother's, and had come back the nearest way over the hill, through the woods.

"What had she gone for after the fatigue of washing-day?"

"Because Squire Clamp, who owned the house her grandmother lived in, wanted her to take a message."

Mrs. Kinloch began to become interested. "Squire Clamp!" she exclaimed,--"when did you see him?"

"He called here yesterday evening,--on his way to Mr. Hardwick's, I guess."

"Why didn't he ask me if you could go? I think he's pretty free to send my girls about the
town on his errands."

"You were out, Ma'am,--in the next house; and after he'd gone I forgot it."

"You remembered it to-day, it seems."

"Yes'm; after dinner I thought of it and hurried right off; but granny was sick and foolish,
and didn't want to let me come away, so I couldn't get back as quick as I meant to."

"Well, you can go to the kitchen."

"Yes'm."

"I must keep an eye on that girl," thought Mrs. Kinloch. "She is easily persuaded, fickle,
without strong sense, and with only a very shallow kind of cunning. She might do mischief.
What can Squire Clamp want? The old hovel her grandmother lives in isn't worth fifty dollars.
Whatever has been going on, I'm glad Hugh is not mixed up in it."

Just then Hugh rode up, and, tying his horse, came in. He seemed to have lost something of
the gayety of the morning. "I am tired," he said. "I had to get off and lead the pony down
the hill, and it's steep and stony enough."

"There are pleasant roads enough in the neighborhood," said his mother, "without your being
obliged to take to the woods and clamber over the mountains."

"I know it," he replied; "but I had been up towards the Allen place, and I took a notion to
come back over the hill."

"Then you passed Lucy's house?"

"Yes. The bridle-path leads down the hill about a mile above this; but on foot one may keep
along the ridge and come down into the valley through our garden."

"So I suppose; in fact, I believe Lucy has just returned that way."

"Indeed! it's strange I didn't see her."

"It is strange."

Hugh bore the quiet scrutiny well, and his mother came to the conclusion that the girl had
told the truth about her going for the lawyer.

Presently Mildred came down from her room, and after a few minutes Mrs. Kinloch went out, casting
a fixed and meaning look at her son. She seemed as impatient for the issue of her scheme, as
the child who, after planting a seed, waits for the green shoot, and twice a day digs down
to see if it has not sprouted.

Mildred, as the reader may suppose, was not likely to be very agreeable to her companion; the
recollections of the day were too vivid, too delicious.

She could not part with them, but constantly repeated to herself the words of love, of hope,
and enthusiasm, which she had heard. So she moved or talked as in a dream, mechanically, while
her soul still floated away on the summer-sea of reverie.

Hugh looked at her with real admiration; and, in truth, she deserved it. A fairer face you
would not see in a day's journey; her smooth skin, not too white, but of a rich creamy tint,--eyes
brown and inclined to be dreamy,--her hair chestnut and wavy,--a figure rather below the medium
size, but with full, graceful lines,--these, joined with a gentle nature and a certain tremulous
sensibility, constituted a divinity that it was surely no sin to worship. If sin it were, all
the young men in Innisfield had need of immediate forgiveness.

Hugh had some qualms about approaching the goddess. He was sensible of a wide gulf between
himself and her, and he could not but think that she was aware of it too.

"You have been to Mr. Alford's?"

A momentary pause.

"Did you speak, Hugh?"

He repeated the question. Her eyes brightened a moment as she nodded in the affirmative; then
they grew dim again, like windows seen from without when the light is withdrawn to an inner
room. She seemed as unconscious as a pictured Madonna.

"A beautiful day for your walk," he ventured again. The same pause, the same momentary interest
as she answered, followed by the same abstraction.

"I suppose," said he, at length, "that I am having the last of my idle days here; I expect
to be ordered to sea shortly."

"Indeed!" Mildred looked up.

"I shall be very sorry to leave here," he continued.

"Yes, Innisfield is quite pretty this summer. But I supposed that the pleasures of the seaport
and of adventure abroad were more attractive to you than this monotonous life."

"'Tis rather slow here, but--I--I meant to say that I shall be sorry to leave you."

"Me? Why, mother can take care of me."

"Certainly she will, but I shall miss you."

"No doubt you'll think of us, when you are away; I'm sure we shall remember you. We shall never
sit down to the table without thinking of your vacant chair."

It was impossible to misinterpret her kind, simple, sisterly tones. And Hugh could but feel
that they indicated no particle of tenderness for him. The task of winning her was yet wholly
to be done, and there was no prospect that she would give him the least encouragement in advance,
if she did not utterly refuse him at the end. He saw that he must not count on an easy victory,
but prepare for it by a slow and gradual approach.

Mildred sat some time leaning out of the window, then opening her piano, for the first time
since her father's death, she sat down and played a nocturne by Mendelssohn. The music seemed
a natural expression of her feelings,--suited to the heart "steeped in golden languors," in
the "tranced summer calm." The tones rang through the silent rooms, pervading all the charmed
air, so that the ear tingled in listening,--as the lips find a sharpness with the luscious
flavor of the pine-apple. The sound reached to the kitchen, and brought a brief pleasure, but
a bitterer pang of envy, to Lucy's swelling bosom. It calmed for a moment the evil spirit in
Hugh's troubled heart. And Mrs. Kinloch in her solitary chamber, though she had always detested
the piano, thought she had never heard such music before. She had found a new sense, that thrilled
her with an exquisite delight. It was a good omen, she was sure, that Mildred should now, after
so long a time, feel inclined to play. Only a light heart, and one supremely careless or supremely
happy, could touch the keys like that. "Hugh must be a fortunate boy," she thought; and she
could have hugged him for joy. What thought Hugh, as she rose from her seat at the instrument
like one in a trance and walked towards the hall? Conflicting emotions struggled for mastery;
but, hardly knowing what he did, he started up and offered her a caress. It was not unusual,
but her nerves had acquired an unwonted sensitiveness; she shuddered, and rushed from him up
the stairs. He could have torn his hair with rage.

"Am I, then, such a bear," he asked himself, "that she is afraid of me?"

A light at the end of the hall caught his eye. It was Lucy with tear-stained cheeks going to
bed,--unconscious that the flaring candle she carried was dripping upon her dress,--unconscious
that the one she both loved and feared was looking at her as she slowly went up the back-stairs.
Truly, how little the inmates of that house knew of the secrets of each other's hearts! It
was strange,--was it not?--that, after so long intimacy, they could not understand each other
better! How many hearts do you really know?

CHAPTER X.

"Verily, a good day's work," thought Squire Clamp, as he stretched his legs in his office that
Monday evening. "Mrs. Kinloch is a very shrewd woman, an extraordinarily capable woman. What
a wife for a lawyer she'd make!--so long as she plotted for, and not against him. But Theophilus
Clamp was not born to be overreached by one of the weaker sex. I was sure my late lamented
friend could not have left his affairs in such utter disorder,--no schedule of property,--no
statement of debts; too good a business man for that was Walter Kinloch. I shall now be able
to know from these documents what my late client was really worth, and how large a dower the
disconsolate widow has reserved for herself. Doubtless she has put by enough to suffice for
her old age,--and mine, too, I am inclined to think; for I don't believe I can do better than
marry her when the mourning is ended. My late spouse, to be sure, would make a quiet man rather
apprehensive about a second venture; but if Mrs. Kinloch is a Tartar, she is not a vulgar shrew,
but will be lady-like, even if she is bitter. I think I shall take her. Of course she'll consent.
I should like to see the unmarried woman in Innisfield that would dare refuse Theophilus Clamp.
When she knows--that I know--what she knows, she'll do pretty much what I tell her. I wonder
if she hasn't set on foot a marriage between her scapegrace son and Mildred? That would be
a mishap, truly! But, as guardian, I can stave that off until the estate is settled, my wedding
over, and myself comfortably in possession. Then, perhaps, we'll let the young folks marry,--at
least we'll think of it. If my son George, now, had not that unlucky hare-lip, who knows? H'm,
well, to business again. Let's see. It's just as that remarkably keen woman suspected. Hardwick's
shop does stand partly on the land of the estate that joins it; the line will run right through
his forge, and leave the trip-hammer and water-wheel in our possession; for I paced the distance
this morning. Tomorrow Gunter will make sure of it by a survey; though I think we'd better
do it while the old man is gone to dinner. He's sometimes apt to use emphatic language. Perhaps
now his mangy cur Caesar will seize me by the coat again! Perhaps Mark will insult me, and
the old man laugh at it in his sleeve! I shouldn't wonder if they managed to pay the notes,
but on the title to the shop we have them fast."

The lawyer looked at his watch. "Dear me! it's tea-time. I must go, for the church-committee
meet this evening. I think, however, I won't complain of Hardwick to the deacons this time;
for he'll be sure to get into a passion when we commence our suit for ejectment, and I shall
then have a better case against him. A more disagreeable Christian to fellowship with I don't
know anywhere.

"I should like to know," he continued, as he locked the office-door, "if that Lucy told me
true,--if those were all the papers. No will, no memorandum for one! Well, perhaps Mrs. Kinloch
was careful enough to give that secret to the keeping of the flames, instead of her bureau.
I will make close copies of what I have got for Lucy to put back, and keep the originals myself.
They'll be safest with me. There's no telling what may happen to papers in a house where there
is a prying servant-girl."

Whether the insects were poisoned by the air of the room, as Mark Davenport suggested, I cannot
say. But when Squire Clamp left the office, it was as still as a tomb. No cricket chirped under
the hearth, no fly buzzed on the window-pane, no spiders came forth from the dilapidated, dangling
webs. Silence and dust had absolute dominion.

The next day Mark returned to New York. He had no opportunity of bidding Mildred farewell,
but he comforted himself by thinking he had provided the means of safely communicating with
her by letter. And as the stage passed by the house, he caught a glimpse, first of her fluttering
handkerchief, and then of her graceful fingers wafting to him a kiss. It was enough; it furnished
him with food for a delightful reverie as he went on his way. We shall leave him in his former
situation, from which, as a starting-point, he determines to win fortune or fame, or both.
He has your best wishes, no doubt, though perhaps you think he will not force his way into
the close ranks of the great procession of life so soon as he expects.

That day, while Mr. Hardwick was taking his dinner, his second son, Milton, who had been fishing
at the dam, came running into the house quite out of breath.

"F-father!" he stammered out.

"Nun-now st-hop," said the black-smith. "W-what are you st-stuttering for? Wah-wait till you
can talk."

"Why, father, yer-you stutter."

"Wer-well, yer-you shan't."

The look that came with this seemed to end the matter. A moment's rest quieted the nerves of
the boy, and he went on to say, that Squire Clamp, and a man with a brass machine on his shoulder,
and a chain, ever so long, were walking about the shop on the bank of the river. Lizzy at once
looked out of the window and saw the man peering into the shop-door, as if exploring the premises.

Impelled by some presentiment of evil, Mr. Hardwick got up from the table, and sternly motioning
the boys back, went down to the shop. As he came near the door, he saw the surveyor holding
one end of the chain and taking sight upon a staff which the lawyer within was adjusting to
its place by his direction.

"Just as I expected," said Squire Clamp, in a satisfied tone.

"An' jest as I expected," broke in Mr. Hardwick upon the astonished pair. "I knew th-that ef
Squire Clamp hed anythin' to do against me, he wer-would sneak into the shop sus-some time
when I'd ger-gone to dinner."

"We thought it would be most convenient, so as not to interrupt you about your work."

"Very ker-kind indeed! As ef you wa'n't tryin' to turn me out of wer-work altogether! But 'tisn't
any yer-use, Squire; this is a case you can't be ber-both sides on."

The lawyer turned, with a placid smile, to his companion. "Mr. Gunter, I believe we have finished
our measurements?"

The man of chain and compass nodded. Nothing abashed by the lawyer's cool manner, Mr. Hardwick
turned to the surveyor, and asked if he undertook to say that Walter Kinloch's deed called
for land that was covered by the shop?

"I suppose so," was the answer.

"An' now, Sus-squire Clamp," said Mr. Hardwick, "you know that it's sus-seventeen or eighteen
year sence I per-pulled down the old shop and bought this land."

"Yes, but, unfortunately, it takes twenty years to give you title," put in the Squire.

"Nun-never mind that now. Squire Kinloch knew this,--at least, that there was room for der-difficulty;
for we'd talked it over sus-several times afore he died. An' he allers said th-that he'd hev
new deeds made out, so's to per-per-prevent just such a wrong as this. He didn't 'xpect to
go so sus-sudden."

"I'm sorry, Brother Hardwick, to see you bringing up your talk with the lamented deceased,
whom you represent as being willing to part with his legal rights without a consideration.
Even if you had evidence of it, such an agreement would be a mere nudum pactum, binding neither
upon himself nor his heirs."

"Squire Clamp! ger-get out of my shop! Fust to call me Brother, next to doubt my word, an'
last to sus-say that a man's free an' der-deliberet promise--now he's where he can't sh-shame
you into honesty--sha'n't be kept!"

The Squire smiled feebly. "You don't intend, Mister Hardwick, assault and battery, do you?"

"Yer-yes, ef you don't leave in q-q-q-quick time." And he strode up to the astonished attorney,
his blue eyes flashing, his curly gray hair flying back from his forehead, like a lion's.

Squire Clamp retreated to the street, took sight each way to be sure he was off his antagonist's
territory, and then vented his cautious resentment in such well-considered phrases as a long
course of experience had taught him were not actionable at law, nor ground for discipline in
church.

Prudence came to Uncle Ralph's aid, and he did not make further reply, but locked the shop-door
and returned to the house to finish his dinner. The suit was commenced a few days afterwards.
Mr. Hardwick went to the county seat, some dozen miles distant, and secured the aid of an able
lawyer, who gave him hope of prevailing and keeping his shop.

The affair necessarily created a great stir in the busy little town. As the cheerful clatter
of the trip-hammer echoed along the stream on still evenings, and the fiery plume waved over
the chimney, neighbors looked out from their windows, and wondered if the good blacksmith would,
after so many years of honest toil, be stripped of his property and be reduced to dependence
in his old age. The sympathy of the villagers was wholly with him; but the lawyer held so many
threads of interest in his hands, that few dared to give an opinion with much emphasis.

Probably the person most grieved and indignant was the one who, next after the blacksmith,
was most interested in the event of the suit,--namely, Mildred Kinloch. Though no mention was
made of the matter, at home, in her hearing, she could not fail to know what was going on;
but she had now sufficient knowledge of her step-mother and her guardian to be aware that her
influence would not be of the least avail in changing their purpose.

Mrs. Kinloch did not repeat the experiment she once made on Mildred's sensibilities by referring
to her partiality for Mark Davenport and his relatives; but, on the contrary, was most gentle
in her treatment and most assiduous in her endeavors to provide amusement, so far as the resources
of the town allowed. In company with Hugh, Mildred explored all the pleasant roads in the vicinity,
all the picturesque hills and brooks, caught trout, and snared gamebirds, (the last much against
her will,)--and by these means her time was fully occupied. Hugh seemed to have totally changed;
he no longer absented himself from the family on mysterious errands; he went to church regularly,
and appeared to take pleasure in the frequent calls of Mr. Rook, the minister. The neighbors
began to say that there never was a more dutiful son or a more attentive and affectionate brother.
Some half suspected the reason of the reformation,--no one so quick as Squire Clamp, who had
reasons of his own, as the reader knows, for wishing delay. After a few months had passed,
he thought it would be dangerous to let the schemes of the widow go on longer without interruption,
and accordingly prepared to make a step towards his own long-cherished purpose.

CHAPTER XI.

One afternoon, about six months after the opening of our story, Mrs. Kinloch and her son were
talking together concerning the progress of his suit. He complained that he was no nearer the
point than on the first day he and Mildred rode out together. "It was like rounding Cape Horn,"
he said, "where a ship might lie twenty days and drift back as fast as she got ahead by tacking."
In spite of all his attention and kindness, Mildred was merely courteous in return;--he could
not get near her. If she smiled, it seemed as though it was from behind a grating, as in a
nunnery. Her pulse was always firm; and if her eye was soft, it was steady as the full moon.
He didn't believe she had any blood in her. If she was in love with that fellow, she kept it
pretty closely covered up.

Mrs. Kinloch encouraged her son to persevere; she was sure he had not been skilful. "Mildred,"
she said, "was not to be won with as little trouble as a silly, low-bred girl, like--like Lucy,
for instance."

"What the deuse are you always bringing up Lucy to me for?" said the dutiful son.

"Don't speak so!"

"Confound it! I must. You keep a fellow shut up here for six months, going to meeting five
times a week; you give him no chance to work off his natural spirits, and the devil in him
will break out somewhere. It's putting a stopper in a volcano; if you don't allow a little
fire and smoke, you're bound to have an earthquake."

After this philosophical digression, the first topic was resumed, and Mrs. Kinloch gave the
young man some counsel, drawn from her own experience or observation, touching the proper mode
of awakening and cultivating the tender passion. It is not every mother that does so much for
her son, but then few mothers have so urgent a motive.

"What was it that she advised him to do," did you ask? Really, I've quite forgotten; and I
am sure Mrs. Kinloch forgot also, at least for that day, because something occurred which turned
her thoughts for the time in quite a different direction.

The ponies were brought out for Hugh and Mildred to take their customary canter. The young
heiress, for whom so much time and pains were spent, looked ill; the delicate flush had vanished
from her cheek; she seemed languid, and cheerful only by effort. A moment after they had gone,
as Mrs. Kinloch closed the door, for it was a raw November day, she saw and picked up a rudely-folded
letter in the hall. "Good-bye, Lucy Ransom," were the words she read. They were enough. Mrs.
Kinloch felt that her heart was struck by a bolt of ice. "Poor, misguided, miserable girl!"
she said. "Why did I not see that something was wrong? I felt it, I knew it,--but only as one
knows of evil in a dream. Who can calculate the mischief that will come of this? O God! to
have my hopes of so many years ruined, destroyed, by a wretch whose power and existence even
I had not once thought of! Has she drowned herself, or fled to the city to hide her disgrace?
But if this should be imagination merely! She may have run away with some lubberly fellow from
the factory, whom she was ashamed to marry at home. But no! she was too sad last evening when
she asked to go to her grandmother's for a day. What if"--The thought coursed round her brain
like fire on a train of gunpowder,--flew quicker than words could utter it; and the woman bounded
to her bureau, as though with muscles of steel. She clutched at the papers and bank-notes in
her private drawer, and looked and counted them over a dozen times before she could satisfy
herself. Her thin fingers nervously opened the packages and folds,--the papers crackling as
her eye glanced over them. They were there; but not all. She pored over the mystery,--her thoughts
running away upon every side-avenue of conjecture, and as often returning to the frightful,
remediless fact before her. She was faint with sudden terror. By degrees she calmed herself,
wiped the cold sweat from her forehead, smiled at her fright, and sat down again, with an attempt
at self-control, to look through the drawers thoroughly. As she went on, the tremor returned,
and before she had finished the fruitless search her heart beat so as to stop her breath; she
gasped in an agony that the soul rarely feels more than once in this life. She shut up the
drawers, walked up and down the room, noticed with a shudder her own changed expression as
she passed before the mirror, and strove in vain to give some order to her confused and tumultuous
thoughts. At length she sat down exhausted. She was startled by a knock. Opening the door,
there in a newly-furbished suit, with clean linen, and a brown wig worn for the first time
on his hitherto shining head, stood Theophilus Clamp. He had even picked a blossom from the
geranium in the hall and was toying with it like a bashful boy.

"A fine day, Ma'am!" said he, as he took a seat.

"Yes, very," she answered, mechanically, scarcely looking up.

"The young folks have gone out to ride, I suppose."

"Yes, Sir."--A pause, in which Mrs. Kinloch covered her face with her handkerchief.

"You don't seem well, Ma'am. Shall I call Lucy?"

"Lucy is gone," she answered,--quickly adding, "gone to her grandmother's."

"Well, that is singular. I've been today to look at my land above the old lady's house, and
she asked me to send word to Lucy to come up and see her."

"To-day?"

"Yes, Ma'am; not two hours ago."

Mrs. Kinloch was rapidly revolving probabilities. What interest had Lucy to interfere with
her affairs? As for Mildred, she was not to be thought of as prying into secrets; she was too
innocent. Hugh was too careless. Who more than this man Clamp was likely to have done or procured
the mischief? "Have you given her the message?"

"Of course not, Ma'am,--how could I?"

"Then you haven't sent Lucy away on any errand?"

"Certainly not, Madam," said the lawyer, beginning to wince under the cross-examination. "Lucy's
gone, you say; didn't she leave things all right,--your papers, and--and so forth?"

"Papers? Lucy is not presumed to know that I have any papers; if any are missing, I'll warrant
they are in the hands of some one who knows at least enough to read them."

"She suspects me," thought the lawyer, "but can't have discovered that hers are only copies;
they're too well done." He then added aloud, "Perhaps, Mrs. Kinloch, if you had honored me,
your associate in the administration of the estate, with your confidence touching the private
papers you speak of, I might have saved you some trouble in keeping them."

"Very likely; but no one spoke of papers beside yourself," she replied, with a trace of sarcasm
in the tone which ill suited the expression of her pallid face and drooping head.

"I'm sorry to see you looking so careworn, Mrs. Kinloch," said he, with his blandest air. "I
intended to bring up a topic more agreeable, it is to be hoped, than runaway house-maids or
old documents." He rubbed his hands softly and turned his eyes with a glance meant to be tender
towards the place where her chair stood; if he had been a cat, he would have purred the while.

Mrs. Kinloch now, for the first time, observed the wig, the unusual look of tidiness, and,
above all, the flower in his hand; she also saw the crucified smile that followed his last
remark. "The ridiculous old fool!" thought she,--"what can he mean?" But to him she translated
it,--

"What is the more agreeable topic?"

"Really, you attack me like a lawyer. Don't you know, my dear Madam, how it confuses one to
be sharply interrogated?"

"It would be something novel to see you confused, Squire Clamp."

"Pray, don't banter, Mrs. Kinloch. I hoped to find you in a more complaisant humor. There are
topics which cannot be discussed with the square precision of legal rules,--thoughts that require
sympathy before they can be expressed." And he dropped his eyes with a ludicrous sigh.

"Oh, I appreciate your tender susceptibilities. Please consider me as asking the question again
in the most engaging manner."

His new wig was becoming uncomfortable, and he fidgeted in his chair, twirling the luckless
blossom.

"Why, Mrs. Kinloch, the long regard I entertained for your late lamented husband,--ah, I mean
my regard for you,--ah, my lonely domicil,--ah, since the decease of my--my sainted wife,--ah,
and since the Scripture says it is not good for man to live alone,--ah, your charming qualities
and many virtues,--not that your fortune,--ah,--I mean to say, that, though not rich, I am
not grasping,--and the cottage where you lived would be a palace,--ah, for me, if not unworthy,--ah,
no desire to unduly shorten the period of mourning,--ah, but life is short and uncertain"----

There was a dead silence. His mouth was vainly working, and his expression confused and despairing.
The flower had wilted in his moist hand. Little streams of perspiration trickled down his face,
to be mopped up by his bandanna. Such was the ordeal of talking hollow sentiment to a cool
and self-possessed woman. She enjoyed the exhibition for a time,--as what woman would not?
But the waves of her trouble rushed back upon her, and the spirit of mischief and coquetry
was overwhelmed. So she answered,--

"You are pleased to be polite,--perhaps gallant. You must excuse me from taking part in such
conversation to-day, however little is meant by it,--and the less meant the better,--I am not
well."

She rose feebly, and walked towards the door with as much dignity as her trembling frame could
assume. He was abashed; his fine speeches jumbled in meaningless fragments, his airy castle
ready to topple on his unlucky head. He would have been glad to rebuke her fickle humor, as
he thought it; but he knew he had made a fool of himself, so he merely said,--

"No offence, I hope, Ma'am; none meant, certainly. Wish you good-afternoon, Ma'am. Call and
see you again some day, and hope to find you better."

Would he find her better? While the mystery remained, while the ruin of her hopes impended,
what could restore to her the cheerfulness, the courage, the self-command she had lost?

[To be continued.]

"BRINGING OUR SHEAVES WITH US."

  The time for toil is past, and night has come,--
      The last and saddest of the harvest-eves;
  Worn out with labor long and wearisome,
  Drooping and faint, the reapers hasten home,
          Each laden with his sheaves.

  Last of the laborers thy feet I gain,
      Lord of the harvest! and my spirit grieves
  That I am burdened not so much with grain
  As with a heaviness of heart and brain;--
          Master, behold my sheaves!

  Few, light, and worthless,--yet their trifling weight
      Through all my frame a weary aching leaves;
  For long I struggled with my hapless fate,
  And staid and toiled till it was dark and late,--
          Yet these are all my sheaves.

  Full well I know I have more tares than wheat,--
      Brambles and flowers, dry stalks, and withered leaves
  Wherefore I blush and weep, as at thy feet
  I kneel down reverently, and repeat,
          "Master, behold my sheaves!"

  I know these blossoms, clustering heavily
      With evening dew upon their folded leaves,
  Can claim no value nor utility,--
  Therefore shall fragrancy and beauty be
          The glory of my sheaves.

  So do I gather strength and hope anew;
      For well I know thy patient love perceives
  Not what I did, but what I strove to do,--
  And though the full, ripe ears be sadly few,
          Thou wilt accept my sheaves.

FARMING LIFE IN NEW ENGLAND.

New England does not produce the bread she eats, nor the raw materials of the fabrics she wears.
A multitude of her purely agricultural towns are undergoing, more or less rapidly, a process
of depopulation. Yet these facts exist by the side of positive advances in agricultural science
and decided improvements in the means and modes of farming. The plough is perfected, and the
theory of ploughing is understood. The advantages of thorough draining are universally recognized,
and tiles are for sale everywhere. Mowing and reaping machines have ceased to be a novelty
upon our plains and meadows. The natural fertilizers have been analyzed, and artificial nutrients
of the soil have been contrived. The pick and pride of foreign herds have regenerated our neat
stock, and the Morgan and the Black-Hawk eat their oats in our stalls. The sheepfold and the
sty abound with choice blood. Sterling agricultural journals are on every farmer's table, and
Saxton's hand-books upon agricultural specialties are scattered everywhere. Public shows and
fairs bring on an annual exacerbation of the agricultural fever, which is constantly breaking
out in new places, beyond the power of the daily press to chronicle. Yet it is too evident
that the results are not at all commensurate with the means under tribute and at command. What
is the reason?

In looking at the life of the New England farmer, the first fact that strikes us is, that it
is actually a very different thing from what it might be and ought to be. There dwells in every
mind, through all callings and all professions, the idea that the farmer's life is, or may
be, is, or should be, the truest and sweetest life that man can live. The merchant may win
all the prizes of trade, the professional man may achieve triumphs beyond his hopes, the author
may find his name upon every lip, and his works accounted among the nation's treasures, and
all may move amid the whirl and din of the most inspiring life, yet there will come to every
one, in quiet evening-hours, the vision of the old homestead, long since forsaken; or the imagination
will weave a picture of its own,--a picture of rural life, so homely, yet so beautiful, that
the heart will breathe a sigh upon it, the eye will drop a tear upon it, and the voice will
say, "It were better so!"

In a city like Boston there are farms enough imagined every year to make another New England.
Could the fairest fancies of that congeries of minds be embodied and exhibited, we should see
green meadows sparkling with morning dew,--silver-slippered rivulets skipping into musical
abysses,--quiet pasture-lands shimmering so sleepily in the sun that the lazy flocks and herds
forget to graze, and lie winking and ruminating under the trees,--and yellow fields of grain,
along the hill-sides, billowy in the breeze, and bending before the shadows of the clouds that
sail above them. And mingling and harmonizing with these visions, we should hear the lowing
of kine, and the tinkle of the bell that leads the flock, and the shout of the boy behind the
creeping plough, and the echoes of the axe, and the fall of the tree in the distant forest,
and the rhythmical clangor, softened into a metallic whisper by the distance, of the mowers
whetting their scythes. With these visions and these sounds there would come to the minds which
give them birth convictions that rural life is the best life, and resolutions that, by-and-by,
in some golden hour, when the sun of life begins to lengthen the eastward shadows, that life
shall be enjoyed, and that the soul shall pass at last from the quiet scenes of Nature into
those higher scenes which they symbolize. There is a thought in all this that the farm is nearer
heaven than the street,--a reminiscence of the first estate, when man was lord of Eden; and
this thought, old as art and artificial life, cannot be rooted out of the mind. It has a life
of its own, independent of reason, above instinct, among the quickest intuitions of the soul.

Now this idea, so universal, so identical in millions of minds, springing with such spontaneity
in the midst of infinitely varied circumstances, abiding with such tenacity in every soul,
can have its basis nowhere save in a Divine intention and a human possibility. The cultivation
of the farm is the natural employment of man. It is upon the farm that virtue should thrive
the best, that the body and the mind should be developed the most healthfully, that temptations
should be the weakest, that social intercourse should be the simplest and sweetest, that beauty
should thrill the soul with the finest raptures, and that life should be tranquillest in its
flow, longest in its period, and happiest in its passage and its issues. This is the general
and the first ideal of the farmer's life, based upon the nature of the farmer's calling and
a universally recognized human want. Why does the actual differ so widely from the ideal? It
is not because the farmer's labor is hard and constant, alone. There is no fact better established
than that it is through the habitual use both of the physical and mental powers that the soul
achieves, or receives, its most healthful enjoyment, and acquires that tone which responds
most musically to the touch of the opportunities of leisure. Why, then, we repeat, does the
actual differ so widely from the ideal?

A general answer to this question is, that that is made an end of life which should be but
an incident or a means. Life is confounded with labor, and thrift with progress; and material
success is the aim to which all other aims are made subordinate. There is no fact in physiology
better established than that hard labor, followed from day to day and year to year, absorbing
every thought and every physical energy, has the direct tendency to depress the intellect,
blunt the sensibilities, and animalize the man. In such a life, all the energies of the brain
and nervous system are directed to the support of nutrition and the stimulation of the muscular
system. Man thus becomes a beast of burden,--the creature of his calling; and though he may
add barn to barn and acre to acre, he does not lead a life which rises in dignity above that
of the beasts which drag his plough. He eats, he works, he sleeps. Surely, there is no dignity
in a life like this; there is nothing attractive and beautiful and good in it. It is a mean
and contemptible life; and all its maxims, economies, associations, and objects are repulsive
to a mind which apprehends life's true enjoyments and ends. We say that it is a pestilent perversion.
We say that it is the sale of the soul to the body; it is turning the back upon life, upon
growth, upon God, and descending into animalism.

The true ideal of the farmer's life--of any life--contemplates something outside of, and above,
the calling which is its instrument. The farmer's life is no better than the life of a street-sweeper,
if it rise no higher than the farmer's work. If the farmer, standing under the broad sky, breathing
the pure air, listening to the song of birds, watching the progress of

  "The great miracle that still goes on,"

to work the transformation of the brown seeds which he drops into the soil into fields of green
and gold, and gazing upon landscapes shifting with the seasons and flushed with new tints through
every sunlit and moonlit hour, does not apprehend that his farm has higher uses for him than
those of feeding his person and his purse, he might as well dwell in a coal-mine.

Our soil is sterile, our modes of farming have been rude until within a few years; and under
the circumstances,--with the Yankee notion that the getting of money is the chief end of man,--exclusive
devotion to labor has been deemed indispensable to success. The maxims of Franklin have been
literally received and adopted as divine truth. We have believed that to labor is to be thrifty,
that to be thrifty is to be respectable, that to be respectable is to afford facilities for
being still more thrifty; and our experience is, that with increased thrift comes increased
labor. This is the circle of our ambitions and rewards. All begins and ends in labor. The natural
and inevitable result of this is both physical and mental deterioration.

It is doubtful whether the world furnishes a finer type of man, physically and intellectually,
than the Irish gentleman. He is handsome, large, courageous,--a man of fine instincts, brilliant
imagination, courtly manners, and full, vital force. By the side of the Irish gentleman, there
has grown for centuries the Irish peasant. He is ugly, of stunted stature, and pugnacious;
and he produces children like himself. The two classes started from a common blood; they now
present the broadest contrast. We do not say that freedom from severe labor on one side, and
confinement to it on the other, are entirely responsible for this contrast; difference of food
and other obvious causes have had something to do with it; but we say that hard labor has,
directly and indirectly, degraded from a true style of manhood the great mass of the Irish
peasantry. They are a marked class, and carry in their forms and faces the infallible insignia
of mental and physical degeneration.

We would by no means compare New England farmers with the Irish peasantry. We only present
the contrast between these two classes of the Irish population as the result of unremitting
toil on one side, and a more rational kind of life on the other. If we enter a New England
church, containing a strictly rural assembly, and then visit another containing a class whose
labor is lighter, and whose style of life is based upon different ideas, we shall see a contrast
less marked, perhaps, but presenting similar features. The farming population of New England
is not a handsome population, generally. The forms of both men and women are angular; their
features are not particularly intellectual; their movements are not graceful; and their calling
is evident by indubitable signs. The fact that the city assemblage is composed of a finer and
higher grade of men, women, and children is of particular moment to our argument, because it
is composed of people who are only one, two, or three removes from a rural origin. The city
comes from the country; the street is replenished by the farm; but the city children, going
back to the farm, show that a new element has been introduced into their blood. The angles
are rounded; the face is brighter; the movements are more graceful; there is in every way a
finer development.

There is probably no better exponent of the farmer's life than the farmer's home. We propose
to present the portrait of such a home, and, while we offer it as a just outline of the farmer's
home generally, in districts removed from large social centres, we gladly acknowledge the existence
of a great multitude of happy exceptions. But the sketch:--A square, brown house; a chimney
coming out of the middle of a roof; not a tree nearer than the orchard, and not a flower at
the door. At one end projects a kitchen; from the kitchen projects a wood-shed and wagon-cover,
occupied at night by hens; beyond the wood-shed, a hog-pen, fragrant and musical. Proceeding
no farther in this direction, we look directly across the road, to where the barn stands, like
the hull of a great black ship-of-the-line, with its port-holes opened threateningly upon the
fort opposite, out of one of which a horse has thrust his head for the possible purpose of
examining the strength of the works. An old ox-sled is turned up against the wall close by,
where it will have the privilege of rotting. This whole establishment was contrived with a
single eye to utility. The barn was built in such a manner that its deposits might be convenient
to the road which divides the farm, while the sty was made an attachment of the house for convenience
in feeding its occupants.

We enter the house at the back door, and find the family at dinner in the kitchen. A kettle
of soap-grease is stewing upon the stove, and the fumes of this, mingled with those that were
generated by boiling the cabbage which we see upon the table, and by perspiring men in shirt-sleeves,
and by boots that have forgotten or do not care where they have been, make the air anything
but agreeable to those who are not accustomed to it. This is the place where the family live.
They cook everything here for themselves and their hogs. They eat every meal here. They sit
here every evening, and here they receive their friends. The women in this kitchen toil incessantly,
from the time they rise in the morning until they go to bed at night. Here man and woman, sons
and daughters, live, in the belief that work is the great thing, that efficiency in work is
the crowning excellence of manhood and womanhood, and willingly go so far into essential self-debasement,
sometimes, as to contemn beauty and those who love it, and to glory above all things in brute
strength and brute endurance.

Here we are ready to state the point and the lesson of our discussion:--The real reason for
the deterioration of agriculture in New England is to be found in the fact, that the farmer's
life and the farmer's home, generally, are unloved and unlovable things, and in the multitude
of causes which have tended to make them so. Let the son of such a home as we have pictured
get a taste of a better life than this, or, through sensibilities which he did not inherit,
apprehend a worthier style of existence, and what inducements, save those which necessity imposes,
can retain him there? He hates the farm, and will flee from it at the first opportunity. If
the New England farmer's life were a loved and lovable thing, the New England boys could hardly
be driven from the New England hills. They would not only find a way to live here, but they
would make farming profitable. They would honor the employment to which they are bred, and
would leave it, save in exceptional instances, for no other. It is not strange that the country
grows thin and the city plethoric. It is not strange that mercantile and mechanical employments
are thronged by young men, running all risks for success, when the alternative is a life in
which they find no meaning, and no inspiring and ennobling influence.

The popular ideal of the farmer's life and home, to which we have alluded, we believe to be
what God intended. That life contemplates the institution and maintenance of personal and social
habits, and the cultivation of tastes and faculties, separate from, and above, labor. Every
farm-house should be a residence of men and women, boys and girls, who, appreciating something
of the meaning and end of life, rise from every period of labor into an atmosphere of intellectual
and social activity, or into some form of refined family enjoyment. It is impossible to do
this while surrounded with all the associations of labor. If there is a room in every farmer's
house where the work of the family is done, there should be a room in every farmer's house
where the family should live,--where beauty should appeal to the eye, where genuine comfort
of appointments should invite to repose, where books should be gathered, where neatness and
propriety of dress should be observed, and where labor may be forgotten. The life led here
should be labor's exceeding great reward. A family living like this--and there are families
that live thus--will ennoble and beautify all their surroundings. There will be trees at their
door, and flowers in their garden, and pleasant and graceful architectural ideas in their dwelling.
Human life will stand in the foreground of such a home,--human life, crowned with its dignities
and graces,--while animal life will be removed among the shadows, and the gross material utilities,
tastefully disguised, will be made to retire into an unoffending and harmonious perspective.

But we have alluded to other causes than labor as in some measure responsible for the unattractiveness
of the farmer's life, and affecting adversely the farming interest. These touch the matter
at various points, and are charged with greater or less importance. We know of no one cause
more responsible for whatever there may be of physical degeneracy among the farming population
than the treatment of its child-bearing women; and this, after all, is but a result of entire
devotion to the tyrannical idea of labor. If there be one office or character higher than all
others, it is the office or character of mother. Surely, the bringing into existence of so
marvellous a thing as a human being, and the training of that being until it assumes a recognized
relation to God and human society, is a sacred office, and one which does not yield in dignity
and importance to any other under heaven. For a woman who faithfully fulfils this office, who
submits without murmuring to all its pains, who patiently performs its duties, and who exhausts
her life in a ceaseless overflow of love upon those whom God has given her, no words can express
a true man's veneration. She claims the homage of our hearts, the service of our hands, the
devotion of our lives.

Yet what is the position of the mother in the New England farmer's home? The farmer is careful
of every animal he possesses. The farm-yard and the stall are replenished with young, by creatures
for months dismissed from labor, or handled with intelligent care while carrying their burden;
because the farmer knows that only in this way can he secure improvement, and sound, symmetrical
development, to the stock of his farm. In this he is a true, practical philosopher. But what
is his treatment of her who bears his children? The same physiological laws apply to her that
apply to the brute. Their strict observance is greatly more imperative, because of her finer
organization; yet they are not thought of; and if the farm-yard fail to shame the nursery,
if the mother bear beautiful and well-organized children, Heaven be thanked for a merciful
interference with the operation of its own laws! Is the mother in a farm-house ever regarded
as a sacred being? Look at her hands! Look at her face! Look at her bent and clumsy form! Is
it more important to raise fine colts than fine men and women? Is human life to be made secondary
and subordinate to animal life? Is not she who should receive the tenderest and most considerate
ministries of the farmer's home, in all its appointments and in all its service, made the ceaseless
minister and servant of the home and all within it, with utter disregard of her office? To
expect a population to improve greatly under this method is simply to expect miracles; and
to expect a farmer's life and a farmer's home to be attractive, where the mother is a drudge,
and secures less consideration than the pets of the stall, is to expect impossibilities.

Another cause which has tended to the deterioration of the farmer's life is its solitariness.
The towns in New England which were settled when the Indians were in possession of the country,
and which, for purposes of defence, were settled in villages, have enjoyed great blessings;
but a large portion of agricultural New England was differently settled. It is difficult to
determine why isolation should produce the effect it does upon the family development. The
Western pioneer, who, leaving a New England community, plants himself and his young wife in
the forest, will generally become a coarse man, and will be the father of coarse children.
The lack of the social element in the farmer's life is doubtless a cause of some of its most
repulsive characteristics. Men are constituted in such a manner, that constant social contact
is necessary to the healthfulness of their sympathies, the quickness of their intellects, and
the symmetrical development of their powers. It matters little whether a family be placed in
the depths of a Western forest, or upon the top of a New England hill; the result of solitude
will be the same in kind, if not in degree.

Now the farmer, partly from isolation and partly from absorption in labor, is the most unsocial
man in New England. The farmers are comparatively few who go into society at all, who ever
dine with their neighbors, or who take any genuine satisfaction in the company of the women
whom their wives invite to tea. They may possibly be farmers among farmers, but they are not
men among men and women. Intellectually, they are very apt to leave life where they begin it.
Socially, they become dead for years before they die. The inhabitants of a city can have but
a poor apprehension of the amount of enjoyment and development that comes to them through social
stimulus. Like gold, humanity becomes bright by friction, and grows dim for lack of it. So,
we say, the farmer's life and home can never be what they should be,--can never be attractive
by the side of other life containing a true social element,--until they have become more social.
The individual life must not only occupy a place above that of a beast of burden, but that
life must be associated with all congenial life within its reach. The tree that springs in
the open field, though it be fed by the juices of a rood, through absorbents that penetrate
where they will, will present a hard and stunted growth; while the little sapling of the forest,
seeking for life among a million roots, or growing in the crevice of a rock, will lift to the
light its cap of leaves upon a graceful stem, and whisper, even-headed, with the stateliest
of its neighbors. Men, like trees, were made to grow together, and both history and philosophy
declare that this Divine intention cannot be ignored or frustrated with impunity.

Traditional routine has also operated powerfully to diminish the attractiveness of agricultural
employments. This cause, very happily, grows less powerful from year to year. The purse is
seen to have an intimate sympathy with intelligent farming. Were we to say that God had so
constituted the human mind that routine will tire and disgust it, we should say in effect that
he never intended the farmer's life to be one of routine. Nature has done all she can to break
up routine. While the earth swings round its orbit once a year, and turns on its axis once
in twenty-four hours,--while the tide ebbs and flows twice daily, and the seasons come and
go in rotation, every atom changes its relations to every other atom every moment. Influences
are tossed into these skeleton cycles of motion and event which start a myriad of diverse currents,
and break up the whole surface of life and being into a healthful confusion. There are never
two days alike. The motherly sky never gives birth to twin clouds. The weather shakes its bundle
of mysteries in our faces, and banters us with, "Don't you wish you knew?" We prophesy rain
upon the morrow, and wake with a bar of golden sunlight on the coverlet. We foretell a hard
winter, and, before it is half gone, become nervous lest we should miss our supply of ice.
The fly, the murrain, the potato-rot, and the grasshoppers, all have a divine office in tipping
over our calculations. The phantom host of the great North come out for parade without announcement,
and shoot their arrows toward the zenith, and flout the stars with their rosy flags, and retire,
leaving us looking into heaven and wondering. Long weeks of drought parch the earth, and then
comes the sweet rain, and sets the flowers and the foliage dancing. All the seasons are either
very late or very early, or, for some reason, "the most remarkable within the memory of man."

This is God's management for destroying routine within the law of stated revolution, and for
bringing the mind constantly into contact with fresh influences. The soul, encased by a wall
of adamantine circumstances, and driven around a track of unvarying duties, shrivels, or gets
diseased. But these circumstances need not imprison the farmer, nor these duties become the
polished pavement of his cell. He has his life among the most beautiful scenes of Nature and
the most interesting facts of Science. Chemistry, geology, botany, meteorology, entomology,
and a dozen other related or constituent sciences,--what is intelligent farming but a series
of experiments, involving, first and last, all of these? What is a farm but a laboratory where
the most important and interesting scientific problems are solved? The moment that any field
of labor becomes intelligently experimental, that moment routine ceases, and that field becomes
attractive. The most repulsive things under heaven become attractive, on being invested with
a scientific interest. All, therefore, that a farmer has to do, to break up the traditional
routine of his method and his labor, is to become a scientific farmer. He will then have an
interest in his labor and its results above their bare utilities. Labor that does not engage
the mind has no dignity; else the ox and the ass are kings in the world, and we are but younger
brothers in the royal family. So we say to every farmer,--If you would make your calling attractive
to yourself and your boys, seek that knowledge which will break up routine, and make your calling,
to yourself and to them, an intelligent pursuit.

A recent traveller in England speaks enthusiastically of a visit which he paid to an old farm-house
in that country, and of the garden-farm upon which it stood, which had descended from father
to son through a period of five hundred years. He found a family of charming intelligence and
the politest culture. That hallowed soil was a beautiful body, of which the family interests
and associations were the soul. To be dissociated from that soil forever would be regarded
by its proprietors as almost equivalent to family annihilation. Proprietorship in English soil
is one of the prime ambitions of the true Englishman; but we do not find in New England any
kindred sentiments of pride in landed property and family affection for the paternal acres.
The nomadic tribes of Asia would seem to have quite as strong local attachments as Yankee landholders,
most of whom will sell their homesteads as readily as they will their horses. This fact we
cannot but regard as one among the many causes which have conspired to despoil the farmer's
calling of some of its legitimate attractions. The son slips away from the old homestead as
easily as he does from the door of a hotel. Very likely his father has rooted up all home attachments
by talking of removing Westward ever since the boy saw the light. This lack of affection for
the family acres is doubtless owing somewhat to the fact that in this country landed property
is not associated with political privilege, as it has been in England; but this cannot be the
sole reason; for the sentiment has a genuine basis in nature, and, in not a few instances,
an actual existence amongst us.

Resulting from the operation of all the causes which we have briefly noticed, there is another
cause of the deterioration of farming life in New England, which cannot be recovered from in
many years. Actual farming life has been brought into such harsh contrast with other life,
that its best materials have been sifted out of it, have slid away from it. An inquiry at the
doors of the great majority of farmers would exhibit the general fact, that the brightest boys
have gone to college, or have become mechanics, or are teaching school, or are in trade, or
have emigrated to the West. There have been taken directly out from the New England farming
population its best elements,--its quickest intelligence, its most stirring enterprise, its
noblest and most ambitious natures,--precisely those elements which were necessary to elevate
the standard of the farmer's calling and make it what it should be. It is very easy to see
why these men have not been retained in the past; it is safe to predict that they will not
be retained in the future, unless a thorough reform be instituted. These men cannot be kept
on a routine farm, or tied to a home which has no higher life than that of a workshop or a
boarding-house. It is not because the work of the farm is hard that men shun it. They will
work harder and longer in other callings for the sake of a better style of individual and social
life. They will go to the city, and cling to it while half starving, rather than engage in
the dry details and the hard and homely associations of the life which they forsook.

The boys are not the only members of the farmer's family that flee from the farmer's life.
The most intelligent and most enterprising of the farmer's daughters become school-teachers,
or tenders of shops, or factory-girls. They contemn the calling of their father, and will,
nine times in ten, marry a mechanic in preference to a farmer. They know that marrying a farmer
is a very serious business. They remember their worn-out mothers. They thoroughly understand
that the vow that binds them in marriage to a farmer seals them to a severe and homely service
that will end only in death.

As a consequence of this sifting process, to which we have given but a glance, a very decidedly
depressing element is now being rapidly introduced into New England farming life. The Irish
girls have found their way into the farmer's kitchen, and the Irish laborer has become the
annual "hired man." At present, there are no means of measuring the effect of this new element;
but it cannot fail to depress the tone of farming society, and surround it with a new swarm
of menial associations.

In our judgment, there is but little in the improved modes of farming, in scientific discoveries,
and new mechanical appliances, to be relied upon for the elevation of New England agriculture
and the emancipation of New England farming life. The farmer needs new ideas more than he needs
new implements. The process of regeneration must begin in the mind, and not in the soil. The
proprietor of that soil should be the true New England gentleman. His house should be the home
of hospitality, the embodiment of solid comfort and liberal taste, the theatre of an exalted
family-life which shall be the master and not the servant of labor, and the central sun of
a bright and happy social atmosphere. When this standard shall be reached, there will be no
fear for New England agriculture. The noblest race of men and women the sun ever shone upon
will cultivate these valleys and build their dwellings upon these hills; and they will cling
to a life which blesses them with health, plenty, individual development, and social progress
and happiness. This is what the farmer's life may be and should be; and if it ever rise to
this in New England, neither prairie nor savanna can entice her children away; and waste land
will become as scarce, at last, as vacant lots in Paradise.

LES SALONS DE PARIS.[1]

The title is an ambitious one, for the salons of Paris are Paris itself; and, from the days
of the Fronde and of the Hôtel Rambouillet down to our own, you may judge pretty accurately
of what is going on upon the great political stage of France by what is observable in those
green-rooms and coulisses called the Parisian drawing-rooms, and where, more or less, the actors
of all parties may be seen, either rehearsing their parts before the performance, or seeking,
after the performance is over, the several private echoes of the general public sentiment that
has burst forth before the light of the foot-lamps. Shakspeare's declaration, that "all the
world's a stage," is nowhere so true as in the capital of Gaul.

Therefore might a profound and comprehensive study of the drawing-rooms of Paris be in a manner
a history of France in our own times.

Madame Ancelot's little volume does not aim so high; nor, had it done so, would its author
have possessed the talent requisite for carrying out such a design. Madame Ancelot is a writer
of essentially second-rate and subordinate capacity, and consequently her account of those
salons de Paris that she has seen (and she by no means saw them all) derives no charm from
the point of view she takes. To say the truth, she has no "point of view" of her own; she tells
what she saw, and (thus far we must praise her) she tells it very conscientiously. Having waited
in every instance till the people she has to speak of were dead, Mme. Ancelot has a pretty
fair field before her for the display of her sincerity, and we, the public, who are neither
kith nor kin of the deceased, are the gainers thereby.

So interesting and so amusing is the subject Madame Ancelot has chosen, that, in spite of her
decided want of originality or even talent in treating it, her book is both an amusing and
an interesting one. It is even more than that; for those who wish to have a correct notion
of certain epochs of the social civilization of modern France, and of certain predominant types
in French society during the last forty years, Madame Ancelot's little volume is full of instruction.
Perhaps in no society, so much as in that of France, have the political convulsions of the
state reacted so forcibly upon the relations of man to man, revolutionizing the homes of private
persons, even as the government and the monarchy were revolutionized. In England, nothing of
this kind is to be observed; and if you study English society ten years, or twenty years, or
fifty years after the fall of Charles I., after the establishment of the Commonwealth, or after
the restoration of Charles II., the definitive exile of the Stuarts, and the advent of a foreign
dynasty to the throne, you find everywhere its constitutive elements the same,--modified only
by such changes of time, circumstance, and fashion, as naturally, in every country, modify
the superficial aspect of all society. But in France, it is the very substratum of the social
soil that is overturned, it is the constitutive elements of society that are displaced; and
the consequence is a general derangement of all relative positions.

In what is still termed la vieille société Française, little or nothing was left to chance,
and one of its great characteristics was order and the perfectly regular play of its machinery.
Everything was set down, noted, as it were, beforehand,--as strictly so as the ceremonies of
a grand diplomatic ceremony, after some treaty, or marriage, or other occasion of solemn conference.
Under this régime, which endured till the Revolution of '93, (and even, strangely enough, beyond
that period,) politeness was, of course, the one chief quality of whosoever was well brought
up,--urbanity was the first sign of good company,--and for the simple reason, that no one sought
to infringe. There was no cause for insolence, or for what in England is called "exclusiveness,"
because there was no necessity to repel any disposition to encroach. No one dreamed of the
possibility of encroaching upon his neighbor's grounds, or of taking, in the slightest degree,
his neighbor's place.

The first French Revolution caused no such sudden and total disruption of the old social traditions
as has been generally supposed; and as far as mere social intercourse and social conventionalities
were concerned, there was, even amongst the terrible popular dictators of 1793, more of the
tone of the ci-devant good company than could possibly be imagined. In later times, every one
who knew Fouché remembers that he was constantly in the habit of expressing his indignation
at the want of good-breeding of the young exquisites of the Empire, and used perpetually to
exclaim, "In my time" this or that "would not have been allowed," or, "In my time we were accustomed
to do" so and so. Now Fouché's "time" was that which is regarded as the period of universal
beheading and levelling.

It is certain, that, under the régime of the Revolution itself, bitter class-hatreds did not
at first show themselves in the peaceful atmosphere of society,--and that for more than one
reason. First of all, in a certain sense, "society," it may be said, was not. Next, what subsisted
of society was fragmentary, and was formed by small isolated groups or coteries, pretty homogeneously
composed, or, when not so as to rank and station, rendered homogeneous by community of suffering.
It must not be imagined that only the highest class in France paid for its opinions or its
vanities with loss of life and fortune. The victims were everywhere; for the changes in the
governing forces were so perpetual, that, more or less, every particular form of envy and hatred
had its day of power, and levelled its blows at the objects of its special antipathy. In this
way, the aristocracy and the bourgeoisie were often brought into contact; marriages even were
contracted, whether during imprisonment or under the pressure of poverty, that never would
have been dreamt of in a normal state of things; and whilst parents of opposite conditions
shook hands in the scaffold-surveying charrettes, the children either drew near to each other,
in a mutual helpfulness, the principle whereof was Christian charity, or met together to partake
of amusements, the aim whereof was oblivion. For several years, the turn of every individual
for execution might come, and therefore it was difficult, on the other hand, to see who might
also not be a friend.

This began to be modified under the Empire, but in a shape not hitherto foreseen. Military
glory began to long for what the genuine Revolutionists termed "feudal distinctions." Napoleon
was desirous of a court and of an aristocracy; he set to work to create a noblesse, and dukes
and counts were fabricated by the dozen. Very soon the strong love of depreciation, that is
inherent in every Frenchman, seized upon even the higher plebeian classes, and, discontented
as they were at seeing the liberties of the movement of '89 utterly confiscated by a military
chief, and antipathetic as they have been, time out of mind, to what are called les traineurs
de sabre, the civilians of France, her bourgeois, who were to have their day,--but with very
different feelings in 1830,--joined with the genuine Pre-Revolutionary aristocrats, and the
noblesse de l'Empire was laughed at and taken en grippe. Here was, in reality, the first wide
breach made in France in the edifice of good-breeding and good-manners; and those who have
been eye-witnesses to the metamorphosis will admit that the guillotine of Danton and Robespierre
did even less to destroy le bon ton of the ancien régime than was achieved by the guard-room
habits and morals of Bonaparte's glorious troopers, rushing, as they did, booted and spurred,
into the emblazoned sanctuary of heraldic distinctions, and taking, as it were, la société
by storm.

