THE

HISTORY OF TASMANIA:

by

JOHN WEST,

Minister of St. John Square Chapel, Launceston.

VOLUME I.

Tasmania: Henry Dowling, Launceston. 1852.

Tasmania: Printed By J. S. Waddell, Launceston

Facsimile edition 1966

TO HENRY HOPKINS, OF HOBART TOWN, ESQ.,

THE

HISTORY OF TASMANIA,

UNDERTAKEN AT HIS REQUEST, IS RESPECTFULLY INSCRIBED

BY

THE AUTHOR.

LAUNCESTON, SEPTEMBER, 1852.

ADVERTISEMENT.

The author takes this opportunity to thank the gentlemen who have allowed him, for several
years, the use of their works on the colonies, and valuable original papers; especially the
trustees of Lady Franklin's Museum, Messrs. R. Lewis, Hone, Gunn, Joseph Archer, Henty, P.
Roberts, Wooley, and Pitcairn.

The public are indebted to Ronald Gunn, Esq., for the section on Tasmanian Zoology; and to
Mr. F. Wales for a useful list of the chief places in this country.

CONTENTS--VOL. I.

DISCOVERY.

SECTION I.                            p. 1.

Anthony Van Diemen, governor of Batavia--Sir Joseph Banks obtains Tasman's charts and journal--brass
hemispheres at Amsterdam--discovery of Van Diemen's Land--Maria Island--visit of Captains Marion,
Furneaux, Cook, Clerke, Cox, Bligh, D'Entrecasteaux--discovery of Bass' Straits by Bass and
Flinders--Flinders' misfortunes and death--Baudin--misfortunes of our eminent navigators--monument
erected by Sir John Franklin to Flinders.

SECTION II.                           p. 20.

Colonel Purry's project--opinion of Dalrymple--Cook's account of New South Wales--fleet assemble
at Motherbank--Phillip governor--various opinions of the prospects of the colony.

FROM 1803 TO 1824.

SECTION I.                            p. 27.

Van Diemen's Land occupied--state of Port Jackson at the time--Port Phillip occupied--abandoned--account
of Buckley--debarkation at Sullivan's Cove--names of officers--Paterson occupies at Port Dalrymple--account
of Collins--Burke's remarks--Collins' history--Lord Hobart.

SECTION II.                           p. 34.

Hobart Town named--York Town--Tamar river--Launceston--the first house--Norfolk Island vacated--settlers
conveyed to Van Diemen's Land--overflow of the Hawkesbury--destitution--deposition of Bligh--he
visits the Derwent--conduct of Collins--establishes a newspaper--his death--monument erected
by Franklin to his memory.

SECTION III.                          p. 48.

Lieutenant E. Lord acting lieutenant-governor--ditto Captain Murray--visit of Governor Macquarie--Davey
lieutenant-governor --improvements effected--St. David's church built--Bent's newspaper--death
of Colonel Davey.

SECTION IV.                           p. 53.

Form of colonial government--courts--legislative orders--administration of justice--Abbot judge-advocate
of Van Diemen's Land--opinions of Mackintosh--Bentham--torture--arbitrary conduct of Macquarie--governor's
court--Abbot's death.

SECTION V.                            p. 66.

Lieutenant-Governor Sorell--checks bushranging--immigration of settlers--their privileges--Macquarie's
account of Van Diemen's Land.

SECTION VI.                           p. 70.

Sheep introduced--Merino lambs imported into Van Diemen's Land--wool purchased by Mr. Hopkins.

SECTION VII.                          p. 73.

Whaling--duties on colonial oil--fetters of trade--Captain Howard's misfortunes--currency of
Van Diemen's Land--trading habits.

SECTION VIII.                         p. 78.

Religious efforts--notices of Reverends Johnson, Marsden, Knopwood--Wesleyan first Sunday school--Reverends
Horton, Mansfield, Macarthur--bible society--Reverend J. Youl--Reverend P. Connolly.

SECTION IX.                           p. 86.

Bill for better administration of justice--supreme court established--colonial agent--departure
of Sorell--Leith company--Sorell's character--agricultural societies--advantages of immigrants
at the present time.

FROM 1824 TO 1836.

SECTION I.                            p. 95.

Lieutenant-Colonel Arthur, superintendent at Honduras--dispute with Colonel Bradley--with the
slaveholders--state of Van Diemen's Land--court proclaimed--trial by jury--charges against
Mr. J. T. Gellibrand, jun.--Talfourd's opinions--Van Diemen's Land declared independent of
New South Wales--police magistrates appointed.

SECTION II.                           p. 106.

Rise of the Australian press--restraint of the press by Arthur--Dr. Ross government printer--colonists
maintain the freedom of the press.

SECTION III.                          p. 110.

Van Diemen's Land Company formed--its investments--Jorgen Jorgenson.

SECTION IV.                           p. 115.

State of society at Hobart--Judge Forbes--Governor Darling--punishment of Thomson and Sudds--trial
of Dr. Wardell--Major Honor's case--Mr. Humphrey police magistrate--petitions for an elective
assembly-- disagreements with Arthur--Gellibrand, sen., dismissed from the magistracy--act
of parliament for the colony--Marshall's proposal for a colonial association.

SECTION V.                            p. 120.

Dispute between Jennings and Montagu--rate on returned bills of exchange fixed--trial of Dillon--treasury
robbed--Ikey Solomon's arrest--conduct of a jury--races at Ross--pirates take the Cumberland.

SECTION VI.                           p. 124.

Grammar school--orphan school--mechanic institution--Dr. Ross--Dr. Henderson.

SECTION VII.                          p. 127.

Bank of Van Diemen's Land--state of trade--Gatenby farmers--treasury robbed--Cox's conveyance
established--dearth in New South Wales.

SECTION VIII.                         p. 131.

Liabilities of publicans--impounding cattle--dog act--usury law.

SECTION IX.                           p. 134.

Endowment of emigrants with land--early regulations--quantities of land given--early price of land.

SECTION X.                            p. 136.

Van Diemen's Land divided into counties--land commissioners appointed--conditions of grants--land
obtained by fictitious capital.

SECTION XI.                           p. 139.

Brisbane grants--proof of ownership--resumption resisted by juries--defect in titles discovered--defect
in description--caveat board established--Major Abbot's claim--quit rents--free grants terminated--Lord
Ripon's regulations.

SECTION XII.                          p. 148.

Wakefield's colonization scheme--Wilmot Morton's views--Swan River settlement--sufferings of
first settlers--colony of South Australia--mineral wealth--Port Phillip occupied--emigration
of females and mechanics--important consequences--table of land regulations.

SECTION XIII.                         p. 160.

Bank of Australasia--state of the currency--Tamar bank--Union bank.

SECTION XIV.                          p. 161.

Glorious 23rd of May!--Baxter appointed judge--set aside--police and gaols--land revenue.

SECTION XV.                           p. 165.

Mr. W. Bryan's disagreement with Arthur--Arnold condemned for cattle stealing--case of Lewis--of
Bryan, jun.--murder of Captain Sergeantson--perjury--trial by jury.

SECTION XVI.                          p. 174.

"True Colonist"--state of the press--charges against Arthur--increase of newspapers--political
association.

SECTION XVII.                         p. 177.

Recall of Arthur--- advancement during his administration--his great ability--his views of
public works--his departure--death of Mr. J. T. Gellibrand.

FROM 1836 TO 1843.

SECTION I.                            p. 191.

Snodgrass acting-governor--arrival of Sir John Franklin--views of the colony--his reception--efforts
to reconcile parties--magistrates increased--council chamber opened.

SECTION II.                           p. 195.

Difficulties respecting the churches--Dr. Lang--church and school corporation erected--dissolved
by the crown--Sir G. Murray's views--Bourke's plan--Arthur's views--bishopric established in
New South Wales--claims of the Presbyterians--declare for the established church of Scotland--Sir
G. Grey's decision--act of general assembly--appellate jurisdiction refused--synod proclaimed--assembled
and dissolved--controversy between the churches--church act passed--rivalry of the churches--act
amended--demands on the treasury--bishopric of Tasmania established--Bishop Nixon enthroned--differences
with clergy--ecclesiastical courts--refused by Wilmot--conference at Sydney--ecclesiastical
titles arranged--free church of Scotland--tolerance of laity--respect for religion.

SECTION III.                          p. 215.

Education--Franklin proposes a college--Dr. Arnold's views--Mr. Gell appointed--foundation
of college laid--abandoned--- schools in New South Wales--British system established in Van
Diemen's Land--British system abandoned.

SECTION IV.                           p. 219.

Distillation forbidden--emigration promoted--interference of commissioners--libel on Mr. Dowling--emigrants
prosper--effects of probation--distress in the colonies--causes of distress--revival.

SECTION V.                            p. 225.

Franklin arranges probation system--dispute with Captain Montagu--dismisses him--Lord Stanley
justifies Captain Montagu--Franklin recalled--his amiable character--last expedition.

FROM 1843 TO 1847.

SECTION I.                            p. 233.

Sir E. Wilmot arrives--his connexions--opinion of the Times--his popular manners--the agricultural
association--bushranging--Wilmot's promises to the legislature--remodels the Tasmanian Society--his
difficulties--central committee--usury law--fetters of trade--Hutt's motion--road bill--irrigation--expense
of police--public debt--Wilmot adheres to his instructions--duties raised from five to fifteen
per cent.--taxation defeated--quarrel with the Courier--Mr. Bicheno's political opinions--discussion
in the council--Mr. Dry's motion--council adjourned--despatches respecting police and public
works--injustice of Lord Stanley--anti-colonial character of probation system--Lord Stanley's
restrictions--proposes to raise produce for commissariat-- inadequate surveillance--Wilmot's
representations--Stanley's reply--council meet--estimates unintelligible--motions rejected
by the governor's deliberative and casting votes--Mr. Smith's opinion--six members resign--obligation
of official members--defence of the six--remarks-- popular sympathy.

SECTION II.                           p. 252.

Development of probation system--location of gangs--Mr. Pitcairn's petition--Wilmot's counter
representation--Wilmot rejected as patron of the Van Diemen's Land agricultural association--vacancies
filled up in the council--members resign--£24,000 allowed by home government-- differential
duties bill--Hobart Town commissioners--dog act--recall of Wilmot--defended the probation system--blame
cast on him--Wilmot's last address--Mr. Gladstone's despatch--his decision respecting the six--Wilmot
slandered--Gladstone's letter--debates in parliament-- remarks--Wilmot's death--Mr. La Trobe's
administration.

FROM 1847 TO 1852.

SECTION I.                            p. 265.

Sir William Denison meets the twelve--re-appoints the six--errors in commission discovered--refers
home--the six appointed--dog tax declared illegal--actions of merchants--dismissal of Judge
Montagu--Judge Pedder refuses leave of absence--Mr. Horne appointed--doubts' bill passed--decision
of home government--charge against the merchants--their defence--appeals to Downing-street--public
petitions for an assembly--plans proposed--council of New South Wales--discontent at Port Phillip--report
of Sir William Denison--plan of Earl Grey rejected--privy council report--opinions of their
report--bill passed--rejoicings at Port Phillip--at Van Diemen's Land--college at Bishopsbourne--Hutchins'
school--high school.

SECTION II.                           p. 276.

Struggle against transportation--Mr. McLachlan--English press--state of colony--pardons extended--North
Australia--squatters hire expirees--exiles received at Port Phillip--abolition proposed--Mr.
McLachlan's letter to Mr. Gladstone--petition presented to the Lords--Mr. Ewart's motion--Earl
Grey and Mr. Hawes receive the seals of the colonial office--avow the principles of Whately--Sir
W. Denison's circular--discussion--committees appointed--public meetings.

SECTION III.                          p. 283.

London agency--meeting--Lord Grey's despatch announcing the views of government--address of
Sir W. Denison--his despatch in favor of transportation--Norfolk Island prisoners--proposal
to New South Wales accepted on both sides--repudiation by Earl Grey, and a new proposal to
New South Wales rejected--circular letter to the colonies--convicts sent to the Cape rejected--rejected
at Port Phillip--effect of the treatment of Van Diemen's Land on other colonies--prospects of 1848.

SECTION IV.                           p. 289.

Lord J. Russell's speech--conduct of ministers--great number of petitions--Sir W. Denison's
views--resolution of colonists--rapid changes of systems--the intentions of Earl Grey--evils
of ticket system--resolution of the Legislative Councils--views of different parties--state
of the colony--Earl Grey accused of breach of faith--Earl Grey's speech--declares his determination
to proceed--the effect of his speech on Van Diemen's Land--Leagues formed--Neptune arrived--protest--
petitions of all classes--convict party form an association--it is dissolved--weakness of the
colony--feelings of other colonies towards Van Diemen's Land.

SECTION V.                            p. 298.

The "Australias are One"--address to the colonies--Earl Grey renews his application to New
South Wales--decision of the people--response of the colonies--meeting of abolitionists at
Hobart--declare against transportation to any of the colonies--a conference appointed--delegates
meet in Victoria--the Australian League formed--large subscriptions--fire in Port Phillip--meeting
of delegates in New South Wales--proceedings of conference--the elections--the discovery of
gold--effects on employers--League assailed by the convict party--delegates visit Adelaide--League
adopted at New Zealand--people return opponents of transportation--conduct of emancipists--not
one supporter of transportation returned--resolutions of the Legislative Councils of New South
Wales, Victoria, South Australia, and Van Diemen's Land.

       *     *     *     *     *

ZOOLOGY.

SECTION I. p. 321. Mammalia.--SECTION II. p. 328. Birds.--SECTION III. p. 332. Fishes.--SECTION
IV. p. 333. Reptiles.--SECTION V. p. 335. Insects.--SECTION VI. p. 335.--Mollusca.

HISTORY OF TASMANIA.

       *     *     *     *     *

DISCOVERY, &c.

DISCOVERY, &c.

SECTION I.

Nearly fifty years have elapsed, since Van Diemen's Land was numbered with the colonies of
the British empire. A generation has risen up and is passing away. Thousands, while they venerate
the land of their European ancestors, with an amiable fondness love Tasmania as their native
country. They will, hereafter, guide its affairs, extend its commerce, and defend its soil;
and, not inferior in virtue and intelligence, they will fill an important position in the vast
system of Australasia.

To gratify their curiosity, and offer to their view the instructive and inspiriting events
of the past, is the purpose of this history.

The difficulty of the task can be appreciated only by experience. To collect from scattered
records, facts worthy of remembrance; to separate reality from romance; to remove partial coloring
from statements made long ago; and to exhibit useful truth without disguise and without offence,
required much research and deliberation.

It is not the intention of this history to relate every event which, when passing, may have
been deemed momentous; much less to recal from obscurity the errors, absurdity, and wickedness
which exercised no distinct influence on the common welfare. The author has endeavoured to
realize the feelings and sympathies of the benevolent and just of another age, and to confine
his pen to details which may maintain their interest, when the passions with which they were
associated shall subside for ever.

In calling this work THE HISTORY OF TASMANIA, a designation is chosen generally preferred by
the colonists, and which their successors will certainly adopt. "Van Diemen" is a name affixed
to the north coast of New Holland; and this country is the first known discovery of Tasman.

The name of Tasman is recognised by the royal patent constituting the diocese; by several literary
societies and periodical works: it forms the term by which we distinguish our Tasmanian from
our European youth.

Tasmania is preferred, because "Van Diemen's Land" is associated among all nations with the
idea of bondage and guilt; and, finally, because while Tasmania is a melodious and simple sound,
"Van Diemen" is harsh, complex, and infernal.

       *     *     *     *     *

During the reign of Charles I. (Frederick Henry, grandfather of William III. being Stadtholder
of Holland) the Dutch discovered this island. The enterprise of that people had raised them
to the zenith of their power: unless by England, they were unrivalled in nautical science and
commercial opulence. More for the purposes of trade than the acquisition of knowledge, they
were anxious to discover unknown countries, and to conceal the information they possessed from
the rest of the world.

At this time, Anthony Van Diemen was governor-general of Batavia: by him, Abel Jans Tasman
was commissioned to explore the "Great South Land," the name by which New Holland was known
until 1665, when, by the authority of the Netherland government, it received its present designation.
A fragment of the journal of Tasman, containing an account of his discovery, was first published
by Dirk Rembrant, and afterwards translated into most European tongues. In this abstract nautical
details respecting Van Diemen's Land were omitted, but were described in the journal itself,
and by thirty-eight charts, views, and figures. These were purchased by Sir Joseph Banks, on
his return from his voyage to these seas. Tasman's journal was translated by a Netherland clergyman:
he considered the age of the manuscript confirmed by the spelling: that it was genuine he had
no doubt, although he questioned whether written by Tasman, or transcribed at his command.
Sir Joseph Banks acquired at the same time a copy of instructions to Tasman, given by the Governor
of Batavia in 1644, for a second expedition, and which recapitulated the various voyages of
his predecessors. These, however, have no connection with Van Diemen's Land.

To adorn the new stadthouse of Amsterdam, erected in 1665, three hemispheres were wrought in
stone, of twenty-two feet in diameter: the circles were inlaid with brass, and were executed
by a celebrated artist. The southern hemisphere exhibited the discoveries of Tasman and his
predecessors: they formed the pavement of the hall, until obliterated by the tread of several
generations. They were quite forgotten when Sir Joseph Banks sought information from the inhabitants.
A copy of these works of art was preserved, and displayed the extent to which New Holland and
Van Diemen's Land were known.

The journal of Tasman has been greatly admired: it is clear, laconic, and devout.[1] It opens
with an invocation: "May God Almighty be pleased to give his blessing to this voyage. Amen."
The document is, indeed, full of pious sentiments: when a long desired breeze liberated the
vessel from port, or refreshment was obtained, or safe anchorage found, he dots down a thanksgiving.
He reckoned his longitude from the Peak of Teneriffe: the hours he called glasses; his miles
were German, fifteen to a degree.

On the 14th of August, 1642, Tasman embarked at Batavia, on board the Heemskirk, the fly-boat
Zeehaan, Jerit Zanzoon, master, in company. They set sail for the Mauritius, and arrived on
the 5th of September. That island, then commanded by Van Steelan, was but little cultivated,
and gave slight promise of its present importance.[2] On the 4th October, they were ready to
depart, but were delayed by contrary winds until the 8th, when on a change in their favor they
stood eastward to sea. On the 27th, a council being called, it was resolved that a man should
constantly look out at the topmast head; and to encourage vigilance it was determined, that
the first discoverer of land should receive three reals and a pot of arrack. On the 4th November
they saw patches of duckweed and a seal, and inferred their vicinity to land. The first pilot,
Francis Jacobzs, on the 7th, supported by the advice of the steersman, thus delivered his opinion:--"We
should keep to the 44° south latitude, until we have passed 150° longitude; then make for latitude
40° south, and keeping in that parallel to run eastward to 220° longitude, and then steering
northward search with the trade wind from east to west for the Solomon Islands. We imagine,
if we meet with no main land till we come to 150° longitude, we must then meet with islands."
On the 17th, they were in latitude 44° 15' and longitude 147° 3': they concluded that they
had already passed the south land then known. On the 22nd they found their compass was not
still within eight points, which they attributed to the influence of loadstone, and which kept
the needle in continual motion. On the 24th, at noon, they found their latitude 42° 25' south,
longitude 163° 31': in the afternoon, at 4 o'clock, they observed land, Point Hibbs, bearing
east by north. The land was high, and towards evening they saw lofty mountains to the east
south-east, and to the north-east two smaller mountains: here their compass stood right. They
resolved to run off five hours to sea, and then to run back towards the land. On the 25th,
the morning was calm, and at 5 o'clock they were within three miles of the shore, and had soundings
at sixty fathoms. They approached a level coast, and reckoned their latitude 42° 30', and middle
longitude 163° 50'. On this day they named their discovery: "we called it Anthony Van Diemen's
Land, in honor of our high magistrate and governor-general, and the islands near (Boreels)
we named in honor of the council of India, as you may see by the little map we made." Next
day they lost sight of land. They fixed the longitude 163° 50', and gave orders to the master
of the Zeehaan to adopt that reckoning. On the 28th land reappeared, and in the evening they
came near three small islands, one of which they thought like the head of a lion (Mewstone,
of Furneaux). On the following morning they passed two cliffs, one (the Swilly, of Furneaux)
like the Pedra Branca, near the coast of China; the other, the eastern cliff, resembling a
high misshapen tower (the Eddystone, of Cook). Between the cliff and the main land they passed,
until they came almost to Storm Bay, where they found it impossible to anchor, and were driven
by the wind to sea--so far, that land could scarcely be sighted in the morning. In the afternoon
of the 1st December, they anchored in a good port (marked Frederick Hendrik Bay in the chart),
with twenty-two fathoms water, and bottom of fine light grey sand.

On the following morning the boats were despatched to the shore: on their return, the steersman
informed them that they had heard the sound of voices, and of a little gong; but saw no one.
They remarked two trees, sixty feet from the ground to the branches, and two and a-half in
circumference: the bark taken off with flint stones, and steps cut to climb for birds' nests,
full five feet from each other, and indicative of a very tall people. They saw marks, such
as are left by the claws of a tiger, and brought on board the excrements of some quadruped;
gum lac, which dropped from trees, and greens "which might be used in place of wormwood." They
saw people at the east corner of the bay:[3] they found no fish, except mussels: many trees
were burned hollow near the ground; they were widely separated, and admitted an extensive view.
They did not show themselves, and we suspected some to be not far from thence, and watching
carefully our doings." The last object they noticed was a large round mountain (St. Patrick's
Head), on the eastern coast, of which they lost sight on the 5th December.

From Van Diemen's Land they proceeded to New Zealand, where by an encounter with the natives
several lives were lost: thence they passed Tongataboo, Amsterdam, and Rotterdam, and arrived
at Batavia on the 15th June, 1643. Tasman closes his journal with his usual devotion: "God
be praised for this happy voyage. Amen."

That Maria Island was named after the daughter of Van Diemen, and that Tasman went over the
ocean writing down her name in the imperishable records of his discoveries, is a pleasing tale;
but the evidence on which it rests is far from conclusive. Thus at Amsterdam he called the
anchorage Van Diemen's Road, and where the boats went for water Maria's Bay, "in honor of our
governor-general and his lady." That a daughter of the same name existed is not improbable,
but who can tell whether the Maria Island of Tasmania's coast was named in complaisance to
the daughter, or to conciliate the mother! In hope to confirm the agreeable fiction the journal
of Tasman has been examined, but in vain.

The spirit of discovery revived in Europe after a long slumber; and a succession of illustrious
navigators, in their passage to regions deemed more important, touched at Van Diemen's Land,
and thus rapidly developed its geography. After Tasman, the next visitor was Captain Marion,
of the Mascarin and Castries, who in 1772 arrived from the Mauritius, in search of the "southern
continent," then the grand object of nautical inquiry, and anchored in Frederick Hendrik Bay,
the 4th March. The visit is chiefly memorable for a fatal collision with the natives, who,
according to the French, exhibited uncommon ferocity. On his stepping on shore they offered
Captain Marion a fire stick, which he supposed a ceremony of friendship; but when he lighted
a heap of wood, as he imagined in compliance with their custom, they retired to a hill, and
threw a shower of stones. The French fired their muskets, and the natives fled: their pursuers
found in the wood a dying savage--the first victim of European intrusion. Marion and some others
were injured slightly by the missiles of the natives, and a black servant was wounded by a spear.

The remarks they made are of no great value: they entered the country, and saw everywhere the
effects of fire, which they supposed was intended to drive wild animals from the coast. They
could not discover a tree suitable for a mast, and were unsuccessful in obtaining water. A
small map, which sketched the form of the coast with considerable exactness, accompanied the
account of this voyage, and tended to awaken the French to the importance of these seas.

