"Pardon me, I beg of you," she replied to Leopold, "if I continue to reject your advice to
leave Paris. Consider that I do not belong to myself. My duty is to remain where Providence
has placed me, and to oppose my body, if the necessity should arise, to the knives of the assassins
who would fain reach the king. I should be unworthy of the name of our mother, which is as
dear to you as to me, if danger could make me desert the king and my children.[6]"

We have seen that Marie Antoinette dreaded calumny more than the knife or poison of the assassin;
and there could hardly have been a greater proof how well founded her apprehensions were, and
how unscrupulous her enemies, than is afforded by the fact that, in the latter part of this
year, they actually brought back Madame La Mothe to Paris with the purpose of making a demand
for a re-investigation of the whole story of the fraud on the jeweler--a pretense for reviving
the libelous stories to the disparagement of the queen, the utter falsehood and absurdity of
which had been demonstrated to the satisfaction of the whole world four years before. Nor was
it wholly a Jacobin plot. La Fayette himself was, to a certain extent, an accomplice in it.
As commander of the National Guard of the city, it was his duty to apprehend one who was an
escaped convict; but instead of doing so he preferred identifying himself with her, and on
one occasion had what Mirabeau rightly called the inconceivable insolence to threaten the queen
with a divorce on the ground of unfaithfulness to her husband. She treated his insinuations
with the dignity which became herself, and the scorn which they and their utterers deserved;
and he found that his conduct had created such general disgust among all people who made the
slightest pretense to decency, that he feared to lose his popularity if he did not disconnect
himself from the plotters. Accordingly, he separated himself from the lady, though he still
forbore to arrest her, and for some time confined himself to his old course of heaping on the
royal family these petty annoyances and insults, which he could inflict with impunity because
they were unobserved except by his victims. It is remarkable, however, that Mirabeau, who held
him in a contempt which, however deserved, had in it some touch of rivalry and envy, believed
that the queen was not really so much the object of his animosity as the king. In his eyes
"all the manoeuvres of La Fayette were so many attacks on the queen; and his attacks on the
queen were so many steps to bring him within reach of the king. It was the king whom he really
wanted to strike; and he saw that the individual safety of one of the royal pair was as inseparable
from that of the other as the king was from his crown.[7]" And this opinion of Mirabeau is
strongly corroborated by the Count de la Marck, who, a few weeks later, had occasion to go
to Alsace, and who took great pains to ascertain the general state of public feeling in the
districts through which he passed. During his absence he was in constant correspondence with
those whom he had left behind, and he reports with great satisfaction that in no part of the
country had he found the very slightest ill-feeling toward the queen. It was in Paris alone
that the different libels against her were forged, and there alone that they found acceptance;
and, manifestly referring to the projected departure from Paris, he expresses his firm conviction
that the moment that she is at liberty, and able to show herself in the provinces, she will
win the confidence of all classes.[8]

However greatly Mirabeau would, on other grounds, have preferred personal intercourse with
the court, he thought that his power of usefulness depended so entirely on his connection with
it being unsuspected, that he did not think it prudent to solicit interviews with the queen.
But he kept up a constant communication with the court, sometimes by notes and elaborate memorials,
addressed indeed to Louis, but intended for Marie Antoinette's perusal and consideration; and
sometimes by conversations with La Marck, which the count was expected to repeat to her. But,
in all the counsels thus given, the thing most to be remarked is the high opinion which they
invariably display of the queen's resolution and ability. Every thing depends on her; it is
from her alone that he wishes to receive instructions; it is her resolution that must supply
the deficiencies of all around her. When he urges that a line of conduct should be adopted
calculated to render their majesties more popular; that they should show themselves more in
public; that they should walk in the most frequented places; that they should visit the hospitals,
the artisans' workshops, and make themselves friends by acts of charity and generosity, it
is to her that he looks to carry out his suggestions, and to her affability and presence of
mind that he trusts for the success which is to result from them;[9] and La Marck is equally
convinced that "her ability and resolution are equal to the conduct of affairs of the first
importance."

Meantime her health continued good. It showed her strength of mind that she never intermitted
the recreations which contributed to her strength, about which she was especially anxious,
that she might at all times be ready to act on any emergency; but rode with Elizabeth with
great regularity in the Bois de Boulogne, even in the depth of the winter; and, while watching
with her habitual vigilance of affection over the education of her children, she found a pleasant
relaxation for herself in providing them with amusement also; often arranging parties, to which
other children of the same age were invited, and finding amusement herself from watching their
gambols in the long corridor of the Tuileries, their blindman's-buff and hide-and-seek.[10]

The new year opened with grave plans for their extrication from their troubles--plans requiring
the utmost forethought, ingenuity, and secrecy to bring them to a successful issue; and also
with fresh injuries and insults from the Assembly and the municipal authorities, which every
week made the necessity of promptitude in carrying such plans out more manifest. Mirabeau,
as we have seen, had from the very first recommended that the king and his family should withdraw
from Paris. In his eyes such a step was the indispensable preliminary to all other measures;
and some of the earliest of the queen's letters in 1791 show that the resolution to leave the
turbulent city had at last been taken. But though what he recommended was to be done, it was
not to be done as he recommended; yet there was a manliness about the course of action which
he proposed which would of itself have won the queen's preference, if she had not been forced
to consider not what was best and fittest, but what it was most easy to induce him on whom
the final choice must impend, the king, to adopt. Mirabeau advised that the king should depart
publicly, in open day, "like a king," as he expressed himself,[11] and he affirmed his conviction
that it would in all probability be quite unnecessary to remove farther than Compiègne; but
that the moment that it should be known that the king was out of Paris, petitions demanding
the re-establishment of order would flock in from every quarter of the kingdom, and public
opinion, which was for the most part royalist, would compel the Assembly to modify the Constitution
which it had framed, or, if it should prove refractory, would support the king in dissolving
it and convoking another.

But this was too bold a step for Louis to decide on. He anticipated that the Assembly or the
mob might endeavor to prevent such a movement by force, which could only be repelled by force;
and force he was resolved never to employ. The only alternative was to flee secretly; and in
the course of January, Mercy learns that that plan has been adopted, and that Compiègne is
not considered sufficiently distant from Paris, but that some fortified place will be selected;
Valenciennes being the most likely, as he himself imagined, since, if farther flight should
become necessary, it would be easy from thence to cross the frontier into the Belgian dominions
of the queen's brother. But if Valenciennes had ever been thought of, it was rejected on that
very account; for Louis had learned from English history that the withdrawal of James II. from
his kingdom had been alleged as one reason for declaring the throne vacant; and he was resolved
not to give his enemies any plea for passing a similar resolution with respect to himself.
Valenciennes was so celebrated as a frontier town, that the mere fact of his fixing himself
there might easily be represented as an evidence of his intention to quit the kingdom. But
there was a small town of considerable strength named Montmédy, in the district under the command
of the Marquis de Bouillé, which afforded all the advantages of Valenciennes, and did not appear
equally liable to the same objections. Montmédy, therefore, was fixed upon; and, in the very
first week of February, Marie Antoinette announced the decision to Mercy; and began her own
preparations by sending him a jewel-case full of those diamonds which were her private property.
She explained to him at considerable length the reasons which had dictated the choice. The
very smallness of Montmédy was in itself a recommendation, since it would prevent any one from
thinking it likely to be selected as a refuge. It was also so near Luxembourg that, in the
present temper of the nation, which regarded the Austrian power with "a panic fear," any addition
which M. de Bouillé might make to either the garrison or to his supplies would seem only a
wise precaution against the much-dreaded foreigner. Moreover, the troops in that district were
among the most loyal and well-disposed in the whole army; and if the king should find it unsafe
to remain long at Montmédy, he would have a trustworthy escort to retreat to Alsace.

She also explained the reasons which had led them to decide on quitting Paris secretly by night.
If they started in the daytime, it would be necessary to have detachments of troops planted
at different spots on their road to protect them. But M. de Bouillé could not rely on all his
own regiments for such a service, and still less on the National Guards in the different towns;
while to bring up fresh forces from distant quarters would attract attention, and awaken suspicions
beforehand which might be fatal to the enterprise. Montmédy, therefore, had been decided on,
and the plans were already so far settled that she could tell Mercy that they should take Madame
de Tourzel with them, and travel in one single carriage, which they had never been seen to
use before.

Their preparations had even gone beyond these details, minute as they were. The king was already
collecting materials for a manifesto which he designed to publish the moment that he found
himself safely out of Paris. It would explain the reasons for his flight; it would declare
an amnesty to the people in general, to whom it would impute no worse fault than that of being
misled (none being excepted but the chief leaders of the disloyal factions; the city of Paris,
unless it should at once return to its ancient tranquillity; and any persons or bodies who
might persist in remaining in arms). To the nation in general the manifesto would breathe nothing
but affection. The Parliaments would be re-established, but only as judicial tribunals, which
should have no pretense to meddle with the affairs of administration or finance. In short,
the king and she had determined to take his declaration of the 23d of June[12] as the basis
of the Constitution, with such modifications as subsequent circumstances might have suggested.
Religion would be one of the matters placed in the foreground.

So sanguine were they, or rather was she, of success, that she had even taken into consideration
the principles on which future ministries should be constituted; and here for the first time
she speaks of herself as chiefly concerned in planning the future arrangements. "In private
we occupy ourselves with discussing the very difficult choice which we shall have to make of
the persons whom we shall desire to call around us when we are at liberty. I think that it
will be best to place a single man at the head of affairs, as M. Maurepas was formerly; and
if it be settled in this way, the king would thus escape having to transact business with each
individual minister separately, and affairs would proceed more uniformly and more steadily.
Tell me what you think of this idea. The fit man is not easy to find, and the more I look for
him, the greater inconveniences do I see in all that occur to me."

She proceeds to discuss foreign affairs, the probable views and future conduct of almost every
power in Europe--of Holland, Prussia, Spain, Sweden, England; still showing the lingering jealousy
which she entertained of the British Government, which she suspected of wishing to detach the
chivalrous Gustavus from the alliance of France by the offer of a subsidy. But she is sanguine
that, "though some may he glad to see the influence of France diminished, no wise statesman
in any country can desire her ruin or dismemberment. What is going on in France would be an
example too dangerous to other countries, if it were left unpunished. Their cause is the cause
of all kings, and not a simple political difficulty.[13]"

The whole letter is a most remarkable one, and fully bears out the eulogies which all who had
an opportunity of judging pronounced on her ability. But the most striking reflection which
it suggests is with what admirable sagacity the whole of the arrangements for the flight of
the royal family had been concerted, and with what judgment the agents had been chosen, since,
though the enterprise was not attempted till more than four months after this letter was written,
the secret was kept through the whole of that time without the slightest hint of it having
been given, or the slightest suspicion of it having been conceived, by the most watchful or
the most malignant of the king's enemies.

