A grand jury of a hundred (part of a county) take upon them to present a no less considerable
person than the king's brother and heir presumptive of the crown, the chief-justice thinks
this a matter of too much moment for men of such sort to meddle in, but a matter more proper
for the consideration of Parliament: I would not be understood to condemn the jury; I think
they acted as became honest Englishmen and lovers of their country; But I say if judges could
in any case be allowed to proceed by rules of policy, surely here was a sufficient excuse.
However the commons impeached him.

The determinations of ignorant or wicked judges as they are precedents of little weight, so
they are but of little danger, and therefore it will become the commons at all times to animadvert
most carefully upon the actions of the most knowing men in that profession.

I say, my lord, at all times, because I hear former merit is pleaded to screen this action
from any inquiry.

I am sensible much is due to the man who has always preferred the public interest to his private
advantages as -------- has done. When a man has signalized himself, when he has suffered for
that principle, he deserves universal respect. Yet men should act agreeably to the motive of
that respect, and not ruin the liberty of their country to shew their gratitude, and so, my
lord, where a man has the least pretence to that character, I think 'tis best to pass over
small offences, but never such as will entail danger and dishonour upon us and our posterity.

The Romans, my lord, when a question was in the senate, whether they should ransom fifteen
thousand citizens who had merited much by their former victories, but losing one battle were
taken prisoners; were determined by the advice of that noble Roman Attilius Regulus not to
redeem them as men unworthy their further care, though probably it was their misfortunes not
their faults lost that day.

    Flagitio additis
Damnum: neque amissos colores
Luna refert medicata fuco

He thought they were not worthy to be trusted again:----

To shew them pity, in his mind, would betray the Romans to perpetual danger: Et exemplo trahenti

Perniciem veniens in aevum, Si non periret immiserabilis Captiva pubes

I hear some precedents have been lately found out to justify that memorable action; but if
precedents must control reason and justice, if a man may swear he will keep his counsels secret,
and yet by precedents may be forced to divulge them, I would advise gentlemen very seriously
to consider, the danger we are in; and examine what precedents there are on each side of the
question, for my part I think the commons of England are not a worse precedent than the judges
of England.

Besides it must be remembered that precedents in some cases will not excuse a judge, even where
they are according to the undoubted law of the land, as for instance,

Suppose a man says what is true, not knowing it to be true, though it be logically a truth
as it is distinguished, yet it is morally false; and so, suppose a judge give judgment according
to law, not knowing it to be so, as if he did not know the reason of it at that time, but bethought
himself of a reason or precedent for it afterwards, though the judgment be legal and according
to precedent, yet the pronouncing of it is unjust; and the judge shall be condemned in the
opinions of all men: As happened to the Lord Chief Justice Popham a person of great learning
and parts, who upon the trial of Sir Walter Raleigh; when Sir Walter objected to reading or
giving in evidence, Lord Cobham's affidavit, taken in his absence, without producing the lord
face to face, the lord being then forthcoming: The chief justice overruled the objection, and
was of opinion it should be given in evidence against Sir Walter, and summing up the evidence
to the jury the chief justice said, "Just then it came into his mind why the accuser should
not come face to face to the prisoner, because, &c." Now if any judge has since found precedents,
or has since picked up the opinion of lawyers, I fear he will come within the case I have put.

I foresee, if ever this question happens to be debated, you know where, gentlemen will be divided;
Some will be desirous to do their country justice and free us from all future danger of this
kind; Others upon motives not quite so laudable, will strive to screen, and with others private
friendship will prevail: But I would recommend to your friends, who really love their country,
to consider the several circumstances concurring in your lordship which probably may not in
your successor: Let them suppose a person were to fill your place, from whose manifest ignorance
in the law, we may reasonably conclude, his only merit is an inveteracy and hatred to this
country. I say how could your best friends excuse themselves, if in regard to your lordship
they should suffer such a precedent to be handed down to such a man unobserved or uncensured?

Invenit etiam aemulos infaelix nequitia--Ambitious men have not always been deterred by the
unhappy fate of their predecessors, Quid si floreat vigeatque? But what lengths will they run
if injustice and corruption shall ride triumphant?

Had somebody received a reprimand upon his knees in a proper place, for treating a printer's
jury like men convict of perjury, forcing them to find a special verdict, I dare to say he
had not been quite so hardy as to have discharged the grand jury or treated them in the manner
he did, because they had not an implicit faith in the court; nor had he dared not to receive
a presentment made by the second grand jury against Wood's farthings upon pretence it was informal,
which I mention because the worthy Drapier has mistaken the fact.

Some of your lordship's screens I hear advise you to shew great humility and contrition for
what's past, as the only means to appease the just indignation all sorts of men have conceived
against you.----Were I well secured you will not recommend this letter to the next grand jury
to be presented, I could give you more seasonable advice, but happen as it may I will venture
to give you a little.

Fawning and cajoling will have but little effect on those who have had the honour of your acquaintance
these ten years past, for Caligula who used to hide his head if he heard the thunder, would
piss upon the statues of the gods when he thought the danger over--A better expedient is this,----

Tell men the Drapier is a Tory and a Jacobite.--That he writ "The Conduct of the Allies."--That
he writ not his letters with a design to keep out Wood's halfpence, but to bring in the Pretender;
persuade them if you can, the dispute is no longer about the power of judges over juries, nor
how much the liberty of the subject is endangered by dissolving them at pleasure, but that
it is now become mere Whig and Tory, a dispute between His Majesty's friends and the Jacobites,
and 'twere better to see a thousand grand juries discharged than the Tories carry a question
though in the right.--Haec vulnera pro libertate publica excepi, hunc oculum pro vobis impendi.
Try this cant, pin a cloth over your eyes, look very dismal, and cry, "I was turned out of
employment, when the Drapier was rewarded with a Deanery," I say, my lord, if you can once
bring matters thus to bear, I have not the least doubt you may escape without censure.

To your lordship's zeal and industry without doubt is owing, that the Papists and the Tories
have not delivered this kingdom over to the Pretender, so Caesar conquered Pompey that Legum
auctor et eversor, and 'twas but just the liberty and laws of Rome should afterwards depend
upon his will and pleasure.----The Drapier in his letter to Lord Molesworth has made a fair
offer, "Secure his country from Wood's coinage," then condemn all he has writ and said as false
and scandalous, when your lordship does as much I must confess it will be somewhat difficult
to discover the impostor.

Thus to keep my word with your lordship, I have much against my inclinations writ this, which
shall be my last upon the ungrateful subject.--If I have leisure, and find a safe opportunity
of giving it to the printer, my next shall explain what has long duped the true Whigs of this
kingdom. I mean honesty in the "worst of times."

Though your lordship object to my last, that what I writ was taken out of Lord Coke, Lord Somers,
Sir Will. Jones, or the writings of some other great men, yet I will venture to end this with
the sentiments of Philip de Comines upon some thorough-going courtiers.

"If a sixpenny tax is to be raised, they cry by all means it ought to be double. If the prince
is offended with any man, they are directly for hanging him. In other instances, they maintain
the same character. Above all things they advise their king to make himself terrible, as they
themselves are proud, fierce, and overbearing, in hopes to be dreaded by that means, as if
authority and place were their inheritance."

          I am,
            My Lord,
      Your Lordship's most
              obedient and most
                   humble servant.
                                N.N.
Jan. 4, 1724-5.

APPENDIX V

THE PRESENTMENT OF THE GRAND JURY OF THE COUNTY OF THE CITY OF DUBLIN.[1]

Whereas several great quantities of base metal coined, commonly called Wood's halfpence, have
been brought into the port of Dublin, and lodged in several houses of this city, with an intention
to make them pass clandestinely, among His Majesty's subjects of this kingdom; notwithstanding
the addresses of both houses of parliament and the privy-council, and the declarations of most
of the corporations of this city against the said coin; And whereas His Majesty hath been graciously
pleased to leave his loyal subjects of this kingdom at liberty to take or refuse the said halfpence.

[Footnote 1: Chief Justice Whitshed, after browbeating the Grand Jury that threw out the Bill
against Harding for printing the fourth Drapier's letter, discharged it, and called another
Grand Jury. The second Grand Jury not only repeated the verdict of the first, but issued the
following expression of its opinion on the matter of Wood and his patent. [T.S.]]

We the Grand Jury of the county of the city of Dublin, this Michaelmas term, 1724, having entirely
at heart His Majesty's interest and the welfare of our country, and being thoroughly sensible
of the great discouragement which trade hath suffered by the apprehensions of the said coin,
whereof we have already felt the dismal effects, and that the currency thereof will inevitably
tend to the great diminution of His Majesty's revenue, and the ruin of us and our posterity:
do present all such persons as have attempted, or shall endeavour by fraud or otherwise, to
impose the said halfpence upon us, contrary to His Majesty's most gracious intentions, as enemies
to His Majesty's government, and to the safety, peace and welfare of all His Majesty's subjects
of this kingdom, whose affections have been so eminently distinguished by their zeal to his
illustrious family, before his happy accession to the throne, and by their continued loyalty
ever since.

As we do with all just gratitude acknowledge the services of all such patriots, as have been
eminently zealous for the interest of His Majesty, and this country, in detecting the fraudulent
impositions of the said Wood, and preventing the passing his base coin: So we do at the same
time declare our abhorrence and detestation of all reflections on His Majesty, and his government,
and that we are ready with our lives and fortunes to defend his most Sacred Majesty against
the Pretender and all His Majesty's open and secret enemies both at home and abroad: Given
under our hands at the Grand Jury Chamber this 28th, November, 1724.[2]

George Forbes,             David Tew, William Empson,            Thomas How, Nathaniel Pearson,
John Jones, Joseph Nuttall,            James Brown, William Aston,             Charles Lyndon,
Stearn Tighe,              Jerom Bredin, Richard Walker,            John Sican, Edmond French,
Anthony Brunton, John Vereilles,            Thomas Gaven, Philip Pearson,            Daniel
Elwood, Thomas Robins,             John Brunet. Richard Dawson,

[Footnote 2: On August 20th, 1724, the Grand Jury, and the other inhabitants of the Liberty
of the Dean and Chapter of St. Patrick's waited on the Dean, and read him the following Declaration,
desiring him to give orders for its publication:

"The Declaration of the Grand-Jury, and the rest of the inhabitants of the Liberty of the Dean
and Chapter of St. Patrick's, Dublin. [T. S.]]

APPENDIX VI

PROCLAMATION AGAINST THE DRAPIER.

"Oct. 27th, 1724.

"A proclamation for discovering ye Author of ye Pamphlet intituled A letter to ye whole people
of Ireland, by M.B. Drapier, author of the Letter to the Shop-keepers, etc.

£300 Reward

BY THE LORD-LIEUTENANT AND COUNCIL OF IRELAND.

A Proclamation.

"Given at the council chamber in Dublin, this twenty-seventh day of October, one thousand seven
hundred and twenty-four.

"(Signed) Midleton Cancer. Shannon; Donnerail; G. Fforbes; H. Meath; Santry; Tyrawly; Fferrars;
William Conolly; Ralph Gore; William Whitshed; B. Hale; Gust. Hume; Ben Parry; James Tynte;
R. Tighe; T. Clutterbuck.

"God Save the King."

APPENDIX VII

It is very interesting and even curious to note, that the signatories to the public expression
of their attitude towards Wood and his patent, as shown by the Proclamation, should have almost
all of them signed another document, in their capacities of Privy Councillors, which addressed
his Majesty against Wood and the patent. So far as I can learn, Monck Mason seems to have been
the first historian to discover it; nor do I find the fact mentioned by any of Swift's later
biographers.

"It was rumoured in Swift's time," says Monck Mason, "but not actually known to him" (see Drapier's
Sixth Letter), "that the Irish Privy Council had addressed his Majesty against Mr. Wood's coin.
Having inspected the papers of the Council office, I shall lay before the reader the particulars
of this event, which were never promulgated, probably, because they had not the desired effect,
the premier [Walpole] having determined, notwithstanding all opposition or advice, to persevere
in his ill-judged project.

"On the 17th April, 1724, at a meeting of the Council, in which the Duke of Grafton himself
presided, it was ordered, that it should be referred to a committee of the whole board, or
of any seven or more, 'to consider what was proper to be done to allay and quiet the great
fears of the people, occasioned by their apprehensions of William Wood's copper money becoming
current among them,' On the 6th of May, the committee reported, that they had considered the
matter referred to them, and were of opinion, that an address should be sent to his Majesty,
of which they then presented a draught. It was again on the 19th, referred to a committee of
the whole board to prepare a letter, which was accordingly done on the next day.--The report
was as follows:

"'To the King's Most Excellent Majesty, the humble address of the Lords Justices, and Privy-Council.

       *       *       *       *       *

"'May it please your Majesty,

"'We, your Majesty's most dutiful and loyal subjects, the Lords Justices and Privy Council,
most humbly beg leave, at this time, to give an instance of that duty, which, as upon all other
occasions, so more especially upon such as are of the greatest moment and importance, we hold
ourselves always bound to pay to your Majesty.

"'Your Majesty's great council, the High Court of Parliament, being now prorogued, we conceive
ourselves bound, by the trust which your Majesty has been pleased to repose in us, and the
oaths we have taken, with all humility to lay before your Majesty the present state of this
your kingdom, with reference to a great evil that appears to threaten it, to which, if a speedy
remedy be not applied, the unavoidable consequence, as we apprehend, will be, the ruin of multitudes
of your Majesty's subjects, together with a great diminution of your revenue.

"'Though the fears of your Majesty's subjects of this kingdom, in relation to the coinage of
copper half-pence and farthings, were, in a great measure, allayed by your Majesty's most gracious
resolution to do every thing in your power for the satisfaction of your people, expressed in
your Majesty's answer to the addresses of both Houses of Parliament; yet, the repeated intelligence
from Great Britain, that William Wood has the assurance to persist in his endeavours to introduce
his copper half-pence and farthings amongst us, has again alarmed your faithful subjects, to
such a degree, as already to give a great check to our inland trade. If the letters patent
granted to William Wood should, in all points, be exactly complied with, the loss to be sustained
by taking his half-pence and farthings would be much greater than this poor kingdom is able
to bear. But if he, or any other persons, should, for the value of gain, be tempted to coin
and import even more than double the quantity he by his patent is allowed to do, your people
here do not see how it is possible for your Majesty's chief governors of this your kingdom,
to detect or hinder the cheat.

"'It is found by experience, that we have already a sufficient quantity of half-pence, to serve
by way of exchange in the retailing trade, which is the only use of such sort of money, of
which, therefore, we find ourselves to be in no want.

"'And since, by the letters patent granted to the same William Wood, no man is required or
commanded to take the said half-pence or farthings, but the taking them is left at liberty
to those who are willing so to do; we most humbly submit it to your royal wisdom and goodness,
whether it may not be for your Majesty's service, and the great satisfaction and good of your
subjects, and very much tend to the allaying and quieting of their fears, that your Majesty
should cause your royal pleasure to be signified to the Commissioners, and other officers of
your Majesty's revenue in this kingdom, that they neither receive those half-pence and farthings,
nor give countenance or encouragement to the uttering or vending of them; or that some other
speedy method may be taken to prevent their becoming current amongst us.'" As also the Case
and Address of both Houses of Parliament together with His Majesty's Most Gracious Answer to
the House of Lords Address."

The writer of this tract in defence of the patent maintained the following propositions:

(1) That the Kingdom of Ireland wants a Copper Coin.

(2) That the quantity of this coin will be no inconvenience to it.

(3) That it is better than ever the Kingdom had, and as good as (in all probability) they ever
will or can have, and that the Patentee's profit is not extravagant, as commonly reported.

(4) That the Kingdom will lose nothing by this coin.

(5) That the public in Ireland will gain considerably by it, if they please.

(6) That the Kingdom will have £100,000 additional cash.

As he states his arguments, they are quite reasonable. On proposition three, if his figures
are correct, he is especially convincing. He details the cost of manufacture thus:

                                                     s.  d.
Copper prepared for the coinage at his Majesty's
  Mint at the Tower of London, costs per pound
  weight                                              1   6

Coinage of one pound weight                               3-1/2

Waste and charge of re-melting                            1

Yearly payment to the Exchequer and Comptroller           1

Allowed to the purchaser for exchange, &c.                5

                                  Total charge        2   4-1/2

"So that the patentee," he concludes, "makes a profit of only 1-1/2d. in the half crown or
about 5%."

The tract, however, is more interesting for the reprint it gives of the twenty-eight articles
stated by the people in objection to the patent and the coin. I give these articles in full:

IRELAND'S CASE HUMBLY PRESENTED TO THE HONOURABLE THE KNIGHTS, CITIZENS, AND BURGESSES IN PARLIAMENT
ASSEMBLED

MOST HUMBLY SHEWETH,

Whereas your Honours finding the late Grant or Letters Patents obtained by Mr. William Wood,
for making Three Hundred and Sixty Tun weight of copper half-pence for the Kingdom of Ireland,
were to be manufactured in London &c. which money is now coining in Bristol, and that the said
money was to weigh two shillings and sixpence in each pound weight, and that change was to
be uttered or passed for all such as were pleased to take the same in this Kingdom.

That it's humbly conceived Your Honours on considering the following Remarks, will find the
permitting such change to pass, exceeding Injurious and Destructive to the Nation.

First. That the same will be a means to drain this Kingdom of all its Gold and Silver, and
ten, fifteen, or twenty per cent abated, will most effectually do the same.

2d. That the making such money in England will give great room for counterfeiting that coin,
as well in this Kingdom, as where it is made.

3d. That the Copper Mines of this Island which might be manufactured in the nation, is by management
shipped off to England by some persons at, or about forty shillings per tun, by others at four
pounds and six pounds per ton, which copper when smelted and refined is sold and sent back
to this kingdom at two shillings and six pence per pound weight as aforesaid, which is two
hundred and eighty pound sterl. per ton.

4th. That two shillings and sixpence per pound weight is making the said coin of very small
value, the said coin ought not to weigh or exceed two shillings in each pound weight as the
English Halfpence are.

5th. That all such money brought to this Nation manufactured, is to be entered at value, which
value is in the Book of Rates, ten per cent duty and excise.

6th. That no security is given to this Nation to make such money in any one point, the same
may be found defective in either, as to baseness of metal, workmanship or weight, or to give
gold and silver for the same, when the subject was, or may be burthened therewith.

7th. That if such monies as aforesaid be permitted to pass in this nation, all persons that
have gold or silver by them would not part therewith, but Brass money must be carried from
House to House on Truckles, and in the county by carts and horses, with troops to guard them.

8th. That such money will raise the price of all commodities from abroad, probably to three
or four hundred per cent.

9th. That linen, yarn, beef, butter, tallow, hides and all other commodities, will raise to
that degree by being bought with half-pence, and workmen paid with brass money, that commissions
from abroad will not reach them, therefore such goods must lie on hands and remain a drugg.

10th. That the excise of beer, ale, brandy, &c., and hearth-money will be paid in such coin,
the same falling first into the hands of the poor and middling people.

11th. That if any trouble should happen in this nation, no army could be raised with such specie,
but an enemy in all appearance would be admitted with their gold and silver, and which would
drive the nation before them.

12th. The Courts of Law could not subsist, for all the suits there must be supported and maintained
with ready money. Viz. Gold and Silver.

13th. That all the bankers must shut up their shops, no lodgment would be made except Halfpence,
such as would lodge their money with them, would rather draw off and cause a run on them, fearing
that their specie should be turned into the said brass and copper money.

14th. That such bills as are drawn to the country, viz. Cork, Limerick, Waterford, Kingsale,
Deny, &c. The Exchange would be instead of a quarter per cent, twenty per cent and then paid
in the said Brass specie, by means of its being brought on cars, carts, or waggons, and guards
to attend the same.

15th. That all the rent in the Kingdom would be paid in half-pence; no man would give gold
or silver, when he had brass money to pay the same.

16th. That no one can coin or manufacture such a quantity of halfpence or farthings for this
Kingdom, out of the same, but either he must be ruined in the undertaking or the nation undone
by his project, in taking such light money, by reason of ten per cent, duty, and probably this
session be made twenty or thirty per cent duty, and the exchange nine or ten per cent. Ten
per cent abated to circulate them. Ten per cent factorage, freight, gabberage, key-porters,
&c. all which is forty per cent, charged on the same.

17th. That if the said Wood was obliged to make his light money not to exceed two shillings
in the pound weight according to the English coin, he would give up such grant, for six pence
in each pound weight is 25 per cent.

18th. That the said twenty-five per cent is 19,360l. sterl. on the said 360 ton of copper,
loss to this nation, by being coined out of this Kingdom, besides 80,690l. of gold and silver
sent out of the Kingdom for brass or copper money.

19th. That the copper mines of this Kingdom is believed to be the metal such copper is made
of, which verifies the English saying, That Irish people are wild, that would part with 200,000l.
sterl. of their gold and silver, for their own copper mines, which cost them not one pound sterl.

20th. That the said Wood's factors probably may send in fourteen years double the quantity
of copper which is 720 ton, then this Kingdom loses 38,720l. sterl. and parts with 161,280l.
sterl. of their gold and silver for almost nothing.

21st. If any great sum was to be raised by this nation, on any emergency extraordinary, to
serve his Majesty and his Kingdom how would it be possible to do the same; copper half-pence
would not stem the tide, no silver now to be had of value, then no gold to be seen.

22d. That England also must be a great loser by such money, by reason the said half-pence being
from 20 to 40 grains lighter and less in value than their own, so that the same will not pass
in that Kingdom scarce for farthings a piece, how then shall the vast quantities of goods be
paid for, that are brought from that Kingdom here, a considerable part of this island must
be broke and run away for want of silver and gold to pay them their debts.

23d. That if the said Wood should get all that money, what power would he regard, and what
temptation would he be subject unto on that head, he is but a man, and one almost as little
known or heard of, as any one subject the king has on this side the water.

24th. That the vast quantity of sea-coal brought from England here, would not be had for such
money; the colliers will keep both their ships and coal at home, before they trade with such
a nation, as had their treasure turned into brass money.

25th. That the Army must be paid with such money, none else to be had, they would lay down
their arms and do no duty, what blood and confusion then would attend the same.

26th. That no people out of any other Kingdom would come into this country to dwell, either
to plant or sow, where all their money must be brass.

27th. That the beautiful Quay and river of Dublin which is now lined and filled with ships
in a most delightful order, would then be scattered to other harbours, as also the new Range,
there and now a building, would be left, nothing but empty places all as doleful as the weeping
river, deserted by her fleets and armies of merchants and traders.

28th. That the aforesaid scheme is to be viewed and considered by a King and Parliament, that
will do themselves and their nation justice, who will with hearts and hands, stem that tide
and current, as never to suffer so dutiful and loyal a people to be ruined and undone without
relief.

APPENDIX IX

DESCRIPTIONS OF THE VARIOUS SPECIMENS OF WOOD'S COINS

The following descriptions of the various varieties of Wood's coins, taken from a note in Monck
Mason's "History of St. Patrick's Cathedral" (ed. 1819, pp. xcvi-xcvii), may be interesting
to the student. The two varieties of the coins given as illustrations in this volume are reproduced
from specimens in the British Museum.

Monck Mason obtains his information from Simon's "Essay on Irish Coins," Dublin, 1749, 4to;
Snelling's Supplement to Simon issued in 1767; and the edition of Simon's work reprinted in 1810.

With the exception of No. II. of this list all of Wood's coins had, on one side, "the king's
head laureat, looking to the left, with this inscription, GEORGIUS, DEI GRATIA, REX. On the
reverse is the figure of Ireland, represented by a woman sitting, beside her, a harp: the differences
consist chiefly, in variations in the attitude of the figure, and in the date of the coin."

No. I. 1722.--Hibernia, with both her hands on the harp, which is placed on her right side;
her figure is full front, but she looks towards the right; round her this inscription, HIBERNIA,
1722. (Simon, plate 7, Numb. 160)

No. II. 1722.--Hibernia is seated as in the last, but has her head turned to the left, on which
side there is a rock; round her is inscribed, HIBERNIA; in the exergue, 1722; on the obverse
the usual head, the inscription, GEORGIUS D.G. REX. (Snelling, plate 2, Numb. 24.)

No. III. 1722.--Hibernia, in profile, looking to the left, holding, in her right hand, a palm
branch, resting her left on a harp; round it, HIBERNIA, 1722. (Simon, plate 7, Numb. 161.)

No. IV. 1723.--Hibernia, as in the last; round her, HIBERNIA, 1723. (Simon, plate 8, Numb. 169.)

It was some of this coin that was submitted to Sir Isaac Newton for assay.

No. V. 1724.--Hibernia, as in the last two, differing only in the date. (Mentioned by Simon,
but no engraving given.)

No, VI. 1724.--Hibernia, seated as in the three preceding; round her, HIBERNIA: in the exergue,
1724. (Snelling, plate 2, Numb. 26.)

Mason notes of this specimen: "Mr. Snelling does not specify, particularly, in what respect
this coin differs from those which precede; his words are, 'different from any other, and very
good work, especially the halfpenny, which is the finest and broadest piece of his money I
ever saw, and belongs to Mr. Bartlet.' They do not, however, appear to have attained to circulation
in Ireland. A few might, perhaps, have been struck off by the patentee, to distribute among
his own, and the minister's friends."

No. VII.--Mr. Snelling mentions, "another halfpenny, which has Hibernia pointing up with one
hand to a sun in the top of the piece"; but of this he has not given any engraving.

INDEX.

Addison, made keeper of the records of Bermingham's Tower Armstrong, Sir Thomas, granted a
patent to  coin farthings in Ireland Armstrong, Sir William, granted a patent to coin halfpence
in Ireland

