    "Finding that we were distant from eight to twelve miles across
    country according to the different estimates, I determined to make
    the attempt to reach it on foot. Any danger, anything seemed
    preferable to staying on the boat. With the first breaking of the
    dawn, when I could get my bearings, I slung myself ashore. A
    private in my regiment discharged for disability, begged to
    accompany me. With weapons ready for instant use, we pushed along,
    afraid of our own shadows, looking for a lurking foe behind every
    bush, and when some startled bird suddenly broke from its cover,
    the heart of one at least stood still for a moment and then
    throbbed away like a steam engine. If a man was seen, however
    distant, we dropped to cover and watched him out of sight before we
    dared move. For the first mile our progress was very slow--now
    wading through water, now sinking in the mud, floundering about as
    best we could, while the mosquitoes and gnats settled down on us in
    swarms, uttering a triumphant buzzing as though they recognized the
    fact that they had fresher blood to feed on than that offered by
    the fever-stricken victims of the South and were determined to make
    the most of their opportunity. But the open country once reached we
    lengthened out our steps and struck into a six-mile gait. Soon my
    companion began to falter and fall behind. But I could not afford
    to wait, telling him I presumed he was all right, but I could not
    run any risks, I stood him up by a tree and taking his gun, marched
    off a couple hundred yards, then laying it down I shouted to him to
    come on, and, setting off at the top of my speed, saw him no more.
    Whether he ever reached his destination or whether wandering
    helplessly along--he was swooped down upon by some gorilla, and led
    away to starve and die in a Southern prison, I did not learn for
    many years. At the last reunion I attended, I was called upon to
    respond to the toast 'The Postal Service of the Regiment, and What
    You Know About It,' and at the conclusion of my remarks, a stout
    grizzled veteran grasped my hand and said: 'Look, I'm glad to see
    you. I thought it pretty cruel to leave me alone in Dixie, but you
    had warned me beforehand and I guess you were right.'

    "Avoiding the houses and striking across the fields, I made the
    last part of my way at full run, and drew up panting and exhausted
    at Berwick Bay shortly after six. Not a moment was to be lost. I
    could hear the engine puffing across the waters. Shouting to a
    darkey, who seemed to rise up preternaturally out of the ground, I
    ordered him to row me over; and a more astonished man I think I
    never saw than he was. When on reaching the opposite shore, with
    but ten minutes to spare, I bolted from the boat without a word,
    and started on the run for headquarters. The general was asleep,
    but an aid carried in my pass, signed by General Banks, brought it
    back countersigned, and in five minutes more I was aboard the train
    moving on to New Orleans.

    "Of this part of my journey I have a very indistinct remembrance.
    My impression is that I dozed whenever I sat down, and I was so
    tired I could hardly stand. I had had nothing to eat since the
    night before and was faint and exhausted with hunger, and my
    exertions. Nothing but the special training my class had taken in
    gymnasium during the previous year, for just such an emergency,
    pulled me through the long run and long fast following it. It was
    only a run of 100 miles but I think we must have stopped to wood
    and water at every cotton-wood grove and swamp along the way; and I
    remember at one of these periodical stops, going out on the
    platform, and falling into an altercation with a little red-headed
    doctor, who, whether he had scented my secret or not, with that
    divine intuition for discovering the hidden, peculiar to the craft,
    had made himself officially offensive to me, and now, wanted to
    borrow my revolver to shoot a copper-head that lay coiled up by the
    side of the track. Refused in that, he next wanted to examine my
    sword, and when under some trifling pretext, I abruptly left him
    and going inside the car, sat down as near as possible to a
    bluff-looking lieutenant, whose honest face seemed a true
    indication of character, his wrath knew no bounds and was quite
    outspoken. 'Peace to your injured spirit, oh fiery-headed son of
    Esculapius, if you are still in the land of the living! I here
    tender you my humble apologies. Doubtless you intended nothing more
    than to compare the efficiency of my leaden balls with one of your
    own deadly Bolouses or to see how my cleaver compared in sharpness
    with one of your own little scalpels.' But at that particular time
    I should have been suspicious of my own brother had he desired to
    inspect or use my arms.

    "It was late Saturday afternoon when, tired and faint, I landed in
    the city. Pushing straight to the office of the Adams Express
    Company, I told them I had the pay of a regiment to express home
    and wanted five or six hundred money order blanks and envelopes. I
    shall never forget the look of incredulity with which the clerk
    looked at me. I was dirty and ragged, just in from the front, with
    no shoulder-straps, for we had been ordered to remove them and
    diminish the chances of being picked off by the sharpshooters but
    had sword and pistol and an innocent looking haversack hanging at
    my side. However, he said not a word, but passed over the papers.

    "My next adventure was in a saloon where on calling for a drink of
    whiskey, I was informed that they were not allowed to sell to
    privates. On my throwing down my pass signed by Gen. Banks, the
    courteous keeper acknowledged his mistake, and invited me to take
    something at his expense. Immediately after supper to which--it is
    hardly necessary to say--I was accompanied by that confounded
    haversack, I fairly loathed it by this time--I retired to my room,
    locked the door and went to work. Excitement kept me up and by 2
    o'clock everything was done. The money counted and placed in the
    envelopes, and the blanks filled out, and the footing correctly
    made. Then, only did I know how much I had carried with me and how
    precious were the contents of my haversack. Barricading my door,
    with the table, and wedging a chair in between it and the bed, I
    thrust the haversack between the sheets, slid in after it, laid my
    revolver by the pillow, and in an instant was sound asleep. The
    next morning on going down to breakfast I innocently inquired of
    the clerk in the office if he would give me a receipt for
    valuables. 'Certainly,' was his smiling rejoinder. 'For how much?'
    'Twenty-four thousand three hundred and forty-six dollars,' I
    replied and half opening my haversack, showed him the bundles of
    express envelopes, explaining that it was the pay of a regiment.
    'Where did you keep this last night?' was the next question. 'In my
    room.' 'You d---- fool, it might have been stolen.' 'True, but I
    thought it would be safe enough and besides I did not know how much
    I had.'

    "Breakfast over I repaired at once to the office of the express
    company and by noon, with my receipts in my pocket, I stepped
    forth, feeling as if a gigantic load had rolled from my shoulders.

    "Of my journey back there is no need to speak; suffice it to say
    that two or three weeks thereafter, one night as the sun was
    setting, I stood with beating heart on the levee, outside of
    Simsport on the Red River, waiting for the coming of the regiment
    on its march down from Alexandria. Column after column passed and
    still I waited. But suddenly I caught the roll of drums and there
    came a dimness over my eyes, for I recognized familiar forms. The
    colonel riding at the head, the little drum major, the colors and
    each well known face. As they came up I saluted, someone recognized
    me, and called my name. Instantly the cry, 'Lieutenant Goodell has
    come!' swept down the line, and with one mighty shout, the boys
    welcomed back the bearer of their pay. That night I went from
    camp-fire to camp-fire and gave to each orderly sergeant the
    receipts for his company. Of all that money, only one envelope went
    astray, and the express company made good the loss."

ROSTER.

The following gives as near a complete list of those who served with my regiment:

COMPANY A.

Captains.

Macon C. Weld, Charles L. Norton.

First Lieutenants.

Leander Waterman, William H. Parmlee.

Second Lieutenants.

Daniel P. Dewey, George W. Hugg, Henry C. Ward, George H. Goodwin.

Sergeants.

Daniel Calahan, Aaron Cook, William S. Hubbell, Albert H. Olmsted, Samuel L. Otis, Harris B.
Wildman.

Corporals.

George H. Forbes, James W. Gates, William H. Hawley, Edgar B. Hills, Martin B. Hillis, William
B. Keyes, Joseph F. Lincoln, William H. Smith, Albert F. Thompson, Gurdon Trumbull, Jr., Charles
L. Ulrich, Edwin A. Woodbridge.

Musicians.

Samuel S. Folwell, Henry Sipel, George D. Stewart.

Privates.

Charles R. Arnold, George A. Avery, Ira A. Baldwin, Merritt W. Baldwin, Newton H. Baldwin,
Henry W. Barber, Emerson W. Belden, Franklyn D. Brewster, Frank E. Brockway, James L. Brockway,
James B. Chapman, John Collins, Thomas Costello, Philip E. Cowles, Henry H. Deming, Philip
H. Demings, William H. Faxon, Michael Flaherty, George S. Gage, Albert Gates, Thomas Gorman,
John Harger, Everett S. Hayden, Hugh Heath, John Holt, Clayton P. Holcomb, William W. House,
Williard Hent, Harvey C. Hurlbut, Franklyn E. Kilby, Wyllys Kilby, George W. King, James Lanan,
Charles W. Lathrop, John Lawrence, Charles Loveland, Eldred C. Mitchel, John C. Moose, Emery
A. Mosman, Francis W. Munn, John O'Conner, William Phippeny, Lucien Rice, Charles W. Risley,
John Robinson, Dennis Ryan, Henry Sage, Oliver L. Steele, Anthony Stokes, Joseph P. Sumner,
Henry C. Taylor, Leonard Thompson, Archibald Wilson.

COMPANY B.

Captain.

Arthur T. Hinckley.

First Lieutenant.

Henry A. Darling.

Second Lieutenants.

Daniel V. Marshall, William A. Oliver, Frederick W. White.

Sergeants.

Henry W. Caye, Samuel W. Steele, William Sewart, William Taylor.

Corporals.

John Brown, William C. Bruce, William W. Chappell, Hiram Craw, James Jordon, Henry A. Spalding,
Franklyn E. Wallace, William J. Warren, Andrew F. Williams.

Musician.

Elizuer S. Reed.

Privates.

William Anderson, Joseph Baily, Levi Baily, Steven T. Bartlett, Sylvester Bartram, Levi Benson,
Joseph Barnard, William Blake, Austin Booth, Avery Brown, Thomas F. Bunce, James Burns, Albert
Cady, Richard Craw, George Dean, William Dewolf, Alexandra Dorr, Horace Driggs, Adney B. Gladding,
Azriah Gladding, Robert Hen, Henry N. Hobart, Edward Holdham, Eli Hull, James Hunt, George
Jenks, Jeremiah Jennings, Patrick Kennedy, David Lamdon, Robert Lindsey, John Martin, Robert
Mitchell, Steven Murphy, David W. Nodine, Rowland Perry, George O. Pettibone, Chauncey Rodgers,
Ferdinal Sage, John Silcox, Davis D. Stevens, Henry D. Stevens, Charles Taylor, Charles C.
Taylor, Edwin M. Thorne, Patrick J. Tracy, William H. Tuttle, George J. Vanloon, William Wait,
William A. Waters, Aralzia Westland, Martin Whaples, Henry B. Whitford, George Wicks, George
Wilson, Joseph Williams, Loren Wright.

COMPANY C.

Captains.

Samuel S. Hayden, Richard W. Roberts.

First Lieutenant.

Alfred W. Converse.

Second Lieutenants.

Gurdon Trumburm, Benjamin F. Turner.

Sergeants.

Addison F. Lamphear, William C. Anderson, Levi G. Hayden, George H. Snow, Jacob A. Turner,
Gardner Wilmarth.

Corporals.

Ira B. Addis, Joseph Fisher, Robert Morrison, Edward Newport, Cyrus Root, Elisha H. Skinner,
George H. Smith, William W. Strickland, Benjamin F. Wilcox.

Musicians.

Norman Fassett, James E. Lacey.

Privates.

Jason Smith, William H. Baldwin, Daniel B. Barnard, Alfred Beers, Noble H. Bennett, John Brandley,
Charles Burgess, Jerome K. Button, Leander W. Button, William Button, John Cahill, Horace L.
Carter, Chester Casey, Daniel B. Chalker, James A. Chadwick, John N. Clemings, Charles A. Cobb,
George C. Denley, James Dixon, Chauncey F. Doane, Henry H. Doyle, Thomas H. Eaton, John I.
Fowler, Oliver Giddings, Albert Graham, Francis A. Graham, Martin Haley, Thomas C. Hancock,
William K. Hardie, Chester M. Hills, James L. Hodge, Willington Jackson, Ora B. Kibbe, Ferdinand
Kramer, Arthur P. Moors, Michael Moran, James Murray, George H. Nelson, Henry S. Persons, Abraham
Phelps, William Porter, Charles O. Risley, Eugene Risley, John Sarsfield, William H. Sann,
Leonard Schaeffer, Henry Shaw, James N. Skinner, John C. Smith, James W. Smith, Osborne Smith,
John Terhune, Henry Waters, Charles Weeks, John Williams, George W. Whittlesey, Edmond D. Wilmarth.

COMPANY D.

Captain.

George H. Foskit.

First Lieutenant.

Oscar W. Sanford.

Second Lieutenants.

George Brennan, Ephraim Taft.

Sergeants.

Michael Noland, Francis Patten, George Root, Franklyn D. Winters.

Corporals.

James D. Fenton, Alonzo L. Howard, Ralph Lull, Francis R. Munsell, Marvin A. Shearer, Daniel
Webster, Albro Weir, Henry Whiton.

Musicians.

Emery Carpenter, Henry Hotchkiss.

Privates.

James H. Adams, John R. Aldrich, Francis A. Allen, Joseph Allen, Samuel Bartlett, David Belcher,
James M. Blanchard, John Brennan, Abner S. Brooks, John Bumstead, James Clark, Paine Cleveland,
Frederick A. Close, Timothy Collins, Aaron Converse, Andrew A. Converse, Sumner Converse, John
Corcoran, Nathaniel Cushman, Erwin O. Dimock, William H. Dudley, Leander Duncan, Sereno E.
Dwight, Penuel Eddy, William G. Faulkner, Truman P. Fenton, George Ferry, Adorno P. Fisk, John
Foskitt, William A. Francis, George A. Frinke, Dexter S. Goodrich, John Grey, Zebular Grey,
Jeremiah Guiney, John Halthouszer, Samson Hulett, Elam Hyde, Henry K. Knapp, Dwight Leonard,
Homer A. Lord, Freeman Marcy, Gustin B. Marble, Henry McKinney, Theodore P. Needham, David
E. Norris, George Patten, Albert C. Pinney, Julius Pinney, Lucius Pinney, Calvin Porter, David
W. Putney, William Rodgers, Jr., Dwight Scripture, James N. Sibley, Ira P. Sisson, Abraham
H. Vanshaack, Joseph A. Washburn, Madison C. Willis, John Wood, Giles Woodworth.

COMPANY E.

Captains.

Newton P. Johnson, Leander Waterman.

First Lieutenants.

Almon C. Banning, Robert T. Duncan.

Second Lieutenant.

Edward Pinney.

Sergeants.

George B. Thurston, Eugene C. Alderman, Miles H. Barnard, Miletus H. Carrier, Marcillus C.
Clark, Henry W. Davis.

Corporals.

James Boyle, Wilbur B. Case, William W. Clark, Emery M. Griffin, Andrew N. Moore, Alexandria
Patterson, Edward D. Prindle, Morton Sandford, Julius Weed, George L. Wells.

Musicians.

Ezra Smart, William H. Wallin.

Privates.

Owen Bacon, Elbert I. Barning, William Barton, Lyman J. Barden, Eugene Brown, Phelps Church,
Franklyn Clark, George H. Clark, Miles C. Clark, Dewitt Coe, Leverett H. Coe, Sylvester T.
Cook, Theron Cowdry, Leavett Emmons, Luther W. Eno, Patrick Farley, Thomas Farley, James McGoodrich,
Edwin J. Gower, Sparling J. Gower, Henry E. Griffin, James Harvey, Gilbert Hayes, Elizah T.
Holcomb, Tryon Holcomb, Steven A. Hollister, Elizah Hyer, Alonzo S. Jones, William H. Kempton,
Frederick Kramer, Charles H. Lamphear, Webster B. Latham, Samuel A. Lawton, William Maher,
Francis Mann, Lucius F. Marks, Patric McAuliffee, John McAuley, Francis Messinger, Harlow Messenger,
Lorenzo Messenger, Richard Moore, Marcus Moses, Alfred A. Phelps, Nelson W. Pierce, James Reynolds,
George M. Searles, John Shaughnessy, Edward Sperry, Hiram F. Squire, John Lydenham, Charles
W. Tallmadge, Lewis C. Tallmadge, George Taylor, Leroy Tuller, Charles E. Tyning, Hiram L.
Warner, Charles Wilcox, William Wilson.

COMPANY F.

Captain.

George H. Napheys.

First Lieutenants.

Henry Kimball, Henry H. Goodale.

Sergeants.

Jonas G. Holden, Henry R. Pease, William O. Bissell, Charles D. Grover, Augustus S. Lancaster,
Carlos W. Thrall.

Corporals.

Charles K. Belknap, Orville F. Belknap, Arthur A. Hyde, Samuel A. Smith, Harlow Spencer, Wallace
S. Talcott, John Thompson, Alva T. Thrall, Carlos Thumb.

Musicians.

Horton Pease, George Warner.

Privates.

Horatio R. Baker, Roger G. Beebe, William H. Bennet, Norton M. Braman, Patrick Brannen, Oliver
Burke, Charles Cavanaugh, John A. Chism, Timothy Conner, Martin Connins, Patrick Duffy, William
Finney, Henry M. Fowler, Enoch C. Haskings, William Hatter, Francis Hoffman, Harvey E. Kibbee,
Michael Long, Francis Morgan, John Nick, Alonzo Nobles, Mark Nobles, Andrew Palmer, Byron W.
Pease, John Porus, William Reed, George R. Robinson, John M. Royce, Samuel Schlesinger, Edward
Shears, Charles P. Smith, Daniel Sullivan, Francis M. Taft, Jason Thrall, Erskine Wallace,
Henry Weller, Jonas E. Wilson, James W. Wright, Jerome H. Mather.

COMPANY G.

Captain.

Charles H. Talcott.

First Lieutenant.

Hezekiah Bissell.

Second Lieutenant.

Charles Avery.

Sergeants.

Benjamin F. Turner, Samuel C. Harding, Nathan Willey, Lemuel R. Lord, John C. Rockwell, Elijah
Ward.

Corporals.

Charles H. Barber, Charles H. Bartholemew, John Brown, Erastus Cowles, Wm. H. Ellsworth, Edwin
D. Farnham, John M. Lee, Walter T. Lord, John Roe, John H. Skillman.

Musicians.

Daniel L. Talcott, Elihu Wattress.

Wagoner.

Lucius Crane.

Privates.

Seth S. Allen, Henry Avery, George W. Ayers, Ransford Baker, Samuel Barrows, Elam Belknap,
Joseph Belknap, Alfred M. Bissell, Carlos Bissell, Samuel T. Bissell, Lavalette Blodgett, William
Brown, Albert Covill, James M. Crane, Samuel K. Ellis, Chauncey B. Ellsworth, John Ellsworth,
Theodore Ellsworth, Francis O. Fish, John F. Fitts, Michael Flinn, James F. Fox, Charles E.
Gage, Nathan C. Gibbert, Ezra Goodale, William M. Goodrich, Edward Gowdy, Richard C. Green,
William W. Green, Jesse Griffith, Burgess S. Hale, William H. Haling, Samuel Hamilton, John
L. Harper, Julius Hays, Waldo Hayes, Orrin G. Hollister, Henry C. House, Dewitt C. House, Elisha
E. House, Horace P. Kingsbury, James H. McKee, Robert McNorton, William Moffitt, Horace H.
Newbury, Elihu S. Olcott, Charles Parker, Philander Phiney, Thomas Rabeth, Maro Robinson, Franklyn
Sadd, Eugene S. Samson, Henry M. Sexton, Henry M. Shipman, Welles G. Skinner, Richard Smith,
Nelson H. Staples, Fred W. Ticknor, William A. Ticknor, Michael Ward, Gerald Welles.

COMPANY H.

Captain.

William W. Abbey.

First Lieutenant.

Dwight Ensworth.

Second Lieutenants.

Bononi E. Buck, Charles Clapp, John M. Brown.

Sergeants.

Arthur W. Andross, Charles F. Bevins, Thomas A. Davis, William Holden, William M. Hollister,
Aaron Kinne, Sumner Payne, Thomas H. Robins.

Corporals.

Daniel W. Dimock, George D. Fuller, Oliver Hale, John H. Hunt, Theron I. Neff, Willington C.
Graves, Julius H. Smith, Justus R. Stevens.

Musicians.

William Hempstead, George Robinson.

Privates.

