"GOTHIC" There can be no doubt that the term was used at first contemptuously, and in derision,
by those who were ambitious to imitate and revive the Grecian orders of architecture, after
the revival of classical literature. But, without citing many authorities, such as Christopher
Wren, and others, who lent their aid in depreciating the old mediæval style, which they termed
Gothic, as synonymous with every thing that was barbarous and rude, it may be sufficient to
refer to the celebrated Treatise of Sir Henry Wotton, entitled The Elements of Architecture,
4to., printed in London so early as 1624. This work was so popular, that it was translated
into Latin, and annexed to the works of Vitruvius, as well as to Freart's Parallel of the Ancient
Architecture with the Modern. Dufresnoy, also, who divided his time between poetry and painting,
and whose work on the latter art was rendered popular in this country by Dryden's translation,
uses the term "Gothique" in a bad sense. But it was a strange misapplication of the term to
use it for the pointed style, in contradistinction to the circular, formerly called Saxon,
now Norman, Romanesque, &c. These latter styles, like Lombardic, Italian, and the Byzantine,
of course belong more to the Gothic period than the light and elegant structures of the pointed
order which succeeded them. Felibien, the French author of the Lives of Architects, divides
Gothic architecture into two distinct kinds--the massive and the light; and as the latter superseded
the former, the term Gothic, which had been originally applied to both kinds, seems to have
been restricted improperly to the latter only. As there is now, happily, no fear of the word
being understood in a bad sense, there seems to be no longer any objection to the use of it
in a good one, whatever terms may be used to discriminate all the varieties of the style observable
either at home or abroad.

J.I.

Trinity College, Oxford.

       *       *       *       *       * {135}

DR. BURNEY'S MUSICAL WORKS.

Mr. Editor,--On pp. 63. and 78. of your columns inquiry is made for Burney's Treatise on Music
(not his History). Before correspondents trouble you with their wants, I think they should
be certain that the books they inquire for have existence. Dr. Burney never published, or wrote,
a Treatise on Music. His only works on the subject (the General History of Music excepted)
are the following:--

    "The Present State of Music in France and Italy. 8vo. 1771.

    "The Present State of Music in Germany, the Netherlands, and
    United Provinces. 2 vols. 8vo. 1775.

    "An Account of the Musical Performances in Westminster Abbey,
    and the Pantheon, &c. in Commemoration of Handel. 4to. 1785.

    "A Plan for the Formation of a Musical Academy, 8vo. n. d."

As your "NOTES AND QUERIES" will become a standard book of reference, strict accuracy on all
points is the grand desideratum.

EDW. F. RIMBAULT.

P.S. I might, perhaps, have included in the above list the Life of Metastasio, which, although
not generally classed among musical works, forms an admirable supplement to the General History
of Music.

E.F.R.

       *       *       *       *       *

ANCIENT INSCRIBED DISHES.

Judging from the various notices in your Nos. 3, 5, and 6, the dishes and inscriptions mentioned
therein by CLERICUS, L.S.B., &c., pp. 44. 73. 87., are likely to cause as much speculation
here as they have some time experienced on the continent. They were there principally figured
and discussed in the Curiositãten, a miscellaneous periodical, conducted from about 1818 to
1825, by Vulpius, brother-in-law of Göthe, librarian to the Grand Duke of Saxe Weimar. Herr
v. Strombeck, Judge of the Supreme Court of Appeal at Wolfenbüttel, first noticed them from
a specimen belonging to the church of a suppressed convent at Sterterheim near Brunswick, and
they were subsequently pounced upon by Joseph v. Hammer (now v. Purgstall), the learned orientalist
of Vienna, as one of the principal proofs which he adduced in his Mysterium Baphometis Revelatum
in one of the numbers of the Fundgruben (Mines) des Orients, for the monstrous impieties and
impurities which he, Nicolai, and others, falsely attributed to the Templars. Comments upon
these dishes occur in other works of a recent period, but having left my portfolio, concerning
them, with other papers, on the continent, I give these hasty notices entirely from memory.
They are by no means uncommon now in England, as the notices of your correspondents prove.
A paper on three varieties of them at Hull was read in 1829, to the Hull Literary and Philosophical
Society. In Nash's Worcestershire one is depicted full size, and a reduced copy given about
this period in the Gentleman's Magazine, and Nash first calls them "Offertory Dishes." The
Germans call them Taufbecken, or baptismal basins; but I believe the English denomination more
correct, as I have a distinct recollection of seeing, in a Catholic convent at Danzig, a similar
one placed on Good Friday before the tomb of the interred image of the Saviour, for the oblations
for which it was not too large. Another of them is kept upon the altar of Boroughbridge Church
(N. Riding of Yorkshire), but sadly worn down by scrubbing to keep it bright, and the attempt
at a copy of the Inscription in a Harrowgate Guide is felicitously ludicrous: it is there taken
as a relic of the Roman Isurium on the same spot. Three others were observed some years ago
in a neglected nook of the sacristy of York Cathedral. At the last meeting of the Institute
at Salisbury, a number of these were exhibited in St. John's House there, but I believe without
any notice taken of them in its Proceedings; and another was shown to the Archæological Society,
at their last Chester Congress, by Colonel Biddulph, at Chirk Castle; when more were mentioned
by the visitors as in their possession, anxious as your correspondents to know the import of
the inscriptions. They are sometimes seen exposed in the shops of Wardour Street, and in other
curiosity shops of the metropolis.

On their sunken centres all have religious types: the most common is the temptation of Eve;
the next in frequency, the Annunciation; the Spies sent by Joshua returning with an immense
bunch of grapes suspended betwixt them, is not unfrequent; but non-scriptural subjects, as
the Martyrdom of St. Sebastian, mentioned by L.S.B., is a variety I have not before observed.

The inscriptions vary, and are sometimes double in two concentral rings. The most usual is
that alluded to by your correspondents, and though obviously German, neither old nor obsolete;
having been viewed even by native decipherers, through the mist of a preconceived hypothesis,
have never yet been by them satisfactorily accounted for. It is always repeated four times,
evidently from the same slightly curved die; when, however, the enlarged circumference of the
circle required more than this fourfold repetition to go round it, the die was set on again
for as much of a fifth impression as was necessary: this was seldom more than four or five
letters, which, as pleonastic or intercalary, are to be carefully rejected in reading the rest;
their introduction has confused many expositors.

The readings of some of your correspondents who understand German is pretty near the truth.
{136} I have before said that the centre type of Eve's Temptation is the most common, and to
it the words especially refer, and seem at the place of their manufacture (most probably Nuremburg)
to have been used for other centres without any regard to its fitness. The letters, as I can
safely aver from some very perfect specimens, are

    DER SELEN INFRID WART;

in modern German "der Seelen Infried wort." To the German scholar the two latter words only
require explanation. Infrid for Unfried, discord, disturbance, any thing in opposition to Frieden
or peace. The Frid-stools at Beverley, Ripon, and Hexham, still bear the old theotise stamp.
Wart, or ward, may be either the past tense of werden, to be (our was), or an old form of währen,
to endure, to last: our English wear is the same word. The sense is pretty much the same in
both readings alluding to Eve. In the first:

  (By her) the soul's disturbance came (was).

By the second:

  (Through her) the soul's disturbance continues.

I may here observe that the words ICH WART are particularly distinct on a helmet, pictured
in the Journal of the British Archæological Association, which the Secretary, Mr. Planche,
in such matters the highest authority, regards as a tilting helmet. It may there have been
in the original ICH WARTE, meaning I bide (my time).

But the centres and this inscription are the least difficulty. A second, frequently met with,
is by far more puzzling. I could not give your readers any idea of it without a drawing: however
it is found imperfectly depicted on the plates I have before mentioned in Nash's Worcestershire,
and the Gentleman's Magazine, and I think I recollect also a very rude copy in a volume of
Hearne's Miscellaneous Works, which I examined in the Gottingen Library, but whether belonging
to the work or a MS. addition I cannot now call to mind. The fanciful and flowery form of its
letters gives great scope to the imagination in assigning them their particular position in
the alphabet, and the difficulty of reading them is enhanced by the doubts of German archæologists
whether they are initials or component parts of a sentence. Herr Joseph v. Hammer Purgstall,
however, in his version RECORD DE SCI GNSI, or in full Recordamini de sancta Gnosi, deduces
thence his principal proof of Gnostic heresy amongst the calumniated Templars, in which I am
sorry to say he has been too servilely followed in England: e.g. by Mr. Godfrey Higgins, in
his posthumous Anaclypsis (p. 830 note), as well as by E.G. Addison, The Temple Church (p.
57), and by Mr. R.W. Billings more especially, who tacks to his account of this building an
"Essay on the symbolical Evidences of the Temple Church, where the Templars are proved Gnostic
Idolators, as alleged by Edward Clarkson, Esq." Had the learnedly hypothetic Austrian seen
the engravings of the Crypt at Canterbury Cathedral (Archæologia, viii. p. 74.), and Ledwick's
remarks on it in conjunction with the carvings at Glendalloch (History of Ireland, p. 174.),
or those of Grymbald's Crypt at Oxford, he might have been expected to have attributed their
monstrosities to his order, with as little hesitation and as thorough a contempt of chronology,
or proved connection, as he has the curious and innocent sculptures of the church at Schöngrabern
in Bohemia (vide Curiositäten, vol. viii. p. 501.).

WILLIAM BELL, Phil. Dr.

       *       *       *       *       *

MINOR NOTES.

Prince Modoc.--At p. 57., "ANGLO-CAMBRIAN" refers to the report of the Proceedings of the British
Association at Swansea, in Aug. 1848, extracted from the Athenæum newspaper. In the course
of a discussion which took place on Prof. Elton's address, it was observed (if I recollect
rightly) by the learned Dr. Latham, that a vocabulary of the so-called Welsh-Indian dialect
has been formed, and that it contains no trace of any Celtic root.

J.M.T. December 10. 1849.

St. Barnabas.--About the time of the Reformation, it was strongly debated whether the festival
days of St. Paul and St. Barnabas should be admitted into the calendar; and, in the 2d Book
of K. Edward, the conversion of St. Paul is put down in black, and St. Barnabas is omitted
altogether! No wonder, therefore, if, in Suffolk, liberties were taken with the name of St.
Barnabas, and it was transferred to doggerel rhyme, to be repeated by children.

J.I.

Register of Cromwell's Baptism.--The communication of your correspondent C.W.G. at p. 103.
of your last number, induces me to offer you the inclosed copy from the Register of All Saints'
Church, Huntingdon, of the birth and baptism of Oliver Cromwell:--

    "Anno Domini 1599 Oliverus filius Roberti Cromwell generosi et
    Elisabethæ huxoris ejus Natus vicesimo quinto die Aprilis et
    Baptisatus vicesimo nono ejusdem mensis."

Then follow the words "England's plague for many years," written in a different hand.

R.O.

The Times.--A correspondent (NASO) informs us of the following fact in the history of this
widely circulated and influential journal; namely, that it is stated in that the paper of the
12th of March, 1788, that it was printed "Logographically!" We wish our correspondent had furnished
us with the precise words of this very curious statement. {137}

Roland Monoux.--I have in my possession a brass monumental plate, said to have been taken from
some church in Middlesex, and bearing the following lines, engraved in black letter:--

  "Behold what droupinge Dethe maye doe, consume
      y'e corse to duste,
   What Dethe maie not shall lyue for aye, in spite of
      Dethe his luste;
   Thoughe Rouland Monoux shrowdeth here, yet
      Rouland Monoux lives,
   His helpynge hand to nedys want, a fame for ever
      geves;
   Hys worde and dede was ever one, his credyth never
      quaylde,
   His zeall' to Christ was stronge, tyll' dethe w'th latest
      panges asaylde.
   Twyse thre and one he Children had, two sones, one
      kepes his name,
   And dowghters fyve for home he carde, y't lyve in
      honest fame.
   What booteth more, as he be kynde dyd come of
      Jentyll race,
   So Rouland Monoux good Desertes this grave can
      not Deface."

I should be obliged to any of your readers for some account of this Rouland Monoux, and when
he died. I may also add; that I should be very willing to restore the brass to its original
site, did I know the spot from whence it has been sacrilegiously torn.

M.

Wessel Cup Hymn.--The following Wassail Song is taken from a little chap-book printed at Manchester,
called A Selection of Christmas Hymns. it is obviously a corrupted version of a much older song:--

  "Here we come a wesseling,
     Among the leaves so green,
  Here we come a wandering,
     So fair to be seen.

  "Cho.--Love and joy come to you,
     And to your wessel too,
  And God send you a happy new year,
         A new year,
  And God send you a happy new year.

  "Our wessel cup is made of the rosemary tree,
  So is your beer of the best barley.

It is a song of the season which well deserves to be preserved. Its insertion will at least
have that effect, and may be the means of our discovering an earlier and purer text.

AMBROSE MERTON.

Portrait of Charles I.--In Sir Henry Ellis's Original Letters, 2d series, vol. iii. p. 254.,
amongst the prefatory matter to the reign of Charles I., there is a notice of a sermon, entitled
"The Subject's Sorrow, or Lamentations upon the Death of Britaine's Josiah, King Charles."

Sir Henry Ellis says it is expressly stated, in this Sermon, that the King himself desired
"that unto his Golden Manual might be prefixed his representation, kneeling; contemning a temporal
crown, holding our blessed Saviour's crown of thorns, and aspiring unto an eternal crown of
happiness."

Note b. upon this passage is as follows:--

    "This very portrait of King Charles the First, engraved by
    Marshall, adorned the original edition of the [Greek: Eikon
    Basilikae]. 8vo. 1648. The same portrait, as large as life, in
    oil painting, was afterwards put up in many of our churches."

