No. 16.] SATURDAY, FEBRUARY 16. 1850. [Price Threepence. Stamped Edition 4d.

       *       *       *       *       *{241}

CONTENTS.

NOTES:--                                             Page
  Daniel Defoe and his Ghost Stories                  241
  Pet Names, by Rev. B.H. Kennedy                     242
  Lacedæmonian Black Broth                            243
  A Hint to Intending Editors                         243
  Notes on Cunningham's London, by E.F. Rimbault      244
  Folk Lore--Easter Eggs--Buns--Gloucestershire
    Custom--Curious Custom                            244

QUERIES:--
  White Hart Inn, Scole, by C.H. Cooper               245
  On Passages in Pope                                 245
  Belvoir Castle                                      246
  Minor Queries:--Dr. Hugh Todd's MSS.--French
    Leave--Portugal--Tureen--Military Execution--
    Change of Name--Symbolism of Fir Cone--Kentish
    Ballad--Monumental Brass--A Tickhill Man--
    Bishop Blaize--Vox et præterea Nihil--Cromwell
    Relics--Lines on Woman's Will                     246

REPLIES:--
  Ælfric's Colloquy, by S.W. Singer and C.W.G.        248
  Antony Alsop                                        249
  Replies to Minor Queries:--Origin of Snob--Bishop
    Burnet--Circulation of the Blood--Genealogy of
    European Sovereigns--Sir Stephen Fox--French
    Maxim--Shipster--Spars--Cosmopolis--Complutensian
    Polyglot--Christmas Hymn--Sir J. Wyattville--
    Peruse--Autograph Mottoes--Boduc--Annus
    Trabeationis                                      250

MISCELLANIES:--
  Pursuits of Literature--Dr. Dobbs--Translation from
    V. Bourne--St. Evona's Choice--Muffins and
    Crumpets--Dulcarnon--Bishop Barnaby--Barnacles
    --Ancient Alms Dish, &c.                          253

MISCELLANEOUS:--
  Notes on Books, Sales, Catalogues, &c.              254
  Books and Odd Volumes Wanted                        255
  Notices to Correspondents                           255
  Advertisements                                      256

       *       *       *       *       *

DANIEL DE FOE AND HIS GHOST STORIES.

I feel obliged by your intelligent correspondent "D.S." having ascertained that De Foe was
the author of the Tour through Great Britain. Perhaps he may also be enabled to throw some
light on a subject of much curiosity connected with De Foe, that appears to me well worth the
inquiry.

Mrs. Bray, in her General Preface prefixed to the first volume of the reprint, in series, of
her Novels and Romances, when giving an account of the circumstances on which she founded her
very graphic and interesting romance of Trelawny of Trelawne, says--

     "In Gilbert's History of Cornwall, I saw a brief but striking
     account, written by a Doctor Ruddell, a clergyman of Launceston,
     respecting a ghost which (in the year 1665) he has seen and laid to
     rest, that in the first instance had haunted a poor lad, the son of
     a Mr. Bligh, in his way to school, in a place called the 'Higher
     Broom Field.' This grave relation showed, I thought, the credulity
     of the times in which the author of it lived; and so I determined
     to have doctor, boy, and ghost in my story. But whereas, in the
     worthy divine's account of the transaction, the ghost appears to
     come on earth for no purpose whatever (unless it be to frighten the
     poor boy), I resolved to give the spirit something to do in such
     post-mortem visitations, and that the object of them should be of
     import to the tale. Accordingly I made boy, doctor, and the woman
     (who is said after her death to have appeared to the lad) into
     characters, invented a story for them, and gave them adventures."

Mrs. Bray adds--

     "Soon after the publication of Trelawny, my much esteemed friend,
     the Rev. F.V.T. Arundell[1], informed me, that, whilst engaged in
     his antiquarian researches in Cornwall, he found among some old and
     original papers the manuscript account, in Dr. Ruddell's own
     hand-writing, of his encounter with the ghost in question. This he
     lent Gilbert, who inserted it in his History of Cornwall; and
     there I first saw it, as stated above. A few months ago, I
     purchased some of the reprinted volumes of the Works of Daniel De
     Foe. Among these was the Life of Mr. Duncan Campbell, a
     fortune-teller. To my great surprise, I found inserted in the
     Appendix (after verses to Mr. Duncan Campbell), without either name
     of the author, reference, or introduction, under the heading, 'A
     remarkable Passage of an Apparition, 1665,' no other than Dr.
     Ruddell's account of meeting the ghost which had haunted the boy,
     so much the same as that I had read in Gilbert, that it scarcely
     seemed to differ from it in a word. The name of Mr. Bligh, the
     father of the boy, was, however, omitted; and Dr. Ruddell could
     only be known as the author of the account by the lad's father
     calling the narrator Mr. Ruddell, in their discourse about the
     youth. The account is so strangely inserted in the Appendix to the
     volume, without comment or reference, that, had I not previously
     known the circumstances above names by Mr. Arundell, I should have
     fancied it a fiction of De Foe himself, like the story {242} of
     the ghost of Mrs. Veal, prefixed to Drelincourt on Death.

     "Aware that Mr. Arundell had no idea that Ruddell's ghost story was
     to be found in any work previous to Gilbert's, I lost no time in
     communicating to that gentleman what I could not but deem a very
     curious discovery. He assured me there could be no mistake as to
     the genuineness of the ghost document he had found, as he had
     compared the manuscript with Ruddell's hand-writing in other
     papers, and saw it was one and the same. Soon after, Mr. Arundell
     favoured me with some further information on the subject, which I
     here give, as it adds still more to the interest of the
     story:--'Looking into Gilbert's History of Cornwall, in the
     parish of South Petherwin, there is said to be in the old mansion
     of Botathan five portraits of the Bligh family; one of them is the
     likeness of the boy, whose intimacy with the ghost of Dorothy
     Durant has been spoken of in his first volume, where she is
     erroneously called Dingley. If this be a fact, it is very
     interesting; for it is strange that both Mr. Ruddell, the narrator
     (whose manuscript I lent to Gilbert), and De Foe, should have
     called her Dingley. I have no doubt it was a fictitious name, for I
     never heard of it Launceston or the neighbourhood; whereas Durant
     is the name of an ancient Cornish family: and I remember a tall,
     respectable man of that name in Launceston, who died at a very
     advanced age; very probably a connexion of the Ghost Lady. He must
     have been born about 1730. Durant was probably too respectable a
     name to be published, and hence the fictitious one.' Mr. Arundell
     likewise says, 'In Launceston Church is a monument to Charles Bligh
     and Judith his wife, who died, one in 1716, and the other in 1717.
     He is said to have been sixty years old, and was probably the
     brother of Samuel, the hero of Dorothy Dingley. Sarah, the wife of
     the Rev. John Ruddell, died in 1667. Mr. Ruddell was Vicar of
     Aternon in 1684. He was the minister of Launceston in 1665, when he
     saw the ghost who haunted the boy.'"

Such is Mrs. Bray's account of these very curious circumstances. The ghost story inserted in
Gilbert, as mentioned above, is altogether so much in the style of De Foe, that a doubt remains
whether, after all, he may not have been the author of it. Can "D.S.," or any of your readers,
throw further light on the subject?

D.S.Y.

     [Footnote 1: Of Landulph, Cornwall, the author of Discoveries in
     Asia Minor, and the well-known Visit to the Seven Churches of
     Asia. Mr. Arundell is now dead.]

       *       *       *       *       *

PET-NAMES.

"Mary" is informed that "Polly" is one of those "hypocorisms," or pet-names, in which our language
abounds. Most are mere abbreviations, as Will, Nat, Pat, Bell, &c., taken usually from the
beginning, sometimes from the end of the name. The ending y or ie is often added, as a more
endearing form: as Annie, Willy, Amy, Charlie, &c. Many have letter-changes, most of which
imitate the pronunciation of infants. L is lisped for r. A central consonant is doubled. O
between m and l is more easily sounded than a. An infant forms p with its lips sooner than
m; papa before mamma. The order of change is: Mary, Maly, Mally, Molly, Polly. Let me illustrate
this; l for r appears in Sally, Dolly, Hal P for m in Patty, Peggy; vowel-change in Harry,
Jim, Meg, Kitty, &c; and in several of these the double consonant. To pursue the subject: re-duplication
is used; as in Nannie, Nell, Dandie; and (by substitution) in Bob. Ded would be of ill omen;
therefore we have, for Edward, Ned or Ted, n and t being coheir to d; for Rick, Dick, perhaps
on account of the final d in Richard. Letters are dropped for softness: as Fanny for Franny,
Bab for Barb, Wat for Walt. Maud is Norman for Mald, from Mathild, as Bauduin for Baldwin.
Argidius becomes Giles, our nursery friend Gill, who accompanied Jack in his disastrous expedition
"up the hill." Elizabeth gives birth to Elspeth, Eliza (Eloisa?), Lisa, Lizzie, Bet, Betty,
Betsy, Bessie, Bess; Alexander (x=cs) to Allick and Sandie. What are we to say of Jack for
John? It seems to be from Jacques, which is the French for our James? How came the confusion?
I do not remember to have met with the name James in early English history; and it seems to
have reached us from Scotland. Perhaps, as Jean and Jaques were among the commonest French
names, John came into use as a baptismal name, and Jaques or Jack entered by its side as a
familiar term. But this is a mere guess; and I solicit further information. John answers to
the German Johann or Jehann, the Sclavonic Ivan, the Italian Giovanni (all these languages
using a strengthening consonant to begin the second syllable): the French Jean, the Spanish
Juan, James to the German Jacob, the Italian Giacomo, the French Jacques, the Spanish Jago.
It is observable that of these, James and Giacomo alone have the m. Is James derived from Giacomo?
How came the name into Scotland?

Of German pet-names some are formed by abbreviation; some also add s, as Fritz for Frieds from
Friedrich, Hanns for Hann from Johann. (To this answers our s or c in the forms Betsy, Nancy,
Elsie, &c.) Some take chen (our kin, as mannikin) as Franschen, Hannchen. Thus Catskin in the
nursery ballad which appears in Mr. Halliwell's Collection, is a corruption of Kätchen Kitty.
Most of our softened words are due to the smooth-tongued Normans. The harsh Saxon Schrobbesbyrigschire,
or Shropshire, was by them softened into le Comté de Salop, and both names are still used.

BENJ. H. KENNEDY.

Shrewsbury, Feb. 2. 1850.

       *       *       *       *       *

LACEDÆMONIAN BLACK BROTH.

If your readers are not already as much disgusted with Spartan Black Broth as Dionysius was
{243} with the first mouthful, I beg leave to submit a few supplementary words to the copious
indications of your correspondents "R.O." and "W."

Selden says:--

     "It was an excellent question of Lady Cotton, when Sir Robert
     Cotton was magnifying of a shoe, which was Moses's or Noah's, and
     wondering at the strange shape and fashion of it: 'But, Mr.
     Cotton,' says she, 'are you sure it is a shoe?'"

Now, from the following passage in Manso's Sparta, it would seem that a similar question might
be put on the present occasion: Are you sure that it was broth? Speaking of the pheiditia,
Manso says:--

     "Each person at table had as much barley-bread as he could eat;
     swine's-flesh, or some other meat, to eat with it, with which the
     famous black-sauce[2] (whose composition, without any loss to
     culinary art, is evidently a mystery for us) was given round, and
     to close the meal, olives, figs, and cheese."

In a note he continues:--

     "Some imagined that the receipt of its composition was to be found
     in Plutarch (De Tuendâ Sanitate, t. vi. p. 487.), but apparently
     it was only imagination. That [Greek: zomos] signified not broth,
     as it has been usually translated, but sauce, is apparent from
     the connection in which Athenæus used the word. To judge from
     Hesychius, it appears to have borne the name [Greek: bapha] among
     the Spartans. How little it pleased the Sicilian Dionysius is well
     known from Plutarch (Inst. Lacon. t. v. 880.) and from others."

Sir Walter Trevelyan's question is soon answered, for I presume the celebrity of Spartan Black
Broth is chiefly owing to the anecdote of Dionysius related by Plutarch, in his very popular
and amusing Laconic Apophthegms, which Stobæus and Cicero evidently followed; this, and what
is to be gathered from Athenæus and Julius Pollux, with a few words in Hesychius and the Etymologicon
Magnum, is the whole amount of our information. Writers since the revival of letters have mostly
copied each other, from Coelius Rhodiginus down to Gesner, who derives his conjecture from
Turnebus, whose notion is derived from Julius Pollux,--and so we move in a circle. We sadly
want a Greek Apicius, and then we might resolve the knotty question. I fear we must give up
the notion of cuttle-fish stewed in their own ink, though some former travellers have not spoken
so favourable of this Greek dish. Apicius, De Arte Coquinariâ, among his fish-sauces has three
Alexandrian receipts, one of which will give some notion of the incongruous materials admissible
in the Greek kitchen of later times:--

     "JUS ALEXANDRINUM IN PISCE ASSO.

     "Piper, cepam siccam, ligusticum, cuminum, orignum, apii semen,
     pruna damascena enucleata; passum, liquamen, defrutum, oleum, et
     coques."

This question Vexata it seems had not escaped the notice of German antiquaries. In Boettiger's
Kleine Shriften, vol. iii., Sillig has printed for the first time a Dissertation, in answer
to a question which might have graced your pages: "Wherewith did the Ancients spoon" [their
food]? Which opens thus:--

     "Though about the composition and preparation of Spartan Black
     Sauce we may have only so many doubts, yet still it remains certain
     that it was a jus--boiled flesh prepared with pig's blood, salt,
     and vinegar, a brodo; and, when it was to a certain degree
     thickened by boiling, though not like a Polenta or other
     dough-like mass (maza offa), eaten with the fingers. Here, then,
     arises a gastronomic question, of importance in archæology; what
     table furniture or implements did the Spartans make use of to carry
     this sauce to their months? A spoon, or some substitute for a
     spoon, must have been at hand in order to be able to enjoy this
     Schwarzsauer."

It is certain at least that spoons and forks were unknown to the Spartans, and some have conjectured
that a shell, and even an egg-shell, may have served the purpose. Those who are desirous of
knowing more about the Table-Supellectile of the ancients, may consult Casaubon's Notes on
Athenæus, iv. 13. p. 241.; "Barufaldo de Armis Convivialibus," in Sallengre's Thesaurus, iii.
741.: or Boettiger's Dissertation above referred to. How little ground the passage in Plutarch,
De Sanitate Tuendâ, afforded for the composition will appear from the passage, which I subjoin,
having found some difficulty in referring to it:

     [Greek: Oi Lakones uxos kai halas dontes to mageiro, ta loipa
     keleuouso en to iereio setein.]

This only expresses the simplicity of Spartan cookery in general.

To revert to the original question propounded, however, I think we must come to the conclusion
that coffee formed no part of the [Greek: melas zomos.]

S.W.S.

     [Footnote 2: Manso's word is Tunke.]

       *       *       *       *       *

A HINT TO INTENDING EDITORS.

Allow me to suggest, as an addition to the sphere of usefulness of the "NOTES AND QUERIES,"
that persons preparing new editions of old writers should give an early intimation of the work
on which they are engaged to the public, through your paper. Very many miscellaneous readers
are in the habit of making notes in the margins of their books, without any intention of using
them themselves for publication, and would be glad to give the benefit of them to any body
to whom they would be welcome; but as matters are now arranged, one has no opportunity of hearing
of an intended new edition until it is advertised as being in the press, when it is probably
too late to send notes or suggestions; and one is also deterred from communicating with the
editor from doubts {244} whether he will not think it an intrusion: doubts which any editor
who did wish for communications might dispel by making such an announcement as I have suggested.

R.R.

Lincoln's Inn.

       *       *       *       *       *

NOTES UPON CUNNINGHAM'S HAND-BOOK OF LONDON.

St. Giles's Pound.--The exact site of this Pound, which occupied a space of thirty feet, was
the broad space where St. Giles's High Street, Tottenham Court Road, and Oxford Street meet.
The vicinity of this spot was proverbial for its profligacy; thus in an old song:--

    "At Newgate steps Jack Chance was found,
    And bred up near St. Giles's Pound."

Dudley Court, St. Giles's.--This spot was once the residence of Alice Duchess of Dudley, in
the reign of Charles the Second; and afterwards of the celebrated Lord Wharton. The mansion
and gardens were of considerable extent.

St. Giles's Hospital.--The celebrated Dr. Andrew Boorde rented for many years the Master's
house. He is mentioned as its occupant in the deed of transfer between Lord Lisle to Sir Wymonde
Carewe, dated in the last year of Henry the Eighth's reign.

Gray's Inn Lane.--Anciently called Portpoole. See the commission granted to the Master of the
Hospital of St. Giles's, &c. to levy tolls upon all cattle, merchandize, &c., dated 1346, in
Rymer's Foedera.

Great Queen Street, Lincoln's Inn.--Lord Herbert of Cherbury was one of the first inhabitants
of this street, residing at the south side, near the east corner of Wild (or more properly
Weld) Street, where he died in 1648. The house is still standing, and is one of fifteen built
in the third year of James the First. Powlet and Conway houses, also still standing, are among
the said number. The celebrated Dr. Mead (D. 1754) resided in this street.

Turnstile Lane, Holborn.--Richard Pendrell, the preserver of Charles the Second, resided here
in 1668. It is supposed that Pendrell, after the Restoration, followed the king to town, and
settled in the parish of St. Giles, as being near the court. Certain it is that one of Pendrell's
name occurs in 1702 as overseer, which leads to the conclusion that Richard's descendants continued
in the same locality for many years. A great-granddaughter of this Richard was living in 1818
in the neighbourhood of Covent Garden. Richard Pendrell died in 1674, and had a monument erected
to his memory on the south-east side of the old church of St. Giles. The raising of the churchyard,
subsequently, had so far buried the monument as to render it necessary to form a new one to
preserve the memory of this celebrated man. The black marble slab of the old tomb at present
forms the base of the new one.

EDWARD F. RIMBAULT.

Mrs. Cornelly's is stated, in vol. ii. p. 753., to be "the corner of Sutton Street," Soho Square,
"now D'Almaines's." Mrs. Cornelly's was at the corner of Sutton Street, but has long been pulled
down: the Catholic chapel in Sutton Street was Mrs. Cornelly's concert, ball, and masquerade-room;
and the arched entrance below the chapel, and now a wheelwright's, was the entrance for "chairs."
D'Almaine's is two doors north of Sutton Street, and was built by Earl (?) Tilney, the builder
of Wanstead House? The House in Soho Square has a very fine banqueting-room, the ceiling said
to have been painted by Angelica Kauffmann. Tilney was fond of giving magnificent dinners,
and here was always to be found "the flesh of beeves, with Turkie and other small Larks!"

Cock Lane.--The house in Cock Lane famous for its "Ghost" is still standing, and the back room,
where "scratching Fanny" lay surrounded by princes and peers, is converted into a gas meter
manufactory.

NASO.

       *       *       *       *       *

FOLK LORE.

Easter Eggs.--The custom of presenting eggs at Easter is too well known to need description;
but perhaps few are aware that, like many other customs of the early Church, it had its origin
in paganism.

Sir R.K. Porter (Travels, vol. i. p. 316.) mentions that at a period of the year corresponding
to Easter, "the Feast of nooroose, or of the waters," is held, and seems to have had its origin
prior to Mahometanism. It lasts for six days, and is supposed to be kept in commemoration of
the Creation and the Deluge--events constantly synchronised and confounded in pagan cosmogonies.

When the many identities which existed between Druidism and Magianism are considered, we can
hardly doubt that this Persian commemoration of the Creation originated our Easter-eggs.

G.J.

Buns.--It has been suggested by Bryant, though, I believe, not noticed by any writer on popular
customs, that the Good Friday cakes, called Buns, may have originated in the cakes used in
idolatrous worship, and impressed with the figure of an ox, whence they were called [Greek:
boun]. The cow or bull was likewise, as Coleridge (Lit. Rem. vol. ii. p. 252.) has justly remarked,
the {245} symbol of the Cosmos, the prolific or generative powers of nature.

G.J.

Gloucestershire Custom.--It is a custom in Gloucestershire, and may be so in other counties,
to place loose straw before the door of any man who beats his wife. Is this a general custom?--and
if so, what is its origin and meaning?

B.

Curious Custom.--The custom spoken of by "PWCCA" (No. 11 p. 173.) was also commonly practised
in one or two places in Lancashire some ten or twelve years back, but is now, I believe, obsolete.
The horse was played in a similar way, but the performer was then called "Old Balls." It is
no doubt a vestige of the old "hobby-horse,"--as the Norwich "Snap," who kept his place in
the procession of the mayor of that good city till the days of municipal reform, was the last
representative of his companion the dragon.

J.T.

[Nathan also informs us "that it is very common in the West Riding of Yorkshire, where a ram's
head often takes the place of the horse's skull. Has it not an obvious connection with the
'hobby-horse' of the middle ages, and such mock pageants as the one described in Scott's Abbot,
vol. i. chap. 14.; the whole being a remnant of the Saturnalia of the ancients?"]

       *       *       *       *       *

QUERIES.

WHITE HART INN, SCOLE.

In Songs and other Poems, by Alex. Brome, Gent. Lond. 12mo. 1661, there is (at p. 123.) a ballad
upon a sign-post set up by one Mr. Pecke, at Skoale in Norfolk. It appears from this ballad,
that the sign in question had figures of Bacchus, Diana, Justice, and Prudence, "a fellow that's
small, with a quadrant discerning the wind," Temperance, Fortitude, Time, Charon and Cerberus.
This sign is noticed in the Journal of Mr. E. Browne (Sir Thomas Browne's Works, ed. Wilkin,
i. 53.). Under date of 4th March, 1663-64, he says:--"About three mile further I came to Scoale,
where is very handsome inne, and the noblest sighne post in England, about and upon which are
carved a great many stories, as of Charon and Cerberus, of Actæon and Diana, and many other;
the sighne it self is the white harte, which hangs downe carved in a stately wreath." Blomefield,
in his History of Norfolk (8vo. edit. i. 130.), speaking of Osmundestone or Scole, has the
following passage:--

     "Here are two very good inns for the entertainment of travellers;
     the White Hart is much noted in these parts, being called, by way
     of distinction, Scole Inn; the house is a large brick building,
     adorned with imagery and carved work in several places, as big as
     the life. It was built in 1655, by John Peck, Esq., whose arms
     impaling his wife's, are over the porch door. The sign is very
     large, beautified all over with a great number of images of large
     stature carved in wood, and was the work of one Fairchild; the
     arms about it are those of the chief towns and gentlemen in the
     county, viz. Norwich, Yarmouth, Duke of Norfolk, Earl of Yarmouth,
     Bacon of Garboldisham, Hobart, Conwaleis, impaling Bukton, Teye,
     Thurston, Castleton, and many others; Peck's arms are arg. on
     a chevron ingrailed, gul. three croslets pattee of the field; his
     wife's are arg., a fess between two crescents in chief, a lion
     rampant in base gul., which coat I think is borne by the name of
     Jetheston. Here was lately a very round large bed, big enough to
     hold fifteen or twenty couple, in imitation (I suppose) of the
     remarkable great bed at Ware. The house was in all things
     accommodated, at first, for large business; but the road not
     supporting it, it is in much decay at present; though there is a
     good bowling-green and a pretty large garden, with land sufficient
     for passengers' horses. The business of these two inns is much
     supported by the annual cock-matches that are here fought."

In Cruttwell's Tour through the whole Island of Great Britain (Lond. 12mo. 1801), vol. v. 208.,
is the following:--

     "Osmondeston, or Schole. The inn here was once remarkable for a
     pompous sign, with ridiculous ornaments, and is said to have cost a
     thousand pounds; long since decayed."

I shall be glad to be referred to any other notices of this sign, and am desirous of knowing
if any drawing or engraving of it be extant.

C.H. COOPER.

Cambridge, 21st Jan. 1850.

       *       *       *       *       *

PASSAGES FROM POPE.

In addition to the query of "P.C.S.S." (No. 13. p. 201.), in which I take great interest, I
would beg leave to ask what evidence there is that Quarles had a pension? He had, indeed, a
small place in the household of James the First's queen, Anne; and if he had a pension on her
death, it would have been from James, not from Charles.

I would also, in reference to Pope, beg leave to propound another query.

In the "Imitation of the 2nd Sat. E----s is no doubt John Ellis, and the royal mistress the
Duchess of Cleveland. (See Lord Dover's Introduction to the "Ellis Correspondence," and "Anecdotes
of the Ellis Family," Gent. Mag. 1769. p. 328.) But I cannot discover any trace of the circumstances
alluded to by Pope. Yet Ellis was a considerable man in his day;--he had been Secretary to
the Lord-Lieutenant of Ireland in the reign of Charles II., and was Under-Secretary of State
under William III.; he is said to have afterwards sunk into the humbler character {246} of
a "London magistrate," and to have "died in 1788, at 93 or 95, immensely rich." I should be
glad of any clue to Pope's allusion.

J.W.C.

Feb 12. 1850.

       *       *       *       *       *
    "Worth makes the man, and want of it the fellow;
    The rest is all but leather and prunello."

Essay on Man, Epistle IV. 203.

Will your correspondent "P.C.S.S." (No. 13), evidently a critical reader of Pope, and probably
rich in the possession of various editions of his works, kindly inform me whether any commentator
on the poet has traced the well-known lines that I have quoted to the "Corcillum est, quod
homines facit, cætera quisquilia omnia" of Petronius Arbiter, cap. 75.? Pope had certainly
both read and admired the Satyricon, for he says:--

    "Fancy and art in gay Petronius please,
    The scholar's learning with the courtier's ease."

Essay on Criticism, sect. 3

I find no note on the lines either in the edition of Warton, 9 vols. 8vo., London, 1797, or
in Cary's royal 8vo., London, 1839; but the similarity strikes me as curious, and deserving
further examination.

C. FORBES.

Temple.

       *       *       *       *       *

BELVOIR CASTLE.

In Nichol's History and Antiquities of the County of Leicester, vol. ii., part i., containing
the Framland Hundred, p. 45 of the folio ed. 1795, occurs the following quotation, in reference
to the rebuilding of Belvoir castle by Henry, second Earl of Rutland, in 1555:--

     "That part of the more ancient building, which was left by both
     unaltered, is included in the following concise description by an
     ingenious writer, who visited it in 1722:--

        'Ædes in culmine montis sitæ, scilicet,
                                [Greek: aipeia kolonen
        En pedio apaneuthe, peridromos entha kai entha]'

     aditu difficilis circa montem; cujus latera omnia horti 50 acrarum
     circumeunt, nisi versus Aquilonem, quò ascenditur ad ostium ædium
     ubi etiam antiqua jauna arcuato lapide. Versus Occidentem 8
     fenestræ et 3 in sacello; et ulterior pars vetusta. Versus
     Aquilonem 10 fenestræ. Facies Australis et Turris de Staunton, in
     qui archiva familiæ reponuntur, extructa ante annos circa 400. Pars
     restat kernellata," &c. &c. &c.

The description goes on for a few more lines; but it matters not to continue them. I should
be much obliged by any of your readers giving an account of who this "ingenious writer" was,
and on what authority he founded the foregoing observations, as it is a subject of much interest
to me and others at the present time.

ALYTHES.

Jan. 28. 1850.

       *       *       *       *       *

MINOR QUERIES.

MSS. formerly belonging to Dr. Hugh Todd.--I shall feel most grateful to any of your correspondents
who can afford me any information, however imperfect, respecting the MSS. of Dr. Hugh Todd,
Vicar of Penrith, and Prebendary of Carlisle, in the beginning of the last century. In the
Cat. MSS. Angliæ, &c., 1697, is a catalogue of nineteen MSS, then in his possession, five of
which are especially the subject of the present inquiry. One is a Chartulary of the Abbey of
Fountains, in 4to; another is an Act Book of the Consistory Court of York, in the fifteenth
century, in folio; the third is the Chapter Book of the Collegiate Church of Ripon, from 1452
to 1506; the fourth contains Extracts and Manuscripts from Records relating to the Church of
Ripon; and the last is apparently a Book of the Acts of the Benefactors to that foundation.
In a letter to Humphrey Lawley, dated in 1713, Dr. Todd says he was engaged in a work relating
to the province of York, and the greater part of the MSS. in the catalogue above mentioned
appear to have been collected as the materials.

JOHN RICHARD WALBRAN.

Falcroft, Ripon, Jan 31. 1850.

French Leave--In No. 5. I perceive several answers to the query respecting Flemish Account,
which I presume to be the same as Dutch Account. Can you inform me how the very common expression
French Leave originated?

W.G.B.

Portugal.--Can any of your geographical readers inform me if a Gazetteer of Portugal has been
published within these twenty years? If there has been one, in what language, and where published?
Information of the title of any good modern works on Portugal, giving an account of the minor
places, would be acceptable.

NORTHMAN.

Tureen--How and whence is the term "tureen" derived?--and when was it introduced?

    "At the top there was tripe in a swinging tureen."

Goldsmith's Haunch of Venison.

G.W.

Military Execution.--I am very anxious to be referred to the authority for the following anecdote,
and remark made on it:--

     "Some officer, or state prisoner, on being led out to be shot,
     refused either to listen to a confessor, or to cover his eyes with
     a handkerchief."

The remark was, that "he refused a bandage for either mind or body." It smacks somewhat of
Voltaire.

MELANION.

Change of Name.--If, as it appears by a recent decision, based, perhaps, on a former one by
Lord Tenterden, that a man may alter his name {247} as he pleases without the royal license,
I wish to know what then, is the use of the royal license?

B.

The Symbolism of the Fir-Cone. What does the "fir-cone" in the Ninevite sculptures mean? Layard
does not explain it. Is it there as the emblem of fecundity, as the pomegranate of Persia and
Syria? Has it altogether the same character as the latter fruit? Then--was it carried into
Hindostan viâ Cashmir? When? By the first wave of population which broke through the passes
of the Parapamisus?

B.C.

Kentish Ballad.--When I was a boy, I can remember hearing a song sung in Kent, in praise of
that country, which I never could find in print, and of which I am now glad to recollect the
following stanza:--

    "When Harold was invaded,
       And falling lost his crown,
     And Norman William waded
       Through gore to pull him down;
         When countries round
         With fear profound,
     To help their sad condition,
         And lands to save,
         Base homage gave,
     Bold Kent made no submission."

Can any reader furnish the remainder, and state who is the author?

F.B.

Curious Monumental Brass.--I have a rubbing of a Brass, presenting some peculiarities which
have hitherto puzzled me, but which probably some of your more experienced correspondents can
clear up.

The Brass, from which the rubbing is taken (and which was formerly in the Abbey church of St.
Albans, but when I saw it was detached and lying at the Rectory), is broken off a little below
the waist; it represents an abbot, or bishop, clad in an ornamented chasuble, tunic, stole,
and alb, with a maniple and pastoral staff. So far all is plain; but at the back (i.e. on the
surface hidden when the Brass lay upon the floor) is engraved a dog with a collar and bells,
apparently as carefully executed as any other part. Can you tell me the meaning of this? I
can find no mention of the subject either in Boutell or any other authority. The fragment is
about 18 inches long, and the dog about 6, more or less.

RAHERE.

Jan. 26, 1850.

Tickhill, God help me.--Can any one tell why A Tickhill man, when asked where he comes from,
says, "Tickhill, God help me." Is it because the people at Tickhill are famed for misery, as
the neighbouring town of Blythe seems to have been so called from its jolly citizens?

R.F. JOHNSON.

Bishop Blaize.--I should be much obliged by any reference to information respecting Bishop
Blaize, the Santo Biagio of Agrigentum, and patron saint of Ragusa. Butler says little but
that he was bishop of Sebaste, in Armenia, the proximity of which place to Colchis appears
to me suspicious. Wonderful and horrible tales are told of him; but I suspect his patronage
of wool-combers is founded on much more ancient legends. His establishment at Agrigentum must
have been previous to Christianity. I have a vague remembrance of some mention of him in Higgins's
Anacalypsis, but I have not now access to that work. I wish some learned person would do for
other countries what Blunt has partly done for Italy and Sicily; that is, show the connection
between heathen and Christian customs, &c.

F.C.B.

Vox et præterea nihil.--Whence come these oft-quoted words? Burton, in The Anatomy of Melancholy
(not having the book by me, I am unable to give a reference), quotes them as addressed by some
one to the nightingale. Wordsworth addresses the cuckoo similarly, vol. ii. p. 81.:--

    "O, cuckoo! shall I call thee bird,
    Or but a wandering voice?"

C.W.G.

Cromwell Relics.--In Noble's Memorials of the Protectorate House of Cromwell it is stated,
in the Proofs and Illustrations, Letter N, that in 1784, there were dispersed in St. Ives a
great number of swords, bearing the initials of the Protector upon them; and, further, that
a large barn, which Oliver built there, was still standing, and went by the name of Cromwell's
Barn; and that the farmer then renting the farm occupied by the Protector circa 1630-36, marked
his sheep with the identical marking-irons which Oliver used, and which had O.C. upon them.

Can any of your correspondents inform me if any of these relics are still in existence, and,
if so, where?

I have heard these lines confidently attributed to Shakspeare, Byron, &c. by persons unable
to verify the quotation, when challenged so to do. I can point out where the first two lines
may be found with some variation. In The Adventures of Five Hours, a comedy translated from
the Spanish of Calderon, by Samuel Tuke, and {248} printed in the 12th volume of Dodsley's
Old Plays (edit. 1827), in the 5th act (p. 113.), the lines run thus:--

    "He is a fool, who thinks by force or skill
     To turn the current of a woman's will."

I should be glad if any one could inform me by whom the latter lines were added, and where
they may be found in print.

C.W.G.

Pity is akin to Love.--Where are the following words to be met with?--

    "For Pity is akin to Love."

I have found very similar expressions, but never the exact words as above.

H.

       *       *       *       *       *

REPLIES.

AELFRIC'S COLLOQUY, AND THE A.-S. WORD ÆGYPE IN THE A.-S. PSALTER.

In reference to MR. THORPE'S note (No. 15. p. 232.), I beg leave, with all possible respect
and deference, to suggest that his joke is not quite ad rem.--What would do for a beefsteak
does not help his mistake; for it is quite evident that sprote applies to fish-swimming and
not to fish-catching; and I presume that "useful and sagacious" auxiliary, Dr. Kitchener himself,
would hardly have ventured to deny that fish may swim quickly?

Now let us try how MR. THORPE'S proposed salice=wicker, or sallow, with or without the basket,
will suit the context. The fisherman is asked, "Quales pisces capias? = What fish do you take?"
The answer is Anguillos &c. &c. et qualescunque in amne natant salu = Eels &c. &c., and every
sort whatever that in water swimmeth [wicker/sallow] basket! Let it be remembered that the
question here is not, "How dost thou take fish?" which had been put and answered before, but
"What fish dost thou take?" and then let common sense decide; for the fisherman having already
mentioned that he cast nets and hooks, and [spyrian/spartas], i.e. baskets, now only replies
as to the fish he takes.

MR. THORPE calls the A.-S. dialogue a Gloss; is it not rather an interlineary version? like
those in use, in later times, of Corderius, and used for the same purpose.

I have no doubt that upon more mature consideration MR. THORPE will see that it could not be
a substantive that was intended; and, as he admits my conjecture to be specious, that he will,
in the course of his very useful labours, ultimately find it not only specious but correct.
Meanwhile, I submit to his consideration, that beside the analogy of the Gothic sprauto, we
have in Icelandic spretta, imperf. spratt, "subito movere, repente salire, emicare;" and sprettr,
"cursus citatus," and I do think these analogies warrant my conclusion.

I embrace this opportunity of submitting another conjecture respecting a word in MR. THORPE'S
edition of the Anglo-Saxon Paraphrase of the Psalms. It occurs in Ps. cvi. ver. 10., "Quid
exacerbaverunt eloquium Domini," &c., which is rendered: "Forthon hidydan Drihtnes spræce ægwaes
ægype." In a note MR. THORPE says: "ægype, non intelligo," and gives a reason for deeming the
passage corrupt. To me it seems to express the generally accepted sense of exacerbaverunt:
and here a cognate language will show us the way. Icelandic geip, futilis exaggeratio; atgeipa,
exaggerare, effutire: ægype, then, means to mock, to deride, and is allied to gabban, to gibe,
to jape. In the Psalter published by Spelman it is rendered: hi gremedon spræce godes. In Notker
it is widersprachen, and in the two old Teutonic interlinear version of the Psalms, published
by Graff, verbitterten and gebittert. Let us hear our own interesting old satirist, Piers Plouhman
[Whitaker's ed. p. 365.]:

     And God wol nat be gyled, quoth Gobelyn, ne be japed.

But I cease, lest your readers should exclaim, Res non verba. When I have more leisure for
word-catching, should you have space, I may furnish a few more.

S.W. SINGER.

Feb. 11. 1850.

Ælfric's Colloquy.--I have my doubts whether MR. SINGER'S ingenious suggestions for explaining
the mysterious word sprote can be sustained. The Latin sentence appears clearly to end with
the word natant, as is not only the case in the St. John's MS., mentioned in MR. THORPE'S note,
but in fact, also in the Cottonian MS. There is a point after natant, and then follows the
word Saliu (not salu) with a capital S. Any person who examines the handwriting of this MS.
will see that the word, whatever the transcriber may have understood by it, was intended by
him to stand alone. He must, however, have written it without knowing what it meant; and then
comes the difficulty of explaining how it got into the MS. from which he copied. It has always
appeared to me probable that the name of some fish, having been first interlined, was afterwards
inserted at random in the text, and mis-spelt by a transcriber who did not know its meaning.
A word of common occurrence he would have been less likely to mistake. Can saliu be a mistake
for salar, and sprote the Anglo-Saxon form of the corresponding modern word sprod, i.e. the
salmon of the second year? The salar is mentioned by Ausonius in describing the river Moselle
and its products (Idyll. 10, l. 128.). {249}

    "Teque inter species geminas neutrumque et utrumque,
     Qui necdum salmo, nec jam salar, ambiguusque
     Amborum medio fario intercepte sub ævo."

I throw out this conjecture to take its chance of refutation or acceptance. Valeat quantum!

C.W.G.

       *       *       *       *       *

ANTONY ALSOP.

"R.H." (No. 14, p. 215.) will find all, I believe, that is known respecting Antony Alsop, in
that rich storehouse of materials for the literary history of the last century, Nichols's Anecdotes,
or in Chalmers (Biog. Dict.), who has merely transcribed from it. The volume of Latin Odes
your correspondent mentions, was published by Sir Francis Bernard, and printed by Bowyer. Some
notice of Sir Francis Bernard will also be found in Nichols.

The Odes were long circulated in MS.; and I have a copy that once belonged to Thomas Warton,
which seems to have been written by G. Crochly, of Christchurch College, in 1736. It contains,
however, nothing that is not to be found in the printed volume. The Dedication to the Duke
of Newcastle was written by Bernard, who had intended to have given a preface and copious notes,
as appears by the prospectus he published: but, to our great regret, he was dissuaded from
his purpose.

Alsop was a favourite with that worthy man and elegant scholar Dean Aldrich, at whose instance
he published his pleasing little volume, Fabularum Æsopicarum Delectus, Oxon. 1698. In the
preface Bentley is thus designated--"Richardum quendam Bentleium Virum in volvendis Lexicus
satis diligentem:" and there is a severe attack upon him in one of the fables, which was not
forgotten by the great scholar, who affects to speak of Tony Alsop the fabulist with great
contempt.

I have never seen the volume of Latin and English Poems published in 1738; but, notwithstanding
the designation, "a gentleman of Trinity College," it may be at least partly by Alsop, though
he undoubtedly was of Christchurch. There are English poems by him, published both in Dodsley's
and Pearch's collection, and several in the early volumes of the Gentleman's Magazine. I have
the authority of a competent judge for saying, that the very witty, but not quite decent verses
in that miscellany, vol. v. p. 216--"Ad Hypodidasculum quendam plagosum, alterum orbilium,
ut uxorem duceret, Epistola hortativa." Subscribed "Kent, Lady-day, 1835"--are Alsop's. He
took the degree of M.A. in 1696, and of B.D. in 1706, and, by favour of the Bishop of Winchester,
got a prebend in his cathedral, and the rectory of Brightwell, Berks. He was accidentally drowned
in a ditch leading to his garden gate, in 1726. There is good reason to believe that a MS.
life of him is to be found among the Rawlinson MSS., which it may be worth while to consult.

It will be remembered that Christchurch was the head-quarters of the phalanx of wits opposed
to Bentley.

    "Nor wert thou, Isis, wanting to the day,
     [Tho' Christchurch long kept prudishly away,"]

is Pope's ironical banter; and he has not failed to mention Alsop and Freind in Bentley's speech:--

    "Let Freind affect to speak as Terence spoke,
     And Alsop never but like Horace joke,"

where the note says, "Dr. Antony Alsop, a happy imitator of the Horatian style."

Indeed, Alsop seems to have been duly esteemed and appreciated by his contemporaries; and every
tasteful scholar will concur in the opinion that his truly elegant Sapphics deserve a place
among the few volumes of modern Latin verse, which he would place near Cowper's more extensively
known favourite, Vinny Bourne.

S.W.S.

Antony Alsop, respecting whom a query appears in No. 14. p. 215., was of Christchurch, under
the famous Dr. Aldrich, by whom the practice of smoking was so much enjoyed and encouraged.
The celebrated Sapphic ode, addressed by Alsop to Sir John Dolben, professes to have been written
with a pipe in his mouth:--

    "Dum tubum, ut mos est meus, ore versans,
     Martiis pensans quid agam calendas,
     Pone stat Sappho monitisque miscet
                      Blanda severis."

Ant. Alsop took his degree of M.A. March 23. 1696, B.D. Dec. 1706. He died June 10, 1726; and
the following notice of his death appears in the Historical Register for that year:--

"Dy'd Mr. Antony Alsop, Prebendary of Winchester, and Rector of Brightwell, in the county of
Berks. He was killed by falling into a ditch that led to his garden door, the path being narrow,
and part of it foundering under his feet."

I believe Alsop was not the author of a volume by a gentleman of Trinity College, and that
he never was a member of that society; but that doubt is easily removed by reference to the
entry of his matriculation at Oxford.

W.H.C.

Temple.

"R.H." inquires, whether Antony Alsop was at Trinity College before he became a student of
Christchurch? I have considered it to be my duty to examine the Admission Registers of Trinity
College in my possession since the foundation of the college; and I can only say, that I do
not find the name in any of them. That he was at Christchurch, and admitted there as a student,
is recorded by his biographers. It is also {250} said, that he was elected at once from Westminster
to Christchurch, where he took the degree of M.A. March 23. 1696, and that of B.D. Dec. 12.
1706. He was soon distinguished by Dean Aldrich as worthy of his patronage and encouragement.
He was consequently appointed tutor and censor, and in course of time left college, on his
promotion to a prebendal stall in Winchesser Cathedral by Sir Jonathan Trelawney, the then
Bishop, with the rectory of Brightwell, near Wallingford; at which latter place he chiefly
resided till the time of his death, which happened by an accident, June 10. 1726. Sir Francis
Bernard, Bart., who had himself been a student of Christchurch, published the 4to. volume of
Latin Odes mentioned by "R.H.," Lond. 1753; for which he had issued Proposals, &c., so early
as July, 1748. In addition to these Odes, four English poems by Alsop are said to be in Dodsley's
collection, one in Pearch's, several in the early volumes of the Gentleman's Magazine, and
some in The Student. Dr. Bentley calls him, rather familiarly, "Tony Alsop, editor of the Æsopian
Fables;" a work published by him at Oxford, in 1698, 8 vo., in the preface to which he took
part against Dr. Bentley, in the dispute with Mr. Boyle.

J.I.

Trinity College, Oxford.

       *       *       *       *       *

REPLIES TO MINOR QUERIES.

Origin of the Word "Snob".--I think that Snob is not an archaism, and that it cannot be found
in any book printed fifty years ago. I am aware that in the north of England shoe-makers are
still sometimes called Snobs; but the word is not in Brockett's Glossary of North Country Words,
which is against its being a genuine bit of northern dialect.

I fancy that Snobs and Nobs, as used in vulgar parlance, are of classic derivation; and, most
probably, originated at one of the Universities, where they still flourish. If a Nob be one
who is nobilis, a Snob must be one who is s[ine] nob[ilitate]. Not that I mean to say that
the s is literally a contraction of sine; but that, as in the word slang, the s, which is there
prefixed to language, at once destroys the better word, and degrades its meaning; and as, in
Italian, an s prefixed to a primitive word has a privative effect--e.g. calzare, "to put on
shoes and stockings;" scalzare, "to put them off:" fornito, "furnished;" sfornito, "unfurnished,"
&c.; as also the dis, in Latin (from which, possibly, the aforesaid s is derived), has the
like reversing power, as shown in continue and discontinue--so nob, which is an abbreviation
of nobilis, at once receives the most ignoble signification on having an s put before it.

The word Scamp, meaning literally a fugitive from the field, one qui ex campo exit, affords
another example of the power of the initial s to reverse the signification of a word.

All this, Mr. Editor, is only conjecture, in reply to "ALPHA's" query (No. 12 p. 185.); but
perhaps you will receive it, if no better etymology of the word be offered.

A.G.

Ecclesfield, Jan. 21. 1850.

Derivation(?) of "Snob" and "Cad."--I am informed by my son, who goeth to a Latin school, that
Snob (which is a word he often useth) cometh of two Latin words; to wit, "sine obolo"--as who
should say, "one that hath not a cross to bless himself." He saith, that the man behind the
omnibus is called "Cad," "a non cadendo." Your humble servant,

THE GOVERNOR.

       *       *       *       *       *

Mr. Macaulay and Bishop Burnet.--The passage in which Mr. Macaulay calls Burnet "a rash and
partial writer," alluded to by your correspondent in No. 3. p. 40., occurs towards the end
of his Essay on "Sir William Temple," p. 456. of the new edition in one volume.

ETONIENSIS.

       *       *       *       *       *

Circulation of the Blood.--"A.W." (No. 13. p. 202.) is referred to Smith's Dictionary of Biography,
article NEMESIUS.

J.E.B. MAYOR.

       *       *       *       *       *

Genealogy of European Sovereigns.--I send the full title of a book which I would recommend
to your correspondent "Q.X.Z.," (No. 6. p. 92.):--

     GÉNÉALOGIE ASCENDANTE,

     JUSQU'AU QUATRIÈME DÉGRÉ INCLUSIVEMENTS, De tous les Rois et
     Princes de Maisons souveraines de l'Europe actuellement vivans;
     réduite en CXIV. Tables de XVI. Quartiers, composées selon les
     Principes du Blazon; avec une Table Générale.

       *       *       *       *       *

     "La noblesse, Daugaux, n'est point une chimère, Quand sous
     l'étroite loi d'une vertu sévère, Un homme, issu d'un sang fécond
     en demi-dieux, Suit, comme toi, la trace où marchaient ses ayeux."
     Boileau, S.v.

       *       *       *       *       *

A BERLIN:

Au Dépens de l'Autheur: se vend chez Etienne de Bourdeaux, Libraire; imprimé chez Frédéric
Guillaume Birnstiel.

MDCCLXVIII.

I presume that it is of some rarity, never having met with any other copy than the one from
which I transcribed this title.

Some of your correspondents may, perhaps, be able to give the name of the Author who, as far
as I have had occasion to refer, seems to have done his work carefully.

T.W.

       *       *       *       *       *

Sir Stephen Fox.--I have seen it stated in some biographical dictionary, that Sir Stephen Fox
was a younger brother of "John Fox, Esq.," who was a devoted Royalist at the time of the great
Rebellion, and fought at the battle of Worcester, {251} and after the Restoration was Clerk
of the Acatry, in the household of Charles the Second.

Mr. Suckling, in his History of Suffolk, claims for a family some time seated at Stradbrook,
in that county, a consanguinity with the descendants of Sir Stephen.

On an altar-tomb in Stadbrook churchyard are inscribed notices of many members of this family,
but without dates. One is rather extraordinary, making the lives of a father and son together
to amount to 194 years. Amongst them is this:--

     "Here is hourly expected, Simon the next descendant, with his son
     Simon, who died young, tho' still preserved to be interr'd with his
     father at the earnest request of his pious mother the Lady Hart.
     And also Major John Fox, with his issue, who during the late
     rebellion loyally behav'd himself, undergoing with great courage
     not only the danger of the field, but many severe imprisonments."

The arms on this tomb differ from those of Lords Ilchester and Holland, being simply three
foxes' heads erased.

Should this note supply a clue for your correspondent "VULPES" to identify Major John Fox with
the brother of Sir Stephen, on knowing that he has found the scent I shall be able to assist
him in unearthing the whole litter.

VENATOR.

French Maxim.--The maxim inquired after by "R.V." (No. 14. p. 215.) undoubtedly belongs to
Rochefoucault. I have met with a somewhat similar passage in Massillon:--

     "Le vice rend hommage à la vertu en s'honorant de sus apparences."

J.B.M.

Feb. 5. 1850.

Shipster.--A scip-steora among our Anglo-Saxon ancestors was a pilot ("ship-steerer"). The
word has descended to our own times in the surname of the family Shipster. As a common noun
it was not obsolete in the days of Wynkyn de Worde, who printed that curious production "Cock
Lorelle's Bote," one line of which runs thus:--

     "With gogle-eyed Tomson, shepster of Lyn."

It is pretty certain, however, that this masculine occupation was not the one followed by "Marie
Fraunceys de Suthwerk!"

Pray accept this "Reply" for what it is worth. Perhaps I might have done better by meeting
Mr. John R. Fox's "Query" (No. 14. p. 216.) with another. Should not the designation of Marie
F. be Spinster instead of Shipster?

MARK ANTONY LOWER.

Lewes, Feb. 2.

Sparse.--Permit me to refer your correspondent "C. FORBES" for a reply to his query, p. 215.
of your last Number, to the article "Americanism" in the Penny Cyclopædia, the author of which
observes:--

     "Sparse is, for any thing we know, a new word, and well applied;
     the Americans say a sparse instead of a scattered population; and
     we think the term has a more precise meaning than scattered, and is
     the proper correlative of dense."

In the Imperial Dictionary (avowedly based upon Webster's American work, which I cannot at
this moment refer to in its original form), the word in question is given both as an adjective
and as a verb, and the derivatives "sparsed," "sparsedly," "sparsely," and "sparseness," are
also admitted. The reference given for the origin of "sparse" is to the Latin "sparsus, scattered,
from spargo;" and the definitions are, 1. "Thinly scattered, set or planted here and there;
as, a sparse population:" and, 2., as a botanical term, "not opposite, not alternate, nor in
any regular order; applied to branches, leaves, peduncles, &c."

J.T. STANESBY.

Cosmopolis--Complutensian Polyglot.--Though in considerable haste, I must send replies to the
fourth and eighth queries of my friend Mr. Jebb, No. 14. p. 213.

Cosmopolis was certainly Amsterdam. That the Interpretationes paradoxæ quatuor Evangeliorum,
by Christophorus Christophori Sandius, were there printed, appears from this writer's Bibliotheca
Anti-Trinitarionum, p. 169., Freistad, 1684. I may add that "Coloniæ" signifies "Amstelædami"
in the title-page of Sandius's Nucleus Historiæ Ecclesiasticæ, 1676, and in the Appendix Addendorum,
1678, 4to.

With regard to the MSS. used in the formation of the text of the Complutensian Polyglot, Mr.
Jebb will find an account of their discovery in a letter addressed by Dr. James Thompson to
the editor of The Biblical Review. See also The Irish Ecclesiastical Journal for April 1847.

R.G.

Complutensian Polyglot.--The following extract from "The Prospectus of a Critical Edition of
the New Testament," by the learned Mr. S. Prideaux Tregelles, affords a satisfactory reply
to Mr. Jebb's query, No. 14. p. 212.:--

     "However there is now more certainty as to the MSS. belonging to
     the University of Alcala. Dr. James Thompson has published
     (Biblical Review, March, 1847), the result of inquiries made
     thirty years ago by Dr. Bowring, and more recently by himself.
     Hence it appears that all the MSS. which formerly were known as
     belonging to Cardinal Ximenes, and which were preserved in the
     library of Alcala, are now with the rest of that library, at
     Madrid....Dr. José Gutierrez, the present librarian at Madrid,
     communicated to Dr. J. Thomson a catalogue of the Complutensian
     MSS., and from this it appears that the principal MSS. used in the
     Polyglott are all safely preserved."

J. MILNER BARRY.

Totnes, Feb. 6. 1850.

       *       *       *       *       *{252}

Christmas Hymn.--Your correspondent "E.V." (No. 13. p. 201.) asks for the author of the Christmas
Hymn--

     "Hark! the Herald Angels sing."

I believe it to be the composition of the Rev. Charles Wesley, the younger brother of the celebrated
John Wesley: he was born in 1708, and died in 1788. He was the author of many of the hymns
in his brother's collection, which are distinguished for their elegance and simplicity. I am
not able to find out, for certain, whether he had another name; if he had, it was probably
the occasion of the initials (J.C.W.) your correspondent mentions.

J.K.R.W.

Sir Jeffery Wyattville.--Sir Jeffery Wyattville, respecting whom "J.P." inquires (No. 14. p.
215.), was knighted at Windsor Castle, Dec. 9, 1828., on the king entering into possession
after the restoration.

S.G.

[To which may be added, on the information of our valued correspondent "C.," "that it was about
1824 that Mr. Wyatt, being appointed by George IV. to conduct the improvements at Windsor Castle,
had the absurd ambition of distinguishing himself from the other architects of his name by
changing it to Wyattville. This produced the following epigram in, I think, the Morning Chronicle:--

    "'Let GEORGE whose restlessness leaves nothing quiet,
      Change, if he will, the good old name of Wyatt;
      But let us hope that their united skill
      May not make Windsor Castle--Wyattsville!'"]

"Peruse."--In reply to the question of "H.W." (No. 14. p. 215.), although from want of minute
reference I have been unable to find, in the original edition, the quotation from Frith's works,
I beg leave to suggest that the word "Peruse" is a misprint, and that the true reading is "Pervise."
To this day the first examination at Oxford, commonly called the "Little-Go," is "Responsiones
in Parviso." It must not, however, be supposed that "Pervise," or "Parvise," is derived from
the Latin "Parvus;" the origin, according to Spelman and succeeding etymologists, is the French
"Le Parvis," a church porch.

In London the Parvis was frequented by serjeants at law: see Chaucer, Prol. Cant. Tales. There
is a difference of opinion where it was situated: see Tyrwhitt's Gloss. The student in ecclesiastical
history may compare Leo Allatius de Templis Græcorum, p. 44.

T.J.

Autograph Mottoes of Richard Duke of Gloucester and Harry Duke of Buckingham. (No. 9. p. 138.)--There
can be no doubt that "Mr. NICOLS" is somewhat wrong in his interpretation of the Duke of Buckingham's
Motto. It is evident that both mottoes are to be read continuously, and that "souene" is the
third person singular of a verb having "loyaulte" for its nominative case. It appears to me
that the true reading of the word is "soutienne," and that the meaning of the motto is "My
feelings of loyalty often sustain me in my duty to the King when I am tempted to join those
who bear no good feeling towards him." So that we shall have in English,

    Loyalty binds me}
    Richard Gloucester.}

    Often sustains me}
    Harry Buckingham.}

ARUN.

Boduc.--Your correspondent "P." (No. 12, p. 185.) seems to consider the "prevailing opinion,"
that Boduc or Boduoc on the British coin must be intended for our magnanimous Queen Boadicea,
to be merely a "pleasing vision," over which he is "sorry to cast a cloud." Yet his own remark,
that the name Budic (a mere difference in spelling) is often found among families of the Welsh
in Brittany, and that the name was once common in England, serves only to confirm the common
opinion that Boduoc on the coins was intended as the name of the British Queen.

Dio expressly writes her name in Greek Boudouica, which approaches nearly to Budic. In Cornwall
we still find Budock, the name of a parish and of a saint. In Oxford there was a church formerly
called from St. Budoc, long since destroyed. Leland mentions a Mr. Budok, and his manor place,
and S. Budok Church. His opinion was, that "this Budocus was an Irisch man, and cam into Cornewalle,
and ther dwellid." Whether there was a Regulus of Britain of this name, is not material. I
am not prepared to cast a cloud over it, if it should be found. Our motto should be, "ex fumo
dare lucem," &c.

ANTINEPHELEGERETA.

Oxford.

Annus Trabeationis.--I am sure that you will allow me to correct an oversight in your reply
to a query of "G.P.," in No. 7. p. 105. You have attributed to Du Cange a sentence in the Benedictine
addition to his explanation of the term Trabeatio. (Glossar. tom. vi. col. 1158. Venet. 1740.)
This word certainly signifies the Incarnation of Christ, an not his Crucifixion. Besides the
occurrence of "trabea carnis indutus," at the commencement of a sermon on S. Stephen by S.
Fulgentius Ruspensis, I have just now met with the expressions, "trabea carnis velatus," and
"carnis trabea amicti," in a copy of the editio princeps of the Latin version of Damascen's
books in defence of Image-worship, by Godefridus Tilmannus, fol. 30 b. 39 a, 4to. Paris, 1555.

R.G.

       *       *       *       *       *{253}

MISCELLANIES.

Pursuits of Literature.--The lines upon the pursuits of literature, quoted by you at p. 212.,
remind me of some others, which I have heard ascribed to Mr. Grattan, and are as follows:--

    "'Tis well, Pursuits of Literature!
    But who, and what is the pursuer,
    A Jesuit cursing Popery:
    A railer preaching charity;
    A reptile, nameless and unknown,
    Sprung from the slime of Warburton,
    Whose mingled learning, pride, and blundering,
    Make wise men stare, and set fools wondering."

X.

Doctor Dobbs and his Horse Nobbs.--I remember having read somewhere of "Doctor Dobbs and his
horse Nobbs," but where I cannot now recall. I only remember one anecdote. The horse Nobbs
was left, one cold night, outside a cottage, whilst the Doctor was within officiating as accoucheur
(I believe); when he was ready to start, and came out, he found the horse apparently dead.
The Doctor was miles from home, and, as the horse was dead, and the night dark, in place of
walking home, he, with his host, dragged the horse into the kitchen, and skinned him, by way
of passing the time profitably. But, lo! when the skinning was finished, the horse gave signs
of returning animation. What was to be done? Doctor Dobbs, fertile in resources, got sheepskins
and sewed them on Nobbs, and completely clothed him therein; and--mirabile dictu!--the skins
became attached to the flesh, Nobbs recovered, and from thenceforward carried a woolly coat,
duly shorn every summer, to the profit of Doctor Dobbs, and to the wonder and admiration of
the neighbourhood.

I have also read somewhere that Coleridge told the story of "Doctor Dobbs and his horse Nobbs"
to Southey at Oxford.

J.M.B.

Dr. Dobbs and his Horse Nobbs.--Although of small moment, it is, perhaps, worth recording,
that a Doctor Daniel Dove, of Doncaster, and his horse Nobbs, form the subjects of a paper
in "The Nonpareil, or the Quintessence of Wit and Humour," published in 1757, and which, there
can be little doubt, was the source whence Southey adopted, without alteration, the names so
well known to all readers of the Doctor.

JNO. SUDLOW.

Manchester.

Seeing the communication of "P.C.S.S." (p. 73.), reminds me of a note taken from our Parish
Register:--

     "1723. Feb. 10. 'Dorothy Dove, gentlewoman, bur.'"

I have never seen the name in connection with Doncaster before or since the above date.

J.S.

Doncaster, Jan. 15.

         --SI PROPIUS STES,
          TE CAPIET MINUS.

    (From the Latin of Vincent Bourne.)

    Glide down the Thames by London Bridge, what time
    St. Saviour's bells strike out their evening chime;
    Forth leaps the ompetuous cataract of sound,
    Dash'd into noise by countless echoes round.
    Pass on--it follows--all the jarring notes
    Blend in celestial harmony, that floats
    Above, below, around: the ravish'd ear
    Finds all the fault its own--it was TOO NEAR.

RUFUS.

St. Evona's Choice.--To your citation of Ben Jonson's exceptional case of the Justice Randall
as "a lawyer an honest man," in justice add the name of the learned and elegant author of Eunomus;
for Mr. Wynne himself tells the story of St. Evona's choice (Dialogue II. p. 62. 3rd ed. Dublin,
1791), giving his authority in the following note:--

     "The story here dressed up is told in substance in a small book
     published in 1691, called a Description of the Netherlands," p.
     58.

In strict law, Sir, the profession may in courts of Momus be held bound by the act of the respectable
but unlucky St. Evona; but in equity, let me respectfully claim release, for Evona was a churchman.

A TEMPLAR.

[We gladly insert our correspondent's "claim to release," but doubt whether he can establish
it; inasmuch as St. Ivo or Evona, canonized on account of his great rectitude and profound
knowledge both of civil and canon law, was both lawyer and churchman, like the CLERICUS so
recently discussed in our columns; and clearly sought for and obtained his patron saint in
his legal character.]

Muffins and Crumpets, &c.--Not being quite satisfied with the etymology of "muffin," in p.
205., though brought by Urquhart from Phoenicia and the Pillars of Hercules, I am desirous
of seeking additional illustration. Some fancy that "coffee" was known to Athenæus, and that
he saw it clearly in the "black broth" of the Lacedæmonian youth. In the same agreeable manner
we are referred to that instructive and entertaining writer for the corresponding luxury of
"muffins." Maphula, we are told, was one of those kinds of bread named as such by Athenæus;
that is to say, "a cake baked on a hearth or griddle." If we need go so far, why not fetch
our muffins from Memphis, which is Môph in Hebrew? (See Hosea, ix. 6.) It is, perhaps, mou-pain,
in old French, soft bread, easily converted into mouffin. So "crumpet" may be a corruption
of crumpâte a paste made of fine flour, slightly baked. The only difficulty would then be in
the {254} first syllable, concerning, which the ingenuity of your various correspondents, Mr.
Editor, may be exercised to some effect. Is it connected with the use of the crimping irons
in producing these delicacies?

HYPOMAGIRUS.

Oxford.

Dulcarnon.--Dulcarnon is one of those words in Chaucer which Tyrwhitt professes that he does
not understand. It occurs in Trolius and Creseide, book iii. 931.933. Creseide says:--

    "I am, til God me better minde sende,
    At Dulcarnon, right at my witt'is ende.
      Quod Pandarus ye nece, wol ye here,
    Dulcarnon clepid is fleming[3] of wretches."

This passage of Trolius and Creseide is quoted in the life of Sir Thomas More, given in Wordsworth's
Ecclesiastical Biography. More's daughter said to him, when he was in prison, "Father, I can
no further goe; I am come, as Chaucer said of Cressid Dulcarnon, to my witt's end."

Has this passage been satisfactorily explained since Tyrwhitt's time? The epithet "Dulcarnon"
is mentioned in a note to the translation of Richard de Bury's Philobiblon, London, 1832. I
give the note in full. It is in reference to the word "Ellefuga":--

     "This word was a pons asinorum to some good Grecians,--but that is
     probably its meaning[4]; at least making it the name of a problem
     gets over all difficulty. The allusion is to the flight of Helle,
     who turned giddy in taking a flying leap, mounted on a ram, and
     fell into the sea;--so weak a head fails in crossing the pons. The
     problem was invented by Pythagoras, 'and it hath been called by
     barbarous writers of the latter time Dulcarnon,'--Billingsley.
     This name may have been invented after our author's time. Query
     [Greek: dolkarenon]."

If we take the words "Dulcarnon" in this sense, it will help to explain the passage in the
Troilus and Creseide.

E.M.B.

Bishop Barnaby.--The origin of the term "Bishop Barnaby," as applied to the Lady-bird, is still
unexplained.

I wish to observe, as having some possible connexion with the subject, that the word "Barnaby"
in the seventeenth century appears to have had a particular political signification.

For instance, I send you a pamphlet (which you are welcome to, if you will accept of it) called
"The Head of Nile, or the Turnings and Windings of the Factious since Sixty, in a dialogue
between Whigg and Barnaby," London, 1681. In this dialog, Whigg, as might be expected, is the
exponent of all manner of abominable opinions, whilst Barnaby is represented as the supporter
of orthodoxy.

Again, in the same year was published Durfey's comedy, "Sir Barnaby Whigg," the union of the
two names indicating that the knight's opinions were entirely regulated by his interest.

Q.D.

P.S. The pamphlet above alluded to affords another instance of the use of the word "Factotum,"
at page 41.: "before the Pope had a great house there, and became Dominus Factotum, Dominus
Deus noster Papu."

Barnacles.--In Speculum Mundi, or a Glass representing the Face of the World, by John Swan,
M.A., 4th edit., 1670, is the following mention of the Barnacle goose (pp. 243, 244.):--

     "In the north parts of Scotland, and in the places adjacent,
     called Orchades, are certain trees found, whereon there groweth a
     certain kind of shell-fish, of a white colour, but somewhat tending
     to a russet; wherein are contained little living creatures. For in
     time of maturity the shells do open, and out of them by little and
     little grow those living creatures; which falling into the water
     when they drop out of their shells, do become fowls, such as we
     call Barnacles or Brant Geese; but the other that fall upon the
     land, perish and come to nothing."

The author then quotes the passage from Gerard where mention is made of the Barnacle.

HENRY KERSLEY.

Ancient Alms-Dishes.--I have one of these dishes; diameter 1 foot 4-3/4 inches, and its height
1-1/2 inch. The centre is plain, without any device, and separated from the circle of inscription
by a bold embossed pattern.

The inscription is Der infrid gehwart, in raised (not engraved) capital letters, 1 inch long,
repeated three times in the circle. Mine is a handsome dish of mixed metal; yielding, when
struck, a fine sound like that of a gong. It has devices of leaves, &c. engraved on the broad
margin, but no date.

I have seen another such dish, in the collection of the late William Hooper, Esq., of Ross,
part of which (and I think the whole of the under side) had been enamelled, as part of the
enamel still adhered to it. In the centre was engraved the temptation in Eden; but it was without
legend or date.

P.H.F.

Why the American Aborigines are called Indians.--I have often wondered how the aborigines of
America came to be called Indians; and for a considerable time I presumed it to be a popular
appellation arising from their dark colour. Lately, however, I fell in with a copy of Theatrum
Orbis Terrarum. Antwerp, 1583, by Abraham Ortelius, geographer to the king; and, in the map
entitled Typus Orbis Terrarum. I find America called America, sive India Nova. How it came
to get {255} the name of India Nova is of course another question, and one which at present
I cannot answer.

NORTHMAN.

     [Footnote 3: Fleming; banishing? from fleme, A.S. to banish.]

     [Footnote 4: "Helleflight," as given in the translation, p. 178.]

       *       *       *       *       *

NOTES ON BOOKS, SALES, CATALOGUES, ETC.

The arrangements for the Exhibition of Works of Ancient and Mediæval Art at the rooms of the
Society of Arts in the Adelphi, are proceeding most satisfactorily. Her MAJESTY and PRINCE
ALBERT have manifested the interest they feel in its success, by placing at the disposal of
the Committee for the purposes of the approaching Exhibition a selection from the magnificent
collection of such objects which is preserved at Windsor.

Messrs. Puttick and Simpson, of 191. Piccadilly, will sell on Thursday next, and five following
days, the extensive and valuable Library of a well known and eminent Collector; comprising
some very early printed books of extreme rarity, numerous French, Spanish, and Italian early
Romances, an extensive series of ancient Italian Books quoted by the Academia della Crusea,
ancient and modern Books of Travels, and Oriental Books and MSS.; amongst which latter are
the original MSS. of the celebrated M. Jules de Klaproth.

We have received the following Catalogues:--

     "A Catalogue of Scientific and Mathematical Books, comprising
     Architecture, Astrology, Magic, Chess, and other Games; Fine Arts,
     Heraldry, Naval and Military, Numismatics, Penmanship and Short
     Hand, Typography, and Miscellaneous Books now selling at the
     reduced prices affixed by William Brown, 130. and 131. Old Street,
     St. Luke's, London."

     "Catalogue (Part I. Feb. 1.

     "William Dobson Reeves' Catalogue of Books (Many Rare and Curious),
     now on Sale at 98. Chancery Lane."

     "Catalogue of very Cheap Books, chiefly Divinity, with a Selection
     of Miscellaneous Literature, on Sale, for Ready Money, by T.
     Arthur, No. 496. New Oxford street."

     "A Catalogue of Fathers of the Church, and Ecclesiastical Writers
     to the Fifteenth Century, arranged in Chronological Order, with
     Collections, Analyses and Selections, Illustrative and Introductory
     Works, and an Alphabetical Index of Authors; on Sale at the Low
     Prices affixed, for Ready Money, by C.J. Stewart, 11. King William
     Street, West Strand."

We had occasion in a former Number (No. 5. p. 78) to speak in terms of high and deserved praise
of Mr. Stewart's "Catalogue of Bibles and Biblical Literature;" the present is no less deserving
of commendation, in as much as it gives not only the Fathers and Ecclesiastical Writers in
Chronological order, according to Centuries (to each of which, by the way, Mr. Stewart affixes
its distinctive character, Apostolic, Gnostic, &c., as given by Cave); but also marking the
precise period in which they severally flourished, so as to show their succession in each century.
So that this Catalogue, with its Index, and its tempting quotations from Cranmer and Bishop
Hall, which we regret we have not room to quote, will really be most useful to all Students
of Theology and Ecclesiastical History. By SIR THOMAS PHILLIPS, Bart. 1845.

A LITTLE WELSH ACCOUNT OF THE PRINCIPALITY OF WALES. By D.T. First printed about the year 1720.

RICHARDS' (WM.) REVIEW OF THE MEMOIRS OF THE PROTECTURAL HOUSE OF CROMWELL. By Rev. MARK NOBLE.
1787.

HEARNE'S RICHARD II.; to which is subjoined, SIR RICHARD WYNNE'S NARRATIVE OF HIS JOURNEY INTO
SPAIN.

A LETTER TO THE RIGHT HON. SIR CHARLES LONG, ON THE IMPROVEMENT PROPOSED AND NEW CARRYING ON
IN THE WESTERN PART OF LONDON, A Pamphlet, 8vo. 1825 or 1826.

LORD FARNBOROUGH'S PAMPHLET UPON THE IMPROVEMENT OF WESTMINSTER. Published the latter end of
1826, or January 1827. We are for the same reason under the necessity of abridging our usual
weekly NOTES ON BOOKS, &c.

R.M. JONES, Chesea. To the queries of this correspondent (No. 14. p. 217.), who inquired for
the best Treatise on the Microscope, and where to purchase the most perfect instrument, we
have received many replies, all agreeing in one point--namely, that Mr. Queckett's is the best
work on the subject--but differing mostly as to who is the best maker. Mr. Jones is recommended
to join the Microscopical Society, 21. Regent Street, where he will see some of the best-constructed
and most valuable microscopes ever made; and then can make his choice.

Errata.--No. 15 p. 232 vol. 1 l. 24., dele full stop after Gloss; same page, col. 2. lines
21, 22., for "Historia" read "Historica," and for "Herveio" read "Heroico." P. 236. l. 12.,
for "varieties" read "vanities."

       *       *       *       *       *

Just published,

HOLY MEN OF OLD; being Short Notices of such as are named in the Calendar of the English Church.
Demy 18mo. Cloth, price 3s.

POETRY, PAST AND PRESENT: a Collection for Every-day Reading and Amusement, by the Editor of
"Church Poetry" and "Days and Seasons." Demy 18mo. cloth, price 4s. 6d.; or bound in morocco,
7s. 6d.

JOHN AND CHARLES MOZLEY, 6. Paternoster Row; and JOSEPH MASTERS, 78. New Bond Street.

       *       *       *       *       *

Just published, gratis.

SCIENTIFIC AND MATHEMATICAL BOOKS.--W. BROWN'S Catalogue of Books, on the Arts, Sciences, and
various Branches of the Mathematics, is just published, and may be had gratis on application,
or by post on sending 4 penny stamps. It includes many works on Architecture, Astrology, Chess,
and other Games, The Fine Arts, Heraldry, Naval and Military Affairs, Numismatics, Penmanship,
Typography, &c. &c., marked at greatly reduced prices.

London: W. BROWN, 130. and 131. Old Street.

       *       *       *       *       *

8vo., cloth, with 18 Illustrations, price 12s. 6d.

CHRONICLES OF CHARTERHOUSE. By a CARTHUSIAN.

     "An effort of one of the Carthusians who has recently left the
     walls of the School, and is creditable alike to his taste and
     industry."--Spectator.

     "Conceived in the spirit and after the rules of the old Antiquary,
     but in its execution there are many signs of the earnest feeling of
     the modern Ecclesiologist."--Ecclesiologist.

GEORGE BELL, 186. Fleet Street.

       *       *       *       *       *

12mo., cloth, 3s. 6d.

THOUGHTS ON THE RELATIONS OF MAN TO THE EXTERNAL WORLD.

     "A modest volume, containing an amount of thought and philosophy to
     which only a very elaborate analysis would do justice. It is a book
     of very high merit. We hope its reception will be such as to induce
     the author to continue it. Its neglect would be a mark of the
     shallowness of the age and its indifference to serious
     subjects."--Guardian.

London: GEORGE BELL, 186. Fleet Street.

       *       *       *       *       *

Exhibition of Works of Ancient and Mediæval Art

       *       *       *       *       *

COMMITTEE.

PRESIDENT AND CHAIRMAN,

H.R.H. PRINCE ALBERT, K.G., F.R.S., F.S.A.

VICE-PRESIDENTS.

THE EARL OF ENNISKILLEN. RIGHT HON. SIDNEY HERBERT, M.P. SIR JOHN P. BOILEAU, Bart., F.R.S.
HENRY THOMAS HOPE, Esq., M.P.

The Duke of Bucclough, K.G. The Duke of Northumberland, F.R.S., F.S.A. The Marquis of Northhampton,
F.R.S., F.S.A. The Earl of Jersey. The Earl of Ellesmere, F.S.A. The Bishop of Oxford, F.R.S.,
V.P.S.A. Lord Albert Denison, M.P., K.C.H., F.S.A. Hon. Robert Curzon, Jun. Hon. James Talbot,
M.R.I.A. Sir Philip de Malpas Grey-Egerton, Bart., M.P., F.R.S. The Very Rev. the Dean of Westminster,
F.R.S. J.Y. Akerman, Esq., Sec. S.A. Beriah Botfield, Esq., F.R.S., F.S.A. John Bruce, Esq.,
Treas. S.A. Henry Cole, Esq. J. Payne Collier, Esq., V.P.S.A. William R. Drake, Esq., F.S.A.
Augustus W. Franks, Esq., B.A., Hon. Sec. Henry Farrer, Esq. Peter le Neve Foster, Esq. M.A.
Edward Hailstone. Esq. F.S.A. M. Rohde Hawkins, Esq. A.J. Beresford Hope, Esq., M.P. Rev. Joseph
Hunter, F.S.A. H. Bowyer Lane, Esq. Hollingsworth Magnise, Esq. Octavius S. Morgan, Esq. M.P.,
F.S.A. Frederic Ouvry, Esq., F.S.A. James Robinson Planche, Esq., F.S.A. Samuel Redgrave, Esq.
Henry Shaw, Esq., F.S.A. Edward Smirke, Esq., F.S.A. C. Roach Smith, Esq., F.S.A. Captain W.H.
Smyth, R.N., F.R.S., Dir. S.A. William J. Thoms, Esq., F.S.A. William Tite, Esq. F.R.S., F.S.A.
John Webb, Esq. Digby Wyatt, Esq.

The above COMMITTEE has been formed for the purpose of organizing an EXHIBITION OF WORKS OF
ANCIENT AND MEDIÆVAL ART. The SOCIETY OF ARTS having considered that such an Exhibition is
not only likely to be interesting to the public, but also to be especially useful to Manufacturers
(with reference to the Exhibition of Works of Industry of all Nations to be held in the year
1851), have placed a portion of their Rooms at the disposal of the Committee, and have agreed
to adopt the Exhibition as part of that annually made by the Society, thereby taking all the
expenses connected with it upon themselves. The Committee, regarding the Exhibition in the
twofold character contemplated by the Society of Arts, have resolved that the objects of ancient
and mediæval art of which the Exhibition is to be composed, shall, as far as possible, be selected
with reference to their beauty and the practical illustration which they are likely to afford
of processes of manufacture; and now beg to invite the possessors of Works deemed suitable
for such an exhibition to assist the Committee in their very important office, by entering
into communication with them, respecting the nature of any objects which they may be willing
to offer for exhibition.

It is requested that all Works proposed for exhibition be punctually sent to the Rooms of the
SOCIETY OF ARTS, John Street, Adelphi, on or before the 20th of February, it being imperative
that the Exhibition should open early in March.

Letters and Communications should be addressed to AUGUSTUS W. FRANKS, Esq. Honorary Secretary
of the Committee, Society of Arts, John Street, Adelphi.

By order of the Committee,

AUGUSTUS W. FRANKS.

Hon. Sec. 1850.

