"It is--in fact--it is Claude," he replied, blushing; but there was not enough light to see
his blushes.

"Dear me!" said the colonel's wife.

A few days later the patient, able to sit for a while in the shade of the veranda, was lying
in a long cane chair. Beside her sat the colonel's wife who had nursed her through the attack.
She was reading aloud to her. Suddenly she stopped. "Here comes the doctor," she said; "and,
Florence, my dear, his name, you know, is Claude. I think you have got something to talk about
with Claude besides the symptoms." With these words she laughed, nodded her head, and ran into
the salon.

The veranda, with its green blinds of cane hanging down, and its matting on the floor, and
its easy-chairs and tables, made a pretty room to look at. In the twilight, the fragile figure,
pale, thin, dressed in white, would have lent interest even to a stranger. To the doctor, I
suppose, it was only a "case." He pushed the blinds aside and stepped in, strong, big, masterful.
"You are much better," he said; "you will very soon be able to walk about. Only be careful
for a few days. It was lucky that the attack came when it did, and not a little earlier when
we were in the thick of the trouble. Well, you won't want me much longer, I believe."

"No, thank you," she murmured, without raising her eyes.

"I have had no opportunity," he said, standing over her, "of explaining that I really did not
know who you were, Miss Vernon. Somehow I didn't see your face, or I was thinking of other
things. I suppose you had forgotten me. Anyhow, it was not until the other day, when I was
called in, that I remembered. But I dare say you have forgotten me."

"No; I have not forgotten."

"I thought that long ago you had become Lady Duport."

"No; that did not take place."

"I hear that you have been teaching since your mother's death. Do you like it?"

"Yes; I like it."

"Do you remember the last time we met--on the sea-shore? Do you remember, Florence?" His voice
softened suddenly. "We had a quarrel about that old villain; do you remember?"

"I thought you had forgotten such a little thing as that long ago, and the girl you quarrelled
with."

"The point is rather whether you remember. That is of much more importance."

"I remember that you swore that you would never forgive a worthless girl who had ruined your
life. Did I ruin your life, Dr. Fernie?"

He laughed. He could not honestly say that she had. In fact, his life, so far as concerned
his work, had gone on much about the same. But then, such a man does not allow love to interfere
with his career.

"And then you went and threw over the old man. Florence, why didn't you tell me that you were
going to do that? You might have told me."

She shook her head. "Until you fell into such a rage, and called me such dreadful names, I
did not understand."

"Why didn't you tell me, Florence?" he repeated.

She shook her head again.

"You were only a little innocent, ignorant child then," he said; "of course you could not understand.
I was an ass and a brute and a fool not to know."

"You said you would never forgive me. You said you would never shake hands with me again."

He held out his hand. "Since," he said, "you are not going to marry the old man, and since
you are not engaged to anybody else, why--then--in that case--the old state of things is still
going on; and--and--Florence--but if you give me your hand, I shall keep it, mind."

"Dear me!" said the colonel's wife, standing in the doorway. "Do quarantine doctors always
kiss their patients? But you told me, doctor dear, that your Christian name was Claude; didn't
you? That explains everything."

The ship, with those of her company whom the plague had spared, presently steamed away, and,
after being repaired, made her way to Portsmouth dockyard. But one of her company stayed behind,
and is now queen or empress of the island of which her husband is king, captain, commandant,
and governor-general, and also resident quarantine doctor.

THE ROCK SCORPIONS

(ANONYMOUS)

The screw steamer Jenny Jones was lying alongside a coal-hulk at Gibraltar one October afternoon.
By three o'clock her bunkers were nearly filled, and the captain was getting ready for casting
off, when one of the natives came on board. Captain Hindhaugh looked about for something to
throw at the visitor, and only the difficulty of selecting an efficient missile from a large
and varied assortment prevented him from letting fly at once.

The "Scorpion" said, "Ah, no, no, Capeetan! No been throw nothin' at myself. Beesiness! I'se
been com' for beesiness. Big thing, Capeetan!"

The last phrase was spoken with such a profound wink that Hindhaugh held his hand, and, addressing
the man as one would an ill-conditioned dog, said, "Don't keep bowing and scraping there, you
tastrel! Get it out sharp!"

The Scorpion whispered, "No been talk up here. Keep ship one hour, two hour, three hour. You'se
been com' with me, and I speak you somethin' myself."

Like many of his tribe, this interesting native spoke a kind of English which is not heard
anywhere else on the Mediterranean shore. A few of the people on the Rock learn to talk very
well to our men, but most of those who come about the ships use a picturesque lingo in which
"myself" the place of quite a variety of parts of speech.

Hindhaugh invited the man below, and asked him to explain himself. The fellow leaned over the
table and chattered on, throwing quick side glances at every few words.

"This been big thing, Capeetan. You get away a little; drop your anchor a little. Then three
felucca com' alongside, and you'se been hoist bales. Then you 'se go where agent say you. Very
big thing. Five thousand sovereign."

"What is it? tobacco?"

"That been it."

"Where for?"

"Huelva."

"I'm not going out of Portuguese waters at no price."

"Ah, no, no, Cheesu, Capeetan--no! Five mile. We have felucca there ready. I 'se been see him
myself."

"What's the figure? what's the money?"

"You com' 'shore and see agent with myself."

Hindhaugh put a revolver in his pocket and went on deck; the Scorpion got ashore, and hung
about with an air of innocence. The captain was about to follow when the man in charge of the
hulk called out, "Do you intend to keep bumping us like this all night? Why don't you cast
off? You're knocking us all to flinders."

Hindhaugh beckoned. "Look here, my good chap, it won't matter to you for a couple of hours.
Let us lie till dusk, and then I'll get away. I've got important business ashore."

"That's very well, Captain. But look here; if there's anything on, I'm in it. You understand
--I'm in it."

"You understand that, do you? Well then, I'll tell you to keep your mouth shut just now, or
never another ton of coal will you put aboard of us as long as I run here."

"All right, Captain. No need to be nasty. You'll do the square thing, I bet."

Then Hindhaugh went ashore, and the Scorpion walked on ahead, gazing on architectural beauties
with easy interest. Presently the two men came to a narrow stairway, and the Englishman gripped
his revolver. A dark-eyed Spaniard was waiting on a landing, and held up two fingers when the
guide passed. The Scorpion knocked at a greasy door, and an ugly fellow, with a cowl on, looked
out and nodded. Hindhaugh stepped into a room that reeked with garlic and decay. Two men sat
in the steamy dusk at the far side. An oily gentleman rose and bowed. "I'm the interpreter,
Captain. You and this merchant must do your business through me. What'll you take to drink?"

"Get through your business, mister. I'm not wanting any drink."

In brief, jerky sentences the interpreter explained what was wanted.

"You steam slowly till you're near the Fleet. Then put all your men on and get the stuff up.
This man goes with you, and he'll tell you where to go. Lie five miles off Huelva."

"I sha'n't go except to Portuguese waters."

"Good. Then the lighters will come and the men will discharge you."

"And now," said the captain, "what about me? How much?"

"One hundred and twenty pounds."

"Can't be done. Make it two hundred and fifty."

After some haggling, a bargain was made for two hundred and twenty. Then Hindhaugh went further:
"I want one hundred and ten down before we start, and the balance before you take an ounce
of tobacco out of us."

This was settled; the merchant bowed, and the skipper went away, still keeping his hand on
the revolver. Every cranny in the walls seemed fit to hide a murderer--seemed made for nothing
else; and Hindhaugh thought what a fool he must have been to venture under that foul arch.

On getting aboard, the captain sent for his brother, who sailed as mate with him. He said,
"Now, Jack, I'm going to run some risk. You take this pistol, and get her oiled and put right.
When you see three feluccas coming alongside, get all the chaps on deck--the Dora's crew as
well as ours." (Hindhaugh was taking home a ship-wrecked crew, and he was very grateful just
then for that accession of force.) "Whack on everything you know, and get the bales up sharp.
Tell the engineers to stand by for driving her, and leave the rest to me. If we're nailed we'll
be detained, and I don't know what may happen; so you'll have to look slippy."

Jack replied, "All right, sir!" Quarter-deck manners were punctiliously observed by one of
the brothers.

The shadows fell low, and the crown of the Rock grew dim. The creeping wind stole over the
Pearl Rock, and set the sinister ripples dancing; the bugles sang mysteriously through the
gloom, and the mystery of the night was in the air. The Jenny Jones stole quietly toward the
broad sheet of water where the vessels of the Fleet heaved up their shadowy bulk above the
lapping flood. All the English sailors were stripped to the shirt, and a low hum of excited
talk came from amidships. Suddenly the raking yard of a felucca started out from amid the haze;
then came another, and another. A sailor slipped a cork fender over the side, and there was
a muffled bump and a slight scrape. Jack, the mate, whispered, "Now, you cripples!" and a brief
scene of wild hurry and violent labour ensued. Bale after bale was whisked aboard; the Englishmen
worked as only English sailors can, and the Scorpions excelled themselves under the influence
of fear and black wine. When the last bale was up, Hindhaugh said to the man who first boarded
him, "Who's got the money?"

"Me, Capeetan. All right. Honest man myself. You'se been have every dollar."

"Well then, it's neck or nothing. We have half an hour to clear out into the Gut. Come below,
and shell out."

The Scorpion counted out one hundred pounds in gold, and then asked, "That be enough? Other
money all right other end."

"Deuce a bit! Down with the other ten or I sliver you."

The Scorpion did not know what "sliver" meant, but the gleam of the skipper's cold eye was
enough for him. He paid up and went on deck.

Hindhaugh had just said to the engineer, "Now, rive the soul out of her," when a low, panting
sound was heard, and a white shape appeared gliding over the water. The captain had let the
feluccas go, and the Jenny Jones was moving. He waved for the mate. "It's all up. Here's a
mess. You must go home overland; suppose you swim ashore. Steady the men down."

Jack performed one or two steps of a dance, and placed his finger against his nose. He rather
enjoyed a scrape, did this frivolous chief officer. The white shape came nearer, and a sharp
whistle sounded. Hindhaugh had known well enough that it was a steam-launch that made the panting
noise, and he got ready for the worst. The launch drew right across the bows of the steamer,
and then the throbbing of the little engines ceased. Again the whistle sounded; the launch
gave a bound forward; then she struck away into the darkness, and Hindhaugh drew a long breath.

In an instant every possible ounce of steam was put on, and the Jenny Jones went away at eleven
knots toward the Gut. All night long the firemen were kept hard at it, and before morning the
Rock was far astern of the driving steamboat.

Three of the Scorpions had stayed aboard, and Captain Hindhaugh noticed that they earned their
knives. He noticed, too, that the cringing manner which the fellows had shown before the Rock
was cleared had given place to a sort of subdued swagger.

About noon the engines were slowed down almost to nothing, and the Jenny Jones crept gently
on toward the shore. By four o'clock the vessel was well into Portuguese waters, and Hindhaugh
was prepared to defy any quantity of Spanish coast-guards. When the sun had dipped low the
Scorpion-in-chief came aft, and pointed mysteriously to the northeast.

"You'se been look where I point myself. Feluccas! You'se follow them in and drop anchor."

Hindhaugh smiled. "Do you think you're talking to a fool? Come you below there, and let me
have that other money sharp."

"Ah, Capeetan, wait till agent's man come with felucca. I'se been have no money myself."

Hindhaugh was not a person to be trifled with. He quietly took out his revolver. "Now, do you
see that pretty thing? First shot for you. Look at that block forrad, and see how much chance
you'll have if I fire at you." The pop of the revolver sounded, and then Hindhaugh went forward,
pulling the Scorpion with him. "Do you see that hole, you image? How would you like if that
was your gizzard? Now, no games, my joker."

The Scorpion begged for time, and Hindhaugh was so sure of his man that he made no further
objection. He had another conference with Jack, and, to that worthy man's great delight, he
expressed certain forebodings.

"We're going to have a fight over this job," said the skipper. "I'm dead sure of it. Go down
and load the two muskets, and give them to the safest men. When the lighters DO come, borrow
the fireman's iron rods. I've lent the steward my bowie that I got at Charleston, and you can
try and hold that old bulldog straight. We mustn't show the least sign of funking."

Then Hindhaugh and his brother called for tea, and fed solidly.

The Scorpion whispered down the companion, "They'se been com'," and the captain went on deck.
Two large felucca-rigged lighters hove up slowly through the dusk, and the chief Scorpion's
signal was answered. Hindhaugh saw both lighters draw near, he felt the usual scraping bump,
and then he heard a sudden thunder of many feet. The second mate sung out, "Here's half a hundred
of these devils, sir. They're all armed to the teeth." And sure enough, a set of ferocious-looking
rapscallions had boarded the steamer. They looked like low-class Irishmen browned with walnut-juice.
Each man had a heavy array of pistols in his sash, and all of them carried ugly knives. The
Scorpion waved to the gang, and they arranged themselves around the pile of bales that stuck
out through the after-hatch. Hindhaugh had fully discounted all the chances, and had made up
his mind to one thing: he wouldn't be "done."

The Scorpion imperiously observed, "Come below, Capeetan," and Hindhaugh went. Then the defiant
native of the Rock put his back against the cabin door, heaved out his chest in a manly way,
and said, "Now, Capeetan, you no have more money. You speak much, and I'se been get your throat
cut myself."

"You've got no money?"

"No; not a damn dollar."

"You won't keep to your bargain?"

"No; you come 'shore for your money if you want him."

