Thirteen years ago smallpox visited Cleveland. Twelve hundred and forty-eight cases were reported.
There were 30 cases of black smallpox. Many of the patients were blinded or disfigured for
life; 224 died. We find in the annual report of the Board of Health for that year: "It was
the smallpox we read about, that terrible scourge which struck terror into the former generations.
Its contagious nature showed itself everywhere. One case, if not promptly reported to the health
office and removed to the hospital, would invariably infect the whole neighborhood. Its severity
manifested itself even in the milder cases, while confluent cases, almost without exception,
developed hemorrhages during the pustular state.... At the Mayor's request, a meeting of physicians
was held ... to consider the smallpox situation.... Vaccination was recommended on all sides,
but the people were not prone to get vaccinated.... Wholesale vaccination was finally effected
by the action of the School Council and the help of the Chamber of Commerce. The School Council
amended the vaccination clause, making vaccination a conditio sine qua non for attending school
and giving the health officer the whole control of the matter. Without this amendment the schools
could not have opened last fall. The situation was too critical. With it, the opening of the
schools helped greatly to exterminate smallpox. Every school, public and private, was put in
the charge of a physician.... The doctors worked with a will, and if anything was done thoroughly
and conscientiously in this city, it was the vaccination of all teachers and pupils last fall....
Through the influence of the Chamber of Commerce the employers prevailed on their employees
to get vaccinated. Also to have everyone of their family vaccinated. The consequence was that
the people got vaccinated by tens of thousands. Men who formerly spurned the vaccinator from
their door came now to his office.... The city paid for 195,000 vaccinations."

In 1910 smallpox again broke out, this time in the southeastern part of the city, and threatened
to spread over the entire community. With vivid memories of earlier horrors, the disease was
met at the outset with vigorous measures. It was discovered that in spite of the experience
of the Board of Education eight years before, and without regard to the rule which provided
that "No teacher or pupil shall attend any school without furnishing satisfactory certificate
that he or she has been successfully vaccinated or otherwise protected from smallpox," unvaccinated
children had been admitted to the public schools literally by thousands. By the time that 63
cases of smallpox had been reported the Board of Health again took matters into its own hands,
entered the schools, and vaccinated 55,000 school children. Equally vigorous measures were
taken among adults and the epidemic was checked.

Every year since 1910 there have been cases of smallpox in Cleveland. The Board of Health no
longer relies upon the Board of Education to protect the lives of the community against the
scourge. Where 70,000 children are gathered together daily for hours at a stretch, the possibilities
of spreading disease throughout the city at large constitute a grave menace. Therefore, immediately
upon the report of a case of smallpox, the Board of Health officials exercise their right of
entry into the schools of that district, and either vaccinate or exclude from attendance every
child who could himself become a carrier of the disease. During the present year over 1,400
children were vaccinated in this way.

That vaccination prevents smallpox no intelligent person acquainted with the facts can doubt.
An overwhelming mass of incontrovertible evidence can be found in every medical library. The
mortality statistics of different countries tell the same story. A single example shows the
general experience: In seven provinces of the Philippine Islands there were 6,000 deaths annually
from smallpox alone. In his 1906 report, Dr. Victor G. Heiser, Director of Health in the Islands,
describes how drastic measures were taken to stamp out the disease. Under his direction practically
three million one hundred thousand persons were vaccinated. The following year, instead of
6,000 deaths from smallpox, there was not one.

For 13 years the Board of Education has had upon its books a rule requiring vaccination as
a prerequisite to admission to the schools. That rule has never been adequately enforced. In
July, 1914, City Ordinance 32846-B was passed, one section of which reads: "No superintendent,
principal, or teacher of any public, parochial, private school, or other institution, nor any
parent, guardian, or other person, shall permit any child not having been successfully vaccinated,
nor having had smallpox, to attend school." Although passed a year ago, that ordinance has
not yet been enforced. Exact figures cannot be secured, but it is probable that there are in
the Cleveland schools today more than 50,000 unvaccinated children. For each of these the superintendent,
principal, teacher, and parent may be held liable to a $200 fine, 60 days imprisonment, or both.

FUTURE DEVELOPMENT

Compared with other large cities, Cleveland has an unusually good system of medical inspection.
Where other cities are still struggling with details of organization, record keeping, and the
like, Cleveland is ready to lead the way into new and immensely important fields.

Medical inspection includes four fields of endeavor: prevention of epidemics, discovery and
cure of physical defects, provision of healthful surroundings, and formation of correct habits
of thought and action in regard to health. The first two are concerned with remedying present
conditions, and here Cleveland is doing excellent work. The latter two provide health insurance
for the future. In these, Cleveland has made a beginning but should carry her efforts far in
advance of anything now attempted.

Thirteen years ago a crusade was started against the common drinking cup. Today there is not
a school in the city which is not supplied with sanitary drinking fountains, and the common
cup is a thing of the past. Nine years ago individual towels were supplied to children in certain
schools. At the present time individual towels, soap, and hot water are available in every
building. In 1906 the first shower bath was installed in an elementary school. Now there are
37 buildings so equipped. The windows in some of the classes for the blind are made of amber
tinted glass. For years there has been agitation in favor of adjustable seats and desks, and
although conditions in certain schools are still very bad, these are exceptions, and the general
seating provision is in accordance with the laws of hygiene.

But the Division of Medical Inspection must go farther than this. The physician must join with
the psychologist and the educator in scientific research to determine the conditions best suited
to the education of the child. Shall blackboards be of slate, composition board, or glass?
Shall they be colored black, green, or ivory white? Is light chalk on a dark ground better
or worse than dark chalk on a light ground? Is prismatic window glass superior to plain? To
what extent is glare from polished desks detrimental to eyesight? How large must be the type
in textbooks in order that young children may easily read it? What variations from the present
school program are necessary in order to make adequate provision for change in the use of different
sets of muscles, and relief from nerve strain?

