THE PRINCE OF INDIA OR WHY CONSTANTINOPLE FELL

BY LEW. WALLACE

VOL. THE MIDNIGHT LANDING
  III. THE HIDDEN TREASURE

BOOK II THE PRINCE OF INDIA

    I. A MESSENGER FROM CIPANGO
   II. THE PILGRIM AT EL KATIF
  III. THE YELLOW AIR
   IV. EL ZARIBAH
    V. THE PASSING OF THE CARAVAN
   VI. THE PRINCE AND THE EMIR
  VII. AT THE KAABA
 VIII. THE ARRIVAL IN CONSTANTINOPLE
   IX. THE PRINCE AT HOME
    X. THE ROSE OF SPRING

BOOK III THE PRINCESS IRENE

    I. MORNING ON THE BOSPHORUS
   II. THE PRINCESS IRENE
  III. THE HOMERIC PALACE
   IV. THE RUSSIAN MONK
    V. A VOICE FROM THE CLOISTER
   VI. WHAT DO THE STARS SAY?
  VII. THE PRINCE OF INDIA MEETS CONSTANTINE
 VIII. RACING WITH A STORM
   IX. IN THE WHITE CASTLE
    X. THE ARABIAN STORY-TELLER
   XI. THE TURQUOISE RING
  XII. THE RING RETURNS
 XIII. MAHOMMED HEARS FROM THE STARS
  XIV. DREAMS AND VISIONS
   XV. DEPARTURE FROM THE WHITE CASTLE
  XVI. AN EMBASSY TO THE PRINCESS IRENE
 XVII. THE EMPEROR'S WOOING
XVIII. THE SINGING SHEIK
  XIX. TWO TURKISH TALES
   XX. MAHOMMED DREAMS

BOOK IV THE PALACE OF BLACHERNE

    I. THE PALACE OF BLACHERNE
   II. THE AUDIENCE
  III. THE NEW FAITH PROCLAIMED
   IV. THE PANNYCHIDES
    V. A PLAGUE OF CRIME
   VI. A BYZANTINE GENTLEMAN OF THE PERIOD
  VII. A BYZANTINE HERETIC
 VIII. THE ACADEMY OF EPICURUS
   IX. A FISHERMAN'S FETE
    X. THE HAMARI

BOOK I

THE EARTH AND THE SEA ARE ALWAYS GIVING UP THEIR SECRETS THE PRINCE OF INDIA

CHAPTER I.

THE NAMELESS BAY

In the noon of a September day in the year of our dear Lord 1395, a merchant vessel nodded
sleepily upon the gentle swells of warm water flowing in upon the Syrian coast. A modern seafarer,
looking from the deck of one of the Messagerie steamers now plying the same line of trade,
would regard her curiously, thankful to the calm which held her while he slaked his wonder,
yet more thankful that he was not of her passage.

She could not have exceeded a hundred tons burthen. At the bow and stern she was decked, and
those quarters were fairly raised. Amidship she was low and open, and pierced for twenty oars,
ten to a side, all swaying listlessly from the narrow ports in which they were hung. Sometimes
they knocked against each other. One sail, square and of a dingy white, drooped from a broad
yard-arm, which was itself tilted, and now and then creaked against the yellow mast complainingly,
unmindful of the simple tackle designed to keep it in control. A watchman crouched in the meagre
shade of a fan-like structure overhanging the bow deck. The roofing and the floor, where exposed,
were clean, even bright; in all other parts subject to the weather and the wash there was only
the blackness of pitch. The steersman sat on a bench at the stern. Occasionally, from force
of habit, he rested a hand upon the rudder-oar to be sure it was yet in reach. With exception
of the two, the lookout and the steersman, all on board, officers, oarsmen, and sailors, were
asleep--such confidence could a Mediterranean calm inspire in those accustomed to life on the
beautiful sea. As if Neptune never became angry there, and blowing his conch, and smiting with
his trident, splashed the sky with the yeast of waves! However, in 1395 Neptune had disappeared;
like the great god Pan, he was dead.

The next remarkable thing about the ship was the absence of the signs of business usual with
merchantmen. There were no barrels, boxes, bales, or packages visible. Nothing indicated a
cargo. In her deepest undulations the water-line was not once submerged. The leather shields
of the oar-ports were high and dry. Possibly she had passengers aboard. Ah, yes! There under
the awning, stretched halfway across the deck dominated by the steersman, was a group of persons
all unlike seamen. Pausing to note them, we may find the motive of the voyage.

Four men composed the group. One was lying upon a pallet, asleep yet restless. A black velvet
cap had slipped from his head, giving freedom to thick black hair tinged with white. Starting
from the temples, a beard with scarce a suggestion of gray swept in dark waves upon the neck
and throat, and even invaded the pillow. Between the hair and beard there was a narrow margin
of sallow flesh for features somewhat crowded by knots of wrinkle. His body was wrapped in
a loose woollen gown of brownish-black. A hand, apparently all bone, rested upon the breast,
clutching a fold of the gown. The feet twitched nervously in the loosened thongs of old-fashioned
sandals. Glancing at the others of the group, it was plain this sleeper was master and they
his slaves. Two of them were stretched on the bare boards at the lower end of the pallet, and
they were white. The third was a son of Ethiopia of unmixed blood and gigantic frame. He sat
at the left of the couch, cross-legged, and, like the rest, was in a doze; now and then, however,
he raised his head, and, without fully opening his eyes, shook a fan of peacock feathers from
head to foot over the recumbent figure. The two whites were clad in gowns of coarse linen belted
to their waists; while, saving a cincture around his loins, the negro was naked.

There is often much personal revelation to be gleaned from the properties a man carries with
him from home. Applying the rule here, by the pallet there was a walking-stick of unusual length,
and severely hand-worn a little above the middle. In emergency it might have been used as a
weapon. Three bundles loosely wrapped had been cast against a timber of the ship; presumably
they contained the plunder of the slaves reduced to the minimum allowance of travel. But the
most noticeable item was a leather roll of very ancient appearance, held by a number of broad
straps deeply stamped and secured by buckles of a metal blackened like neglected silver.

The attention of a close observer would have been attracted to this parcel, not so much by
its antique showing, as by the grip with which its owner clung to it with his right hand. Even
in sleep he held it of infinite consequence. It could not have contained coin or any bulky
matter. Possibly the man was on some special commission, with his credentials in the old roll.
Ay, who was he?

Thus started, the observer would have bent himself to study of the face; and immediately something
would have suggested that while the stranger was of this period of the world he did not belong
to it. Such were the magicians of the story-loving Al-Raschid. Or he was of the type Rabbinical
that sat with Caiphas in judgment upon the gentle Nazarene. Only the centuries could have evolved
the apparition. Who was he?

In the course of half an hour the man stirred, raised his head, looked hurriedly at his attendants,
then at the parts of the ship in view, then at the steersman still dozing by the rudder; then
he sat up, and brought the roll to his lap, whereat the rigor of his expression relaxed. The
parcel was safe! And the conditions about him were as they should be!

He next set about undoing the buckles of his treasure. The long fingers were expert; but just
when the roll was ready to open he lifted his face, and fixed his eyes upon the section of
blue expanse outside the edge of the awning, and dropped into thought. And straightway it was
settled that he was not a diplomatist or a statesman or a man of business of any kind. The
reflection which occupied him had nothing to do with intrigues or statecraft; its centre was
in his heart as the look proved. So, in tender moods, a father gazes upon his child, a husband
at the beloved wife, restfully, lovingly.

And that moment the observer, continuing his study, would have forgotten the parcel, the white
slaves, the gigantic negro, the self-willed hair and beard of pride--the face alone would have
held him. The countenance of the Sphinx has no beauty now; and standing before it, we feel
no stir of the admiration always a certificate that what we are beholding is charming out of
the common lines; yet we are drawn to it irresistibly, and by a wish vague, foolish--so foolish
we would hesitate long before putting it in words to be heard by our best lover--a wish that
the monster would tell us all about itself. The feeling awakened by the face of the traveller
would have been similar, for it was distinctly Israelitish, with exaggerated eyes set deeply
in cavernous hollows--a mobile mask, in fact, concealing a life in some way unlike other lives.
Unlike? That was the very attraction. If the man would only speak, what a tale he could unfold!

But he did not speak. Indeed, he seemed to have regarded speech a weakness to be fortified
against. Putting the pleasant thought aside, he opened the roll, and with exceeding tenderness
of touch brought forth a sheet of vellum dry to brittleness, and yellow as a faded sycamore
leaf. There were lines upon it as of a geometrical drawing, and an inscription in strange characters.
He bent over the chart, if such it may be called, eagerly, and read it through; then, with
a satisfied expression, he folded it back into the cover, rebuckled the straps, and placed
the parcel under the pillow. Evidently the business drawing him was proceeding as he would
have had it. Next he woke the negro with a touch. The black in salute bent his body forward,
and raised his hands palm out, the thumbs at the forehead. Attention singularly intense settled
upon his countenance; he appeared to listen with his soul. It was time for speech, yet the
master merely pointed to one of the sleepers. The watchful negro caught the idea, and going
to the man, aroused him, then resumed his place and posture by the pallet. The action revealed
his proportions. He looked as if he could have lifted the gates of Gaza, and borne them easily
away; and to the strength there were superadded the grace, suppleness, and softness of motion
of a cat. One could not have helped thinking the slave might have all the elements to make
him a superior agent in fields of bad as well as good.

The second slave arose, and waited respectfully. It would have been difficult to determine
his nationality. He had the lean face, the high nose, sallow complexion, and low stature of
an Armenian. His countenance was pleasant and intelligent. In addressing him, the master made
signs with hand and finger; and they appeared sufficient, for the servant walked away quickly
as if on an errand. A short time, and he came back bringing a companion of the genus sailor,
very red-faced, heavily built, stupid, his rolling gait unrelieved by a suggestion of good
manners. Taking position before the black-gowned personage, his feet wide apart, the mariner said:

"You sent for me?"

The question was couched in Byzantine Greek.

"Yes," the passenger replied, in the same tongue, though with better accent. "Where are we?"

"But for this calm we should be at Sidon. The lookout reports the mountains in view."

The passenger reflected a moment, then asked, "Resorting to the oars, when can we reach the city?"

"By midnight."

"Very well. Listen now."

The speaker's manner changed; fixing his big eyes upon the sailor's lesser orbs, he continued:

"A few stadia north of Sidon there is what may be called a bay. It is about four miles across.
Two little rivers empty into it, one on each side. Near the middle of the bend of the shore
there is a well of sweet water, with flow enough to support a few villagers and their camels.
Do you know the bay?"

The skipper would have become familiar.

"You are well acquainted with this coast," he said.

"Do you know of such a bay?" the passenger repeated.

"I have heard of it."

"Could you find it at night?"

"I believe so."

