8 P.M.--The revolution is over. When both sides had exhausted their ammunition, peace naturally
became a necessity. The contending parties are now dining together, al fresco, as the town
is in ruins. Nothing more to add save, All's well that ends well!

       *       *       *       *       *

MR. PUNCH'S DICTIONARY OF PHRASES.

WORKMEN'S.

"Merry Christmas to you, Sir, and many on 'em!" i.e., "Have you got that half-crown handy?"

IN THE SMOKING-ROOM.

"Quite so; but then, you see, that's not my point;" i.e., "It was, ten minutes ago."

"Yes, but allow me one moment;" i.e., "Kindly give me your close attention for twenty-five
minutes."

SOCIAL.

"Not your fault, indeed! Mine for having so long a train;" i.e., "Awkward toad!"

"Where did you get that lovely dress, dear?" i.e., "That I may avoid that dress-maker."

THEATRICAL.

"Whose talents have been seen to better advantage:" i.e., "A cruel bad actor--but can't say so."

"When the nervousness of a first night has been got over;" i.e., "Never saw a worse play--but
it may catch on."

"The Author's modesty prevented him from responding to loud calls;" i.e., "Timid youth, probably.
Foresaw brickbats."

       *       *       *       *       *

"BRAVO, TORO!"--M. CONSTANS will not allow Bull-fighting in Paris, even for "the benefit of
the Martinique sufferers." Quite right! But if he would only discourage "Bull-fighting" in
Egypt--the sort of "Bull-fighting" desired by Chauvinist M. DELONCLE--he would do good service
to the land of the Pyramids, to the poor fellah, and to civilisation.

       *       *       *       *       *

NOTE FROM BRIGHTON.--The exterior of the recently-opened Hôtel Métropole, is so effective,
that the Architect, Mr. WATERHOUSE, R.A., is likely to receive many commissions for the erection
of similar hostelries at our principal marine resorts. He will take out letters patent for
change of name, and be known henceforward as Mr. SEA-WATERHOUSE, R.A. By the way, the Directors
of the Gordon Hotels Co. wish it to be generally known that they have not started a juvenile
hotel for half-price children, under the name of the Gordon Boys' Hotel.

       *       *       *       *       *

OUR BOOKING-OFFICE.

Who remembers a certain story called, if I remember aright, The Wheelbarrow of Bordeaux, that
appeared in a Christmas Number of the Illustrated London News some years ago? If no one else
does, I do, says the Baron; and that sensational story was a sensational sell, wherein the
agony was piled up to the "n'th," and just as the secret was about to be disclosed, the only
person who knew it, and was on the point of revealing it, died. This is the sort of thing that
Mr. RUDYARD KIPLING has just done in this month's Lippincott's Magazine. It is told in a plain,
rough and ready, blunt style, but so blunt that there's no point in it. And the idea,--that
is if the idea be that the likeness of the assassin remains on the retina of the victim's eye,
and can be reproduced by photography,--is not a novelty. Perhaps this story in Lippincott comes
out of one of Mr. RUDYARD KIPLING'S pigeon-holes, and was just chucked in haphazard, because
Editorial Lippincott wanted something with the name of the KIPLING, "bright and merry," to
it. It's not very "bright," and it certainly isn't "merry."

Black's Guide to Kent for 1890, useful in many respects, but not quite up to date. The Baron
cannot find any information about the splendid Golf Grounds, nor the Golf Club at Sandwich;
it speaks of Sir MOSES MONTEFIORE'S place on the East Cliff of Ramsgate as if that benevolent
centenarian were still alive; and it retains an old-fashioned description of Ramsgate as "The
favorite resort of superior London tradesmen"--"which," says the Baron, "is, to my certain
knowledge, very far from being the case." It talks of the "humours of the sands," and alludes
to what is merely the cheap-trippers' season, as if this could possibly be the best time for
Ramsgate. The Guide knows nothing, or at least says nothing, of the Winter attractions; of
the excellent pack of harriers; of the delightful climate from mid-September to January; of
the southern aspect; of the pure air; of the many excursions to Ash, Deal, Sandwich, Ickham,
and so forth; nor can the Baron discover any mention of the Granville Hotel, nor of the Albion
Club, nor of the sport for fishers and shooters; nor of the Riviera-like mornings in November
and in the early Spring, which are the real attractions of Ramsgate, and make it one of the
finest health-resorts in Winter for all "who love life, and would see good days." "It reminds
me," says the Baron, puffing off his smoke indignantly, "of Mr. IRVING and a certain youthful
critic, who, in his presence at supper, had been running down Macbeth, finding fault with the
Lyceum production of it, and ridiculing SHAKSPEARE for having written it. When he had quite
finished HENRY IRVING, 'laying low' in his chair at the table, adjusted his pince-nez, and,
looking straight at the clever young gentleman, asked, in the mildest possible tone, 'My dear
Sir, have you ever read Macbeth?' So," resumes the Baron, "I am inclined to ask Mr. BLACK'S
young man, 'Do you know Ramsgate?' And of course I mean the Ramsgate of 1890."

From the specimens of London City that have been sent for inspection by Messrs. FIELD & TUER,
of the Leadenhall Press, who are bringing it out, the Baron augurs a grand result, artistically
and financially. It is to be published at forty-two shillings, but subscribers will get it
for a guinea, so intending possessors had evidently better become subscribers. The history
of the Great City is to be told by Mr. W.J. LOFTIE, so that it starts with an elevated tone
and the loftiest principles, and the illustrations will be by Mr. WM. LUKER, a talented draughtsman
who, as a Luker-on has seen most of the games in the City. In consequence of some piratical
publisher having attempted to bring out a work under the same title, intended to deceive even
the elect, Messrs. FIELD & TUER have secured the copyright of the title London City, by the
ingenious device of publishing, for one farthing each, five hundred copies of a miniature pamphlet
bearing this title, and containing the explanation. The value of these eccentric farthing pamphlets
may one day be thousands of pounds. Mem.--Twopence would be well invested in purchasing four
of them.

Salads and Sandwiches is an attractive title, specially at this season. The arrangement of
the book is, like the salad, a little mixed. When, however, the knowing Baron finds that abomination
known as salad dressing, or "salad mixing," which is sold at the grocer's, recommended by a
writer who professes to teach salad-making, then he closes the book, and reads no more that
day. This author, who is in his salad days, might bring out a book entitled How to Suck Eggs;
or, Letters to my Grandmother. It is a suggestion worth considering, says

THE BARON DE BOOK-WORMS.

TO PYRRHA ON THE THAMES.

  O Pyrrha! say what youth in "blazer" drest,
  Woos you on pleasant Thames these summer eves;
  For whom do you put on that dainty vest,
  That sky-blue ribbon and those gigot sleeves.

  "Simplex munditiis," as HORACE wrote,
  And yet, poor lad, he'll find that he is rash;
  To-morrow you'll adorn some other boat,
  And smile as kindly on another "mash."

  As for myself--I'm old, and look askance
  At flannels and flirtation; not for me
  Youth's idiotic rapture at a glance
  From maiden eyes: although it comes from thee.

       *       *       *       *       *

IN THE KNOW.

(By Mr. Punch's Own Prophet.)

