5
   II       THE FOOLS OF THE CASTLE.            22
   III      THE LORDS OF MADOCSANY.             33
   IV       YAW DEREVOCSID EHT.                 40
   V        THE LORDS OF MITOSIN.               53
   VI       THE PICTURE OF SAINT ANTHONY.       67
   VII      VENUS AND HER SON.                  80
   VIII     THE BISHOP'S WEDDING.               96
   IX       THE TEMPTATION.                    117
   X        THE FEAST.                         125
   XI       UNDERGROUND.                       134
   XII      THE ICE-BLOCKED FLOOD.             159
   XIII     IN THE GHOST'S HOUR.               165
   XIV      THE BEAUTIFUL WOMAN'S REVENGE.     176
   XV       THE GRAVE OF GOLD.                 187
   XVI      THE FEAST OF DEATH.                196
   XVII     ALL IS OVER.                       201

PETER THE PRIEST.

CHAPTER I.

IN THE MONASTERY.

There were six of them besides the Prior and Abbot. The seventh was away in the village, collecting
the gifts of charity.

"Benedicite," began the Prior. "Here is a message from our most gracious patroness." With that
he laid upon the table a sealed letter in Latin, which the others passed from hand to hand.
All understood it, but it was evident that not one of them liked the letter, for they turned
up their noses, pursed their lips and knit their eyebrows.

"One of us is bidden to the court of our most munificent patroness to educate her only son."

"He is a little devil!" exclaimed the Abbot.

"He talks and whistles in church," cried another.

"He reviles the saints and the souls of the departed."

"He torments animals." Each one had something to say; especially the last.

"He is the accursed child of a mad mother."

"She is the destruction of all men," continued the Abbot. "She sins against all the commandments."

"She tramples under foot all the sacraments."

"She is a raging fury and a sacrilegious witch."

"She sent her husband to his grave with a deadly drink."

The Prior met all these horrible comments with a stoical calm. "Still she is our gracious patroness,
and her son also will one day be our patron. We must drink the bitter cup to its dregs. Let
us choose."

Still all shook their heads.

"I have the fever in my bones," said one, rubbing his leg.

"I have trouble with my liver," said another, and as proof he put out his tongue to the opposite
brother, who hastened to say:

"It is my vocation to heal the sick."

Now all three looked at the fourth, who felt very confident of having the best excuse:

"And I am not acquainted with the Scythian speech, neither the Hungarian nor the Slavic."

The fifth was embarrassed what excuse to give:

"I have taken a vow never to speak to a woman."

Evidently no one cared for the office.

"Then let us send Peter," said the Prior calmly.

At this all five cried out: "He is too young," said one.

"But he is stern of character," replied the Prior.

"He will meet with very great temptations," threw in a second.

"The greater will be his triumph," returned the Prior.

"But he is still only a brother," a third protested.

"We can make him a father," the Prior answered. An answer which brought them all to their feet,
opposing it loudly:

"That cannot be! that cannot be! our rules are against it."

"Then let some one else go," said the Prior coldly.

Silence fell upon the group: they shrugged their shoulders, fell back into their large richly
carved arm-chairs, and murmured:

"Then let Peter be made father, and let father Peter go."

       *       *       *       *       *

It was the student John's week in the bake-house, and from there he had heard every word; and
now that the worthy fathers had gone away, he came out of the bake-house and hobbled off to
the kitchen. The master of the kitchen was not there, but Samuel, a fellow-student, hung over
the edge of a large two-handled tub. John was lank, and Samuel was thickset; both were in rags,
out of respect to the golden saying, "In rags is a student at his best." It was the daily duty
of these two students to carry to the pigs this large tub full of kitchen refuse. As soon as
John saw that the kitchen master was not there, he began rummaging in the tub among the crusts
of bread, apple parings, and scraps of mouldy cheese, selecting with an experienced eye.

"Leave some for Peter," growled Samuel, without raising his head from his knees.

John could not answer, for both cheeks were full. Samuel sprang up full of envy that John should
be enjoying his feast with such gusto.

"Stop, you rascal! Leave some for the pigs." Then John looked for the pole to put through the
handles of the tub.

"Take hold of the other end."

"I won't. Peter will be here soon and he carries it out alone."

"Peter will not be here."

"I hear his cart creaking now."

"All the same, he won't carry that tub out again. I heard what they said when I was in the
bake-house."

"What did they say?" And the two sat down together on the edge of the tub for a gossip.

"The mistress of the castle sends for an instructor for her son, and they say that he a small
devil."

"That's true, he's equal to twelve."

"He whistles in church."

"He puts sulphur in the incense when he assists at mass!"

"He curses and reviles the saints and the souls of the departed."

"He torments animals."

"You're right he does! He put a lighted sponge in my donkey's ear, and the poor beast smashed
my cart."

"They said that he is as wild as his mother; and the Abbot said of her that she was the ruin
of every man. Is that so?"

"Yes, she is a witch, who bridles men and rides them off to the devils' dance."

"They did say that she was a witch, and and that she broke all the ten commandments, and put
the sacraments under her feet; and listen,--they said that she mixed poison in her husband's
drink, and he died of it!"

"That's like her! Once they sent me to her with a letter, and she ordered a cup of mead that
had something in it that made me feel all night long as if I must crawl up the wall."

"I can see how they all trembled!"

"One said that he had fever in his bones, another had trouble with his liver, a third said
he was busy healing the sick, a fourth that he did not know either Hungarian or Slavic, and
the fifth was bound by a holy vow not to speak to a woman."

"And so in the end they send Peter."

"The Devil's in you! You've guessed it!"

"It may turn out well for him."

"One thought he was still too young, and the Prior said, but he is of strong character; another
that he would be exposed to great temptations; several objected that Peter was still a brother.
Then the Prior said, we'll make him a father. Then all objected, and the Prior said, Then one
of you must go. Then they all gave in and said, well, make Peter a father, and let Father Peter
be the one to go."

And then both the students began to laugh. "Peter will be in the right place there!" In the
mean time, the creaking of the cartwheels stopped at the rear door; then came a knock; through
this rear gate was an entrance into the court, but the duty of door-tender was limited to the
main entrance.

"Do you hear? Peter's knocking."

"You hear him, yourself."

"Go open the gate."

"You can do it as well as I."

"I can't find my feet, I don't know which of the four they are." At that John struck the four
bare legs with his birch broom, and his fellow scholar at once discovered his own; then they
seized each other by the hair; the question was which should throw the other out of the kitchen;
the vanquished one was to open the gate. During this struggle, they upset the tub and the contents
streamed over the floor. Then, indeed, they separated, thoroughly pommeled and frightened.

"Get out, you overturned it."

"You pushed me into it."

"When the kitchen-master sees us, he'll beat you well." Neither one would set things to rights;
meanwhile their brother, tired of knocking at the rear gate, had gone around to the main gate,
been let in there, and now opened the rear gate for himself to bring in what he had collected
in the villages.

It was a lumbering cart; its wobbling wheels described the letter S in their course, and as
they had been long ungreased, creaked dismally. A one-eared donkey drew the cart filled with
all kinds of provisions, which the begging monk had collected in the villages; this was called
"temporizing." The steward was already waiting in the court, slate in hand to note down the
receipts. He did not fail at each item to make severe criticisms and to look sharply at the
collector. Everything he found poor; picking out the bad eggs, he said, "You can have those
yourself, Peter." The meal was very coarse. "Go sift it, and make yourself a cake out of the
bran." On the head of the brother rained down the thanks, "Do-nothing," "Bread-consumer," "Donkey;"
he endured all with bowed head. The hood of his black cowl covered his face to his eyebrows,
and from his beard hung large raindrops; under his cowl, which was fastened by a cord, could
be seen his bare feet, covered with mud to the ankle; his sandals he carried on his staff,
so that they should not be worn out on the rough road. There was no rest for the wet and weary
monk. The kitchen-master at once called through the vaulted porch, "Petre, Petre, hue acceleras:
ad culinam!" (Peter, Peter, come to the kitchen, quick!)

It was a fine kitchen; now when we look at its ruins, we might believe it a chapel and a tower;
but it really was only a kitchen and a chimney. For Peter this roomy kitchen had the disadvantage
that he had to put it in order.

The contents of the overturned tub had spread over the marble floor, and those who had been
the cause of this condition could not repair the mischief, because the Abbot was at that moment
investigating their case in a corner by means of the lash. The two students knelt before him;
and so somebody else must clean up the floor, and that somebody was Peter. He went obediently
to work; threw off his coarse black cowl; and as he rolled up his sleeves, one could see from
the fine white skin that he had not from childhood been accustomed to such slave's work. His
face was still young, his features regular, and, through the dulling discipline of self-denial,
immovable. He was only a brother, so the monk's tonsure had not taken the place of his blond
hair; and though his eyes filled with tears, it was clearly caused only by coming suddenly
from the cold into the heated kitchen. Without a word, he knelt down to clean the floor with
shovel, broom, and whisk of straw.

Meanwhile, the Abbot questioned the two rascals to find out who had done the mischief. It stood
to reason neither one had. According to an old proverb, Mischief has no master. That they had
scuffled, their faces bore evidence; John had a black and blue spot under the eye, and Samuel
a bloody scratch on his brow, but both denied any scuffle.

"Then how came this black and blue spot under your eye?" The same story suggested itself to
John which Baron de Manx was to use later in a critical situation.

"When I tried to light the fire I could not find the flint, so I struck myself in the eyes
with one fist and with the other I held the match to it, so when my eyes saw sparks I lighted
the match by them."

The Abbot said nothing, but turned to the other: "How did you get that wound on your forehead?"
Samuel, encouraged by John's example, was also ready with an excuse:

"I bit myself."

"How could you bite yourself in the forehead?"

"In the looking-glass."

"But you could not reach it!"

"Yes I could, I climbed up on the bench."

The Abbot compressed his lips till his fat cheeks stood out from each other, and then pronounced
the sentence:--"Joannes quia bene mentitus est, accipiat viginti verbera; Samuel, quia male
mentitus est, accipiet triginta." (John, because he has lied well, shall have twenty lashes;
Samuel, because he has lied badly, shall have thirty.)

The two lads gave themselves up to weeping and howling and wiping away the tears with their
fists; but in secret, while the Abbot turned away, they winked at each other slily, and this
meant, I'll not strike hard, if you won't. But the Abbot had eyes that could see without looking.

"Peter," he said to the working monk who had just finished his cleaning, "come here."

Peter obeyed. "Take these two delinquents in charge; they would handle each other with sly
consideration, and avoid their punishment, your hand will let the rods fall more heavily;"
and he handed him a bundle of birch rods, dipped in salt water.

Now the two lads began to howl lustily and to crawl about on their knees, in their fear. But
Peter did not reach out his hand for the bundle of rods. The demon of pride had stirred his
blood to insurrection; his countenance glowed; his eyes blazed; he tossed back the lock of
hair from his brow, clenched his fists, and advanced one foot. He emboldened himself to speak,
although he had not been questioned. "I am no hangman's slave, I never learned to beat men
with a besom; lock up the culprits, and I will do their work as long as they are confined,
but I do not like to whip boys."

"Petre!" said the Abbot in even tones, "Putasve quod adhuc sis dux equitum nobilium? Es servus
servorum." (Do you think you are still at the head of noble knights? You are the slave of slaves.)
And in order to let him feel how completely he was under the rod, he laid the bundle of sticks
on the head of the defiant youth. Under this frightful burden, the uplifted head gradually
sank and the lids closed over the blazing eyes. He unclenched his fists and crossed them on
his breast. The handsome knight was changed again to the humble monk. He reached tremblingly
for the bundle of rods, which he raised to his speechless lips:

"Parce, pater." (Spare me, father.)

But as he laid hold of the instrument of shame, whose work it is to disgrace that masterpiece
of creation, man; to reduce to an animal him whom God had created in his own likeness, then
once again his pride reasserted itself; he raised that noble hand, accustomed to grasp the
sword hilt, whose greatest pleasure was to cut through with sharp steel helmet and armor; and
which was now compelled with a jailer's scourge to belabor the bare skin of unmannerly clowns.

He was only a novice, and had not yet learned that there are seventy-seven devils in the body,
and that the body receives as many blows as there are devils. He had learned that we must regard
the nail-studded belt and the hooked lash as our benefactors, and that to scourge the body
at night until the blood flowed was an equivalent for a day of prayer. But to beat howling
students was still a horror to him. Soon he will become accustomed to that too. At this moment
was heard in the hall the voice of the Prior. "Petre ad me tendas." ("Peter, come to me.")
Peter sighed with lightened heart and handed back the bunch of rods to the Abbot. "The Prior
calls me."

"He commands you; hasten to him."

Peter wanted to lay aside his wet cowl and put on his coarse sandals. "Go just as you are,"
said the Abbot, "either you will come back here barefooted, or you will go hence in another garb."

The Jesuit Brother dared not inquire concerning what he did not understand, he knew only to
obey, so Peter went barefooted to the Prior.

"Dearly beloved son," said the Prior to him, "it is now two years that you have practised obedience.
You have learned to be poor, to beg, to take care of the sick, and to do the work of a day
laborer. You have six years yet, before you can be numbered among the fathers. Three years
you must pass in the library, must learn Saint Augustine by heart, and also the Turkish, Arabic,
Greek, and Russian languages; for it is possible that when you are through your studies you
may be sent into the desert of Arabia to convert the heathen, or to Russia to encourage to
steadfastness the faithful of the Church who are persecuted by Ivan the Terrible. So then you
must spend three years among your books, keeping awake night and day, and forcing your way
into learning as yet unknown to you. The next three years, you must wander about among hostile
peoples, where crucified martyrs and impaled saints will mark your way. The seventh year, you
must make a pilgrimage into Spain to endure the test of your fidelity. If you endure all these
tests, and all these temptations, then may you be numbered among the fathers. All this long
way you can put behind you with one step, and out of all this learning you need only the one
word, I will. This day you may lay down your novitiate, and tomorrow arise Father Peter, if
you will voluntarily and obediently undertake this mission. Read!" And he handed him the letter
of the Patroness.

When the young monk glanced at the hand-writing, (he must have known it before) his whole countenance
expressed sudden horror; he held the letter in his hand as if afraid to read it; then he took
it, and as he read, his brow wrinkled, his face expressed contempt, and through his open lips,
one could see his tightly closed teeth. He read the letter through and let his hand fall listlessly.

"We have chosen you," said the Prior. "To-morrow you will become Father Peter, and need only
to say, 'I will'."

The youth looked steadfastly at the ground.

"Have you become speechless?"

The youth raised his head; his face had regained its manly calm. "Give me time for consideration,
my father," he said, with a sweetly ringing voice, in which was heard the sincere vibration
of a naive nature. "Let me compare the beginning and the end of this course. Surely it is not
so far for me to the desert of Bab-el-Mandeb, or to the ice-sea of Siberia, as from the threshold
of this monastery to the gate of the Madocsany castle. Neither the raging of Ivan the Terrible
at his gory banquets, nor the nightly howl of the hyena, prowling after the dead through the
desert of sand, is to me so terrible as one whisper of this woman. More rapidly can I learn
Turkish and Arabic, Greek and Russian, and, if necessary, Sanskrit and Mongolian, than the
one word, 'I will,' Grant me until to-morrow early to think of this."

"Very well. Take this letter to your cell, and pray God that He give you light. For it is true
that the mission we lay upon you is more difficult than any into the land of the Scythian or
Hyperborean. Omnia ad majorem Dei gloriam."

Peter went to his cell. It was a small narrow room, five feet long and two feet wide, with
only a bed, and on the wall a crucifix. Yet the whole night long, he did not lie down on his
bed, but, like a lion in a cage, he went back and forth over the five feet of space. There
on the bed lay the letter, and on the bed where that letter lay, he could not lay his head.
Toward morning, his decision became strong. He pushed the letter off the bed and threw himself
down, and then weariness overpowered him; he slept so soundly that even the matin bell did
not rouse him; and he first wakened when the Abbot shook him by the arm. He sprang up.

"Well, Peter, what is your decision?"

"This," replied Peter, treading under foot the letter as it lay on the floor.

"Very well, then get up and follow me; the two delinquents are awaiting their punishment."

"Wait; the Prior told me that the two years of the novitiate in which I was to do menial service
were over. Now follow three years of study; then three years more of pilgrimage among hostile
people. The Prior did not say anything about such hangman's service as this."

"Oh, yes, he did, Peter; recollect, he said, finally you are to go to Spain: that meant that
you are to spend a year in the service of the Holy Inquisition. Come and begin your practice now."

Peter's nerves quivered with horror. Tightly did he press his arms to his sides and his face
grew deadly pale. He raised his eyes to Heaven and his mouth opened.

A vision passed before him of human wisdom in dog's shape, and of canine rage in man's shape--of
Ivan the Terrible--of the Saracens--of the torture-chamber of Arbucs. It was more than his
mind could bear. His knees gave way under him; he sank down; took up the letter trodden under
foot and folded it together; concealed it in his bosom, and said, "I will go."

CHAPTER II.

THE FOOLS OF THE CASTLE.

That very day went forth from the Convent the answer to the letter of the Baroness. It read:
"For the high office of instructing our future baron, Father Peter has been chosen. He will
install himself to-morrow at the castle."

For this new rôle, Father Peter received a new costume. No one would have recognized the beggar-monk
of yesterday in this figure of to-day, clad in silken robe with buckled shoes; as, with a large
book under his arm, he turned from the highway into the entrance of the Madocsany castle, barely
a thousand paces distant from the monastery.

This castle was formerly shunned by everybody. In the first place, the court swarmed with hunting
dogs of every kind, which dashed out at every arrival, and fairly tore the travellers from
their carriages; then the young lord had a custom of lying in wait with a few intimates, and
shooting at passers-by with an air gun, on a wager; then inside the court was a peacock, which
flew at everybody's head and tried to peck out his eyes. Man and beast were trained here to
harass the stranger. The day when the arrival of Father Peter was expected, the mistress took
care to have her beloved child's air gun put away, for the round Jesuit hat would be altogether
too convenient a target; she had had part of the pack of hounds driven into the poultry yard,
leaving out only the blood-hounds and pointers; but she could not herself take care that a
respectful reception should await the pious father, for just at the time of his arrival, the
forester brought word that the night before the lord of Mitosin, with a troop of hunters, had
crossed the Waag and shot down deer and other game; and when the gamekeepers tried to withstand
this mad chase, they had been bound to trees, and the game had been dragged away.

The mistress of the castle fell into an ungovernable rage; sent at once for her stewards and
agent, and prepared for a frightful retaliation by the most violent means.

Between the castles of Madocsany and Mitosin was an ancient feud that each lord took care to
settle with his own hand. But when one of these domains passed into the hands of a woman, the
situation became worse; for woman is less yielding than man. The preparations for revenge caused
the mistress of the castle to forget entirely the arrival of Father Peter; so he was received
by nobody but the dogs and the fools, in which latter class must be counted the young lord.

Nine blood-hounds and pointers plunged for the monk when his sable figure appeared in the gateway.
But the monk did not act like those people who in their fright run this way and that, throwing
out their arms, and provoking the spectator to laughter, but he remained standing quietly before
the dogs--he had owned a fine pack once himself--and when they came baying around him, opened
his large book and closed it noisily.

The dogs thought he had shot, and dashed off in every direction to hunt for the game, while
the monk walked calmly into the castle court. The young Lord, the haiduk, the master of the
hounds, and the fool were entertaining themselves playing ball.

"See, here comes the instructor," cried Matyi, the haiduk. "What a marvel that the dogs have
not eaten him," said Petyko, the master of the hounds, greatly astonished. "Hit the monk in
the back with the ball," the young Lord called out to the fool, who had the ball in his hand,
and if he hit him it was bound to leave a big spot on the silken robe.

Hirsko, the fool, did as bidden. The monk caught the ball, and threw it back at the Fool with
such force that his bearskin cap flew off his head. This pleased the young Lord greatly.

"That's a fine monk! Come here, Monk. So you know how to play ball! How the devil is that?
I thought monks knew only how to pray. Can you throw a ball as far as Matyi? He is a strong
fellow. See how far the ball has gone; he almost hit the window. See what you can do."

Father Peter took the bat and struck the ball with such force into the air that it flew over
the roof of the castle. All were carried away with admiration.

"That's a rare monk!" said the young Lord. "I can learn to play 'Longa' and 'Meta' with him."

"Does your Honor know Latin already?" asked Father Peter of the boy.

"Latin! What's that got to do with this?"

"Why, 'Longa' means long, and 'Meta' means a goal. So in playing we add to learning."

"Really?"

"We make a kite out of what is to be learned, and while we let the kite go, the learning remains."

"So you understand kite-flying, do you? Have you ever seen a kite as large as mine? See how
stout the cord is to hold by. Matyi can break this the first time trying. Show us, Matyi."

"That's nothing," said Father Peter, and with that he put the cord together three times and
broke it.

"My, that's a strong monk! What's the Latin for kite?"

"Draco."

"And paper?"

"Charta."

"And the frame?"

"Arcus."

"I know all that. That's quite easy, Hirsko."

"It's got to be easy," said the Fool, an ugly dwarf, with a monstrously large head and hideous
countenance. "The gracious Lady has given orders that the instructor shall teach the young
Lord everything within one year, in such a manner that the young Lord shall not have to study
anything."

"That is always the way, you know," said Father Peter. "Every young Lord keeps a small boy
to be whipped, and when the young Lord does not know his lesson, the boy receives the punishment
in his stead."

"You shall be this boy," said the young Lord, laughingly, to the Fool.

This system of pedagogics pleased the young Lord very much, and the monk by this means had
won his favor in the highest measure. The Fool was the shrewdest of the company, for he saw
that this new man would throw the old favorites out of the saddle, for he knew better how to
manage the hounds than the master of hounds, was stronger than the haiduk, and a better joker
than the Fool. He wanted to bring the monk to confusion. "What did you bring that great, stupid
book with you for?" he asked, opening the folio, which bristled with a strange handwriting,
terrible to him. "Is the young Lord to learn the book by heart."

"No, my son; with this book I drive out devils."

"Then you have come just at the right time. Go up to our gracious Lady; she has three thousand
devils; you can test your art with her."

All four burst out laughing.

"Yes, do go, monk," teased the young Lord, "let us see whether you dare appear before my lady
mother. She understands Latin when she tries. Do go, monk."

And all four crowded around the spiritual director. One shoved him, another pulled him, and
so they dragged him through the entrance hall, hall-ways, and saloons, in the direction from
which came the loudest noise; but when suddenly a door opened and through this unexpectedly
appeared the Lady herself, all four ran away, to crawl behind the stove, the table, or the
highest chest, leaving Father Peter standing alone in the middle of the saloon before this
fire-breathing dragon. The gracious lady had pushed open the door with the heel of her yellow
riding boot, and when she saw the monk's figure standing in the dark background, she stamped
violently with her foot.

"The Devil could not have brought a monk here, more opportunely." With that she turned toward
the threshold with her back to the monk, and began to scold her retinue in the adjoining room.
"What are you staring at there! Off with you, and do as I order! The peasants are to arm themselves
with scythes and pitchforks, and the halberdiers are to mount their horses. Haiduks, hunters,
peasants, off with you to Mitosin! Set the red cock on their roof. If they have other game,
they shall have fire for it. Fall upon them while they are drunk; throw them into the water
to sober them; set fire to their towers on all four sides, even if the dead Florian himself
should rise from his grave to beg for them. But if you catch the master alive, swing him up
on the cross bar over the well. Now off with you! I'll go too; saddle my horse. Where's that
miserable priest? What the devil does he want? Let him show his face."

The Lady's face was flaming red with anger; even on her brow blazed the red spots; her nostrils
quivered; her eyes flashed so that she could not see; her lips drawn into very ugly shape.
Then too, her hair was disordered, her brown locks changing into red, gleamed on her temples
in small bright red curls, and above them a high cap was fastened with four pins that gave
the appearance of four horns. Her stately figure showed strength and passion, still further
heightened by her costume. Her bodice, extending below the hips, was of brown and yellow stripes
two fingers wide, a true tiger's skin, and instead of the stiff ruffle around the neck was
a border of feathers. Below the hips hung a dagger from a Turkish girdle; and the skirt of
heavy flowered brocade was festooned with strings of gold and silver coins that rattled as
she walked; the skirt, made short in front, as she stamped her foot, showed the leg above the
yellow riding boots, in bright red trousers. This was her appearance when she cried: "Now let
that cringing priest come here!"

Father Peter came near, and said gently: "May peace and blessing rest upon this house." At
this voice, the lady let fall her dagger and raised her hands to her brow, either to shade
her eyes for better sight, or to conceal her face. The monk came nearer to her, and said in
friendly tones: "Anger ruins beauty. Cleopatra was never angry, and so remained always beautiful.
Rage disfigures the countenance, draws lasting wrinkles, and leaves its imprint on the skin."
In one instant the rage had vanished from the lady's face, the blazing red became white, her
brow relaxed, and her lips resumed their lines of beauty. Her flashing eyes remained fixed,
like those of a sleep-walker, on the countenance of the speaker. An instant had sufficed to
effect this change; at the last words of the Father, the Lady even tried to smile. Now the
monk came still nearer, so that he could say in a whisper: "What unseemly revenge have you
planned, gracious Lady? Who will consent to quarrels and firebrands? You are only preparing
a new enjoyment for the one who has wronged you. A sword wound does not hurt a man. If you
really want to take vengeance on this man, have a quantity of game shot and send it to him
as a present. In this way you will shame him."

Like the sun beneath a heavy cloud, gleamed a smile on the face of the Lady. "True, true,"
she said, with a look of joy. "I will revenge myself that way. Steward, treasurer, forester;
go at once into the forest; kill as much game as you can put in a wagon, and take it to Mitosin.
Say to the lord of the castle, I send him my greetings, and since he is so desperately hungry
for my game, I send him still more of it, that he may have enough."

Every one was astonished at this sudden change, including those in hiding behind the furniture,
who were now quite convinced that the monk knew how to drive out the Devil with the aid of
the large book he carried under his arm.

"Mother, don't give in to him," cried the young Lord, dashing out and seeking shelter beside
his mother. Then happened to the young man what he had never experienced before; his dear mother
gave him a box on the ear. Yes, the spoiled darling, the only son, the child of her heart,
who never in his life before had heard the word, "Don't," received his first box on the ear.

Stunned and amazed, he quite forgot he ought to cry. "Off with you. Treat him as your Father.
Kiss his hand." And his mother's half-raised boot made the boy understand that she was quite
ready to use her heel as a stimulus. But the monk intervened.

"Gracious Lady, treat him as your child." With these words he leaned forward, and enveloped
him in his robe and the child sought refuge in the arm of his protector, and began to cry bitterly.
"Do not cry, my little one, have confidence in your mother; she loves you. A mother's chastisement
brings blessing to the child. Now take the book, and carry it to the room designed for me."

This commission so surprised the child that he forgot to cry. Curiosity overcame sorrow. He
was delighted to take into his hand the wonderful book whose contents the devils themselves
feared, as if they had themselves to spell it out, or take a whipping. Off he ran with his
book, and the three fools after him. As soon as they could, they stopped to study the strange
characters painted in gay colors on the parchment.

CHAPTER III.

THE LORDS OF MADOCSANY.

When they were left alone, the Lady began to laugh. Her pleasure was as passionately violent
as her anger; she clapped her hands and pressed them to her head.

"Aha! So you're here, are you? At last! You are not dead! You did not go out into the wild
world! You have come to me! A hundred times I have called you; a thousand times I have waited
for you; but always in vain. When I did not expect you, you are before me! Ha ha! And in what
a masquerade have you slunk in, Tihamer Csorbai!"

And with that she laid both hands on the monk's shoulders, rested her dimpled chin on her arm,
and laughed in his face with her sparkling eyes.

"My name is Father Peter," said the monk calmly. And without change of countenance, he suffered
the Lady to press him to her breast with all her might.

"That's not true!" she cried, seizing violently the monk's rough garment over his breast. "It's
only a disguise," and she tore open the coarse cowl on his breast, expecting to see a gold-trimmed,
buckled cloak of velvet. In its stead was a coarse shirt of unbleached linen, such as all Jesuits
wore, down to the humblest begging monk; and where this coarse shirt parted on his breast,
could be seen around his neck a chain of steel with iron cross. The points on the links of
the chain and the sharp edges of the cross had left bloody prints on his neck, from her violent
embrace. But he endured both the embrace and the torture without a smile, without a word.

"I am what I seem to be," he said coldly. The tone of his voice was so cold, his glance so
steely hard, that from the face of the Lady suddenly vanished the smile, and with it every
charm. With dignity she drew herself to her full height, rubbed her hands, gazed with her black
eyes in terror at the cross, her whole body quivered; then she clasped both hands to her brow,
throwing back her head. "'Tis a dream! Waken me! Give me water."

"We are awake, my Lady," said the monk, "What you see is the reality."

"Tihamer----"

"--is dead."

"But not in the struggle against the Turks?"

"No, only in the struggle against self."

"'Tis two years since we have heard anything of you."

"Yes, since that unfortunate duel, in which I killed somebody with whom I would gladly exchange
my rest every night. You know the cause."

"Do not call it to mind. Rage fills my whole body."

"Every night his ghost comes to me."

"Why didn't you make more thorough work of it? His ghost leaves me in peace." And with that
she smiled seductively. The man understood the words and understood the smile. This woman was
a queen of sinners; all heart, and yet heartless. If she were to go to Hell, she would seduce
the Devil, and instead of being among the damned, would take her place at Beelzebub's side
as his wife.

"The Lord of Mitosin has cursed me," said the monk.

"How often has he cursed me! Every word he speaks is a curse. If all took effect, there would
be no thunder left in Heaven or devil in Hell. I laugh at his curse."

"But he really has cursed me. At the funeral feast of his son, he hurled after me the words,
that if he ever caught sight of my face again, he would put his daughter in a boat, push her
out on the sea in the black night, and leave her to perish."

"And your love for her was so great that for this reason you went out into the wide world,--nay,
more, you went out of the world--you became a monk! And yet you could not free yourself from
her. Her charm brought you back again, that you might be near her, might even see her again.
Am I not right?"

Envy and jealousy blazed in her glance.

"No. I made a pilgrimage to Rome, and was received into the Jesuit order. The Provincial, finding
that I was of this vicinity ordered me to the monastery of Madocsany."

"Whither you never wanted to come."

"I had to obey. And since then, I have been spending my years of penance here. I have done
the most menial work. Begged from village to village, and tortured my body and my soul."

"Just to see her once more!"

"To avoid her."

"What! Have you not yet seen her? Not heard of her? She is more beautiful than ever and still
unmarried. She waits for you."

"She waits in vain! Even in prayer, I do not venture to approach her. I am what I have become--a
rigid, unfeeling monk. Only in my hands do I carry the rose-wreath, not on my brow. Its fragrance
is no more sweet; its thorns give no more pain."

"And you are the one the Jesuit convent selected to send to me!"

"The rest were all afraid of you."

"On account of my bad reputation; and yet they do not know me at all. You had most cause to
fear, for you know me, and yet you came--to the woman whom you hate, whom you despise, at whose
warm whisper you shudder, whom you have so often thrust aside, and of whom you know that she
clings to you so madly that she will never give you up to God, or Devil, or angel! Whose windows
are written all over with your name, who when she is silent, and when she speaks, and when
she dreams, thinks only of you! And yet you came!"

"The command was given and I obeyed."

"And why are you here?"

"To fulfil a sacred mission."

"Ha, ha! What mission?"

"To instruct your son in the true faith, and in worldly knowledge."

"I understand. They are afraid that if I get angry, I will take my son with me to Saros-Patak,
and make a Calvinist of him; and will my wealth to that college; they have a holy dread of that."

"Possibly."

"But you have still another sacred mission. As I understand from their letter, the Jesuits
never send an instructor into a family except with the title of Father Confessor. You are to
be my Father Confessor."

"I know it."

"You know it. And do not suspect that what I shall whisper in your ear day after day, will
be not only my curse, but also yours. That you who must absolve my soul of the sin, if sin
it is, renew that sin day by day; that when you lay your hand upon my head in blessing, every
one of your five fingers will burn in my red hair as in glowing coals. Do you know that?"

"I know it."

"And yet you venture to incline your ear when I kneel before you and venture to hear me when
I whisper, 'Father I have sinned;' I love a man with a maddening love that sets my brain on
fire; I cannot pray, for his name ever rushes to my lips; I cannot look to the saints above,
for everywhere I see his face; I cannot do penance, for I love my sin, and am ever returning
to it; I had a good, true husband who was as gentle as a lamb; this good and gentle husband
I tortured to death--perhaps I even caused his death--I exulted and rejoiced in my widow's
veil for I thought, Now he whom I seek can be mine; ah, my sin, my sin! But his heart would
not incline to me for he loved another,--a more beautiful, a better, an innocent maiden; and
I disturbed their union, I roused her father and brother against him, I sowed enmity between
them, and he killed the brother of his betrothed, and so I tore them from each other. My sin!
My sin! Hear me, God in Heaven! I did not come to you to pray, but I will contend with you.
This man I love more than my soul's salvation, the man to whom I pray rather than to Heaven,
whose heart Thou first didst take from me, and now dost take him too. Thou hast chained him
to Thine altar, but I will not leave him to Thee, I will tear him from Thine altar, and if
Thou wilt not permit me to be happy on earth, to be blessed in Heaven with him, then will I
be damned in Hell with him. Father, I will sin!"

The woman rocked on her knees in the dust before the man, kissing his feet, and with her hand
beating her unrepentant breast.

A deep sigh was wrung from the heart of Father Peter. He turned his face away, and laying a
trembling hand on the woman's head, sobbed with stifled voice, "May God pity you your sins,
poor wretched woman!" And then he let her lie sobbing on the ground, and let her drag herself
along the marble floor, following his footsteps and kissing them, one after the other.

CHAPTER IV.

YAW DEREVOCSID EHT.

That good-sized book that Father Peter had brought to the Castle with him was no book of magic
to exorcise devils, but rather a book that had had some man-tormenting devil for composer:
it had moulded already for two centuries in the Madocsany Monastery library before the Jesuit
order was founded by Ignatius Loyola; at that time the Carmelite fathers were in the abbey;
the contents of this book must have caused them, too, many a headache, for they wrote many
pages of Latin commentaries to explain this text of a few leaves which nobody understood yet.
This much had the investigators already worked out; that the characters were the same that
the Arabs employed in their secret correspondence, and the alphabet was that known among Orientalists
as "Lijakah." On the other hand, the words which the letters formed were not to be found in
any speech of any known people on the whole globe. One linguist insisted that he recognized
the Arabic, another the Coptic, and a third the Mongolian in some one of its forms. The words
that most frequently appeared were explained by all kinds of philological cunning. The title
of the book was YAW DEREVOCSID EHT. One word sounded like Arabic, and another was evidently
of Turkish origin; but what the whole meant no human understanding could decide. Whole sheets
were written over, with desperate and useless effort. It seemed as if everybody must go mad
who attempted its investigation. The Jesuits later adopted the custom, whenever a monk ventured
to demur against a task assigned, of putting into his hand this book, YAW DEREVOCSID EHT, and
telling him that he might spend his time in quiet linguistic studies, that he might acquire
the language in which these few pages were written, and when he had accomplished this, he might
go as a missionary to the people who wrote and spoke this language. But this secret had never
yet been penetrated throughout all the years in which it had vexed and tormented students.
And so to Father Peter, this book had been given for a companion; in case he wished to escape
from the hard service in the castle, this book would be welcome in gaining his exit through
the closed door, and for that reason, Father Peter spent whole nights over the thick book,
and studied in succession the writings of those who had gone astray before him.

The little son of the mistress of the castle slept with the monk in one room, but beside the
monk, the child must have the Fool too; for he could not go to sleep unless the Fool told him
fairy stories, and the Fool well knew how. Often he sat until midnight by the boy's bedside,
weaving garlands of the Thousand and One Nights; this gave the monk a chance to study the secrets
of the Arabic writing. The young Lord had very bad dreams. He dreamed of the fairies and witches
in the fairy tales, and would waken screaming. Often he dreamed with wide open eyes, tried
to escape, howled and wept, so that the monk and the Fool had all they could do to quiet him
and lull him back to sleep again. And this was continued until early morning, when the boy
fell into a deep sleep, and the monk and the Fool could give themselves to rest.

The monk found his Arabic book of sufficient service in these night watches, but for the Fool
wine was furnished as a means of keeping awake. And so they sat through the still nights beside
each other at a table; in front of the monk lay the open book and the large inkstand of lead,
and before the Fool stood a large pitcher and a tin mug.

"What would a man say, Monk," said the Fool once, "if he should see us together this way every
night? Which would he call the Fool and which the wise man?"

"He would call you wise, and me a fool."

"If you would like, I could share my wisdom with you, for my pitcher is full; there is wine in it."

"I do not drink wine."

"What have you there in front of you?"

"Ink."

"And I do not drink ink, but I'll taste your drink; give me some."

"Ink is not to drink."

"What is it for?"

"You see. Men dip quills in it, and write letters with it, and what is in the letters causes
greater delight to the human soul than your wine to the human throat."

"Give me a swallow of it that I may learn its taste."

"Nobody can give of this drink."

"Is it frozen?"

"Yes, just that. It is written in a foreign language that I do not myself understand."

"You do not understand! and you follow with your finger along the line of those bird-tracks!
Then this magic book is of no more value to you than to me. I might just as well sit in your
place, and follow with my finger."

"You are quite right, Fool."

"Now I'll tell you a thing, and you can make two of it. If I can swallow a little of your drink
which you cannot pour out for your own self, then will you taste mine which I do not begrudge you?"

"I can easily agree to that."

"Now then, wait a little. Before you came I had a student for companion in these night-watches,
who used to work there busily, just where you sit. He was to have taught the young Lord to
read and write, but every day he got hit in the head with the inkstand. I watched this foolish
student carefully from the other end of the table, and saw that when he took his goosequill
in his hand, and began to make all kinds of flourishes that he always worked from left to right,
but as I observe your finger you go from right to left, and in that way get everything wrong
end to. Now listen, and I will recite you a sweet song:

    'Wolb sdniw hguor eht nehw neve,
    Skaerc kao tuots eht nehw neve,
    Woleb ssarg eht ni terewolf eht,
    Skaerw yruf rieht tahw ton sraef.'

Did you understand? Arabic, isn't it? Now just read it backward and you will understand at once.

    'Even when the rough winds blow,
    Even when the stout oak creaks,
    The floweret in the grass below
    Fears not what their fury wreaks.'"

"Quite right, Fool, but this is written in Arabic, and Arabic, like all Eastern languages,
is written from right to left."

"What is the title of your book?"

"YAW DEREVOCSID EHT."

The Fool burst into a loud laugh. "Didn't I tell you that I would drink of your cup first?
Now read from left to right just as you have done:

"YAW DEREVOCSID EHT means simply, The Discovered Way."

Father Peter's eyes and mouth stood wide open with astonishment. What fifty wise men had not
been able to guess in two hundred years, a fool had found out in two minutes! Now Father Peter
began to read as the Fool had instructed him. He read two, three lines, a whole page; and the
more he read, the more his countenance lifted up, his eyes beamed, the ascetic hardness of
his features melted under the glow of an indescribable fire; he began to pound on the table
with his right hand.

"See, see!" cried the Fool, "The monk is drunk with his own wine."

At this the monk sprang up and closed the book.

"This book does not drive away the Devil, it summons him."

"Didn't I tell you I knew how to drink your wine? Now drink mine." And he poured the beaker
full and reached it to the monk. Oh, how well Father Peter had once known this fiery drink,
when he was not a slave of slaves, but leader of the knights; then no wine was too strong for
him; he could drink on a wager with German or Polish cavaliers; but for two years his lips
had not touched wine. Wine is the foam of that fiery stream that flows toward Hell. As thick
as fish in the river, large and small, so thick are sins, large and small in the wine. There
must have been in the book some kind of hidden fire, for as soon as the monk had let one page
of it steal into his soul, the torments of a burning thirst were manifest in his countenance.

"Pass me your mug." His hand still trembled as he took the mug. At first his dry lips just
sipped the wine; it could not have been especially good; but after two years of abstinence,
the monk experienced a magic effect, and the wine exhilarated him as if he tasted it for the
first time in his life. He sank back into his armchair, and in his upturned face were mirrored
visions of ecstacy. His far-gazing eyes beamed, and on his half-opened lips trembled a smile.
Where might his soul be wandering now? Involuntarily his hand reached for the book and opened
its covers.

"Oh, woe, woe! Dromo the Devil is here! oh, woe, he will throw me into the fire!" So screamed
the restless, dreaming boy, tossing on his couch, with his head hanging off.

The monk was roused, and shuddered, then ran to the boy, raised him, laid him back on his pillow
and quieted him with caressing words:

"Don't be afraid, little one, I am here beside you." The child stared at him with wide-open eyes.

"Are you my father?"

"Yes, your spiritual father."

"My father, whom the Devil carried off to Hell? That's what my mother said. Leave me, leave
me! I will not go with you. Your hand is fire, and your fingers burn me."

And yet the monk's hand was as cold as ice, as he stroked the child's silken hair. By the bed
stood a silver pitcher with a small gold cup: the boy raised it to his lips and at once became
quiet, as the terrifying visions vanished. He wound both arms around the neck of the monk and
whispered to him, while still under the spell of the dream:

"Beautiful Knight, brave Knight! When you lift my mother into the saddle with you, you'll take
me with you, won't you, my handsome Knight, my golden, diamond hero!" With that he fell into
a gentle sleep.

"Just see what a good nurse you would make," said the Fool to his friend, "Sometimes I have
to spend a good half-hour rubbing his feet and singing to him, and he is asleep at once. Have
another mugful?"

"I don't like your wine."

"It's true you ought to drink yours, not mine." Father Peter saw with horror that the large
book was open again. He thought it was magic.

"Did you touch this book?" he asked the Fool.

"No, not if you were to give me this castle, and its handsome mistress with it, would I open
that book; it opened itself."

The red and blue letters were oh, so enticing! It was no sealed secret now that they contained;
for they were all familiar. The monk leaned back in his chair and read the leaves of the secret
writing until he had read them to the end. And the farther he read, the more intense grew that
expression of unquenchable thirst, like that of a sick man who dreams that he is in a desert
and longs for a cataract to drink. Every leaf of the book was a new catastrophe, the whole
one unbroken delirium; he did not look up until he had finished the last line of the last page.
Then he called to the Fool: "Bring me a whole bucket of wine."

The morning sun, which streamed in through the painted window, found them both in the same
place; the Fool was under the table: the monk sat before his book, his head on his hands, his
eyes wide open:--he did not read, he did not sleep, but yet he dreamed.

In YAW DEREVOCSID EHT was no cabalistic writing. The writer at the very first gave his reasons
for employing this device. He had chosen the Arabic letters so that all would try to read it
from right to left, and so fail to discover its meaning. In case it occurred to anybody to
read it from left to right, still, as the people of that vicinity rarely knew more than Hungarian,
no meaning would appear. In case anybody understood English, it was hardly probable the Arabic
text would be familiar too. Only by rare chance could this mysterious book be deciphered. What
it contained was the description of a secret passage or tunnel that led from the Madocsany
Castle to the turreted walls of Mitosin. Midway was the river Waag, which was here quite wide,
but the tunnel passed under the river bed, thus anticipating the Thames tunnel by about four
hundred years. If any one shakes his head at this, and begins to doubt that our story is true,
we will point out to such a doubter the secret way that leads from a certain castle to a distant
village, a veritable catacomb which in a straight line would be fully a mile long, a work of
the Hussites. The vaulted passage-way is covered with mould, from which in one place shines
out two memorial tablets; one of stone bears the symbol of the cooper's trade, as peculiar
to the Hussite monks as the trowel and the triangle to the Freemasons. In the stone vaulting,
above is seen a goose, the Hussite symbol; what purpose this tunnel served the Hussites is
yet to be discovered; but the object for which the Madocsany-Mitosin tunnel was made, was clearly
set forth in this YAW DEREVOCSID EHT. Both castles belonged to Czech robbers and bandits in
the days when the Hungarian regent, John Hunyadi, with all the military forces of the land,
wore himself out trying to drive back the monstrous host of the Turkish Sultan. He who fights
with a bear has no time to brush wasps from his face. The Czech could ravage the country at
pleasure, and when sometimes bands of noblemen, led by Hungarian Counts, rose up against them
to take vengeance for their plundering and reckless deeds, suddenly every trace of the pursued
would be lost. The larger robber-hordes would withdraw to their strongholds and defy every
attack; the lesser ones, led by impecunious noblemen, left their drawbridges down before the
pursuing bands, and let them seek at will what they so eagerly pursued. The enemy searched
everywhere, in every corner, cellar, loft, chapel, and crypt; and when they could find nothing
more, still lingered on, days and weeks, and then cleared out the storehouses, and withdrew
in unsatisfied rage. The entire robber-band meantime, with all their stolen wealth and beautiful
Slavic maidens, passed down into this secret tunnel, and made their way to the other castle.
And the freebooters who guarded the Waag was ready to swear that not one of them had passed
over the river. It was true; they had gone under. But once Mathias Corvinus ordered the two
castles attacked at one and the same time; the robbers fled first from Mitosin through the
tunnel, only to find themselves surrounded in Madocsany. It was at this time that the monk
wrote YAW DEREVOCSID EHT. He described in detail to whom the two castles belonged, and where
the entrances and exits of the tunnel were. The book was intended to be a guide to the treasure
which the robbers had concealed in a chamber in the tunnel. Every point of the chamber was
clearly defined, all the small bags of gold and silver coin were numbered, there were also
given names of human beings, or beautiful women as precious as jewels; the name of each individual
was given, and the families were enumerated from which they had been stolen. A description
was set down of the coat, cap, and even the finger-rings that each one wore; who were of the
Catholic, and who of the Lutheran faith. If any one ten or twenty years later should discover
them in the subterranean dungeon, where, together with the stolen treasure, they had been hidden
away, he would know at once in which consecrated ground to bury each one, what name to inscribe
on each cross, what prayer to have said for each soul's weal. The monk had faithfully cared
for all, and left the book in the archives of the convent. What happened to the robbers, the
chronicles do not tell: probably the same that happened to the bandits of Dzuela. In a night
attack, they were cut down by the royal troops and any who were taken alive were at once hung.
The victors probably carried off enough gold with them so that they were satisfied no more
remained. The two entrances of the tunnel were so well concealed, that six generations followed
each other in both castles without anybody's having a suspicion of the common mystery that
bound them. The YAW DEREVOCSID EHT, said everybody who looked at the writing. But no one understood
the words until they came to Father Peter.

CHAPTER V.

THE LORDS OF MITOSIN.

Opposite the Madocsany Castle gleams forth the Mitosin. Its four towers are covered with tin,
and when the setting sun shines on them, all four blaze like sheaves of fire. They are round
and dome-topped in Russian style. There is still a fifth tower that would gladly show itself
above the silver poplars; this one runs up into a spire and cross, while the others end in
a star. What the tower with the cross could find inside the inclosure of the Mitosin Castle,
where neither its former lords, the Hussite Knights, nor its present lord, a Lutheran magnate,
were of the Catholic faith--this is explained by a curious history that one can learn piecemeal;
here and there a fragment is kept back, and only at the very close is the whole truth known.
Now one can fully believe that the little church was built in honor of Saint Anthony, though
in reality a Hussite church. The purpose of this was to conceal from the Count Von Treuesin,
or from Count Von Tipsen, that the builders were Hussites, by pointing to the church with its
cross and picture as Roman Catholic. The present lord of the castle, Grazian Likovay, had inherited
his estate from his mother, Susanna Szuhoy, a zealous Catholic, who had left this to her son
on condition that the church of Mitosin Castle should always be maintained in its present condition:
and a legacy had been deposited with the neighboring Dean of Tepla, to insure the reading of
mass once a week in this church, whether there was anybody present or not. The lord of the
castle was enjoined to maintain the church in good condition, not to coin its bell into counterfeit
money, and to allow the sacristan of Tepla to ring the bell at the customary hours; furthermore,
he was not to appropriate the church to the Lutherans. If he opposed these conditions, Mitosin
with all its appurtenances, was to go to the public treasury. Had the pious lady ever seen
the interior of this church, she would not have left this legacy, which was of no use whatever;
for while there was a bell in the tower, there was no rope; and there was neither ladder, stairs,
nor any other way of reaching the bell. And even if it had been rung by the hour, no honest
Christian would have entered the church, on account of the altar picture. Whoever made that
had not taken into consideration the temper of these people, or else had purposely set it aside.
From an artistic point of view, the picture was a masterpiece. It represented the Temptation
of Saint Anthony in the Wilderness, and had been painted by an Italian master.

The ascetic was the true ideal of a holy hermit who withstands all the temptations and seductions
of Hell; yet the people of this vicinity could not enjoy the monsters from Hell in such frightful
forms as can be conjured up only in the fancy of a melancholy painter. But apart from these
terrifying monsters, the temptress, in whose form Satan surprises the pious hermit, had been
painted with such striking boldness that at the first sight of the same from the threshold
of the door, every good Christian would turn and run. Such may pass in Italy, but in our mountainous
highland it is too cold for such a garb, so that even the priest himself took no pleasure in
reading the liturgy in the presence of such an altar-picture. If, however, in spite of everything,
any one could take pleasure in saying his prayers in this church, if an innocent soul could
be found that took exceptions to nothing, that saw only what was godly in this church, and
was not conscious of the painted devil, either in the form of a monster or of a beautiful woman;
for any such provision was made.

Now you must know that there was just such an innocent creature in Mitosin Castle. The Lord's
daughter, Magdalene, was the only Papist in the whole house, yes, in the whole village. According
to the Hungarian laws, the children of a Protestant father and a Papist mother were divided
for the Heavenly Kingdom as follows,--the sons followed the religion of their father, and the
daughters of their mother. If anybody made objections, a terrible storm fell upon his head.
The Lord of Mitosin was a stiff-necked Protestant, who persecuted priest and monk in every
possible way. He would not allow his daughter to bring a Catholic prayer-book or a rosary into
the house. If anybody wished to pray, he could do it in the church; it was not far away. From
the rear gate of the castle straight to the church ran a beautiful path bordered by poplars
a hundred years old; only a beautiful grove separated church from castle; and yet the way from
the castle door to the church door was so luxuriantly overgrown with grass that it could have
been mown; for the space between church and castle was the bear-den.

Grazian Likovay owned two great overgrown bears, for which he had had pits dug in the garden,
and there they could roam freely; their growls came up over the walls. Now you can understand
why the way to the church was grown with grass,--no one would go to church who did not want
to meet those monsters. When the watchman of the tower blew his evening horn, a window on the
balcony would open, and a whistle blow from within, then would come forth with much noise the
two bears. The thicket of the poplar-grove opened before them as they made their way straight
through; a hoarse, rasping voice would call them by name, and some one would throw a bloody
bone from the window; as soon as they had finished that, would follow a whole quarter of mutton;
the two bears were twins, a division of the meat must be made, and so there would be a quarrel.
When all had been devoured, neither one felt that he had had his share, and so they kept on
quarrelling the whole night through; but the window was closed, and garden, church and beasts
left to themselves.

Gradually as darkness fell, the nightly mists rose from the river; no light was to be seen,
yet night after night a girl's figure slipped out by the door leading into the garden, and
glided along like the vision of a dream. A long white mantle covered her slender form, and
a black veil was over her head; she looked about, shuddered and stepped out into the darkness;
she came alone without a lantern; her step did not betray her, for the grass was thick, but
her white robe showed her figure. With a loud growl, both black monsters plunged at her, and
their white teeth and blazing eyes shone out of the thicket. The maiden uttered no cry, but
right and left threw something from her apron; it was honey-cakes, tid-bits for the bears.
With a joyous growl they fell upon their honey-cakes; meanwhile the maiden slipped away over
the grass to the church door, and before the beasts could plunge after her, she had closed
the door behind her. The bears now began to strike against the heavy iron-bound door with their
paws; they climbed up the posts and snuffled and finally dropped down, one on one side, the
other on the other, licking their paws and listening for every rustle that came from the church.

What could this white vision do in the church in the darkness, alone, and, at night?

Herr Grazian had received many guests to-day. It was a memorial with him; the anniversary of
the death of his only son, Casimir. This was the third anniversary. At the funeral feast, Grazian
had informed his good friends, boon companions, clergy, scholars, singers, and buffoons, that
every year this festival of mourning would be celebrated in Mitosin Castle, just as when the
bier still stood in the hall, and the comrades came one by one to offer the dead a beaker and
then drink the same to his happy resurrection; for mourning mingles in Hungary's rejoicings,
so that one may mourn joyously.

"Now you can go pray for the soul of your brother," growled Grazian to Magdalene, as he closed
the window after feeding the bears.

He was tall and broad-shouldered, and limped with the gout; his face was copper-colored, and
his eyes were dark set, with bloated lids, and eyebrows bushy as his beard; his head was close
shaven behind in Turkish fashion, and he wore a cap night and day, and over his brow hung a
braided lock of hair. The hide of his bull-neck rose above his stiff collar; his fat chin covered
his neckerchief, tied in a knot; he wore his cloak thrown over his shoulders, and his shirt-sleeves
fastened at the wrist. He cared little for outward appearance. He wanted his clasps of gold,
but it did not matter if the stuff did shine with grease, or the trimming was moth-eaten. From
his broad Turkish girdle no sword hung, but behind was stuck a battle hammer, and above his
boot-tops appeared a knife-hilt, studded with turquoises. In all his motions, there was an
arrogance that brooked no contradiction, and expressed an immoderate love of fighting. Whoever
met him was in peril, since a mere glance at his face was enough to give offence,--speaking
was entirely out of the question; what another said, he neither listened to, nor answered;
what he himself said, he said only for himself; if he spoke directly to any one, it was a command
to which it was not customary to reply, as that provoked a blow from his crooked stick.

"Go, child, go to church," he said to himself, and limped away.

Yet there was one who heard him; his inseparable companion, Master Mathias; the strong body
needed the support of somebody's shoulder, and the soul too needed a support: it was not so
large as the body, but found room in a very small space, and could not fill this great form.
Master Mathias had to think for his lord, in whose soul no smallest thought originated, only
instinct roused him, and passion swept him along.

Master Mathias directed the memorial feast. He assembled the guests appropriate for such an
occasion; carousers, buffoons, mendicants, and travelling scholars, persecuted clergy, beggarly
nobility, outlaws, who carried their house on their back and their bread in the folds of their
cloak, Slavic fiddlers and Polish Jews all together; all that seemed ready to celebrate the
day of mourning in eating and drinking and outdoing one another in follies. Knife, fork and
spoon each guest brought with him in his boot. Three long tables were spread in the vaulted
halls, with places for two hundred guests. There were tin plates for the food, wooden pitchers
for the beer, tin cups for the wine, and narrow-throated flasks for the brandy, which was a
great delicacy, and only the masters could drink it. At the end of the carouse went around
the "Bratina," the glass that nobody must set down, and that every one must drain to the bottom.
Then, too, there must be some entertainment for the revellers; the bagpiper begins it with
a gay song to dispel care; not only piping, but dancing at the same time; then follow two tall
students, barefooted in outgrown clothes, with unkempt, disordered hair; these begin to sing,
at first pious Latin songs of past events, and of the differences between Heaven and Hell;
the guests give them beer, wine, and mead, and they begin to sing more wantonly, mixing Slavic
and Hungarian with their Latin; the entire company join in; only the Lord of the Castle mutters
to himself, "He would have understood these songs best of any of them; it was he who taught
these fellows." "He" was the son, whose funeral feast they were now celebrating.

The scholars were almost ready to drop with drinking, when Master Mathias sent for three Galician
Jews, who were shoved into the hall, bound together by their forelocks, their beards sprinkled
with pepper. Whenever one of them sneezed violently, and so jerked the heads of the other two,
everybody laughed, but the master, whose eyes filled with tears. "In this too, he was master,
he knew how to joke with the Jews; ah, he was a wit!" So the feast went on; it was already
midnight, and the guests began to sing alone and to tumble against one another; then they brought
in the final cup which each one was to empty at a single draught. There was great laughter,
for its capacity was beyond any of them. The Lord again murmured to himself; "Ah, worthless
set! He could out-drink them all. Nobody knows how, now."

Then at the drinking of this last cup, all the guests recalled some incident of the dead, and
toasts were given, one as foolish as another. "All good for nothing. He was the only one who
knew how to drink to the dead. The departed souls must have roared with laughter when they
heard him. Sit down there, you can't come up to him." The sport ended with a wrestling match.
Two or three of the befuddled lords strove together; the stronger was to throw the other under
the table; but there was one martial youth whom all together could not drive out of his corner.
"Oh, if he were only here; he would master you! He was not afraid of any two! He could even
knock my arm down. How many times I've seen him drive out the whole company with a loaded cane."
When the scuffling became general, pitchers and plates flew, tables and chairs were overturned,
benches broken, canes whizzed through the air, and men with bruised heads groaned and swore;
then suddenly a door opened, and in came the procession.

In front, disguised as a woman, came Bajozzo, and behind him a company in monks' cowls, and
priestly garb, and all began to sing the familiar song of mockery, which scoffs at monks, imitates
the litany of the pilgrim, and ends with a wild dance. That rouses those of the drunken company
who can still stand up to join the pilgrims and follow on, through the halls and corridors
of the castle, and out of doors, that the people may enjoy the sport. In the great banquet
hall remain only those entirely overcome by drunkenness, or by blows, who lie stretched out
on the floor; one and another tries to solve the problem how a four-footed beast can stand
on two feet, and failing in his experiment, returns to all four. Only the House-Lord sits quietly
in his place, with his flask of Polish brandy before him; strong as it was, it was none too
strong for him. He gazed fixedly into the glowing wicks of burned-out candles, and let fall
sentences that no one heeded. "How many jokes he knew! Even when I scolded him, he would make
me laugh. I could not do anything with him, he was so strong. If I tried to beat him, he beat
me.--If I wouldn't give him money, he would catch my Jews on the street, and take it from them.--He
had a great mind!--He might have been a candidate for the Palatinate--He might have lived to
be a hundred years old--He was only twenty-five--and three, that makes twenty-eight,--true,
but those three don't count--for he has been dead since then--but why is he dead? because his
horse made a mis-step in battle, otherwise he would have killed the other man--is that justice?--A
fine world this where the four feet of a horse are the judge--that donkey of a priest says
he will turn to dust--my son, dust! It's a lie.--More likely it'll be gold--to-morrow I'll
have his coffin opened.--There he lies in the vault of a papist church.--What's that? What
did they put him there for? Because he wanted it--he wanted it, himself.--So he could torment
the saints after his death--I wonder if he does!--I wonder if he goes and hits Saint Anthony
in the nose--I wonder if he gets up in the ghostly hours to hit the bell--What's that!--Is
that the sound of a bell? Who heard it?--Anybody else?--Here, Master Mathias, where are you?
Did you hear anything?" Nobody answered. The sleeping and drunken snored, the carousers had
quartered themselves in the cellar and begun drinking afresh. In the great banquet hall, only
the House-Lord was still awake, and he thought that he was dreaming.

The little bell in the church tower rang! Grazian sprang out of his arm-chair--seized his cane--steadying
himself against the wall, he made his way out to the north tower, from which he could get a
clear view of the church. The moon, just ready to set, lighted up the tower windows, and one
could still see the bell swaying back and forth; it had stopped ringing, but the reverberation
still trembled in the air.

"What's that? Who's there?" stammered Grazian, and leaned far out of the window. "Stop that
noise down there, so I can hear." Another instant, and he could see, too. One of the long Gothic
windows of the church suddenly blazed with light. "See there! What's that!" Against the bright
window stood out the shadows of human figures. They vanished, appeared again and raised their
hands. Grazian gathered all his strength that he might shout in the fulness of his rage at
the ghosts--"Who are you? Away with you!" He fell, and the next morning was found stretched
out before the open window: it was with difficulty they could bring him back to life.

CHAPTER VI.

THE PICTURE OF SAINT ANTHONY.

Magdalene knelt in prayer at the tomb of her brother. She too celebrated the anniversary of
this sad day, when the blood of her beloved brother had been shed, and shed on her account.
At one blow, she had lost brother and betrothed; for the hand that killed her brother could
not lead her to the marriage altar, and yet both brother and betrothed had loved her. For this
twofold love she had exchanged her father's hatred, for the father saw in his daughter only
the murderer of his son. And what was the maiden's prayer? Both were dead, and prayer could
not bring them back. Her happiness for this world was over, and she had no suspicion of the
hand that had destroyed it.

Deep stillness reigned throughout the church. Any other maiden would have been afraid to kneel
here. The moon shone through the window, and lighted up the carving on the altar, the figure
of the martyr, that bound to a tree and pierced through with arrows, writhed in his pain; lighted
up, too, the dragon trampled under foot by the victorious archangel, the heavy candelabra,
with their wax candles burned down, and finally the altar picture itself, with the figure of
the Saint, with the monsters and the seductive woman. The moonlight crept in farther, and lighted
up the marble slab under which her brother rested--a prostrate figure, with hands folded on
the breast. In the tower hooted the owls, and the death-bird screamed. In the garden outside,
the two bears growled to show that they were still on watch. From the castle hall, from time
to time, sounded the noise of the drunken revellers. Magdalene would have gladly entered a
convent, where her broken heart could have found most peace, but her father would not listen
to it. He wanted to marry her, but no suitor came; the young nobility shunned the castle, they
pitied the maiden for her sad fate, but they shrunk before the evil nature of her father. The
mourning bride and raging father-in-law alike repelled them, and the more mournful the maiden,
the more raging became Grazian Likovay. Amid all terrors for the maiden, the most frightful
were these wild banquets. It was from these that she sought refuge in the darkness of the church.
She knew well that such a revel was nothing but a wild chorus of blasphemy. A hundred throats
at once derided Heaven, the future state, and the departed souls,--and this was the way in
which the dead brother's memory was celebrated. She tried with her prayers to crowd out the
drunken yells on their upward path; while the revellers wandered to the cellars, and their
wild cries sounded on the air as if they came from the very bowels of the earth. The maiden
trembled as if in fever. The moonlight had left the windows; the church now lay in darkness:
only high up on the tower the moon yet shone on the lonely bell. She gazed upwards. Suddenly
it seemed to her as if the bell were in motion. Was it an hallucination? Did her dream make
visions so real? The bell rang! Then it tolled as for the welfare of a dying soul. And yet
the bell had no rope, and there was no one to pull it if it had. In her astonishment new marvels
followed. The darkness in the church began to give way to a twilight; 'twas the twilight that
comes in dreams. The altar picture shone; around the brow of the saint gleamed an aureole,
while the form of the seductive woman grew black. Before this marvel, the maiden sank trembling
on her knees. "O God, my Lord!" she murmured. The last notes of the bell were dying away, and
at the same moment dropped down with a rolling sound the picture of Saint Anthony of Padua
with all its terrifying adjuncts, and in the space thus left vacant stood a living figure.
Again it was Anthony of Padua in monk's cowl, barefooted, with tonsured head, a lighted torch
in his hand. The maiden in terror clasped both hands to her breast. Did this vision bring death
for her? Would that it might be so! The living figure stepped down from the frame of the altar
picture, and striding over books and stools came nearer. With a gentle cry of terror the maiden
sprang up, stretched out both hands in entreaty, and turned away her face. She heard her name,
"Magdalene." Everything swam around her,--she fell in a swoon to the ground. When she recovered
consciousness, she saw those eyes beaming upon her, whose glow was more wonderful than that
of the sun. Perhaps dreams come in a swoon. Dreams are deceivers; who knows how many worlds
her soul had wandered through in this short dream, how many eternities she had lived through;
she feared the phantom no more. With his name on her lips she awoke, "Tihamer." To her he was
always only "Tihamer." "Have you come down from Heaven to me?" The young monk shook his head
sadly. He might with assurance have said that he came down from the realms of the dead, so
pallid was his countenance, so cold his hands. The wax candle that he had brought with him
now stood in a candlestick on the altar and lighted up their faces. The young man spoke in
a subdued and gentle voice. "Be not astounded, I am no marvel, nor ghost, nor spirit from the
other world. I am a living, miserable man. The rumor of my death was false. It was not my head
that the Turks cut off in prison, but my servant's, who had changed clothes with me."

"And this dress of yours?" whispered Magdalene, touching his rough monk's cowl.

"This is my mourning garb for you, and for the whole world lost to me. My name is Father Peter.
I belong to the order of Jesuits. No longer your beloved and betrothed--no longer the hope
of your future, nor your support in misfortune. No longer your defender against men, but only
your mediator between Heaven and earth, Father Peter."

The maiden knelt before him and fervidly kissed his hand.

"Father!"

The youth sighed deeply.

"You could not belong to me, so I give you to the Lord, you could not be my bride, so you shall
be Heaven's bride. I am come to make smooth the way, to prepare the way whither you long to go."

"To a convent? Then you know! Is it true, you have talked with me in my dreams?"

"Not in your dreams. I will not deceive you. Sound reason has brought me to the knowledge that
after this staggering blow that has fallen on your heart, you must long to enter a convent.
Your father will not allow it; he intends to marry you to the Pole Berezowsky."

"I do not know him at all."

"I know him; this bridegroom intended for you is an ugly decrepit old drunkard, who has already
buried six wives, and furthermore is a Socinian."

"What! deny his God!"

"Denies the Trinity, believes Christ only a good man, and the Holy Ghost only a white dove;
nothing more."

"But you will free me from him, won't you?" entreated the maiden, clasping the young man's knees.

"With your assent."

"How could you get here? Whence did you come?"

"Truly, I have taken my way through the lower regions to come to you; a long underground passage,
that men worse than the devil planned for the destruction of mankind, and that is still filled
with evidences of their deeds of terror. It is frightful to wander there. The secret of this
hidden way, I learned from an old yellowed book, which had made ten wise men fools, and whose
secret was finally revealed by a Fool. This book too was a work of the Devil, but the real
Hell and the genuine Devil, Fate has shown me in another form. The inexorable rules of our
order compel me to serve as instructor and confessor in the house of that woman, who, in my
opinion, is worse than Belial and all his demons. I am at the castle of the Lady of Madocsany."

The maiden put her hand on her heart and caught her breath.

"This is my Hell and my Devil; day after day to see the woman whom I have hated since our first
acquaintance. Offensive is the woman, however beautiful she may be, who is ever eager to disclose
to a man the feelings of her heart, which ought to be a secret to divine, a prize to win, a
treasure to guard for their possessor. Still more ought this woman to have concealed her secret,
for every one of her thoughts was inspired by sin; her husband still lived. How she became
a widow was a burden on her conscience. How she treated me--may she answer for it to God! Her
secrets told in confession rest in my breast under the seal of the sacrament. I must in God's
name absolve her from sins that my human heart cannot forgive. Day after day must I look upon
that face whose accursed smile destroyed our fortunes. I must lend an ear to her diabolical
words of enticement, which she whispers to me under the mantle of confession. Is not that worse
than Hell?"

The maiden pressed his hand, and said in soothing tones, "You are right; yours is the greater
suffering. I will not complain."

"Your sufferings too are well known to me. This demon entertains me daily with bad news about
you. She knows everything that happens in your house, and she takes special delight when she
can distress me with such tales. But let us not waste our time in complaining. We must part.
I have a long way to go underground and must arrive while it is still dark, so no one can mark
the entrance by which I go. Answer me one question. Do you wish to go into a convent?"

"It is my one wish."

"It shall be fulfilled. I must first tell your decision to the Abbess of a convent, so that
when I take you away through the underground passage to the Madocsany Castle, a nun may be
waiting for you there with a closed carriage. Great prudence and careful preparations are necessary.
We must agree upon the day for meeting here again."

"Next Sunday."

"Well, then, any Sunday after midnight. I cannot get away earlier, for it is so late before
the spoiled child who is entrusted to my care falls asleep, and the Fool who keeps vigils with
me becomes drunk."

"But tell me," asked the maiden, "How could you guess that you would find me here at this hour?
Did vision tell you?"

"Even if I deceive the whole world, I will tell you only the truth. I have had no visions;
neither ecstacy nor second-sight revealed this to me. I had certainty. To-day is the anniversary
of your brother's death, and to-night it is celebrated in your castle with a carouse. You could
not remain in the house, where every nook and corner was filled with their disgusting gluttony.
Here only, could you find protection--at your brother's grave, where you could pray through
the frightful night. You must pray, first for the soul of your brother, and then for his murderer's--the
whole litany from beginning to end. Finally, I decided that if I did not find you here, I would
pass through the church door into the castle. Many buffoons are there now, disguised in monk's
cowl, and it would not have been difficult for me to join them and look for you."

The young man saw a look of terror on Magdalene's face, and she seized him by the hand.

"What is the matter?" he asked.

She said nothing; she only thought what if her beloved had been torn to pieces by the bears
in his attempt to pass to the castle. But she would not say this to him, lest she waken his
fears for her, a weak woman; she must always pass to the church through such perils.

"I was thinking," she said, with a constrained, distressed smile, "what if you had found the
door locked when you tried to go out of the church?"

"I knew for a fact that the door of the church is never locked. Your father has given orders
that it shall always remain open. Every corner of this church has its sad history, but none
more sad than the history of the door."

"You know it?"

"I heard it from the tormentor of my soul. It will be better for you not to know it; you have
enough in your misfortune."

"I beg of you, tell me this story. The knowledge that another has suffered still more gives
me consolation. Who was it?"

"Your older sister, Sophie."

"I remember her; she was tall and beautiful, with large dark eyes. How often I stroked her
beautiful rosy cheeks, when she took me in her lap, for I was still a child. And then I remember
when they laid her in her coffin, I stroked her cheeks again, but they were marble-white and cold."

"There she rests," said the young man, pointing to the wall, where two marble tablets were
in sight, one large, one small; on one was a large cross, on the other a small one; then the
date. On the smaller tablet one year more than on the larger, and that was all the inscription.

"Why is there neither name nor inscription?" asked Magdalene, stunned.

"There are two of them, mother and child."

"And why are their names not on the tablets?"

"They had no names."

"I do not understand you."

"You ought not to. It is a sad story. They too loved one another, more passionately than we.
They too suffered, still more than we. They too were disturbed by your father in their love.
Shame was to him preferable to a son-in-law. His daughter died the day her child was born,
and was buried here; a year later the child followed; and when they brought her here to bury
her beside her mother and opened the church door, your father stumbled over the body of his
daughter; the unhappy girl had been buried in a trance, had wakened, struggled to the church
door, found it locked, and so perished pitiably at its threshold."

"Frightful!" stammered the maiden, shuddering, and glancing with a look of terror at the two
tablets.

"That is why there are no names inscribed. Since then, Grazian Likovay never has this church
door locked."

"Let us hurry away from here," said the maiden, trembling. "Will you come here next Sunday
about midnight?"

"I will come; but you must hurry away now."

They parted with a pressure of the hand.

Father Peter had to pass through the hiding-place behind the altar picture, which with all
its demons resumed its place. For some time the face of Saint Anthony was surrounded with a
halo of light from the torch of the departing monk. The small bell in the tower rang again,
for it was connected by hidden clock-work with the secret passage-way. Formerly, when the castle
had been held by the Hussites, this bell rung, by its secret clock-work, had given warning
when any one was approaching from Madocsany. When the bell stopped ringing, the altar picture
was again in darkness. It was two minutes past midnight; outside the cock crowed. The maiden,
as she went toward the church door, looked timidly before and behind to see if her sister Sophie
were present; outside a still greater terror waited. One bear lay across the threshold asleep.
She needed only to summon all her courage and climb over him; but the other was awake, grimly
gnawing a bone that he could not crush in his teeth. "Help me, God," sighed the maiden, and
ran past the creature, throwing her honey-cakes as she went. The wild beasts let her pass unharmed,
but it would have been better for her had they torn her to pieces, then would she have been
a beautiful martyr and saint in Paradise.

CHAPTER VII.

VENUS AND HER SON.

Idalia was the baptismal name of the Lady of Madocsany; her other name was Venus. This name
is often found in calendars even at the present day, and was quite customary in this part of
the country. With this name at her baptism, a fatal ban was pronounced upon her. The Lady did
not know that she had inherited not only the beauty of the goddess, but also her nature too.
When she loved, she loved with mad passion, and when she ceased to love, she hated in the same
way, and her hate was deadly. "Venus armicida." Her passion never cooled. It only changed its
flame, but always burned in one way or another. She had married early the man of her choice,
a handsome hero when he married her, a broken-down old man when he left her a widow, though
the number of years between was only eight. It was said he had drunk himself to death. Perhaps
there was a magic drink mingled with his wine.

Idalia had so thrown herself into the Olympic life her name justified that she had her little
son baptized Cupid. The poor Slavic priest was made to believe that this was only the childish
name for Cupa, who was known to be a national saint and martyr. In one house lived Venus and
Cupid. The lady cherished her son with truly animal love; everything was allowed him. She never
let him out of her sight even in her love adventures. The child could remember several such
instances when they had galloped off three in the saddle,--the knight, the child, and the mother.
Lady Idalia had run away from her husband, but every time had cajoled her way back. Tihamer
Csorbai was the last object of her passion, and because this remained unanswered, she had been
most furious. She destroyed every hindrance between the two. Blood must flow to separate Tihamer
from his first beloved. Idalia's husband must sink into his grave that Tihamer might be more
closely united to her, and now the whole plan had been made futile; she had found Tihamer again,
but as Father Peter. The man she had adored was now a permanent guest within her house, but
farther from her than ever before. Not earthly hands, but heavenly fields, separated them;
and how many projects of insurrection did her heated brain plan against hated Heaven. In the
warm, starlit nights of summer, from the room of the monk below, rang forth the mournful psalms
with which he stormed Heaven. At the same time, the lady sat in her balcony and struck her
harp and sang enticing songs, telling all the secrets of a passion-torn soul. The song was
intended for a confession of love. Did Father Peter hear? He must have heard them. Is every
feeling in his heart turned to stone that he cannot feel nor awake?

"Sit down on the edge of my bed, Father Peter," whispered the child, uneasily tossing about
on his sleepless couch "I have something to say to you. Either the devils or the good spirits
brought you here."

"Why do you say that, my child?"

"Before you came, my mother was very fond of me; she always called me, 'my diamond,' 'my ruby,'
'my saint,' 'my little dove,' or 'my little angel.' When she took me in her lap, she kissed
me to the very finger tips; whatever I asked her for, she gave me at once, or if she did not,
I pulled her hair, and then she would laugh and kiss me again. She never looked cross at me,
but now that you are here, I am of no further value to her. I am no more her 'diamond' or 'golden
treasure;' when she looks at me, she makes such a face that I have to run away. If I ask my
prettiest for something, she puts out her tongue at me. If I make the smallest mistake, she
whips me with rods and threatens me with the lash. If I try to kiss her, she spits like a cat.
This makes me think that the devils brought you here."

The monk answered nothing, but stroked the boy's head with his hands, and the child prattled on.

"But when I stop to think how good you are to me, that you won't let my mother abuse me, that
you make excuses for me when she scolds me, that you take the lash right out of her hand; when
I make a mistake, you don't tell her anything about it; when she gets angry with me, you soothe
her with gentle words; that you never hurt me, never get angry at me, always entreat me kindly,
and warn me gently; then I think it must be the good spirits brought you to this house."

The monk took the boy's cold hands in his and warmed them.

"Now, day before yesterday, I begged her so prettily to take me up in her lap, because my head
hurt me very badly, and if she would just kiss it once the pain would go right away, she scolded
me for it. She said my head pained me because I ate so many unripe peaches and honeycakes,
and she took away the honeycake that you brought me,--would not let me taste it even, but threw
it to the little dog Joli,--how could I help crying? That made her very angry, and she made
a face at me like those she makes at her maid when she pulls her hair, or at the haiduk when
he pours the sauce over her gown; and when I knelt before her, begging her not to be angry,
she took a large buckle out of her cap and threatened me with it, and then she hissed at me
through her teeth, 'You bastard! Oh, if you were not in the world!' I was afraid she would
murder me. I begged her to put that cruel thing back into her hair. 'You'd better pray God,
or you'll go the way of the Cseiteburg children. Go, get the Fool to tell you why the dead
weep nights in the Cseiteburg.' So to-night, when I went to bed, while you were singing psalms
in the next room, I begged the Fool to tell me the story of the Cseiteburg children, until
he finally consented, and told me."

The child still trembled under the impression of the story, and his teeth chattered.

"Now come close to me, so that nobody can hear. I don't dare say it out loud. Now then! Once
upon a time, there lived in the Cseiteburg a beautiful lady, a widow who had two little children
just my age, twins that came into the world together, and always played together. The beautiful
lady fell in love with a handsome knight who came often to the castle, and whom she wished
to marry. Once the knight said to her, he would like to marry her if there were not 'four eyes
in the way.' The beautiful woman thought he must mean the four eyes of her two children, and
that he would not marry her because there were these two children of her first marriage. So
she called Mistress Dorko, the old nurse of the children, and said to her 'Take these two pins,'
and with that she drew two long gold pins out of her cap, 'and go lead the children out to
play in the forest; when they have played enough, and grow weary, put them to sleep in your
lap and thrust these long pins through their temples. The handsome knight shall not say that
there are "four eyes in the way" of our love.' The bad old Dorko did as her lady commanded.
She took the two little boys out into the wood to play, waited until they had grown tired,
then took them in her lap and told them about the fairy Helen until they fell asleep: then
she drew out both the big pins and stuck one of them through the head of one of the boys. The
other boy woke at his cry, and when he saw what old Dorko had done to his brother, he began
to cry and beg her not to stick the pin through him. He promised her a cloak with buckles,
horses, carriage, and a piece of land, if she would spare him. He promised her the whole of
Cseiteburg, as soon as he inherited it. But the wicked nurse could not be moved by his tears
and prayers, she pierced the second one through with the big gold pin, and then she left them
in the depths of the forest, covered with dry leaves; the cuckoos sounded their funeral knell,
and the nightingale sang their death dirge. The same day came the handsome knight to the beautiful
lady in the castle. And the beautiful lady said to him, full of joy, '"The four eyes" are no
longer in our way, the two children lie out there covered with leaves, the cuckoo has tolled
them to the grave, the nightingales have sung for them. Now you can make me your wife.' The
handsome knight was beside himself at these words. 'Alas, beautiful lady, beautiful widow!
I did not mean "the four eyes" of the children, but our own four eyes were in the way of our
love.' And thereupon he fled out of the castle, and never came back again. Since then, the
ghosts weep all night long at Cseiteburg. This is true, isn't it, Father Peter?"

"A foolish story, sprung from a Fool's brain. Don't believe it, my little one."

"But I do believe it, for I've seen the beautiful lady myself. Her eyes rolled so wildly, she
drew her lips together, she gnashed her teeth, and her hair streamed down her back, and as
her cap fell back, she seized the pin in her hand--and I almost felt its point in my temples!"

"Don't think of it any more. Don't give way to your fancies."

The child seized the monk's hand in both of his:

"You won't leave me, will you? You won't let anything happen?"

"Don't be afraid, my son; I will stay with you always, no one shall do you any harm. I will
take care of you, and protect you."

"But why do you not love her, then? My two eyes are not in your way. How often have we fled
from this house together on horseback, my mother and I with a knight; she never would let me
go from her side. And then when we came back in a carriage, she fairly wore me out with her
kisses, called me her sweet child, and when we came back to my father, she would hold me out,
and I must beg him in his anger not to draw his sword against her. I caressed his cheeks, that
he might be cajoled into forgiving. I never failed her, and why is she angry with me? Why?
Because you do not love her. Do love her. Throw off your monk's cowl. Marry my mother. Be my
real father. Do as she demands. Love her! Love her! Then will she be as sweet as honey, and
as beautiful as a fairy. But when she does not love, she is as bitter as gall and as hateful
as a witch."

Father Peter quieted the child in his wild imaginations, until he fell asleep again.

The sound of a harp and passionate songs of love floated through the night air. Father Peter
left the child's room with agitated feelings, and hurried along the corridors to the balcony
where Idalia confided her heart's sorrow to the forest and the stars. The sound of his step
aroused the lady from her dreams. She looked at him in surprise as he approached. Father Peter
took her by the hand, and drew her into the room. Idalia's heart began to beat violently. She
thought that the hand which he now laid on her shoulder would draw her to his breast, until
now ice, now melted by the volcanic glow of her love.

"Kneel down," said the priest, "Confess your sin at once."

"What sin? You know all," murmured the woman, while she sank down under the iron pressure of
his hand.

"Your past that as yet has no name--what you carry about in your heart--that monster must be
stifled while it still exists only as a thought. What is this thought of yours?"

The woman was silent for a time, meditating contradiction and crafty evasion, but at length
she yielded and said in a whisper, "I intended to kill my child."

"Cursed be the heart in which such a thought could arise."

"If my heart is the mother of this monster, yours is the father; such devils result when fire
and frost come together."

"Are you mindful of God and the future life?"

"Don't speak to me of God or of the future life! When I go there, and see God face to face,
I shall say: I am the one--I did it! Hadst Thou given me cold blood, I might have been a frog,
but thou gavest me warm blood, and I became a human being. Hadst Thou created me man, I might
have been a Cain; Thou hast made me a woman, and I have become an Eve. In this way didst Thou
fashion my woman's heart; it was Thou that didst create my passions, that didst make my eye
a magnet, that didst give my lips their charm; it is Thou that dost send thoughts to the wakeful,
and dreams to the sleeping; and now wilt Thou condemn Thy own creation unheard? If Thou art
my Creator, Thou didst create me thus; if Thou art all-knowing, Thou knewest this before."

"Woman, blaspheme not God!"

"Is then truth blasphemy of God? What is my crime,--that I love you? What then are you in the
sight of God, that you are surrounded by such enkindling darts? Are you His archangel--His
cherub? Turn not away from me; I am not going to reproach you--not you, nor the saints, nor
God. It was not Satan taught me all this. I have read the great book that you call Holy Scriptures
through from beginning to end. I have tried to find a place in it which counts the love of
woman as a sin, but I have found none such. It was only a human being who could hit upon the
unnatural thought that there were human beings who could not love. Let the cowl cover the man
who could impose such a covering--whose heart dared not beat under it. Is not such an act a
sin against God? Is not this the murder of a human being--this slow killing of one in the likeness
of God? Does the poisoner do anything worse when he gives his victims the means of passing
away slowly? Have not other men discovered the antidote for it? You do not know this perhaps.
See! As easy as it is to put on this sable cowl, this shroud for a living body, just so easy
is it to strip it off. Do not flee! Stay here--listen to me. I might have a sin to confess.
I promise you I will not kill, but I will call back into life a dead man, and that is indeed
a sin heavy enough. You are this dead man. I have mourned you hundreds of times. Allow me to
call you forth from your cold tomb by my tears. Listen to me. We will go from here right to
Transylvania, where the Hungarian belief flourishes. We will go out to the Protestant church.
Many are doing it already, you know. A third of the land is Protestant; I am sure they cannot
all go to Hell. Nobody can persecute us there. See! I have two iron chests full of treasure;
there we can live like lords in luxury and splendor, such as you were accustomed to before
you gave over your lands to the Jesuits. We'll snap our fingers at the world. Or, if it pleases
you better to be poor and God-fearing, I am willing. I will go with you to the poorest village,
where there is a tower with a weather-vane; there you shall become a Calvinist preacher, a
rector, or a Levite; I will be your faithful wife; will wash and weave, spin flax, and endure
misery; I will become God-fearing, my lips shall forget to scold and curse, and shall learn
to sing psalms. If I should become quarrelsome, you may beat me, shut me up, and make me fast,
and I will be always faithful to you; only throw aside this cloak of death."

The temptation was strong. When passion and sorrow blend together in one flame, then perhaps
the heart of a dead man may withstand. But the youth was protected by his talisman--that other
face on the other side of the Waag. The monk's cowl alone would not have protected his heart
against these darts; his ascetic vows, the sacred oil, would have been a weak safeguard against
the charm of this Circe. But the loving, suffering face of the maid of Mitosin stood between
them like Heaven. The sunbeam smites in vain on the summit of the Alps, for this is already
in Heaven, and Heaven is cold. Tihamer had left his heart before the altar in Mitosin,--it
was not to be found.

"Return, poor sinner," he said with the gentleness of a confessor, "God will pardon your rebellious
thoughts, and will set you free from this evil spirit that has possessed you. Learn to pray."

"I will not learn to pray!" cried the woman excitedly. "When you read the liturgy at mass,
I always say to myself: It is not true! It is not true! It is not true! When you sing the hymn
of praise to the Holy Mother, I murmur to myself, Love me, and not the Virgin Mother; You are
my life! you are my death! you are my devil! you are my idol! if you wish to make me blessed,
make me blessed here below, and in the future I will be condemned in your stead."

"Then let your condemnation begin here below," said Father Peter, aroused from his monastic
calm. "For if it is true that you can love a man to the extent of despising the whole world
and renouncing the blessedness of Heaven, then indeed will it be the torments of Hell for you
to see the man you love passing daily before you like the vision of one dead, like a ghost
in the clear daylight, like a phantom in a living body--to see him, and to say to yourself,
'You put to death this man, you threw this shroud over him, you closed the grave upon him,
and neither violence nor prayer nor the magic of Hell can wake him up again!' It was you who
killed me. I am your victim. I am the ghost that pursues you. I am your judgment from God!"

Idalia shuddered convulsively as she lay on the ground, and bit her bare arms.

"When I was sent here to you," continued Father Peter, "I begged the Prior to send me into
the desert of Arabia among the wild Druses rather than to your house: he left me only one choice,
I might go as servant of the Holy Inquisition in Spain, or come here. I made my choice. I preferred
to endure torture rather than to torture others. But believe me, he who endures the touch of
hot oil does not suffer such torment as I do when your hot breath touches me; and the Spanish
boot does not so crush the bones of the victim, as my heart is crushed under your accursed
passion; and yet I came here although I knew that you would pursue me with this frightful love
of yours: and I shall stay here, although I know that you will very soon torture me to death
with your still more frightful hatred. Your house is my torture-chamber--I am here to suffer
to the end."

Idalia fell lifeless upon the cold marble.

"May God pardon you," whispered the youth, "I pardon you. May you be able to pardon yourself."

With that he raised her up from the floor, held her firmly with his strong hands by the shoulder,
and so compelled her to remain seated and look him in the eye.

"Finally, rest assured that I will accomplish what I was sent here for; your son will I guard,
protect, and train to good. Let no one venture to do him any harm. The Fool I shall drive from
his side, and shall no longer suffer him to poison the child's dreams with his frightful tales.
You have cast him off. I will adopt him; and from this time he shall be my son, and shall never
again come near you. I am prepared to have you deal with his spiritual father as you did with
his father in the flesh."

With these words, he let go his grasp and withdrew. Idalia stood for some time like a living
statue in her white gown, while her flowing hair enveloped her bare arms. Then she shuddered
and dragged herself to the wall, like a wild beast fatally shot; there she found a support
on which she laid her head--it was cold marble, the base of the statue of her dead husband.
The cold stone cooled her, perhaps,--the fever that throbbed in her temples.

Father Peter went back to his lonely quarters, and found the child still resting quietly as
he had left him. The child was sleeping sweetly and smiling in his dreams.

CHAPTER VIII.

THE BISHOP'S WEDDING.

In those days, it happened in Hungary that a Bishop married: it was such an extraordinary thing
since the introduction of celibacy, that we look in vain in all chronicles for its parallel.
Emerich Thurzo, Bishop of Neutra, was the one to whom this marvel happened. The story is perpetuated
on parchment, in marble, and in the memory of man. In the Hungarian highlands, throughout the
length of the Waag valley, the story is still told. Emerich Thurzo was the last scion of a
famous old race who had given the country many generals and palatines. The family estates were
equal to a small kingdom. With the Bishop, the mighty family might have died out, but this
was regarded such a calamity that the Pope came to the rescue and issued a bull in due form;
not a simple brief under the fisherman's ring, the customary seal for a brief, but a document
with the seal hanging which shows the crest of the papacy, for this was an act of indulgence;
this seal, moreover, was attached by a red and gold silken cord. By virtue of this bull, Bishop
Thurzo was freed from the duty of celibacy; he was permitted to marry and to become Lutheran
in his relations to his wife, while he held all his Catholic offices and benefices. Chronicle
and tradition record that the Bishop made royal use of this dispensation; through a whole year
continued the festivities of his marriage with the beautiful Christina Nyary. One can still
see the great hall at Bittse which the Bishop had built for the celebration of his marriage.
The castle is still uninjured; the main entrance adorned with armorial bearings in bas-relief,
and the colonnades running round the building, decorated with representations of all the known
heroes, in giant proportions. The hall for the wedding ceremony, in its length and breadth,
hardly fell short of the proportions of a modern ball-room: midway on one side is still to
be seen the entrance which led to the sleeping apartments, a stately portal, with four slender
Corinthian columns; on these columns was a profusion of Eastern ornament, fruits, green foliage,
grapes, richly gilded, and resplendent in many-colored enamel. The front of the portal shows
the family escutcheons in gold letters, and between the two is a Latin proverb for the encouragement
of lovers, "Amandum juxta regulans." Through the heavy brocade hangings of the brilliant entrance,
the guests saw the fortunate Bishop vanish with his fortunate bride, while they remained to
drink to the health of the two with noisy revelry. So it went on, until one fine day, the fortunate
father brought his new-born son in his arms to show him to the guests about the table. He had
kept his guests with him from the marriage day to the day of baptism. There was a lord for
you! That was a prelate! Through a whole year the festivities lasted. How did it happen that
the people did not weary of them? Why, the groups of guests changed constantly. No well-ordered
prosperous man can leave his house and home for a whole year, so there was a series of guests
following each other in unbroken succession. In those days, when one went to a wedding, he
took his entire household; for how could he leave his children behind? Lackeys and haiduks,
equerries, coachmen and footmen, Court fool, nurse, and governess, priest and scribe, all came
with their master, and before all went a heavy wagon with the baggage of the women. And there
were as many kinds of musicians as there were guests. The Polish lords brought their famous
trumpeters; those from Transylvania brought their gypsies; the Moravians their fiddlers; and
the Nyians their bagpipers.

One band relieved another at banquet and dance; meantime the young people who became weary
of the pleasures of the table first, withdrew to one end of the long hall for the "torch-dance,"
or the "cushion-dance," while still the servants at the other end continued to carry in the
succession of dishes to the feast; if you wish to count the courses there is still the portly
kitchen record. Here rang out the joyous conversation, interspersed with the Latin epithalamium
of some impromptu poet, or the fescennine verses of a German minnesinger. At one side, the
married women had their pleasure; young mothers whose children became restless withdrew here
to quiet them; another table in an alcove at the side was opened for the young girls who feasted
here in the presence of their holy director, and through the noise and tumult of the men, their
joyous girlish voices rang out in Vivas to the noble lord and lady who sat at the head of the
main table. In the shadow of a vaulted recess, the monks and lay brothers were assembled, who
had crowded from all foreign parts at the report that a bishop in Hungary was celebrating his
marriage. Every kind of priest was here; Capuchins, Jesuits, Paulists, Carmelites, White Canons,
and the tonsured Franciscans, with wooden sandals on their bare feet. All sat together and
drank "in honorem domini et dominæ." They were the most steadfast guests in respect to the
hours and days. The only change in their company was that it constantly increased. Besides
these, there was one other guest who remained from the very beginning of this long marriage
feast, together with his whole family, and this was Grazian, Lord of Mitosin Castle. He had
brought his beautiful daughter with him. The ladies whispered at one side that Lord Grazian
stayed so long in the hope of forming an alliance between the beautiful Magdalene and some
young lord. "Oh, no indeed!" said others, "there is no care for her. She has already a valiant
bridegroom, the Pole, Lord Berezowski." At this there was a great outburst of laughter. "If
the dear Lord had not made Adam better looking than he is, Mother Eve would never have picked
that much-talked-of apple from the tree."

The old fool showed no hesitancy about thrusting himself into the circle of young dancers,
and shunning the table of drinkers; and yet he longed for a drink; but his mouth watered still
more for a kiss from the beautiful Magdalene, and this he might so easily have, if it would
only occur to her to invite him to the cushion-dance. But for this he might wait until the
day of judgment.

This is the way they danced the cushion-dance, as our elders will recollect. A small silken
cushion was put in the hand of the handsomest stateliest dancer, who laid it in the centre
of the circle on the floor, and danced around it to the music, at first alone; then he took
up the cushion and laid it at the feet of a lady whom he had chosen according to his fancy,
knelt down on it and remained a suppliant until she released him with a kiss: then the two
danced hand in hand around the cushion: and then it was the lady's turn to lay it before a
dancer in the circle and kneel down waiting for a kiss. And through the whole evening the fairy
chain of sweet kisses was woven on and on. The old Berezowski thrust his wine-befuddled face
into the circle and waited, hoping that he might please some one; but not one of the worthy
widows wished him for a partner; and so long as no lady invited him to dance, he had no right
to lay the cushion down before his fair white betrothed, and to imprint a red mark on that
snowy countenance with his bristly face. It was as if the whole company had taken an oath that
no one should offer him the cushion, and the ladies laughed heartily evening after evening
to see Lord Grazian with his gouty foot, and Lord Berezowski with his squinting eyes, unwearyingly
watch the cushion-dance. But in reality, both were keeping watch of something quite different.

The beautiful Idalia seemed entirely changed since that severe lesson. She acted as any one
would who was entirely broken-hearted and resigned. One hardly recognized her. She was gentle
and condescending to every one; and the mistakes of her household were hardly noted, while
formerly her eye was wont to spy out everything and rebuke it at once with voice and hand.
She went every day to mass, sat quietly under the great carved canopy of the family pew and
performed her devotions. What it all meant nobody knew, except, perhaps, Father Peter. Then,
too, the condition of the Jesuit monastery had been recently much improved; one gift followed
another. One Sunday, the castle lady surprised the Father with a magnificent altar covering,
and it was reported that she had embroidered it with her own hands. The young nobleman, Cupid,
had also become a new creature under Father Peter's hands. One could hear him studying out
of his books in a clear tone of voice, instead of singing wanton songs. He no longer wandered
through the village with dozens of dogs, setting them on the poor people; but went about hand
in hand with his instructor in the best behaved way, and replied to the "Praised be Jesus Christ"
of the people, with a pious "Forever and ever, Amen." He spent his pocket-money on the poor,
and Sunday mornings served as acolyte without his old trick of mixing sulphur in the incense;
instead of abusive words, he now uttered Latin sentences, and kissed the hands of elderly people
in a most mannerly way; and all this was Father Peter's work. It was set down to his credit
by the directors of the convent, and information was even sent to the Provincial Father, of
the wonderfully blessed activity of this newly created father.

The Lady Idalia had for some time ceased to storm her lost idol with her passion, and had entrusted
her little son entirely to his care. Mother and son saw each other now only at table. This
unaccountable change had occurred at the same time of the Bishop's feast. The entire noble
family of Mitosin had gone to Bittse and remained. Father Peter had from that time no further
occasion to seek the subterranean passage; night and day nothing took him from his pupil, who
since his tutor had withdrawn the fools and had accustomed him to an orderly way of living
instead of his former extravagances, now enjoyed regular sleep such as children are wont to
have, who, when they waken, find their heads in the very place where they laid them down, and
who sleep with a laugh on their lips.

Father Peter was somewhat troubled in conscience at the great care that he was devoting to
his pupil, since he knew that at the bottom there was a certain selfishness, as it was very
agreeable to him not to have Hirsko, the Fool, sleep any more in the boy's room. Hirsko kept
long vigils; he never closed an eye until he could see the bottom of his pitcher. Now, Father
Peter did not have to wait for that; Sunday nights belonged entirely to him. As soon as he
had quieted Cupid, he could hurry to the entrance of the vaulted passage, and there stay for
a long time beside his inconsolable beloved, who was at once his bride and his widow. These
charming meetings by night, Likovay's journey to Thurzo's wedding had brought to an end. The
departure had occurred so unexpectedly that there was no time for the two lovers to agree what
should be done. By carrier pigeons, they had communicated with each other briefly, but since
the departure, there had been no messages by the pigeons from Mitosin. It was only through
the talkative Fool that Father Peter learned whither the family had gone,--to the wedding of
the Bishop! It was said that this would last a whole year long, and would occasion so many
other weddings that the carnival might be prolonged until the vintage.

So many marriageable young women were among the guests, it was very probable they would all
leave as brides; for even the melancholy Magdalene a suitor waited there--the rich Berezowski.
Father Peter sighed deeply--if he could only see her, just once more! How dared a monk sigh
for such a forbidden pleasure! Even then the punishment was hurrying toward him. While his
heart unceasingly throbbed at the thought that he might even yet be permitted to behold the
countenance of his beloved, gently radiant as the moonlight itself, quite unexpectedly this
command came from his lady, which conformed to his wishes, yet he could find little pleasure
in it. One day,--the Thurzo wedding feast had then lasted two months,--Idalia said to him,
"Father Peter, all the world have paid their respects at Bittse, at the wedding of the Bishop;
we alone have not. The Bishop is related to me on my mother's side, and furthermore he is my
godfather. He may be annoyed at us with good reason for not showing ourselves there; now I
have in my jewel casket a string of real pearls that will be very becoming to the throat of
the young lady: let us take them to her as a bridal present and stay at the castle until we
are driven away. You shall go with the boy; it will be well for him to see a little of such
splendor and magnificence as he never shall behold again." And so that fell to Father Peter's
lot for which he had sighed so longingly. But he could not take pleasure in the news: it filled
him, on the contrary, with horror. At Emerich Thurzo's wedding, he must meet again that world
which he had put behind him, and in which only a few years ago he had been so intimate--so
much at home. It is true, the countless sufferings he had endured since then might have changed
his looks somewhat; and then, too, there was the long beard that he had not worn as knight,
and if he drew the hood of his cowl down, half his face was covered. Besides, who would pay
any attention to a holy monk, who draws into a corner, and is in nobody's way? The fine ladies
who had known him formerly would gather away their trains lest they should touch his cowl;
but there would be one there who knew him, at all events. Alas, if by any traitorous change
of countenance Magdalene should betray her recognition! Their eyes must not meet.

However, there was no escape. Father Peter must accompany his lady to Bittse--to the famous
wedding-feast. She, too, took her whole household with her. She had to drag about her household
as she did her gowns and jewels; her only son, of course, must not leave her side, for that
is the richest jewel of a Hungarian woman. The other ladies took their children with them,
and she received the greatest glory whose son could best recite his good wishes to the bride,
which he had learned from the court master.

The wedding guests arrived safely at Bittse. At that time, such a journey lasted fully six
days in the stern cold, and in the short winter days of fog. When the guests from Madocsany
arrived at the Castle of Bittse, it was already late in the evening. The first night was given
to rest, after the hardships of the journey. The next day, the Lady Idalia, with her son and
Father Peter, paid their respects to the noble couple. Emerich Thurzo had an astounding memory;
as soon as he heard Father Peter's name, he at once expressed his surprise that he did not
recollect that he had as bishop confirmed a monk of that name, and, of course, Madocsany belonged
to his diocese. Father Peter replied that he had received his confirmation from the Provincial
of his order; in this way, he drew down upon himself the high displeasure of the Hungarian
magnate, the Bishop. The Provincials of the Jesuit order assumed many privileges of the Prelates,
and even some papal prerogatives. From that moment, Father Peter in the Castle of Bittse was
a marked man. However, this was agreeable to him, for no one molested him with offerings of
friendly attentions. He could even sit at the table without any exchange of good wishes, for
the Jesuit brotherhood was looked at askance by the other orders. Only one human being stood
by him--the young Cupid. He never left him. However wild and boisterous he had been in the
days when his mother spoiled him, he had now become equally shy and timid; ever since those
visions of terror which the threats of his mother and the stories of the Fool had brought upon
his mind. And yet what an ungovernable child he had been only a year ago! When he and his mother
stayed at an entertainment, the dissolute lords used to teach him all kinds of knavish verses
and songs, and then when the ladies joined them, some one would say, "Now, little Cupid, say
a little verse, or sing a pretty song." And the little fellow would hardly wait to be asked,
but spring up on the table and recite what he had learned; and the ladies would blush to the
very roots of their hair; some would laugh, but the more prudish would go away. And then the
Lady Idalia would take the little rascal in her lap and reward him with kisses. But now all
this was over. Since Father Peter had become his tutor, the little Cupid knew no more wanton
songs. On the contrary, he had become so shy that no promises or threats would make him recite
the little rhyme of greeting that he used to say at home. The Lady Idalia comforted herself
with the thought that in the course of time there would yet be opportunity. There were many
children of his age among the guests of the castle, and as soon as he became acquainted with
them he would regain his former liveliness and courage. But he did not play with the other
children. When he met a boy of his own age, he would ask him, "Does your mother threaten to
kill you?" He would have absolutely nothing to do with the little girls. The year before, he
had played wildly with them and called each one his little wife. But now when one of them he
used to know offered him candy, he said, "Is there any poison in it?"

The Lady Idalia was the gayest of the gay. Her widow's veil had been long since cast aside,
and there was nothing to prevent her joining in the dance. Nobody was bored in her company.
She knew how to shape her conversation, and often made Thurzo himself laugh at her telling
hits. Evenings, when she entered the drawing room in magnificent attire, at once she had her
court of knights about her, among whom more than one whose hair was already turning gray, would
not have been sorry to join his widowed state to hers. But one group of guests always conspicuously
drew aside when the Lady Idalia appeared--these were the Mitosins. If Idalia took her place
at the table where Lord Grazian was sitting, he would whisper to his daughter, and she would
rise and go elsewhere; after a time, Lord Grazian would follow; soon the Pole; and then the
entire retinue. But Idalia never ceased trying to annoy them. Her high spirits never rose higher
than when she looked into the angry eyes of Lord Grazian, or when she coquettishly tormented
the aged suitor until his face became as red as a boiled crab.

One evening, the flower of the company turned to the dance, and the gypsies of Transylvania
were playing. Thurzo and his wife were still present, and took pleasure in the enjoyment of
their guests. The sound of revelry grew louder and louder. The men sang drinking songs, the
ladies chattered, and the monks in their corner sang an edifying hymn. The old Berezowski as
usual was on the outer edge of the circle of dancers; in the mazurka and the torch-dance, where
it was only necessary to stamp and shout, he had his part; but in the cushion dance, where
the kisses came, he failed as usual. And yet he could have devoured the beautiful Magdalene
with his eyes. Two pair of eyes were watching him; one from the table of the monks, where sat
a young priest, with downcast head supported on his hands; from beneath his cowl low drawn,
his eyes looked out eagerly into this world of pleasure. On his lap lay the head of a sleeping
child, on the table before him stood a large mug, from which he sipped now and then, more to
moisten his parched lips and throat than to cloud his mind. The other pair of eyes belonged
to the Lady Idalia. Even when she was whirling in the dance, she never let Berezowski out of
her sight; she followed the longing looks that he cast at Magdalene; she cast glances at Father
Peter, half-concealed in his corner; and Lord Grazian, who was ready to burst with rage, caught
the scornful lightning of her glance. She knew how to read the hearts of all four, and it was
her diabolical pleasure to drop into the hearts of all four her various poisons, one kind for
one, and another for another; here, frenzy, there deadly fear, and still again, rage and jealousy.
To one, contempt; to another, despair; to a third, shame and disgrace; and to a fourth, unquenchable,
diabolical fire.

Father Peter held his hand screening his eyes as he watched the handsome youths leading the
ladies of their heart to the dance. In many dances a kiss is the forfeit. Who has any suspicious
thoughts of the innocent kiss of a maiden? In those times, certainly, it was merely a joke
in all honor. He was not jealous of any one of the stately crowd of young knights, but the
blood boiled in his veins when he saw how the old rake, destined to be her bridegroom, watched
the slender figure floating past him, light as a gentle dream. Gentle though she was, yet she
knew how to evade his embraces. If he were only her partner, what a blow he would give that
eager old sinner! The young fop took no care whatever of his lady. And what miserable dancers
they are too! When he led the dance it was quite different--he would like to show them, if
it were not for the cowl.

Thus far he had been so fortunate in avoiding the throng of guests that he had not once met
Magdalene. Even if he had come directly in her path, she might not have recognized him, for
she rarely raised her eyes unless addressed.

The cushion dance came next. To a monotonous melody, the silken cushion passed from hand to
hand accompanied by an exchange of kisses. The cushion came at last into Idalia's hands. She
must have been awaiting it for some time for the young dancers were in the habit of gaining
a kiss from their heart's desire. She had to wait until it was the turn of a young man, still
free, who saw in her only a beautiful woman. Idalia paid the forfeit to the man at her feet;
and now it was the order of the dance that she should come into the middle of the circle and
dance alone while she passed in review, the dancers circling about her, until she made her
choice. Idalia laughed silently to herself; she cast a glance full of bewitching coquetry at
Berezowski, then swaying gracefully in the dance, she glided towards him and laid the cushion
at his feet, then the circle broke up, and the chosen man was left alone. Berezowski reddened
to the ears for joy; his eyes beamed, but they did not seek the beautiful face of the woman
who knelt before him, but the pallid face of his betrothed, who stood opposite; in anticipation
of the two kisses, he parted his whiskers carefully. The first kiss would only set him free,
it was the second which would seal a bond. Magdalene understood the glance, and her face crimsoned
to her very hair. Father Peter clenched the silver cup in his hand until the wine spilled on
the table. "Quid habes?" called out his brother priest at the table. But just as Berezowski
bent over to kiss Idalia, Grazian Likovay sprang between the two and rudely dragged the Pole
back. "Hold," he cried, "my future son-in-law shall not kiss this woman here." Idalia sprang
passionately to her feet and pressed her two hands to her head. "That you----! I am as much
of a lady as you are a gentleman."

"Without doubt," he replied, "you are a widow who has killed your husband, and now has taken
into your house your paramour, disguised as a monk. There he sits, holding the boy in his lap
to accustom him to his fatherhood. Or is it not true that the Jesuit there is your lover?"
and with that he sprang to the table of the monks and dragged Father Peter's cowl from his
head. "Now, then, who is this priest? Is it not Tihamer Csorbai? The lover of this beautiful
woman, and in a monk's cowl?"

The whole hall rang with loud laughter and outcries. Everybody recognized at once Tihamer Csorbai,
who had vanished and been generally reported dead. He was anything but dead. He had simply
entered the service of a beautiful woman. Father Peter stood in the midst of this crowd of
screaming guests; with his right hand he seized the bench on which he leaned. If rage overpowers
here is a death blow and a broken skull.

"Peter," rang out the powerful voice of Emerich the Bishop, "are you a monk or a knight?"

The youth's arm sank, he bowed his head. "I am a monk."

"Then withdraw. Woe unto those who excite strife!"

The rest of the monks considered that the command had been given. Unfastening the cords about
their waists, they began to scourge the despised guest from the hall, with scorn and curses
in a confusion of Greek and Latin. Father Peter took no thought except that the boy should
receive none of the blows; he wrapped him in his cowl and hurried away from the company. He
did not give himself time to see what happened later. He did not see how the pale face of Magdalene
tried to rush to him. Why? Perhaps to shield him, and perhaps to share his shame. But her father
seized her rudely and dragged her back to the arms of Berezowski,--"There is your place."

The beautiful fury, with teeth shining, advanced to Grazian; her red hair broke loose from
her cap, on which the jewelled pins shook with her tremor of rage. "Well, Grazian Likovay,
you shall pay me for this night! Once already have I aimed my dagger at your heart, and this
time be sure it shall be to your death!" And with that, she dashed out of the hall, pushing
everything aside that did not give way before her. As she passed by Thurzo and his wife, she
said defiantly. "My best thanks to my lord and his lady for their hospitality. You are not
one hair better than others." And she snapped her fingers contemptuously, and went on her way.
That same night, though late, she left the Castle of Bittse with her entire retinue. She travelled
by torch-light through the fierce winter night resounding with the cries of hungry wolves.

CHAPTER IX.

THE TEMPTATION.

The carriages, set on runners, were too heavy to go rapidly over the bad mountain roads. At
the first station, the caravan was overtaken by a sledge in pursuit; this did not stop at their
carriages, but passed them by. In the sledge sat Grazian, and the figure enveloped in furs
beside him was of course his daughter. Idalia looked out of the windows of her carriage: "Good
morning, lovely lady," called out Lord Grazian, in an excess of spirits, "I will go ahead as
quartermaster." His meaning was too clear. Idalia's travelling party was large, and could only
make four or five German miles a day, so that Grazian going in advance "as quartermaster" would
take for himself the accommodations in the large castles, which she was counting on for herself
and her retinue. An open hospitality still prevailed in that country, and travellers found
in every castle an open gate, good beds, and abundant table, with a cordial welcome from the
master of the house. But the accommodations in the villages were quite different. The servants
with their horses were provided with straw, and the family themselves were cramped into a low,
small room, with floor of earth, and lighted by a miserable candle, while their fare was coarse
bread and cheese. The little sledge going ahead closed every castle against Idalia and her
party, by spreading the news of this great scandal that had fallen upon the widow. On the way
back, Idalia could not stay with any of her acquaintances. She must stay outside, bag and baggage
in her carriage at the end of the village, or must pass her night in the forest, in the small
hut of some cheese dealer. Through the long winter night, this noble lady must lie on the straw,
wrapped in her travelling cloak, with the priest and the sleeping child. There they were like
two comrades who fall asleep quarrelling, and wake up quarrelling.

"In spite of your shame, you can sleep? They said to your face that as a priest you were a
fraud, as a knight you were a failure; neither priest nor knight. How they disgraced us in
the presence of so many people! Like a hunchback, they threw it in my face that you were my
lover, and you stood there like a pillar of salt and did not say that it was true or untrue.
I looked at you just to see what you would do; whether you would take counsel of your heart.
You looked about you; the dancers' swords were together in a corner; perhaps you would seize
me, cast your cowl from you and say, 'It is true, I am Tihamer Csorbai, and that woman there
is my wife, and he who dares come between us is a dead man.' You did not do so. On the contrary,
you gazed toward Heaven. I waited patiently to see if you would say, 'I am Father Peter, I
am a priest, and on my priestly oath I say she is free from my love,--if she were as free from
other sins, she might be counted among the saints.' But this too you did not do. You dropped
your head when the Bishop called out at you. And you submitted when the other monks struck
at you with their scourges. Oh, how detestable you were! If you really had been my lover, I
would have spit at you--in your face--yes, right in your face! Behind your back, they said
that you were not worthy of the name of priest, that you were no priest and never had been
one, and even if you had, they would have driven you out; you were a timid, cowardly soldier
who endured the scourge because he feared the sword. What will you do now? Will you creep behind
the cross that Christ Himself may drive you away? Will you let them beat this monk's cowl of
yours from town to town? Do your vows require you to bring your priesthood into disgrace, and
become a stone of offence at sight of which every one stands aside, even if they are in the
height of the dance; and at sight of whom the common people will flee from the church when
they see you at the altar?"

And then again:

"Can you sleep? Why not? It is an easy thing for a man to choke down disgrace. But I am a woman,
and I am lying on scorpions. In the presence of the noblest of the land you made me an object
of scorn to the whole world. There will be the report of it everywhere. The beggar-student
will sing my story from window to window. Peddlers will carry from village to village the story
of Father Peter and the Lady of Madocsany, and hawk it about for two denarii, pictures thrown
in. What a disgrace! You can hide yourself away under your cowl, that is a good place for you!
But where shall I hide myself? How can I endure the glance of people--that constant blow in
the face? Where shall I shut myself in, so that no human being can find me? Where shall I lose
myself, so that even I cannot find me? How shall I live or die on these thorns? What's that
to you--do you say? Ha ha! You say God has punished me, and you are satisfied. You drawl out
your prayers and fall asleep over them."

And then again:

"Are you awake? The cock is crowing, the day is dawning at last. The night is long for those
who cannot close their eyes. Why do you avoid talking with me? I despise you from the bottom
of my heart. If you were as great a jewel as you are a piece of clay, I would not reach out
my hand to take you up. Keep your love for the angels, or for Beelzebub, it is all one to me.
All I ask from you is my honor. If you are a man of honor, if you are a Christian, you must
know what your duty is. The offence was an open one, and it must be openly satisfied. Listen
to me, and then consider at your leisure. You and I will go over to the Protestant church.
We will go to Saros-Patak, or to Klausenburg, and there this can take place without delay.
The six weeks' instruction is superfluous. We will marry. I need nothing more except your name--the
name still honored. You surely do not want all the world to call me Mrs. Father Peter. You
are not Emerich Thurzo; his wife can be called Mrs. Bishop, night or day, but Mrs. Monk--no
one can say that by daylight. The price for my torn veil is the cap of Mrs. Tihamer Csorbai.
Beyond that, I do not care whether you love me, or do not love me, or whether you love another.
You can go away, when you cannot stand it any longer, or you can stay. It does not matter to
me what you answer; my decision is made; in defiance of the Bishop, I am going to be a Calvinist;
and I am going to marry a second time, if not you, then somebody else; but it is fitting that
I should recover my honor by the man by whom I lost it. But I will not beseech you any longer.
Do not be afraid that I shall crawl after you on my hands and knees. Two words can separate
us; if you say, 'No, No,' then I say, 'Nor I, either,' and you shall never enter my gate again.
To the threshold you may come, and I will count out to you your money, and then we will never
breathe the same air again."

Father Peter was terrified at these words. If Idalia drove him out of the castle, then he could
have no further meetings with Magdalene, for the only entrance to the subterranean passage
was from the castle; and in his brain important plans were forming; he must without fail speak
with Magdalene. She will come to the familiar place and expect him Sunday nights.

"What you have said is serious, and requires time for consideration. Give me two Sundays that
I may take counsel with the one who guides my fate."

Idalia though that Father Peter referred to the wise Counsellor of all, but he really meant
Magdalene.

"Very well, I will wait two Sundays, but then you are to give me a definite answer."

"Yes."

"An answer that swerves neither to right nor left."

"It shall be either wise or foolish. Whatever it is, it shall be that wholly."

"By your monk's vows?"

"I vow it on my word of honor as a knight."

At this the lady began to weep violently, and her sobs awakened the sleeping boy.

"Why do you weep, mother?" he asked in fear.

Idalia pressed him to her heart. "I am weeping for you, my poor little orphan, my only treasure,
my angel;" and with each tender name, she covered the child's cheek with kisses and tears while
she pressed him close to her throbbing heart.

"Does he love me already,--my father?" stammered the child, nestling closer to his mother.
"He loves you surely, for you kiss and embrace me again."

"We shall soon find out," Idalia whispered in his ear, and sighed deeply.

Soon the whispering ceased. Father Peter heard the deep breathing of mother and child, and
the loud beating of his own heart.

Outside the cock crowed for the third time. Was it not Peter's cock,--the first Peter?

CHAPTER X.

THE FEAST.

The next day, they reached Madocsany, and the second day after, the feast began. They had hardly
time to get rested. In truth, the feast began. The beautiful Lady of Madocsany did not close
her gates, as she had said she should do, on the way home: she did not try to find any thick
veil for her head to cover her face before the eyes of the world. The one expression, "On my
word as a knight", had kindled a new glow in her heart. What was the world to her now! Whoever
did not respect her, she did not respect. Contempt for contempt. The people of the castle did
not go abroad, but they broached their casks, spread their tables, and summoned the pipers;
and where there are spread tables, good wine, and fair women, there are guests in plenty. It
is true, it was a mere revel. Not one personage of note. Perhaps the same drunken set that
frequented the Mitosin Castle when there were feasts there; if so, no one could afford to reproach
his neighbor. At Mitosin they criticised the Lady of Madocsany, and at Madocsany the Lord of
Mitosin. They flattered both, and drank to the health of the one who owned the wine; and Father
Peter tarried with them in the interval. He no longer spent his nights in singing psalms, but
listened to the reckless conversation of this motley crowd. No one counted it against him that
he had been driven from the Castle at Bittse; here it is no disgrace, quite the contrary, to
be the beloved of a beautiful woman, the more glorious because it was unlawful; they clapped
him familiarly on the shoulder, and admitted him as their companion. And he had to accept this
quietly, and realize that there was something still more disgraceful than to be despised by
men of position, and that was to be honored by the worthless. So he spent every evening with
them; every evening, the side of the castle toward the Waag was lighted up, so that the household
at Mitosin could see what a great feast it was. In their sledging parties on the frozen Waag,
with sound of bells and bright torches, music, and crack of whip, they passed so near Mitosin
Castle that their voices floated up to the windows of Lord Grazian Likovay. What sport! Father
Peter took his part. "A lucky dog! he knew when to lay down his cowl," they said to his face.

In his sleeping room he was alone: for since their return from the Bittse wedding, the mother
had kept her child with her. She no longer urged him to study, and all his days were spent
in playing. As soon as Father Peter was alone in his room, he drank a pitcher of water, and
poured another over his head, to wash away all traces left on his face by the revellers' kisses.
Then he knelt down before his bed, and struggled with serious thoughts; his brow on his folded
hands. The old man was aroused in him, the defiant,--the man of hot, passionate love; the devil
of pride was struggling to break the fetters of his vow. Already he felt a loathing for the
cowl he wore. His soul was no longer oppressed by the weight of a great guilt. The insult of
the father had released him from the blood-money for the son.

Friday before this, a message had come from the Jesuit monastery to the lady of the castle,
to the effect that she should not serve her guests any meat that day, and that she should send
back Peter, who must be brought before an ecclesiastical court for his sins of conduct. The
widow sent back in reply a letter and a purse. In the letter she said: "I send you back, not
one, but a thousand Peters;" and in the purse were a thousand gold pieces stamped for the emperor
Peter. And the fathers made answer: "Also serve the fish."

Tihamer Csorbai had a horror of Father Peter. He could not find his faith again. Every dream
misled him: and there were dreams that his waking moments carried on,--fabulous treasures,
for which the waking man had only to stretch out his hand to hold what he had seen in the dreams
of sleep.

During these few days, Idalia was not recognizable. For days at a time, she would not leave
her sitting-room, but worked there with her maids like a simple peasant girl who prepares her
trousseau. She stayed at the banquet only long enough to eat and drink, and then vanish. This
great tumult was only to defy the world. She herself played the coy maiden, who waits for her
wooer, and whispers to her mother, "There is a suitor in the house." If by chance she met Father
Peter, she drew back before him.

Sunday morning, the company scattered to the four winds. "Six days shalt thou eat and drink,
but the seventh is holy--" so it stands written. When the bells for early mass rang, Idalia
dressed herself for church, and took her jewelled prayer-book in her hand. But first she summoned
Father Peter.

"I am going to church. Perhaps for the last time to the Roman church. Do not come to-day; leave
me alone. Meantime, take care of my only treasure." And then she covered Cupid's cheek with
kisses, and went to church.

"Do you see how fond my mother is of me?" said Cupid, throwing his arms about Father Peter's
neck. "Since we have come back she is so fond of me. That's because you're fond of her, I know,
for she whispered it in my ear. You're not Father Peter, but Tihamer. Nights, she says this
name over and over, and then she hugs and kisses me. Once I asked her who Tihamer was; at that
she turned red, and laughing loudly, covered my mouth; then she took me up on her lap and kissed
me. 'Wouldn't it be fine if you had to say Papa-Tihamer?' That means you. I know; you need
not try to make believe to me,--you're no monk; I knew that when you threw the ball at the
Fool's head. Do you know what my mother and her four maids are working at in her quarters?
Come, I'll show you, there's nobody there. They're all gone to church." And the child dragged
Father Peter into his mother's innermost room, where he had never been before. It was a marvel
of convenience and elegance. Cupid ran to a richly carved wardrobe, which he opened. In it
hung a rich travelling cloak trimmed with rosettes, and large buttons, lace, and gold embroidery.

"That's what they've been sewing and embroidering. And do you know who is to have this for
a present? Why, it's for Tihamer, and nobody else. They told me not to tell anybody, but I'll
just tell you. To-day is Sunday and to-night, when you go to bed, you'll find on your bed these
clothes, and riding boots, and a gold sword. Yes, you can try them all on and see if they fit."

Father Peter looked around him. He thought he caught sight of the tempting countenance of a
grinning demon behind him, and this urged him a step farther.

"Yes, and I know something more," Cupid went on. "From to-day on, every night down in the summer
house, there'll be two horses saddled, and the key is left in the rear gate. I heard her arrange
it all with the gate-keeper. For you know the monks down there keep watch over our gate day
and night, so that if Father Peter should once try to escape from here, they could pursue him
and catch him and throw him down into a deep dungeon, because he tried to run away. But if
you two slip out through the garden gate some night, on those good horses, with me tucked under
the cloak of one of you, then the monks may follow, but they will never overtake us."

Cupid's shafts all went home. All these preparations fitted so well into the framework of those
dreams which the monk pursued day and night, when they did not pursue him. The entire plan
of flight was completed; all one had to do was to adopt it. All obstacles were removed. The
monk who flees with a woman may be arrested in any village, bound and brought back; but when
a distinguished couple, on richly caparisoned horses, dash along, who would stop them?

"But you're not going to leave me, I'll tell you that beforehand," Cupid ran on. "There's a
little fox-skin ready for me too, and little boots bordered with rabbit; don't be afraid, Mamma
won't leave me behind. She takes me up on her lap now, just as she used to when I was a little
boy, and as we are in the picture. Would you like to see the picture? I'll show it to you.
It isn't everybody can see it at any time. It's shut up, but I know just how to press the springs,
so it will open." He was then in front of the carved work which divided as he pressed a spring.
When the picture came in sight, it lighted up the whole room, it was of such radiant beauty.
It was an Italian masterpiece--Venus and Cupid, the veritable goddess of the myth, with the
magic charms of beauty, in the act of bathing her child; her eyes were turned toward the spectator,
languishingly, roguishly, seductively; a companion piece to the Venus of Correggio. The monk
held his hands before his eyes,--he was dazzled.

"Shut it up," he ordered the boy.

"You're not afraid of it, are you, that it will hurt you?"

Father Peter hurried out of Idalia's room. At the door, he met the lady. His eyes betrayed
the struggle of his soul. Idalia was gracious, and acted as if she had noticed nothing. She
looked down.

"I have just come from church, Father. I have sinned, and wish to confess."

Father Peter looked at her in astonishment.

"Yes, I have sinned in the church, and now I have come for you to shrive me. I sinned at the
altar when I was praying. I prayed God: 'I thank Thee, Lord, that Thou hast not prevented me
from doing what I vowed to do, and that was to rob Thine altar of one whom my heart loves.
I thank Thee that Thou hast sent upon us shame and disgrace to drive him away from Thy holy
offices. I beg Thee, I pray Thee, grant me to hurry him away with me to destruction. Close
the gates of Heaven against us. Grant that I may make him a heretic and a denier of the saints.
Grant me to lead this saint out of the number of Thy believers; send me Thy evil angel to aid
me in this work of mine.' This was my prayer at the altar named in honor of Ignatius Loyola,
while they were singing the Dominus vobiscum. It was a sin, Father, I smite my breast and own
it was a sin, I kneel before you; do you absolve me?"

Father Peter took the hand of the penitent and raised her. His tongue could with difficulty
shape the words, "I absolve you."

"You do absolve me!" cried the woman, and pressed passionately the hand that he, unthinking,
had left in hers. "Then you have absolved me, and I bind you to it."

Then she hurried in triumph from the room, leaving him alone. From the inner room rang out
the laugh of Venus and Cupid. To be sure, the picture was still open, and probably it was at
that they laughed.

CHAPTER XI.

UNDERGROUND.

All day, it was evident from the features and actions of Father Peter that he was the prey
of unusual excitement. He would draw himself together with a shiver as often as he met the
triumphant glance of Idalia. The lady of the castle considered the victory certain. These confused
looks, this stammering, this awkward manner, she regarded as the dying convulsions of this
man's conscience. One blow more, and his pride, his vows, would be killed. At the evening meal,
the three were alone together. After the long visit of their guests, this was quite unusual;
but such an undisturbed family circle is usually very agreeable. Then husband and wife say
to each other, "Our guests were dear to us, but now that they are gone, they are still dearer."

After the meal was over, Idalia sent the household to rest, and had the child put to sleep
in her own room; the two were alone together. The lady took her harp and sang; she sang of
Heaven, of Paradise, and of love; but Father Peter's soul was not with her. The great clock
struck eleven. Father Peter seemed to be sitting on hot coals; he arose, and did not wait for
the conclusion of the song, although a touching one.

"Good-night."

"What,--going so soon?" asked Idalia, astounded.

"It will soon be morning."

"I thought that with the morrow, Sunday would be over, and you would answer my question."

"This is the first Sunday, and I asked for two."

The lady knit her brows.

"And do you need so much time to settle your accounts with those above?"

--"And with those below."

Father Peter had involuntarily spoken the truth. The consuming flame of suspicion blazed up
in the soul of this woman. In the presence of such love-charms, such fascination, such unconcealed
passion, it is impossible for a man to persist in marble insensibility unless he loves another.
Such deathlike calm is only possible to one who lives in another world, and is there blessed.
She forced her countenance into a gentle smile.

"Very well, I wish you a restful night. But I have one favor to ask,--that you take my little
boy back into your room; since he has been sleeping with me the bad dreams have returned. You
know better how to manage him; let him spend the night with you."

Father Peter's features betrayed the uneasiness that had taken possession of him. This demand
of the lady would only delay his meeting with Magdalene.

"Very well, I will take the child with me," he said with enforced calm.

"I will bring him to you myself at once," replied the lady. Idalia hurried to her room, and
awakened Cupid, who was asleep in a small bed beside hers. The child awoke in terror.

"What's the matter--are you going to kill me?"

"No, indeed, my darling, my angel, how could I!"

"But your face looks just as it did when you threatened to put the pin through my head."

"You've been dreaming. Come, my dear, to-day you are to sleep with your father, with Father Peter."

"Beside Tihamer? Call him here. He can come to me, more easily than I can go to him."

"You must mind me, if you don't wish to make me angry, and be cast off."

At that Cupid began to cry. When a child wakens out of his first sleep and sobs himself half
dead, sleep cannot be coaxed back in less than two hours; and this Idalia knew perfectly well.

"Listen to me, my little boy, you are a dear little boy, and I am your loving mother, and always
will be if you mind me. I will give you everything that you want. But if you don't do as I
say, I'll torment you, and let you go hungry, and dress you in rags. Now you are a clever little
boy, and you know perfectly well that Father Peter is not what he pretends to be. The question
is whether he deals with the good spirits, or with the bad. Only a good little boy like you
can find that out. See, I'll give you a little silver whistle that you can hide out of sight.
Now come into Father Peter's room. As soon as you have lain down, shut your eyes, and open
your mouth, and act as if you were already asleep; draw a deep breath and leave your mouth
open: meantime, notice carefully what Father Peter begins to do when he thinks you are asleep;
if he leaves the room, slipping out carefully, dressed in his cowl, and does not go through
the door where I should see him, or through the main entrance hall where the watchman would
stop him, but lets himself out of a window, down by a trellis where the vines grow, then as
soon as he is a little way off, blow this silver whistle; I will be near by, and hear you,
and then I will come and we will find out whether Father Peter works with good or bad spirits.
Have you understood me?"

"Yes," said the child, "and it shall be all right."

Curiosity was stronger in the child than fear. The thought that in keeping watch as his mother
bade him, he was to find out Father Peter's secrets, pleased Cupid very much.

"Carry me there," he said, "and don't worry. I'll find out about him."

When Idalia had given the child to Father Peter, and he had gone to his room, she concealed
herself behind the secret door of a niche in the corridor; such as were to be found in many
places in the thick castle walls. She had hardly waited half an hour when there was a shrill
whistle. She hurried to the boy's room. Cupid sat up in bed; on his features could be read
a mingled expression of astonishment, fear, and mischievous delight.

"You can come now," he said.

"Keep quiet," said his mother.

"He won't hear me, he's not there."

"Where is he, then?"

"He has gone underground,--to Hell."

"Tell me what you have seen."

"I did as you told me. While I was still saying my prayers, I began to yawn, and before we
reached the Amen I was lying on my back on the bed and snoring. Father Peter sank down on his
knees beside my bed and finished the prayer: 'Lead us not into temptation, but deliver us from
evil, Amen.' And with that he struck his hand on his breast, and sighed deeply several times.
At last he rose, his whole body shook as if he had swallowed down a bitter medicine; then he
struck his head against the wall, and there was such a noise that I thought his skull would
go to pieces; then he bent over me, listened to my breathing, and covered me carefully; then
he went to his own room and shut the door behind him. Before, he always left the door open
to hear me wake. I got up quietly and slipped to the door to watch what he was doing. When
he caught sight of the gaily embroidered clothes lying spread out on his bed, how his eyes
shone! He did not hesitate long,--quickly threw off his soutane and sandals, and put on the
cloak, the laced stockings, and the spurs--what a fine young man he was! You ought to have
seen him! And then when he had put on his sword, he drew it from the scabbard, and struck a
few stray blows into the air; oh, how bright his face was! Nobody would have said it was Father
Peter. I thought he was going to surprise you--that he was dressing himself to make you a visit;
but he did nothing of the kind; he brought out a dark lantern and lighted the candle in it,
and shut the cover down: then he put his monk's cowl over his knight's suit, and covered his
fur-trimmed cap with its hood. Then he was Father Peter again. What he did then, I could not
see, for he went to the window, but I heard the window creak, and I heard the vines rattle
against the wall. I went to my window and looked out; it was dark; Father Peter hid his lantern
under his cowl; but I could see this much, that he went toward the chapel of Saint Nepomeck,
that is in the corner of the garden near the wall; you know, it is that saint that every peasant
takes his hat off before, and we cannot play with our balls or our tops near him, for if we
should accidentally hit the saint, a great curse would come on us, because this saint preserves
us and all the villages from floods; he is a great saint, isn't he?"

"Who cares what kind of a saint he is! Tell me quickly what happened."

"Well, Father Peter went to the chapel, and threw his arms around Saint Nepomeck. 'See, see,'
I thought, 'The monk and the stone saint are kissing each other;' instead of that, he pushed
the statue of the saint to the ground and stood in its place. 'What now,' I thought, 'is Father
Peter going to be Nepomeck?' No, for he began to sink down into the ground and when he had
gone quite out of sight, the statue of Nepomeck got up by itself and took its old place. But
why do you look at me that way, are you going to kill me? How ugly you look all of a sudden.
Have I said anything bad?"

Idalia struck the child on the head. "Curses on you for what you have said." And even her voice
sounded different--like the rattling of chains. This speech, this look and the blow filled
the child with such terror that he crawled under the bed, and did not venture forth until he
saw that he was alone; then he was afraid of the loneliness, and began to howl and cry. "Mother,
mother, don't leave me alone; the souls of the departed come and wail, and try to carry me
off!" But nobody came. Suddenly, there appeared on the ceiling a ray of light as if somebody
were going through the garden with a lantern. Cupid crawled out from under the bed, and went
to the window to call out to this person in the garden. It was the figure of a woman in black,
her hair covered with a black veil, and with a dark lantern in her hand. By the light of this
lantern, the child could see that it was his mother. He saw her go directly to the chapel of
Saint Nepomeck. She too stepped up to the statue and threw her arms about its head, and the
statue dropped down quietly. Idalia now in her turn took the place of the statue and vanished
into the earth: the statue raised itself again.

"My mother too has gone down to Hell!" whispered the child, trembling, and sank down on his
knees in terror. "Father in Heaven do not be angry at me, I will never again leave off the
end of my prayer. 'Lead us not into temptation, but deliver us from evil, Amen.'"

Six steps led from the statue of Nepomeck down into the earth, the seventh step was movable
and turned on a pivot; if you stood on one end of this, the statue above raised itself, but
if you stood on the other end, it sank gently down, The builders of this subterranean passage
had chosen well the guardian of their secret. The place where stood the statue honored by all,
was protected from investigation; it was not possible that in this vicinity any one could be
found who would venture to overturn the sacred Nepomeck.

Lady Idalia had wrapped herself in a black cloak, and placed two pistols in her belt, and she
carefully concealed the dark lantern. The mole-hole of the Hussites yawned before her! A long,
dark, black defile, the more gruesome since it did not run straight but round about; the entire
tunnel so like a catacomb, was vaulted, hewn out of the hard quartz. The walls were already
as black as a scaffold, with the underground mould, which had so covered everything over that
objects lying on the ground could hardly be recognized. And on this mould-covered floor were
traces of steps,--fresh distinct traces of steps going and coming. One could see the imprint
of the five nails in the monk's sandals, evidently he had been there often before; the freshest
imprints, however, were of the spurred boots of a knight. Idalia followed these hastily. She
feared neither the underground darkness nor all the terrors of the invisible world, which in
their collected form bear the name of Night, great black mass--what she carried in her bosom
was still blacker than this darkness.

At a turn of the tunnel, she saw moving before her a light, at a distance of perhaps two hundred
feet; it was the gleam of a torch that he had evidently lighted here in the tunnel from his
lantern, to see his way better. Now when a man carries a torch in his hand, he is so blinded
by it that he does not see if some one comes behind him, especially if this somebody is wrapped
up in a black cloak, keeps in the dark, and conceals her dark lantern. Idalia could approach
so near the form striding on before her that she was in a position to recognize it. It was
Father Peter in his cowl, but with spurred boots. He went rapidly, but Idalia went more rapidly,
and almost overtook him.

The tunnel was long, with side passages opening into it, here and there. Feminine curiosity
compelled Idalia to cast a glance into each one of these caverns; here she could use the full
light of her lantern. One of these caverns might have been a wine-cellar; there were still
some casks there; from this she concluded that there must be a still wider exit; for through
the narrow opening by the statue of Nepomeck, one could not roll in such casks. A side passage
led into a large, roomy hall, where in one corner were to be seen the remains of a wooden staging;
what might have been here once?--a secret church for Hussite gatherings--or a court--or even
a place of execution? This higher ceiling was not covered over with mould, but with a glistening
dampness. In another corridor were heaped up rusty old weapons and armor. In a dome-shaped
cavern was a cask on end, of a bright green; when she lighted it up with her lantern, she saw
that the cask was entirely covered over with copperplate, and the green was from the verdigris;
out of the bunghole of the cask hung a long twisted cord. "Suppose I were to set fire to this
cord, what would result?" Idalia asked herself, and hurried on her way. Suddenly the figure
before her stood still. An oaken door with bands of iron closed the tunnel; here the tunnel
was walled with brick, and the threshold of the door was of hewn stone; the masculine figure
placed his torch in an iron ring on the wall and approached the door. This was made fast by
a lock with a secret combination, such as are used in closing cellars and underground doors;
such locks, even when they are rusty, can be opened by those who know their secret, but if
a man does not know this secret, he cannot open it in a lifetime. An iron pole, notched on
the inside, runs through the iron rings; on the outside of the rings are engraved all kinds
of letters; and the man who knows the word which is the key to the opening of the lock, will
turn these ten rings until this name appears. Then are found on the inside of the rings the
spaces in their order, and the notched pole can easily be drawn out, otherwise, one might turn
these rings until the day of judgment and not succeed with the lock. The secret of this lock
Father Peter had learned from the YAW DEREVOCSID EHT, and at every one of his underground visits
he had made fast the lock. While he was busy opening the lock Idalia looked around her. Near
by the door were two side passages opposite each other; she must conceal herself in one of
them to keep better watch; she chose the right one, because this lay in the shadow, while the
light of the torch shone into the other. It needed a self-control beyond woman's powers not
to utter a shriek as she threw the light of her lantern into the cavern she entered. It was
a square room, black with smoke, with wall of cement: it might once have been a sleeping room,
for there were beds and benches; and in all the resting places lay the forms of women, some
as if asleep, others still in convulsive attitudes crouching in the corners or leaning against
the walls; one sat at the table, with her head resting on her hands, and a Bible open before
her. She was reading while the others listened; one crouched under the table with a rosary
in her hand,--she was a Catholic--all were richly dressed and their gowns were covered with
lace and gold and silver embroideries; and yet their garments were decayed and those that wore
them were skeletons. The fair blond hair of the one reading seemed to have grown even after
death, for the floor all about her was quite covered. These were the women spoken of in the
mystic book, who here await the resurrection. Evidently they too had come here to explore the
secret of the strange lock when their provisions had failed them, and here they had miserably
perished. On the wall above each figure was cut her name, her religion, and the day of her
death. On the table lay a handsome enameled watch; by this they had reckoned how many days
this long night here below had endured. Nobody had inscribed the name of the last. It was a
maiden, with a maiden's wreath on her head,--perhaps she had been stolen from the altar.

Idalia stood looking at this abode of death. It seemed to her as if all the skulls, with their
eye sockets staring into eternal nothingness, grinned at her, as if they would say to her,
"We have waited for you. Now you have come; you too are one of us." Should she flee this place,
turn back home and throw herself in penitent prayer before the statue of the Virgin Mother
of God? Was it a dream that she saw here? And what she felt--the anguish, the revenge, the
terror--was all this only a dream? Do such feelings come in waking moments? The creaking of
the door recalled her consciousness. She looked out, and what she saw gave back all her kindling
rage.

Father Peter had laid aside his monk's cowl, and stood there in knightly costume, like a bridegroom
ready for the marriage altar. He was proud and handsome! The noble fearlessness of the man
was mirrored in his countenance. Ah, in this guise he belongs to another! He is hers only in
that hateful, hideous, coarse cowl, which she contemptuously pushed aside with her foot, as
he stepped through the door to close it behind him. So the jealous woman stamped her foot upon
this deceitful cover of hypocrisy. "You cloak of lies! You sacred mask! Pious costume of a
comedian! Chrysalis of a golden butterfly! The chrysalis is fixed to my tree, but the butterfly
flies to the flower of another. Shame, curse and ruin upon you, and upon him who has worn you
and shall wear you again!" And at each curse, she stamped again upon the cowl. Then she opened
carefully the door. She set the lantern on the floor. The distance before her now was not great,
for the straight corridor with brick walls extended about a hundred feet farther. By the light
of the lantern in the hand of the man before her, she could press forward with sure step--there
was no hindrance in her way.

At the end of the corridor, the knight stepped aside into a recess, and as he disappeared,
there shone forth a dull light on the opposite wall, which indicated that a door had been left
open, and that the wanderer had reached his goal. Quietly, she too slipped into this place;
the opening was the frame of Saint Anthony's picture; she looked through and saw the interior
of the chapel before her. Who was in the chapel? A knight and a maiden. What are they doing
in the chapel? They stand in close embrace. The listening woman had heard no outcry through
the stillness of the night. Evidently the maiden was not surprised; she had surely been waiting
for him. They might have agreed long ago to meet here at this hour, and that was why the monk
was in such haste. The kiss lasted long. Perhaps only a minute by the watch, but a thousand
years of torment to the jealous watcher. This endless time sufficed for her inflamed imagination
to paint the picture of the previous moments. Yes, without doubt, here waited for him this
maiden with mourning, despairing, broken heart. She waited for her former lover in monk's cowl,
who now laid aside the vows that forbade his heart to beat. She waited for the disgraced, scourged
monk; perhaps with the firm resolution, that they would together mourn all this sorrow which
is without relief here below, and then together abandon this world in which they have nothing
more to seek.

But when instead of the humble priest, she saw step forth from the frame the handsome knight
of old, she forgot at once that a church arched over her, and that a crypt was beneath her
feet: she forgot that she had come here to weep, to pray, to prepare herself for death,--and
threw herself into the arms of her fascinating lover.

All this the feverish fancy of the jealous watcher saw during the eternity of that kiss. And
when they separated, and she saw their expressions, they were those of the blessed. How is
it when one looks out from the gateway of Hell at the smile of the Blessed? She played with
the trigger of her pistol. How easily she could kill them both. But the cup of bitterness,
too, must be drained in swallows, as well as that of pleasure. Perhaps she can yet offer this
cup to another and say, "My Lord, I drink to your health!" Such a festivity should not pass
without the drinking of healths. But first she must watch through to the end what they were
doing, and hear through to the end what they were saying.

The knight looked about him, and then seized the maiden by the hand. "Come away from here,"
he said in a hurried whisper. "What I am going to say, the church and sacred picture must not
hear."

The maiden drew back. "For Heaven's sake, what can you have to say to me of that kind?"

The listener must leave her place quickly, for she must reach the oak door before the lovers
stepped through the recess of the altar picture into the passage, otherwise the light of the
torch shining in when they opened the door would betray that somebody had been watching for
them; and then must they kill her, and she did not wish to lose her life so cheaply. She had
closed the door before the maiden had allowed herself to be persuaded to follow her lover.
Idalia concealed herself again in the room of the beautiful women of old. She leaned against
one of the eternal sleepers, concealed her face in her veil, and hid the lantern under her
dark cloak. Soon she heard the creak of the door, gliding steps, and the clink of spurs.

"I tremble," said the maiden.

"What do you fear when I am with you?"

"Everything, and myself."

"I will defend you against the whole world."

"And against myself?"

"Do you not love me still?"

"Because I do love thee, I fear for myself."

"If you do love me, you will come with me."

"Whither?"

"Out into the world where I shall lead you."

"But you are a priest!"

"No longer. In the same way that I could put on the monk's cowl, I can lay it off again. That
blow on the cheek that I received is the expiation for the sword stroke that I gave."

"And your vows?"

"God will not count this against me, and as for man, I care not. I have read the Holy Scriptures
through to the end, and nowhere in them can be found that to love is a sin, and that to renounce
love is a sacrifice pleasing to God. This monstrous idea is an invention of man."

One of the many occupants of the room of the dead stirred at these words, for she heard her
own words--repeated to another. This was the fruit they bore!

"Listen, something moves in that room over there!"

"Don't look that way," said Tihamer.

"Who's there?"

"Noble ladies who have been asleep for two hundred years." Magdalene took his lantern, and
threw its light timidly into the dark space.

"What a frightful sight--skeletons in bridal attire!"

"Leave the place."

"One of them has her head covered with a veil."

"Perhaps it is a widow; under the veil is a death's skull."

"It seems to me as if it moved."

"Only your imagination."

"There's a light shines through her cloak."

"Decayed bones do sometimes shed a light."

The knight drew the maiden away from the sight. It is true that sometimes a light does shine
through decayed bones and a death skull does see and hear. The maiden in her terror burst into
tears. The youth encouraged her tenderly as he took her in his arms.

"Listen to me, my Heaven, my all of happiness; we have no other choice except this passage
under the earth, or that other to Heaven. For I cannot return to my monastery, and I will not
be condemned to the temptations of my tormenting devil."

("His tormenting devil! that's what I am," whispered the figure under the veil.)

"And what fate awaits you?" continued the knight; "--to be chained to a beast--to be sacrificed
more horribly than if you were offered up to a bloodthirsty idol!"

"No, no! Death rather!"

"My plan is for you to live and be happy."

"Did you not promise me to take me to a convent?"

"I thought then that I too should end my days in woe; but now I know that I am not yet a consecrated
priest. Bishop Thurzo told me so to my face, and reprimanded me for usurping the name of Father.
But even if I were a consecrated priest, I should still be free to change my fate. If I become
a Protestant, no vow binds me any longer. We will go to Transylvania, and adopt the Hungarian
faith; you know ever so many belong to this faith, just, pious, God-fearing people; a third
of the population of the country is Protestant. God will not punish us either for this."

("Ah, he learned that too from me; how well he remembers!")

"We will go to distant lands, where no one has ever heard our name. I will buy an estate where
we can live in comfort. I may become as rich as I please; look in this niche here; here are
treasures heaped up that we need only to take; all is mine. It was left me as an inheritance
by the one who hid it here in former days. I have the proof in writing. The treasure is doubly
mine; on the casks of gold and silver are inscribed my family arms; the Hussites of old stole
it from our castle Lietava. It is my inheritance, see there!" The knight threw the light of
his torch into this niche of the wall; the maiden's eyes were blinded by the sight of the treasure
heaped up there.

"I can take as much of it as my shoulders can carry off."

But the maiden said sadly, "I have no desire for the treasure. Who knows what curse is resting
there!"

"I too am willing to renounce it. Then we will go away poor, and we will journey to some poor
little village, whose church tower is surmounted with a weather-vane; you shall be the wife
of a poor Calvinist pastor, and take care of your own kitchen and vegetable garden. A thatched
roof shall be our shelter, and happiness shall dwell within."

("These words, too, did I put into his mouth.")

"How beautiful it would be," sighed the maiden, "if it were not a dream!"

"All can be real, if you will but say yes."

"Ah, do not tempt me! Already have I gone so far that I can no longer cast a stone at any sinful
woman. I am the most sinful of all. I have allowed myself to be overpersuaded--not by you so
much as by my own heart--at night, and Sunday night too--when all good people are asleep, to
steal out of the house, God's house, the church I chose for a meeting place with you! I have
drawn the veil over my face in the presence of men, and drawn it aside in the presence of the
saints. I am more sinful than the Lady of Madocsany, for I do what she only meditates. I come
here under the cloak of innocence."

"I swear to you, you are more holy than the saints there on the wall. If your soul condemns
you because you only half-love, quiet it by saying that you love me wholly."

"What would you have me do?"

"Follow me now,--this very moment. The way of escape is open. In the summer-house of Madocsany
Castle are two horses saddled, the key is in the rear gate; we can escape unnoticed. When the
morning dawns, and our escape is discovered, we shall be beyond the mountains."

("My own plan of flight.")

"Leave me, for Heaven's sake, tempt me not. A week to consider."

"No, no!"

"One day then at least, to consider this whole plan of yours. If I am to turn aside from God
and all the saints, let me at least finish weeping in their presence; let me tell them why
it is I love you more than Heaven."

("Ah, you too know that? And yet you did not learn it from me!")

"Let me go back for a day--just for one day--I must take leave of the memory of my mother,
must beg her gentle picture for forgiveness, must collect my few relics, set free my poor little
dove, and once more kiss the hand that has so often abased me, but that I still bless. I cannot
go with you until I have kissed my father's hand for the last time."

"Very well, it shall be so; but promise me that you will come again to-morrow."

"By my eternal happiness, I will come."

"And follow me out into the world?"

"God pardon me for what I am doing!"

"And so I let you go. God be with you."

And he kissed the maiden's brow.

"Accompany me with your light back into the church; now that I am sinful, I am afraid of the
darkness of the church."

Both went back through the door into the passage way, and the door closed behind them. Idalia
came out of her hiding-place--the bones of the widow----! She shook the mould off her cloak.
She came near letting loose the hot lava of her passion. In the ring of the closed door hung
the ring of the secret lock: the name that served as key was Hieronymus. She had only to put
the iron pole across the door, shake up the rings, and then pound with her fist on the heavy
door, and cry,--"I wish you a pleasant journey, you turtle-doves! You can go out past the two
bears, and that third one, your father. I send kind greetings to all three." But she knew how
to control herself; it should not be done this way. To-morrow is yet to come, and that shall
be the dies iræ. She had nothing more to say. She caught up her lantern, and ran hastily back,
so hastily that she slipped several times on the damp ground. When she had run about a thousand
feet, she looked back. She did not see the torch-light coming near her. Naturally they must
take leave of each other, and that required time.

It was still the dead of night when she reached the end of the passage-way. Saint Nepomeck
stood aside for her, and then took his place again. Idalia hurried up the secret stairway to
Father Peter's room.

The child in his fear had fallen asleep on the bearskin in front of the bed. The mother laid
him on the bed and covered him over, and he did not awaken. Then she looked out of the window
to wait until the saint's statue came down again. It was a good half hour before the figure
of Father Peter appeared from underground. So then their parting must have lasted half an hour.
He had escaped through the window; through the window he must come back. She waited until he
began to climb up the trellis-work; then wrapped her sleeping child in her cloak and carried
him to her own room. Father Peter should not speak with him again.

CHAPTER XII.

THE ICE-BLOCKED FLOOD.

This night was not for sleep. Idalia went from room to room with the death-wound at her heart.
She did not herself know what she was looking for. She stopped before her mirror and gazed
at herself for some time. Her deep sorrow, her restless passion, had made her face still more
beautiful. The tears shining in her eyes lent a peculiar charm to her features. "You lie. I
am not beautiful! I am a demon--the demon that pursues him!" The mirror then said to her, "You
are hideous." Now she knew what she must do. She sat down to write a letter.

"To his Lordship, Grazian Likovay.

Honored Lord: If you would know whose lover Father Peter really is, keep watch to-night and
when you hear the bells ring at midnight,--those bells that you think are rung by spirits,
since they have no cord--then, instead of covering up your head in fear, arise and go with
your servants into the ghost-haunted chapel; there you shall learn which one of us has cause
to go begging for his lost honor. What I have said, I have said--to-night after midnight. If
you take warning, well and good; if not, also good. It matters not to me whether you accept
it, or whether you do not. You will repent if you listen to me: you will repent still more
if you do not.

I remain, your respectful servant,

The widow of Franz Karponay."

She sealed the letter with her own crest. Meantime, it had been gradually growing light. She
sent for the Fool.

"Hirsko," she said, "Can one cross the Waag?"

"Hare and hounds can; but man could hardly do it."

"Why not?"

"Because during the night, the ice began to move, and if it has not caught fast on the island,
it must be going right merrily."

"Would you dare cross over with this letter?"

"If I had two heads, and could lose one there and leave the other here, I do not say but that
I would undertake it."

"Listen, Hirsko; I'll give you a new suit from head to foot, if you'll take this letter through.
If you return, you shall have wine enough for a lifetime."

"And if I go to the bottom, I shall have water enough for a lifetime."

"Just try it. It's not so very dangerous. See this purse, it's full of money; that too is yours,
if you succeed."

The Fool shook his big head. He was not ready to accept her proposition that he should "just
try it, for he could float like a pumpkin."

"Now listen, Hirsko; I know that you have always been in love with me. If you carry this letter
over and come back, I'll be your wife."

At this the Fool gave a bound, and then began tugging with both hands at his shoe strings.

"Tira li! You're not joking, just give me a kiss."

Idalia offered her lips to the monster. He hurried out of the room with the letter, down to
the Waag, striding along with a six-foot pole. Idalia stationed herself at the balcony window
and watched her messenger. The ice had already begun to move on the Waag; single fields of
it floated down the centre of the stream, and giant cakes were heaped one above another; only
a Fool would undertake such a task. The messenger's figure disappeared at times behind the
barricades and then reappeared: now and then, he broke in, and worked his way out again with
his pole. After an hour's struggle in the very face of Providence, he reached the other shore.

"He's well over," said Idalia, and left the window. For Hirsko it was hardly well; for Lord
Grazian, when he had read the letter, in his first outburst of anger, had him bound and scourged
to the full value of a woman's kiss. But the arrow had not missed its mark; it clung fast by
the barb to his heart.--

Now Idalia can go to breakfast. Father Peter was already there; his face showed no change.

"I did not find the boy in his bed this morning," he said good-naturedly.

"No, naturally not," she said, with a suppressed laugh. "After you had laid him down, put him
to sleep, and closed the door between the two rooms, he awoke, and becoming frightened to find
himself alone, ran to me, and he is asleep still."

Father Peter made an effort to appear calm. The lady continued pertly: "Shall I guess why you
closed the door between the two rooms? You found in your room a new suit of clothes, and did
not wish the child to see you try them on."

There was a whirring sound in Father Peter's head. It was dangerous to say that he had not
done so, for perhaps the lady would send for the garments and see that there were traces of
mud on the boots. He had to answer the question with a smile. "Yes, you are right."

"Well, how do they fit?"

"That's for another to say."

"And when shall she say it?"

"When I answer your late questions."

"And when shall I get that answer?"

"To-morrow."

The lady clapped her hands with a laugh. "Ha, ha! To-morrow. So you won't keep me waiting a
week. Not until next Sunday? To-morrow I shall learn whether you are Father Peter or Tihamer
Csorbai! To-morrow, even to-morrow!"

And with that she jumped up and danced the cushion dance, singing enchantingly as she danced.
Then she threw the cap from her head at the feet of the man, and knelt on her cap, as on a cushion.

If Tihamer Csorbai had entered into the joke and set free with a kiss the woman on her knees
before him, then would she have plunged a poisoned dagger into his heart, and the other woman,
at least, would have been saved. But nothing of the kind entered into the knight's thoughts.
The woman rose without a kiss, and danced and danced, until she danced herself out of the room.
No expression on her face betrayed what was raging in her soul. She went to her room to waken
her boy. She was tenderness itself. Young Cupid complained of the frightful dreams he had had
in the night. He saw first Father Peter and then his mother push Saint Nepomeck aside and follow
each other down to hell.

"You little goose, you ate too much plum-cake last evening."

"But I did not dream this, I saw it with my own eyes. I was in Father Peter's room."

"Oh, you darling, you were with me all night long. I could not cover you up often enough, you
kicked about so."

"Where's my little silver whistle?"

"Your little silver whistle! Dear soul, you left that in the land of dreams."

"I am still cold. I am all of a tremble."

"You are feverish, sweetheart; stay in bed to-day, and I'll bring your playthings to you, and
make you a nice tea that will make you well again."

CHAPTER XIII.

IN THE GHOST'S HOUR.

Grazian Likovay read the letter through two and three times, and could not understand it. There
is nothing more difficult than putting an idea into an empty head. Then he had to call Master
Mathias to his help.

"See this letter! A fool wrote it, a fool brought it, and only a fool can understand it."

"It's plain enough to me."

"How so? How so?"

"You've not forgotten, have you, the disgrace you brought on Father Peter at the Bittse wedding-feast?
I was there myself. I saw it, and I remember the face you tore the cowl from; it was exactly
Tihamer Csorbai's face."

"I hit him a blow that told, didn't I?"

"Yes, you did; but a wound of that kind is not forgotten, especially when it falls on a wound
that is not yet scarred over. Now you know Tihamer Csorbai is the rejected suitor of your daughter
Magdalene, and that we live so near each other that the two castles stare each other in the eye."

"Then you think the letter is about Magdalene?"

"I am sure there is no other woman in the household. But if all these beautiful women, young
and old, hanging in these frames, were living, Tihamer would still give his heart to Magdalene
alone. For if a handsome woman were all he asked, he would have had it right there in Madocsany,
and he need not have made any pilgrimages for her."

"But just look out of the window. Do you see how the ice is crashing out of the river? When
the fool came over, the ice had just begun to move; but now heavy blocks of it are rolling
along. See, the huts along the bank have been swept away, and the ice has cut off thick tree
trunks like a razor. Do you think a human being could cross the river to-night?"

"Gracious Lord, I have read in the Bible that Peter trod the water with bare feet, and that
was a sea. Whatever is in the Bible, as a good Lutheran, I must believe."

"But that was in old times, and it was Saint Peter; he could do anything. To-day is To-day."

"All I know, gracious Lord, is that a priest can do a good deal, a lover can do more, and when
you get both in one, he can do everything."

"We must talk it over with Berezowski." The old suitor, since his return from the wedding feast
at Bittse, had been staying at Mitosin Castle. It was understood that he should wed the beautiful
Magdalene, and take her to his house in Galicia. The license was all ready. The only reason
that the marriage had not yet taken place was that father-in-law and son-in-law kept the bottle
going from hand to hand until morning, and then the lover had to be dragged off to bed by his
hands and feet, and neither a fire alarm nor a murderer's stroke could have roused him from
his bed. Afternoons, this bigot Lord would not enter into any churchly ceremony, and so the
wedding was put off from day to day; and the wedding feast was secretly consumed by the guests
in advance.

To-day too they shook and pulled the bridegroom elect; they roared in his ear; but to all their
attempts, his only reply was a movement of the hand to brush away a fly, or of the foot, as
aimed at a dog; and then he slept on steadily.

"Wait," said Lord Grazian, "I have an idea. I will question the girl." And he went in search
of his daughter. He found Magdalene at an open window.

"Well, my child, you must have hot blood to open the window in such ice-cold weather as this."

"I am giving my doves their freedom. They will have nobody to feed them, if I go away to-day
or to-morrow."

"So you know that you are to be married to-day or to-morrow."

"Yes, I know, dear father."

"And you have stopped tearing your hair out and bursting into tears, and crying out, 'I'd rather
die a hundred times than marry him!'"

"I will not weep again in your presence, my father."

"Your nature is entirely changed. Has this been since the Bittse wedding feast? When I tore
the cowl from the head of your former lover, and you learned that he was now the lover of a
beautiful woman--that changed you, did it?"

"That was a frightful moment, father."

"And you do not love the priest?"

"I swear to you, dear father, that I do not love the priest."

"That would be dreadful. I don't know what I should do with you if you dared even to dream
of that. But what's this little bag for?"

"I am going to put some little relics in it, that I have kept of my poor mother's; the small
medallion with her miniature, a lock of her hair, woven into a flower, and a little silver
cross that I used to wear when I was a child. All are to go with me when I am far, far from here."

"You have changed entirely and become a good daughter. I shall live to give you my blessing."

"Oh, do give me your blessing, if only one word," entreated the girl, as she knelt before her
father. "Just let me kiss your hand once, and then lay it on my head."

Grazian let the girl draw his hand to her lips.

"Only say that you forgive me all the sorrow I have caused you against my will."

Her entreaty deceived Grazian's sleepy mind.

"That's good, I am not angry with you," he growled out, and with his hand stroked the head
of his daughter, kneeling before him; it was meant for something like a blessing. "But now
you must consider yourself ready, for the priest is here. To-night we must go to bed early,
and get up betimes to-morrow, for to-morrow shall be the wedding."

Then Lord Grazian went back to the room where he had left Master Mathias.

"You're on the wrong track, young man," he said; "I have just shrived the girl. She really
is entirely changed. She does not cry at all when I talk about her wedding, and I told her
that to-morrow was to be the day. She said, 'Very well,' and kissed my hand very prettily."

"Then that's the very best proof that she has something else in mind. She has said good-bye
because she intends to go away to-night with her lover before the wedding to-morrow. That is
why she consented so readily. I know women better than that."

"All the devils of Hell! Suppose that should be so! I will eat fire and drink poison if that's
true. Wake that Pole up, even if he is half-dead. One can't manage a thing of this kind alone.
Rouse the household."

"We will do just the opposite. If we give the alarm, they too will learn it and be on their
guard. Instead of that, let everybody drink until he cannot waken himself, and we will drug
the bears. There is some secret connection with the church--those bells at midnight, and the
ghost in the lighted church that your lordship himself has seen and heard,--all that does not
happen without the help of man. There is something underneath it all. Just leave the whole
matter to me, my Lord; by evening, I will map out such a campaign as to catch Beelzebub himself
if he is in the business."

Until evening there were whispered consultations throughout Mitosin Castle, but the women were
kept out of the secret. While Magdalene was at supper, the church was filled with Berezowski's
armed servants. The bridegroom, in a violent passion, insisted that he would be present himself.
As twilight came on, Berezowski slipped into the chapel, and concealed himself there with his
armed followers in the crypt. They had a cask of beer and a checker board to make the time
pass more rapidly. When it was hardly dark, Grazian gave orders for all to go to their night's
rest, for the next morning they must rub their eyes open early, for there was to be a wedding
in the house. The whole night through, not a soul must stir, and cellars and store-houses were
to be kept locked. At evening, the students sang the Maiden's song before the windows of the
bride's room, and then all the lights in the castle went out. There was as deep a quiet as
if no one were awake; only the cracking of the ice on the Waag sounded on the still night.

When the great castle clock struck midnight, Magdalene arose, put on her gown, fastened to
her girdle the little bag with its relics, and slipped noiselessly down the stairway to the
little gate in the rear that led to the bear den. She looked about her, but the bears were
not to be seen. After Candlemas, the bears begin their winter sleep, when the weather outside
is raw. The bears did not cross her path. Fearlessly she went to the church-door. From there
she breathed one last farewell to the castle of her fathers, that she was to leave forever,
and then entered the door. As before, the moonlight fell upon the church, and lighted up the
pierced saints, the nameless gravestones, and the altar picture in its carved frame. Now had
she reason to fear, for she had learned what those saints suffered from the darts that pierced
them. She had learned who slept under nameless gravestones, and the names of those terrible
forms that frightened and misled the hermit in the picture.

If her deliverer, if her lover, would only come sooner! The owls in the tower hooted more than
ever. Suddenly the bell rang and the altar picture shone brightly. Her lover was near. What
a wonderful altar picture that was that appeared in the place of Saint Anthony,--a Saint Ladislaus!
This was a genuine Hungarian saint, not one tortured to death by heathen, but one who struck
the heathen down! Now he came down from the altar frame to comfort the kneeling maiden.

"It is well that you hurried: to-morrow they are to take me away to Poland. You might never
more have seen me."

"Let us hasten, my love."

"Just wait a moment until I offer one last prayer at my brother's grave."

"Let me add mine."

And so the two went and knelt before the monument of the murdered brother, and hand in hand
offered their prayer.

"Amen," and "Amen." The girl kissed the bust carved in stone. "You forgive me, do you not,
dear brother?" she said.

"How could I help forgiving you, my dear sister?" rang out a hoarse voice from the depths,
and with that the crypt door opened, and out plunged Berezowski's armed force, and at their
head the wronged bridegroom with drawn sword. In the hand of Tihamer Csorbai too, the sword
suddenly flashed.

"Well, if you are no priest, I'll kill you on the spot," roared Berezowski, raising his weapon
for a heavy stroke; but Tihamer advanced and struck him under the shoulder, so that his arm
dropped. Berezowski himself fell back on the floor without seeing the end of the struggle.

"Back underground again, you cowards!" shouted Tihamer, dealing deadly blows at his assailants,
who withdrew before his terrible anger toward the crypt door. Just then, the church door opened
and in rushed Grazian's household of servants with torches and weapons; he himself carried
only his crutch in his hand.

"Here monk," he cried, "stand, parson, you Father Peter, tempter! You shall be beaten down
with a stick." And he rushed blindly toward him with his crutch raised. Magdalene threw herself
between the two.

"By all the saints! Father! Tihamer! Do not harm each other, trample rather on me!"

"Out of the way!" growled her father, and with his foot he pushed aside the maiden kneeling
before him. Luckily for him, one of his own company had thrown himself in the way, and received
on his head the heavy sabre cut that Tihamer had intended for the father. Two more servants
fell fatally wounded under the knight's grim strokes, and then his sword broke off at the hilt.
But this miserable pack of menials did not conquer him: it was true he had no sword, but on
the altar were great candelabra in copper. He seized one of those, and struck such blows right
and left that soon his way was free before him. Whoever laid hold of him was glad to let him
go again. With one leap he was on the altar: already was he in the altar frame, and behind
him lay the secret passage; he had only to open the oaken door and push the bolt, and he was
saved. But as he cast a glance from the altar down to the church below, bright with the red
light of the torches, he saw a sight that held him riveted fast to the spot: he saw Grazian
Likovay seize Magdalene's long streaming hair, and drag the helpless maiden to the church door.

This robbed him wholly of his senses; rage stifled every human thought in his soul. He was
now nothing but a wild beast--a lion robbed of his lioness; roaring with anger, he sprang with
one bound from the altar to the floor; each hand was armed with the heavy candelabra, and with
these as clubs he threw himself on the pack of servants, crushing everything before him in
the way of human bones. Like Hercules in his Nessus-shirt, he raged through the midst of the
servants and forced his way to the church door where Grazian was dragging his daughter by the
hair. He overtook the old man, and dealt a heavy blow at his head, but Grazian caught it with
his hand. Somebody from behind threw a cloak over Tihamer's head, another made a plunge at
his feet, and soon he was overpowered, thrown down, and bound.

CHAPTER XIV.

THE BEAUTIFUL WOMAN'S REVENGE.

The ice on the Waag rolled more and more mightily! Not within the memory of the oldest inhabitant
had it ever been so dangerous before. The icy flood crowded through the brook of Madocsany
to the mill-dam, easily broken through, and then it might have found its way to the castle wall.

"See," said little Cupid to his mother, "Why did you push Saint Nepomeck out of his place,
you and Father Peter? Now Saint Nepomeck is paying you for it."

"Oh, you've been dreaming."

"No, I saw it! I am still trembling at it."

"If you are trembling, then you have fever. Go back to bed, and don't look out of the window.
I'll send Hirsko to tell you a story."

(Yes, Hirsko, who knows where he is now?)

"No, send me Father Peter instead, he'll tell me the truth."

"Very well then, Father Peter."

Since dawn, Idalia had been fully ten times to Father Peter's sitting-room to see if he was
at home; but neither he nor his handsome cloak was to be seen. Through the opened window whistled
the wind. The lady went out on to her glass-covered balcony and looked in astonishment at the
great ice sea which the Waag had changed the valley into, for the time; a sea through the centre
of which flowed a swift current, while its borders were of ice barricades, rising mountain
high. The four tin-roofed towers of Mitosin Castle were resplendent in the morning sunshine.
Suddenly it seemed to her that a black spot detached itself from the opposite bank and made
its way through the ice stream. Soon she could see through the glass that it was a boat with
five men. What might this boat be bringing? There need be no fear of five men. Here were five
and twenty servants, hunters and haiduks already, and all armed with guns and halberds. The
men in the boat were making a truly perilous attempt; the masses of ice threatened every moment
to sink the boat. Often they jumped out to pull it through the ice blocks. At one moment a
giant slab of ice rose and then suddenly plunged down, almost destroying them all, like so
many water rats. A man must have a deeply fixed purpose to go to Madocsany such a day. Who
could it be? There were four in the crew, it was apparent from a distance. The fifth was so
wrapped in his bearskin that he was not recognizable. At last they came in safety to the mill-dam.
Then the crew sprang out of their boat, dragged it up on the ice, fastened it to a willow;
and now the fifth person, all wrapped in his bearskin, rose and climbed up on the bank. Then
Idalia recognized him at a glance--he limped. It was the lord of the neighboring estate. Grazian
Likovay was approaching,--her foe in whose heart she had now turned her knife for the second
time. But he comes alone--what has he in mind? Was the old bear looking up his former foe,
to throttle her, like a wild-cat? The bear would find by experience that the wild cat had claws
she knew how to use.

The Lady Idalia wore a long Russian cloak, bordered with fur, and in the broad sleeves was
carefully concealed a poisoned dagger, which must by a single scratch inevitably send down
to death the strongest man.

At the same time, the haiduks entered the next room as a reserve force, and the steward and
manager stood ready to strike down the first man who tried to injure their lady. Unnecessary
prudence. Grazian Likovay had come without weapons; he could not have used any, had he had
it; for his right arm was in a sling, and his hand was bandaged. Father Peter's last blow with
the candelabra had been aimed at his head, but Likovay caught it with his hand, and so maimed
it. The left hand was occupied with the crutch and his cap, now removed.

With downcast head and humble soul, dragging the lame foot, Grazian came into the presence
of the Lady, and addressed her in a voice like that of a beggar at the door.

"Humbled to the dust, I come, my Lady, to you, a poor, dead, buried old man. I acknowledge
that I have been defeated, maimed, destroyed. I also recognize that I deserved it. I was the
guilty one. I was the fool. When disgrace reached to the very tower of my own house, I sought
it in your cellar. I accused you of a shame that was my daily bread. You were right. May this
give you comfort."

"What have you done? I hope that you have not been killing or murdering."

"Oh, don't be frightened. I know how sensitive your heart is. You would have mourned if the
wild, foolish Grazian Likovay, in consequence of a good word from you, in consequence of a
truly friendly warning worthy of a kinsman and a neighbor, had throttled one after the other,
both man and maiden. No, he has not done so; on the contrary, it is we who have been mowed down."

"By Father Peter?"

"Yes, by Father Peter, but in the form of Tihamer Csorbai. He is a valiant knight. First, he
all but killed my intended son-in-law, the good Berezowski, and then he crippled two of my
brave haiduks, and when his sword broke, seized the church candlesticks and dealt us blows.
I received one, I beg you to look at it." And with that he took the bloody bandage off his hand.

Idalia was horrified; she wished to help Grazian bind it up again, but he would not allow it.

"Don't trouble yourself, gracious Lady, with my teeth and my left hand I can bind it up somehow."

"And what became of Father Peter?" urged the lady.

"He finally succumbed; 'many geese are the death of even a boar!'"

"Do you mean that he was killed?"

"No, not killed. I told you already that I did not kill anybody. I am a gentle, pious man.
Neither I, nor anybody else at my command, will kill Father Peter."

"Then what will become of him?"

"I'll take care of that; but not a hair of his head shall be touched; I promise you that in
advance. I swear to you, even, that he shall outlive me."

"What is to be done with your daughter?"

"Oh, you need have no concern on her account, gracious Lady, I have not killed her either.
Neither have I shut her up in a dungeon, nor even once scourged her. I have become a good,
inoffensive man."

"What have you done, then? Have you forgiven her?"

"I have not only released her from punishment, but I have even let her go. I let her go, just
as I once promised her, if she should ever again presume to meet Tihamer Csorbai."

"You have not lost your senses, I hope."

"Must you know at once what I promised her? Very well, I promised her that I would set her
in a boat, and would push her, boat and all, into the Waag, and then she might, in God's name,
float whichever way the water carried her. Just at present, the Waag offers a fine opportunity
for such a boat-ride."

"Is it possible that you have really done this?"

"It is, indeed. If you had listened in the stilly night, a little after midnight, you might
have heard for a long time her cries for help, in the pauses of the crashing of the ice floes.
I could not bear them, because the wind was blowing in the opposite direction, and the ice
splitting sounded too loud."

"You are a monster!"

"Oh, no indeed! I am a humble crawling worm of the dust. I am a halting cripple. I am an uprooted,
decayed willow. But why do I complain to you of my sorrow? I did not come through the icy flood
to find Hell itself, to bewail my misery to you here in Madocsany Castle. I will not cause
you one unpleasant hour in this way. I come, however, on a very important matter, which I wish
to settle to-day between us. I wish to sell you the Mitosin estate."

"What's that?"

"The entire Mitosin estate. Castle and everything, including all the stock. I wish to sell
it to you for all time. Your worthy husband once wanted to buy it of me, when I was in need
of money, because of my son's debts. Your husband offered me then sixty thousand dollars and
thirty thousand ducats, but I did not consent. I preferred to sell the beautiful fertile property
of Alfald, my wife's dowry, but the Mitosin Castle of my ancestors I would not set a price
on for my neighbor; my pride would not allow it. Now I have no more pride, I am humbled to
the dust. The disgrace which has fallen upon my house has been seen by hundreds, has been talked
of by hundreds; it is impossible for me to stay longer in this vicinity. I must go forth into
a country where nobody understands our language,--to Wallachia or Little Russia. That is why
I offer you my estate. If you will pay the sum your husband offered, I shall accept with joyful
thanks. If you wish to pay less, I shall not protest against it. I wish to flee from my possessions,
and therefore I will sell them at any price, just as a dying man tries to sell his mattress
to get money to buy his coffin."

Idalia raised her head proudly. The ornaments on her cap glittered; thus does the demon of
satisfied revenge exalt his horns; the Bittse day was avenged, richly avenged with interest,
and interest on interest. Her torn veil had been paid for with a whole shroud. They had wished
to drive her hence, and now it was they who must flee. Now would she exult in her triumph.

"Well, noble Grazian Likovay, if you wish to sell your Mitosin estate forever, I will pay you
the price for it that my poor departed husband offered. The gold is at hand; I am not accustomed
to put it out at interest; you can have it when you please."

"Then, at once; for to-morrow at this time no living soul shall speak with me in the owl-nest
of Mitosin. So then, at once,--that is what brought me here. I have ready with me the contract
that your husband sent me, in two copies. We have only to fill in the blanks left for the names
and amounts, sign the contract, seal it, and have it witnessed. Have you any men here who understand
writing?"

"Yes."

Idalia did not need to go far for them. In the adjoining room, her steward and manager were
listening; both learned men, who understood Latin too; she could call them. Now she was ready
to offer her guest an arm-chair, and even have a cushion put under his gouty feet. The two
learned men took up the two copies of the sale and purchase and compared the contents. Then
they wrote the names and the amounts of the dollars and ducats. Both parties added their names
with the same pen, and imprinted the red seal.

"Perhaps I ought to have sealed mine in black," muttered Grazian through his teeth, "But who
can tell?"

Then both witnesses signed and sealed the document: each one took his copy, and now it was
time to pay the money. Idalia had gold and silver brought and placed on the great oaken table.
All had been packed in casks, large and small, arranged to open at the top, and on each cask
was written the amount within.

"Do you require us to count the money, or weigh it out?" asked the Lady of Madocsany.

"We will neither count it, nor weigh it; whoever put it in knew how to count it, I am sure.
And now I think everything is in order. Why should any one wish to deceive me, who is neither
my friend nor my relative. There, boys, is a little drink-money for your trouble. And now close
up the casks."

And with that he put his left hand into a cask, not one of silver, but of gold, and tossed
a handful of it into the witnesses' caps, as they lay on the floor.

"The trade is done, gracious Lady. Now I give you the key of my castle. I shall spend the night
at my agent's. By to-morrow morning, the Waag will be firm; my lame foot feels in advance that
it is going to be very cold. You and your people can drive across in sledges, enter my towered
hen-roost, and give your own invitations to a house-warming. Store-house and cellar are full.
Now I ask one favor of you. Be so kind as to have your servants carry these casks to my boat
for me. I will go ahead and wait for them there."

"But surely you will seal the casks with your own signet."

"What's the use of such care? These people will not deceive me, they are not relatives of mine.
They are entire strangers, who have never received a favor from me. I can trust them."

"At your own risk."

"Now then, gracious Lady, let us shake hands for the last time. I regret that I cannot offer
you my right hand. Now we can part in peace; neither one of us owes the other anything more
in this world." And he offered Idalia his left hand. "What account we may have to settle with
each other in the world below, Beelzebub will tell us, I suppose." With that he pushed her
hand aside violently, took his crutch in his left hand, clapped his cap on his bald head, and
without a word, limped out of the room and did not look around until he had reached his boat.

Twelve haiduks carried the casks of money to his boat; were they all there or not? Nobody counted.
Anything more?

Then Likovay seated himself in the stern of his boat, and said to his boatmen, "Push off."

The boat moved still more slowly than before; but what wonder, when it was heavier by the hundredweight
of silver and gold?

CHAPTER XV.

THE GRAVE OF GOLD.

Grazian Likovay's gouty leg really was a good weather-prophet; they had hardly reached the
middle of the Waag when the ice crowded around them, and the boat was held firm amid the blocks.
One of the crew, at the peril of his life, had to cross the ice cakes to the shore, arouse
the people of the castle, and return to the boat with a long rope. By clinging to this rope,
Grazian and the crew, with the casks of gold, were brought to shore. Here the lord of the castle
was met by Master Mathias with a troica on runners. The casks were put in, and Lord Grazian
seated himself on the driver's seat, with Master Mathias beside him to guide the three horses.

"Knock the top out of one of the casks, my good friend, and pay the whole household their wages
for a year. The treasurer, legal adviser, and general manager have been paid already and their
goods packed up; within an hour every living thing will be gone from here. Every one I find
staying behind will be shot down; you alone may stay with me."

"I beg your pardon for contradicting you," said Master Mathias, "but everybody knows already
how much gold we brought back from Madocsany, and there is cause to fear that we shall be robbed
if we stay alone."

"Don't worry. We'll put the whole troica into the church for the night, and nobody can force
his way in there. As soon as the moon rises, we'll make ready the horses, take our seats in
the carriage, and drive out into the wide world toward Galicia. We have money enough, and can
live there like lords."

"But you know one cannot live by gold and silver alone; we must have something to eat."

"That has all been prepared for. In the agent's house, we shall get our evening meal, and provisions
for the journey; here's the key. There you'll find some choice Tokay; we will carouse on that
to-day and take what is left with us. Now get the sledge into the church."

This was done. The horses were put into the sacristy, because from their unguarded stable they
could be easily driven away. One cask of gold was left outside, and with this Master Mathias
paid the whole retinue a year's wages; then showed them all outside the gate and locked it
behind them. After that nobody else could get into the castle, for the keys were already at
Madocsany. The cask was still not entirely empty.

"What shall I do with the rest?" asked Master Mathias.

"Put the money in your pockets, you may need it on your way."

Master Mathias did not wait to be told twice.

"No, don't kiss my hand, faithful fellow, I do not deserve it. But listen. You are master of
a thousand arts, and so I suppose you understand masonry; bring your tools here into the church."

Master Mathias obeyed. He brought the mortar, the trowel, and the smoothing board.

"Now pick up your tools and follow me."

Grazian led Master Mathias through the opening of the altar frame, (the picture had been cast
aside) into the secret passage-way; then to the heavy iron door, which when opened from outside
set the church bells ringing. This door opened into the long passage-way, and at its very beginning
were two side passages. In front of one of these side passages had been unloaded a pile of
bricks. Lord Grazian threw a light into the dark space.

"See!"

"What a frightful place," said Master Mathias, with his teeth chattering. "What kind of women
are those?"

"Bones of women, as you see."

"How did they get here?"

"They know best how they got here, but how to get away from here was what they did not know.
And yet they tried in every way, as you see. Here they tried to break through the wall; with
knives they pulled out two and three rows of bricks, and then grew weary of the work and gave
it up. The wall is six feet through here."

"Yes, fully."

"Now then, do you know what these bricks here are for? You are to wall up the opening of this
other space."

"I can do that easily."

"But first swear to me as a good Lutheran, on the Holy Gospels, that you will never in this
life tell one word of what you have seen and heard in this place to any living soul."

With that he drew from his pocket a small Bible, and required Master Mathias to put his hand
on the Bible and repeat the oath after him.

"Now to your work."

Out of the depths of the recess there sounded forth a sorrowful song:

"De profundis ad te clamavi, Domine----"

"Who is that?" whispered Master Mathias with a shudder.

"Take your torch and look at him."

Master Mathias threw the light of the torch into the dark space. Then he saw Father Peter in
his monk's cowl, bound, and in an upright position. All around him were heaped up gold and
silver and jewels that held him fixed. His cowl was drawn down over his face, so that it could
not be seen.

"Father Peter!" whispered Master Mathias, turning to Lord Grazian.

"The Devil is in you that you guessed it! Yes, it really is Father Peter."

"Who brought him here?"

"I did, with my crooked leg, and my crushed hand."

"So then he has not been killed."

"You heard him sing."

"And you wish me to wall him in?"

"Not wholly. Leave a hole in the wall, about the size of the head of a small cask, so that
he shall not suffocate."

"And who shall bring him food when we leave this country?"

"A raven of the Prophet Elias. Anything that is in the Bible is true: if it happened once that
a raven brought bread to a hungry prophet, it can happen twice. Now to your work. You have
begun this work, and you must finish it. Do it good-naturedly, my faithful friend, or else
I'll shoot you in the head and then this one after you."

Master Mathias was all in a cold perspiration, and went to work.

"While you are doing this, I will take a little walk in this underground paradise."

And Lord Grazian took his lantern on his maimed right arm and limped off through the dark,
winding underground passage, counting his steps as he went. When he had counted five hundred
and forty steps, he found himself in front of that cavern where the great cask stood, all covered
over with green. He raised the cover; under this was a thick layer of wax that he bored through
with his knife. The cask contained what he had supposed at the first glance--gunpowder.

He gathered up a little of the dust and scattered it over his torch, it blazed up; the gunpowder
had been kept dry through these centuries under its layer of wax. Then he unbuttoned his coat,
and brought out a long cotton fuse which he had wound around his waist a number of times. With
his left hand and his teeth, he fastened this fuse to this match hanging at the bunghole of
the cask; then he walked back, drawing the fuse after him--it was just five hundred and forty
yards long. When he came to the end, he lighted the fuse, and noted by his watch how long it
took to burn one yard--just one minute. How many hours are there in five hundred and forty
minutes? That was too much for his head; Master Mathias would tell him.

When he returned, the wall was done, and Master Mathias was busy smoothing it off around the
open space. It was strange that Grazian had not thought of this--what if Father Peter so walled
up had made an arrangement with Master Mathias, during Grazian's absence, and by entreaties,
threats and promises, persuaded him to make known his fate; or had he thought of this? Was
that the purpose of the fuse, or was it for something quite different?

"Are you through, my good friend? Tell me how many times sixty goes in five hundred and forty?"

"Six times nine make fifty-four, so nine times."

"Quite right. Six times nine makes fifty-four. The table of ones was more than I could ever
get. Yes, nine times--that is quite enough. Now I too shall be ready soon. Do you go to the
agent's house, make a good fire on the hearth, spread the table, and prepare our supper. I
will stay here a little longer to take leave of my son."

When the major-domo had gone, Grazian went back into the church. He lifted the casks of money
from the carriage and rolled them along the passage-way to the space just walled in. When they
were all piled up together, he stuck his hand in the opening:

"Greetings, my beloved son-in-law, Father Peter; how do you fare on your wedding day? You have
won a beautiful bride, I must acknowledge. You shall not say you led hence my only daughter
with only what she had on her back. I will be a generous father and give her her inheritance
from both father and mother. Was ever father-in-law so good as I?"

Then he opened one of the casks and laid it with his left hand on his wounded right arm. He
smothered the pain that this caused him and shook the silver shower of dollars down into the
cavern; he did the same with all the casks that contained silver money.

"This was your portion from her mother; now comes the dowry from her father."

And he brought forth the casks full of gold, and poured their costly contents over the head
of his son-in-law. The heaps of money came up to the victim's shoulders, only his head was
still free.

"Miserere, mei Domine----" resounded from the lips of the man buried alive in gold.

"Ha, ha," laughed Lord Grazian, "so you want a song. Shall I sing you one? How do you like
this: 'Gemitus mortis,--dolores inferni--circumdederunt me. Perhaps you like this better:--'Yesterday
I went to town and heard the matins read. Now the priest who read the matins has become my
lover'--You don't want any more of that, then here's one: 'In paradisum ne ducant te angeli--Kyrie
eleison'--ha ha ha!"

Then he seized his torch and hobbled off through the passage, continuing to mix popular songs
with litany.

That diabolical laughter was the last sound of the night in this subterranean cavern.

CHAPTER XVI.

THE FEAST OF DEATH.

This Master Mathias was a very clever man--more clever than all the rest.

"I have been made the receiver of a secret, so strong that it will eat its way through the
walls that hold it. It's true I have sworn on the Gospel that I will not betray it to anybody;
but how can Lord Grazian believe me altogether, when he does not believe the Gospel? I am inclined
to think he would have much more confidence in a dead man. And how easy it is to make a dead
man out of a living one! Just a taste of meat with something good on it--one swallow of a carefully
prepared drink--and then a peaceful good night. One does not need to defend himself against
a dead man."

Master Mathias thought of this while he cut the meat that he found in the house, set the wine
on the table and wiped off the plates. He had thought out a plan. In the house there was still
one living creature, a hunting dog; he called him in, gave him some meat and bread; and the
dog swallowed all. Then he gave him a bowl of wine; the dog drank this too, and nothing happened.
So then neither drink nor food contained any poison that would kill instantly, and later--why
he would watch carefully my Lord Grazian's hands.

He had to wait some time for him to finish putting away the gold, then suddenly the ghostly
bell rang out, a sign that some one was near the door of the underground passage. Lord Grazian
staggered out of the church. The bears were not in the garden any more, their hides were hanging
on the hedge; their master had had them skinned the day before, as a reward for their faithless
watching.

"The ghosts have been ringing again," growled out Master Mathias, as Lord Grazian entered.

"Never mind, they have done it for the last time," said Lord Grazian, sitting down at the table.
His feet were encased in large, high Polish boots, in the legs of which were all kinds of tools;
out of one he brought a knife in a silver case and his two-tined fork. A real lord never puts
a stranger's table-silver to his mouth. Out of the other leg he brought a gold drinking cup
in tortoise-shell case, the "bratina" that can be drained at one swallow.

"Now, my good servant, prepare yours, and prepare mine; you see I have but one arm."

Master and servant sat down opposite each other, and ate from one dish. The master had good
reason to be hungry, for he had not tasted a mouthful since early morning. The dog went from
one to the other, wagging his tail; neither food nor drink seemed to have hurt him any.

"Now then, my good fellow, let us both drink out of this 'bratina'; first I and then you. Do
you see that is the advantage of a 'bratina', because the master of the house cannot poison
his guests, as is the custom with foreigners. For with us the cup goes round, and all drink
from one cup,--first of all the master."

Lord Grazian filled the cup and drained it off--

"To your health, my faithful servant!"

Then he passed the cup, and Master Mathias too drained it.

"To your health, my beloved master!"

Then followed in turn the customary toasts. "To the health of the happy bride!" "May God give
long life to the brave bridegroom!" "Long life to the beautiful Lady of Madocsany!" And so
the cup went back and forth with toasts to friends and foes until there was nothing left to
be said.

Meantime the moon had risen and shone through the window. The Lord Grazian said to Master Mathias:

"Why, my good follow, you have a married daughter."

"True, she lives in Tepla, poor soul. Yes, over there."

"How many children has she?"

"Six."

"You have not drunk to their health yet, have you?"

"On my soul, no."

"Don't drink any more, my dear fellow, you've drunk enough already. And that not only for to-day,
but for your whole life. You are a dead man already, and so am I. This 'bratina' that we have
been drinking out of, was poisoned with an Italian poison that goes by the clock. You have
two hours left to live. So get yourself together and go on your way; the ice is firm, you can
go over to Tepla to your daughter. Then you can go to bed, send for a priest, and make your
will, and you will at least have somebody to close your eyes."

That was the end of the comedy.

Master Mathias sprang up in terror, his hair on end. He began already to feel the pangs of
approaching death. With a curse he dashed out of the room, leaving behind his bag of gold,
and goaded by torture, rushed out through the castle gate over the ice-covered Waag.

Lord Grazian filled his beaker again and again with wine; and drank and drank--all sole alone.
In his heart he offered toasts to all who had received good from him and returned evil, and
then again to those who had done him favors, returned only by evil. Every cup was a new draught
of poison, though so compounded that it acted slowly. Lord Grazian must make haste, for he
wished to fulfil his word made to the Lady of Madocsany--"I swear to you that Father Peter
shall live longer than I."

CHAPTER XVII.

ALL IS OVER.

Idalia could not sleep that night. Satisfied revenge brings no sweet sleep! Frightful visions
chased through her brain, in which the distorted faces of her disgraced victims haunted her.
There is a maiden in a boat that the ice flood sweeps along, her cry is borne on the wind;
and that man?--it is the one to whom Idalia has prayed, whom she has lost, and now she would
give him over to neither man nor devil.

The beautiful woman had many stately rooms, and yet there was not space enough for her. Long
since had she wept through them all. Back and forth she went to the balcony and blew her breath
on the panes in warm rings through which she could look out at the Waag. A great waste field
of ice stretched out before her, reaching from Mitosin Castle to Madocsany; the moon lighted
up a landscape still as death; about three o'clock in the morning, as she gazed out from her
balcony over the wide waste, like a mad woman, it suddenly seemed to her as if a black spot
moved over there and came nearer and nearer the castle; as it came nearer, it proved to be
the figure of a man; the nearer it approached, stumbling among the ice blocks, the more evident
became its purpose to come straight to the castle. It was somebody from Mitosin! Idalia wakened
her people and gave orders to carry out a stretcher and help the man who was with difficulty
struggling through the ice, and bring him to the castle. This man was Master Mathias. When
brought before Idalia, his face was hardly recognizable, it was so blue with frost and pain,
and its features were so distorted.

"I came from Mitosin," he gasped out, sinking down upon the bearskin before the fire where
they had laid him.

"Bring him a cup of warm wine," ordered the lady.

"No, no! no more wine," he groaned, "leave us alone. I have had enough of that."

When left alone with the lady of the castle, he wrung her hands and sank upon his knees.

"For God's sake, save me, most gracious Lady, I entreat you!"

"What ails you?"

"The Lord of Mitosin has poisoned me and himself too. May God punish him for it. Help me, or
I must die."

"How can I help you?"

"Don't begrudge me that. You know very well I have been poisoned by a drinking cup, although
there was no poison to be seen in it. They say that when you poisoned your husband, you did
the same thing: you drank from the same cup with him, so as not to excite his suspicions, and
drank the poison; but after he died, you went aside and took the antidote. You lived and he died."

"You're mad!"

"No, I am not. Give me the antidote. You know the secret. If you set me free, I'll tell you
a secret you will not be sorry to hear."

"What secret is that?"

"The secret where Father Peter is now."

At this name, the lady sprang toward Master Mathias, raised him up from the bearskin, and laid
him on a couch.

"What, you know where he is! Is he still alive?"

"Yes, he is, and no harm has been done yet!"

"Where is he?"

"Give me the antidote quickly."

"No, no; there is time yet. I must have the secret first, there is no escape for you until then."

Large drops of sweat stood out on the brow of the tortured man.

"My master made me promise on the Holy Gospels that I would not betray it to any body. I shall
go to Hell for this."

"You'll go there anyway. The question is whether you will go sooner or later. If you tell me
what you know, the devils will have to wait for you; if you keep it to yourself, you'll have
to go at once. Speak at once or die."

"You'll surely give me the medicine?"

"Yes, there you have it now. While you were speaking, I dropped it into your mouth. I carry
it with me always in the stone of my ring. See how green it is, gleaming in the darkness; if
I should give you all of it, you would live a hundred years longer."

The poor fellow in the agony of death told all. When he spoke of the chamber of the dead, and
of the cavern of treasure, Idalia was convinced that he spoke the truth. No one who had not
been there and seen them could know of these places.

"Good," she said, "now take this. Go home to Tepla to your daughter, and say nothing of what
you know."

But what the beautiful lady really gave Master Mathias was anything but an antidote; it was
a still more active poison, so there should be no time for him to communicate his secret to
a third.

When Master Mathias had dragged himself to Tepla to his daughter's house, his tongue hardly
moved in his throat, and he could only stammer: "Father Peter--walled in--under-ground--with
treasures--in Mitosin--still alive--I am undone." More he could not say; by the time the priest
came, he was already dead.

       *       *       *       *       *

Idalia was left alone with the secret she had extorted. Suddenly her old passion blazed up
again to its full height like a column of fire. Her beloved was still alive; he was only buried,
walled in deep underground,--abandoned by God and man, left to the company of the corpses,
with no sound save those of the silent night; robbed of his loved one, betrayed in despair,
with nobody to expect but grim death. What if somebody should go down to him in this frightful
grave, and should look at him through that small opening; would not such a countenance seem
like that of an angel looking down from Heaven? Would he not look upon her as a goddess who
should bring him up from the depths of the grave into God's world again? Would it be possible
for him not to yield to the force of that love which opens graves even, and will not leave
him to God or the devil?

She did not hesitate long, but threw her black cloak around her shoulders, placed a dagger
and a sword at her belt, and looked for a strong axe: "It will be convenient," she thought,
"to break through the heavy walls." She lighted her lantern, and stole out of the castle.

Toward morning, a thick fog had settled over the place, so that nobody saw which way she went.
In fact nobody ever knew which way she had gone.

About six o'clock that morning, the whole country was aroused by a frightful underground explosion
convulsing the earth. Towers fell, castles rocked, the Jesuit monastery fell in, and Mitosin
Chapel was reduced to a heap of stones.

Those who were awake at the time maintained that they saw a giant column rise up from the middle
of the Waag and blaze on high. The clouds of smoke were visible for some time through the fog,
and seemed like an army of darkness. The broken ice began to heave and roll violently, not
only forward, but in all directions, overspreading the valley and sweeping away before it villages
and forests.

After the flood had subsided and the Waag returned to its bed, evil traces were left behind
in thick layers of round pebbles; for the Waag is not like those friendly rivers which when
they overflow cover the earth with a fertile deposit.

In the excitement over the disturbance of the elements, people forgot the frightful family
history that had just been enacted in the two castles. A few days later, relatives of the Likovay
family found the body of Lord Grazian in the agent's quarters of the castle. The swollen flood
had not forced its way there; but not one stone upon another was left of the little church.
The devastating explosion had opened a way through this for the streaming flood of waters,
whose irresistible current ground stone and wood to powder.

The same fate met the statue of Nepomeck at Madocsany. The Hussite passage was filled with
stones, and the flood took its path from there over the country.

It was not for a long, long time that the members of the Likovay family began to inquire what
had become of the treasure that Lord Grazian had received from the Lady of Madocsany for his
estate; but never a trace of it was found.

And the whole of this story, from beginning to end, is a true story. The dates are kept in
the family archives: and on the lips of the people the name of Father Peter still lives. The
place is often visited by earthquakes, and at such times they say, "Father Peter has turned
over in his grave." And every time that Mitosin Castle and estate is transferred to a new purchaser,
it is stipulated in the contract, that if the buried treasure is found, it shall be given back
to its rightful owners. But the people say that the treasure will never be found, until Father
Peter has been set free from his living grave; and this may be true.

Other Books Uniform with this Volume

What's Bred in the Bone                     Grant Allen
The Desire of the Eyes                      Grant Allen
The Wooing O't                              Mrs. Alexander
Her Dearest Foe                             Mrs. Alexander
Lorna Doone                                 Blackmore
Auld Licht Idylls and A Window in Thrums    J. M. Barrie
An Auld Licht Manse                         J. M. Barrie
A Living Lie                                Paul Bourget
When the World was Younger                  Miss M. E. Braddon
The Golden Butterfly                        Besant & Rice
A Son of Hagar                              Hall Caine
The Bondman                                 Hall Caine
The Deemster                                Hall Caine
The Shadow of a Crime                       Hall Caine
The Moonstone                               Wilkie Collins
Wooed and Married                           Rosa N. Carey
Not Like Other Girls                        Rosa N. Carey
Pretty Miss Neville                         B. M. Croker
Beyond The Pale                             B. M. Croker
Crime of the Boulevard                      Jules Claretie
A Galloway Herd                             S. R. Crockett
A Romance of Two Worlds                     Marie Corelli
Vendetta                                    Marie Corelli
Wormwood                                    Marie Corelli
Thelma                                      Marie Corelli
Ardath                                      Marie Corelli
The Three Musketeers                        Alexandre Dumas
Twenty Years After                          Alexandre Dumas
Vicomte de Bragelonne                       Alexandre Dumas
Louise de la Valliere                       Alexandre Dumas
Ten Years Later                             Alexandre Dumas
The Man in the Iron Mask                    Alexandre Dumas
Two Years Before the Mast                   R. H. Dana, Jr.
The Professor's Experiment                  The Duchess
A Step Aside                                Charlotte Dunning
Some Women's Ways                           Mary A. Dickens
Not in the Prospectus                       Parke Danforth
The White Company                           A. Conan Doyle
Micah Clarke                                A. Conan Doyle
The Firm of Girdlestone                     A. Conan Doyle
The Captain of the Pole Star                A. Conan Doyle
The Mystery of Cloomber                     A. Conan Doyle
Strange Secrets                             A. Conan Doyle
The Betrayal of John Fordham                B. L. Farjeon
Borderland                                  Jessie Fothergill
Kith and Kin                                Jessie Fothergill
One of Three                                Jessie Fothergill
Peril                                       Jessie Fothergill
The Wellfields                              Jessie Fothergill
Probation                                   Jessie Fothergill
The First Violin                            Jessie Fothergill
Nihilist Princess                           M. T. Gagneur
Cranford                                    Mrs. Gaskell
Woodlanders                                 Thomas Hardy
Two On a Tower                              Thomas Hardy
Far From the Madding Crowd                  Thomas Hardy
The Arundel Motto                           Mary Cecil Hay
For Her Dear Sake                           Mary Cecil Hay
Nora's Love Test                            Mary Cecil Hay
Old Myddleton's Money                       Mary Cecil Hay
A Maiden's Choice                           W. Heimburg
Magdalen's Fortunes                         W. Heimburg
Defiant Hearts                              W. Heimburg
Two Daughters of One Race                   W. Heimburg
A Fatal Misunderstanding                    W. Heimburg
Lucie's Mistake                             W. Heimburg
The Dagger and the Cross                    Joseph Hatton
A Girl of the Commune                       G. A. Henty
The Queerest Man Alive                      George H. Hepworth
Jasper Fairfax                              Margoret Holmes
Tempest and Sunshine                        Mary J. Holmes
Homestead on the Hillside                   Mary J. Holmes
English Orphans                             Mary J. Holmes
Lena Rivers                                 Mary J. Holmes
Peter the Priest                            Maurus Jokai
The Golden Age of Transylvania              Maurus Jokai
Westward Ho                                 Charles Kingsley
Hypatia                                     Charles Kingsley
Phantom 'Rickshaw                           Rudyard Kipling
In Black and White and Story of             Rudyard Kipling
    the Gadsbys
Wee Willie Winkie and American Notes        Rudyard Kipling
Ballads, Poems and Other Verses             Rudyard Kipling
Under the Deodars and City of the           Rudyard Kipling
    Dreadful Night
Plain Tales Prom the Hills                  Rudyard Kipling
The Light That Failed                       Rudyard Kipling
Soldiers Three                              Rudyard Kipling
Mine Own People                             Rudyard Kipling
Madame Sans Gene                            Edmond Lepelletier
Ramuntcho                                   Pierre Loti
Guilty Bonds                                Wm. Le Queux
Strange Tales of a Nihilist                 Wm. Le Queux
Gold Elsie                                  E. Marlitt
Old Mam'sell's Secret                       E. Marlitt
Daireen                                     F. Frankfort Moors
A New Note                                  Ella MacMahon
Lindsay's Girl                              Mrs. Herbert Martin
An Old Maid's Love                          Maarten Maartens
The Cedar Star                              Mary E. Mann
The Man Who Was Good                        Leonard Merrick
A Daughter of the Philistines               Leonard Merrick
A Soldier of Fortune                        L. T. Meade
The King's Assegai                          Bertram Mitford
Beside the Bonnie Brier Bush                Ian MacLaren
Matrimony                                   W. E. Norris
The Story of a Governess                    Mrs. Oliphant
Under Two Flags                             Ouida
The Massarenes                              Ouida
The Splendid Spur                           "Q" (A. T. Quiller Couch)
Warren Hyde                                 Helen Riemensnyder
What Cheer                                  W. Clark Russell
The Lady Maud                               W. Clark Russell
The Wreck of the Grosvenor                  W. Clark Russell
Cloister and the Hearth                     Charles Reade
Forced Acquaintances                        Edith Robinson
Sheba                                       Rita
Kitty                                       Rita
After Bread and On the Sunny Shore          Henryk Sienkeiwicz
Dragon's Teeth                              Translated by Mary Serrano
The Heart of a Mystery                      T. W. Speight
Robert Urquhart                             Gabriel Setoun
New Arabian Nights                          Robert Louis Stevenson
Treasure Island                             Robert Louis Stevenson
Kidnapped                                   Robert Louis Stevenson
The Crystal Button                          Chauncey Thomas
Jack Horner                                 Mary S. Tiernan
Homoselle                                   Mary S. Tiernan
Captain Antifer                             Jules Verne
On the Winning Side                         Mrs. J. H. Walworth
Uncle Scipio                                Mrs. J. H. Walworth
The Wide, Wide World                        Susan Warner

A DAUGHTER OF THE PHILISTINES

By LEONARD MERRICK

"It is the kind one longs to find after trying many and not meeting satisfaction."--Times Union,
Albany.

"A constantly increasing pleasure as you peruse page after page."--Evening Gazette, Boston.

"It is a good one and an interesting one."--Buffalo Express.

"A noteworthy novel."--Chicago Tribune.

"He works out the situation to a fortunate conclusion."--Book Buyer.

"A distinctly good novel of real life."--Boston-Times.

"A capital story."--New York Press.

"It is a novel of more than usual interest and cannot fail of an abundant popularity."--Army
and Navy Journal.

"A delightful story."--Cincinnati Enquirer.

"Has a quality of its own."--Literary World.

"Unusually strong points."--Buffalo Commercial.

"An extremely clever story."--Albany Argus.

"Interesting creation."--Louisville Times.

"With a feeling of loving regret I lay down the book."--Evening Record.

"An interesting and well told tale."--Evening Star, Washington.

"An extremely clever tale."--Indianapolis Sentinel.

"More than usually interesting."--News, Indianapolis.

"An excellent story well told."--Rochester Herald.

"Starts upon a good literary level, and maintains it to the end, and never for a moment degenerates....
One sits through the story with genuine pleasure, and rises from the reading of it with indubitable
refreshment."--Daily Chronicle.

"Most dramatic manner.... Deserves to rank well up in current fiction."--Minneapolis Tribune.

"Villainy of the deepest die, heroism of the highest sort, beauty wronged and long suffering,
virtue finally rewarded, thrills without number."--St. Louis Globe-Democrat.

"Clean wholesome story, which should take prominent place in current fiction."--Chicago Record.

"Finely conceived and finely written."--Toledo Blade.

"This is his masterpiece."--Buffalo Express.

"The chief merit is the account of the Plague in Eyam.... It is a true story and Eyam is a
real village."--Boston Journal.

"Weird and interesting to the point of being absorbing. The only way to get the story is to
read it."--St. Louis Star.

"Seventeenth century romance steeped in the traditions of the Church and of the times."--Detroit
Journal.

NEW YORK R. F. FENNO & COMPANY

12mo, cloth, $1.25

THE CEDAR STAR

BY MARY E. MANN

Author of "Susannah."

"An admirable piece of work, and is worth a crowd of far more pretentious productions."--News
and Courier, Charleston, S.C.

"Heartily alive and extremely well written."--Boston Gazette.

"Resembles some of Stockton's works."--Pittsburg Press.

"Takes high rank among a decade's array of entertaining books."--Boston Courier.

"Possessing among other merits that of original detail."--Cincinnati Times-Star.

"The author has a very genius for clever character drawing."--Detroit Journal.

"There is much force and action."--Boston Herald.

"Intense human interest."--Bulletin.

"The author has a genius for clever character drawing."--Baltimore American.

"An unusually pleasing novel and well written."--Philadelphia Press.

"A charming book, beginning with good chapters of child-life, and containing memorable figures,
notably Billy the Curate and Betty herself. Betty is, indeed, quite a discovery."--London Academy.

NEW YORK R. F. FENNO & COMPANY

12mo, cloth, $1.25

THE MAN WHO WAS GOOD

BY LEONARD MERRICK

AUTHOR OF "A Daughter of the Philistines," "One Man's Views."

"A second success.... An exceptionally able novel."--Literary Review.

"Remarkable for its splendid delineation of character, its workmanship and natural arrangement
of plot."--Chicago Daily News.

"Has distinction of style and character, dramatic force and literary effectiveness."--Phila. Press.

"An intensely dramatic story, and written with force and precision."--New York Times.

"Mr. Merrick's work is of a very high quality. Is the most masterly of his three books."--Chicago
Tribune.

"The delicacy of the character sketching has a brilliancy and fascination strangely magnetic."--Minneapolis
Tribune.

"Is a forceful, dramatic and altogether human story of English life."--Boston Times.

"Strong story."--Chicago Record.

"It is useless to say that so strong, so fierce a book must be written well."--Chicago Times-Herald.

NEW YORK R. F. FENNO & COMPANY

12mo, cloth $1.25

DEFIANT HEARTS

BY W. HEIMBURG

AUTHOR OF "My Heart's Darling," "Her Only Brother," "Tales of an Old Castle," Etc., Etc.

"The story is true to life in some of its manifold phases and will repay reading."--Minneapolis
Tribune.

"It is written in the usual entertaining style of this well known author."--Boston Courier.

"Very good reading."--New Orleans Picayune.

"The action is vigorous and the story interesting."--Public Opinion.

"Capital story by an established favorite."--Philadelphia American.

"Is a charming German story by the author of "Heart's Darling," "Good Luck," "Her Only Brother,"
etc."--Southern Star.

"It possesses the positive virtue of being pure and wholesome in sentiment."--Detroit Free Press.

"It comprises all the many qualities of romance that recommend all Heimburg's other stories."--New
Haven Journal.

"It is simple, but dignified and free from any of those smirches that suggest the presence
of vice and impurity."--N. Y. Home Journal.

12mo, cloth, $1.25.

"Remarkable for its poetic imagery and its beauties of diction."--Bookseller.

"Interesting, poetic, dramatic--dealing with crucial moments in life."--Boston Times.

"Delicate, fantastic touch."--Time and Hour.

"A vein of sincere, sympathetic humanity--marked by passages of earnest poetic feeling."--World,
New York.

"Charmingly fanciful style, sweet, wholesome and entertaining."--The Wisconsin, Milwaukee.

"Of exceptional merit and interest. Boldness of conception,--poetic beauty and vigorous originality."--News,
Milwaukee.

"Romantic in character."--Argonaut, San Francisco.

"The sentences are short, sharp and crisp."--Boston Globe.

"I never heard of the author before, we shall all hear of him again."--Time and Hour.

"Portrays human experience with a hand that is masterly and true."--Boston Courier.

"Interesting, well written, quaint, humorous, pathetic, mystical."--American.

"Most poetic and delicate in treatment."--Occident.

NEW YORK R. F. FENNO & COMPANY

12mo, cloth, $1.25

Betrayal of John Fordham

By B. L. FARJEON

"The plot is well constructed, the story is well told, and there is enough of mystery to satisfy
the most exacting reader."--Saturday Evening Gazette

"'The Betrayal of John Fordham' is a new story by B. L. Farjeon. It is of the detective order,
full of murder and innumerable wrongs that become, at length, righted, and the much abused
hero comes to happiness as the curtain falls. The working out of the plot, combined with peculiar
incidents makes the story worth reading, especially if one likes a detective story. Almost
everyone does, for a change."--Boston Times.

"Running through the story are the threads of one or two affairs of the heart, which are woven
into pleasant conclusions. Some of the scenes are stirringly dramatic."--San Francisco Chronicle.

"A new book, which, like the preceding ones from the pen of the same author, is a strong story
and which promises to be extensively read, is B. L. Farjeon's new novel, 'The Betrayal of John
Fordham.'"--New Haven Journal.

"The plot is intricate and deeply involved and dramatically and skillfully worked out."--Brooklyn
Eagle.

NEW YORK R. F. FENNO & COMPANY

       *       *       *       *       *

   This book, as originally published, did not have a table of contents.
   A table of contents has been created for this electronic edition.

