"Not being able to see myself, I can't say, but I imagine you do. You look as you would under
a county-fair photographer's mercury-vapor arc lamps, only worse. The colors can't be described.
You might as well try to describe cerise to a man born blind as to try to express these colors
in English, but as near as I can come to it, your eyes are a dark sort of purplish green, with
the whites of your eyes and your teeth a kind of plush green. Your skin is a pale yellowish
green, except for the pink of your cheeks, which is a kind of black, with orange and green
mixed up in it. Your lips are black, and your hair is a funny kind of color, halfway between
black and old rose, with a little green and...."

"Heavens, Dick, stop! That's enough!" choked Dorothy. "We all look like hobgoblins. We're even
worse than the natives."

"Sure we are. They were born here and are acclimated to it--we are strangers and aren't. I
would like to see what one of these people would look like in Washington."

       *       *       *       *       *

Nalboon led them into the palace proper and into a great dining hall, where a table was already
prepared for the entire party. This room was splendidly decorated with jewels, its many windows
being simply masses of gems. The walls were hung with a cloth resembling silk, which fell to
the floor in shimmering waves of color.

Woodwork there was none. Doors, panels, tables, and chairs were cunningly wrought of various
metals. Seaton and DuQuesne could recognize a few of them, but for the most part they were
unknown upon the Earth; and were, like the jewels and vegetation of this strange world, of
many and various peculiar colors. A closer inspection of one of the marvelous tapestries showed
that it also was of metal, its threads numbering thousands to the inch. Woven of many different
metals, of vivid but harmonious colors in a strange and intricate design, it seemed to writhe
as its colors changed with every variation in the color of the light; which, pouring from concealed
sources, was reflected by the highly-polished metal and innumerable jewels of the lofty, domed
ceiling.

"Oh ... isn't this too perfectly gorgeous?" breathed Dorothy. "I'd give anything for a dress
made out of that stuff, Dick. Cloth-of-gold is common by comparison!"

"Would you dare wear it, Dottie?" asked Margaret.

"Would I? I'd wear it in a minute if I could only get it. It would take Washington by storm!"

"I'll try to get a piece of it, then," smiled Seaton. "I'll see about it while we are getting
the copper."

"We'd better be careful in choosing what we eat here, Seaton," suggested DuQuesne, as the Domak
himself led them to the table.

"We sure had. With a copper ocean and green teeth, I shouldn't be surprised if copper, arsenic,
and other such trifles formed a regular part of their diet."

"The girls and I will wait for you two chemists to approve every dish before we try it, then,"
said Crane.

Nalboon placed his guests, the light-skinned slaves standing at attention behind them, and
numerous servants, carrying great trays, appeared. The servants were intermediate in color
between the light and the dark races, with dull, unintelligent faces, but quick and deft in
their movements.

The first course--a thin, light wine, served in metal goblets--was approved by the chemists,
and the dinner was brought on. There were mighty joints of various kinds of meat; birds and
fish, both raw and cooked in many ways; green, pink, purple, and white vegetables and fruits.
The majordomo held each dish up to Seaton for inspection, the latter waving away the fish and
the darkest green foods, but approving the others. Heaping plates, or rather metal trays, of
food were placed before the diners, and the attendants behind their chairs handed them peculiar
implements--knives with razor edges, needle-pointed stilettoes instead of forks, and wide,
flexible spatulas, which evidently were to serve the purposes of both forks and spoons.

"I simply can't eat with these things!" exclaimed Dorothy in dismay, "and I don't like to drink
soup out of a can, so there!"

"That's where my lumberjack training comes in handy," grinned Seaton. "With this spatula I
can eat faster than I could with two forks. What do you want, girls, forks or spoons, or both?"

"Both, please."

Seaton reached out over the table, seizing forks and spoons from the air and passing them to
the others, while the natives stared in surprise. The Domak took a bowl filled with brilliant
blue crystals from the major-domo, sprinkled his food liberally with the substance, and passed
it to Seaton, who looked at the crystals attentively.

"Copper sulphate," he said to Crane. "It's a good thing they add it at the table instead of
cooking with it, or we'd be out of luck."

Waving the copper sulphate away, he again reached out, this time producing a pair of small
salt-and pepper-shakers, which he passed to the Domak after he had seasoned the dishes before
him. Nalboon tasted the pepper cautiously and smiled in delight, half-emptying the shaker upon
his plate. He then sprinkled a few grains of salt into his palm, stared at them with an expression
of doubting amazement, and after a few rapid sentences poured them into a dish held by an officer
who had sprung to his side. The officer studied them closely, then carefully washed his chief's
hand. Nalboon turned to Seaton, plainly asking for the salt-cellar.

"Sure, old top. Keep 'em both, there's lots more where those came from," as he produced several
more sets in the same mysterious way and handed them to Crane, who in turn passed them to the
others.

       *       *       *       *       *

The meal progressed merrily, with much conversation in the sign-language between the two parties.
It was evident that Nalboon, usually stern and reticent, was in an unusually pleasant mood.
The viands, though of peculiar flavor, were in the main pleasing to the palates of the Earthly
visitors.

"This fruit salad, or whatever it is, is divine," remarked Dorothy, after an experimental bite.
"May we eat as much as we like, or had we better just eat a little?"

"Go as far as you like," returned her lover. "I wouldn't recommend it, as a steady diet, as
I imagine everything contains copper and other heavy metals in noticeable amounts, and probably
considerable arsenic, but for a few days it can't very well hurt us much."

After the meal, Nalboon bade them a ceremonious farewell, and they were escorted to a series
of five connecting rooms by the royal usher, escorted by an entire company of soldiers, who
mounted guard outside the doors. Gathered in one room, they discussed sleeping arrangements.
The girls insisted that they would sleep together, and that the men should occupy the rooms
at either side. As the girls turned away, the four slaves followed.

"We don't want these people, and I can't make them go away!" cried Dorothy.

"I don't want them, either," replied Seaton, "but if we chase them out they'll get their heads
chopped off. You girls take the women and we'll take the men."

Seaton waved all the women into the girls' room, but they paused irresolutely. One of them
went up to the man wearing the metal belt, evidently their leader, and spoke to him rapidly
as she threw her arms around his neck. He shook his head, motioning toward Seaton several times
as he spoke to her reassuringly. With his arm about her tenderly, he led her to the door, the
other women following. Crane and DuQuesne having gone to their rooms with their attendants,
the man wearing the belt drew the blinds and turned to assist Seaton in taking off his clothes.

"I never had a valet before, but go as far as you like if it pleases you," remarked Seaton,
as he began to throw off his clothes. A multitude of small articles fell from their hiding-places
in his garments as he removed them. Almost stripped, Seaton stretched vigorously, the muscles
writhing and rippling in great ridges under the satin skin of his broad back and mighty arms
and shoulders as he filled his capacious lungs and twisted about, working off the stiffness
caused by the days of comparative confinement.

The four slaves stared in open-mouthed astonishment at this display of muscular development
and conversed among themselves as they gathered up Seaton's discarded clothing. Their leader
picked up a salt-shaker, a couple of silver knives and forks, and some other articles, and
turned to Seaton, apparently asking permission to do something with them. Seaton nodded assent
carelessly and turned to his bed. As he did so, he heard a slight clank of arms in the hall
as the guard was changed, and lifting the blind a trifle he saw that guards were stationed
outside as well. As he went to bed, he wondered whether the guards were guards of honor or
jailers; whether he and his party were honored guests or prisoners.

Three of the slaves, at a word from their chief, threw themselves upon the floor and slept,
but he himself did not rest. Opening the apparently solid metal belt, he took out a great number
of small tools, many tiny instruments, and several spools of insulated wire. He then took the
articles Seaton had given him, taking great pains not to spill a single grain of salt, and
set to work. Hour after hour he labored, a strange, exceedingly complex instrument taking form
under his clever fingers.

    +--------------------------------------+
    |                                      |
    | By the time you finish reading the  |
    | final instalment of "The Skylark of  |
    | Space," we are certain that you will |
    | agree with us that it is one of the  |
    | outstanding scienti-fiction stories  |
    | of the decade; an interplanetarian   |
    | story that will not be eclipsed      |
    | soon. It will be referred to by all  |
    | scienti-fiction fans for years to    |
    | come. It will be read and reread.    |
    | This is not a mere prophecy of ours, |
    | because we have been deluged with    |
    | letters since we began publishing    |
    | this story. In the closing chapters, |
    | you will follow the adventures with  |
    | bated breath, and you will find that |
    | though the two preceding instalments |
    | were hair-raising and thought        |
    | absorbing, the final instalment      |
    | eclipses the others a good deal.     |
    | Plots, counterplots, hair-raising    |
    | and hair-breadth escapes, mixed with |
    | love, adventure and good science     |
    | seem to fairly tumble all over the   |
    | pages. By the time you finish this   |
    | instalment, you will wish to go back |
    | to the beginning of the story and    |
    | read it more carefully and thrill    |
    | all over again.                     |
    |                                      |
    +--------------------------------------+

CHAPTER XIV

Nalboon Unmasked

After a long, sound sleep, Seaton awoke and sprang out of bed. No sooner had he started to
shave, however, than one of the slaves touched his arm, motioning him into a reclining chair
and showing him a keen blade, long and slightly curved. Seaton lay down and the slave shaved
him with a rapidity and smoothness he had never before experienced, so wonderfully sharp was
the peculiar razor. After Seaton had dressed, the barber started to shave the chief slave,
without any preliminary treatment save rubbing his face with a perfumed oil.

"Hold on a minute," interjected Seaton, who was watching the process with interest, "here's
something that helps a lot." He lathered the face with his brush and the man looked up in surprised
pleasure as his stiff beard was swept away without a sound.

Seaton called to the others and soon the party was assembled in his room, all dressed very
lightly, because of the unrelieved and unvarying heat, which was constant at one hundred degrees.
A gong sounded, and one of the slaves opened the door, ushering in a party of servants bearing
a table, ready set. During the meal, Seaton was greatly surprised at hearing Dorothy carrying
on a halting conversation, with one of the women standing behind her.

"I knew that you were a language shark, Dottie, with five or six different ones to your credit,
but I didn't suppose you could learn to talk this stuff in one day."

"I can't," she replied, "but I've picked up a few words of it. I can understand very little
of what they are trying to tell me."

The woman spoke rapidly to the man standing behind Seaton, and as soon as the table had been
carried away, he asked permission to speak to Dorothy. Fairly running across to her, he made
a slight obeisance and in eager tones poured forth such a stream of language that she held
up her hand to silence him.

"Go slower, please," she said, and added a couple of words in his own tongue.

There ensued a strange dialogue, with many repetitions and much use of signs. She turned to
Seaton, with a puzzled look.

"I can't make out all he says, Dick, but he wants you to take him into another room of the
palace here, to get back something or other that they took from him when they captured him.
He can't go alone--I think he says he will be killed if he goes anywhere without you. And he
says that when you get there, you must be sure not to let the guards come inside."

"All right, let's go!" and Seaton motioned the man to precede him. As Seaton started for the
door, Dorothy fell into step beside him.

"Better stay back, Dottie, I'll be back in a minute," he said at the door.

"I will not stay back. Wherever you go, I go," she replied in a voice inaudible to the others.
"I simply will not stay away from you a single minute that I don't have to."

"All right, little girl," he replied in the same tone. "I don't want to be away from you, either,
and I don't think that we're in any danger here."

Preceded by the chief slave and followed by half a dozen others, they went out into the hall.
No opposition was made to their progress, but a full half-company of armed guards fell in around
them as an escort, regarding Seaton with looks composed of equal parts of reverence and fear.
The slave led the way rapidly to a room in a distant wing of the palace and opened the door.
As Seaton stepped in, he saw that it was evidently an audience-chamber or court-room, and that
it was now entirely empty. As the guard approached the door, Seaton waved them back. All retreated
across the hall except the officer in charge, who refused to move. Seaton, the personification
of offended dignity, first stared at the offender, who returned the stare, and stepped up to
him insolently, then pushed him back roughly, forgetting that his strength, great upon Earth,
would be gigantic upon this smaller world. The officer spun across the corridor, knocking down
three of his men in his flight. Picking himself up, he drew his sword and rushed, while his
men fled in panic to the extreme end of the corridor. Seaton did not wait for him, but in one
bound leaped half-way across the intervening space to meet him. With the vastly superior agility
of his earthly muscles he dodged the falling broadsword and drove his left fist full against
the fellow's chin, with all the force of his mighty arm and all the momentum of his rapidly
moving body behind the blow. The crack of breaking bones was distinctly audible as the officer's
head snapped back. The force of the blow lifted him high into the air, and after turning a
complete somersault, he brought up with a crash against the opposite wall, dropping to the
floor stone dead. As several of his men, braver than the others, lifted their peculiar rifles,
Seaton drew and fired in one incredibly swift motion, the X-plosive bullet obliterating the
entire group of men and demolishing that end of the palace.

       *       *       *       *       *

In the meantime the slave had taken several pieces of apparatus from a cabinet in the room
and had placed them in his belt. Stopping only to observe for a few moments a small instrument
which he clamped upon the head of the dead man, he rapidly led the way back to the room they
had left and set to work upon the instrument he had constructed while the others had been asleep.
He connected it, in an intricate system of wiring, with the pieces of apparatus he had just
recovered.

"That's a complex job of wiring," said DuQuesne admiringly. "I've seen several intricate pieces
of apparatus myself, but he has so many circuits there that I'm lost. It would take an hour
to figure out the lines and connections alone."

Straightening abruptly, the slave clamped several electrodes upon his temples and motioned
to Seaton and the others, speaking to Dorothy as he did so.

"He wants us to let him put those things on our heads," she translated. "Shall we let him, Dick?"

"Yes," he replied without hesitation. "I've got a real hunch that he's our friend, and I'm
not sure of Nalboon. He doesn't act right."

"I think so, too," agreed the girl, and Crane added:

"I can't say that I relish the idea, but since I know that you are a good poker player, Dick,
I am willing to follow your hunch. How about you, DuQuesne?"

"Not I," declared that worthy, emphatically. "Nobody wires me up to anything I can't understand,
and that machine is too deep for me."

Margaret elected to follow Crane's example, and, impressed by the need for haste evident in
the slave's bearing, the four walked up to the machine without further talk. The electrodes
were clamped into place quickly and the slave pressed a lever. Instantly the four visitors
felt that they had a complete understanding of the languages and customs of both Mardonale,
the nation in which they now were, and of Kondal, to which nation the slaves belonged, the
only two civilized nations upon Osnome. While the look of amazement at this method of receiving
instruction was still upon their faces, the slave--or rather, as they now knew him, Dunark,
the Kofedix or Crown Prince of the great nation of Kondal--began to disconnect the wires. He
cut out the wires leading to the two girls and to Crane, and was reaching for Seaton's, when
there was a blinding flash, a crackling sound, the heavy smoke of burning metal and insulation,
and both Dunark and Seaton fell to the floor.

Before Crane could reach them, however, they were upon their feet and the stranger said in
his own tongue, now understood by every one but DuQuesne:

"This machine is a mechanical educator, a thing entirely new, in our world at least. Although
I have been working on it for a long time, it is still in a very crude form. I did not like
to use it in its present state of development, but it was necessary in order to warn you of
what Nalboon is going to do to you, and to convince you that the best way of saving your lives
would save our lives as well. The machine worked perfectly until something, I don't know what,
went wrong. Instead of stopping, as it should have done, at teaching your party to speak our
languages, it short-circuited us two completely, so that every convolution in each of our brains
has been imprinted upon the brain of the other. It was the sudden formation of all the new
convolutions that rendered us unconscious. I can only apologize for the break-down, and assure
you that my intentions were of the best."

"You needn't apologize," returned Seaton. "That was a wonderful performance, and we're both
gainers, anyway, aren't we? It has taken us all our lives to learn what little we know, and
now we each have the benefit of two lifetimes, spent upon different worlds! I must admit, though,
that I have a whole lot of knowledge that I don't know how to use."

"I am glad you take it that way," returned the other warmly, "for I am infinitely the better
off for the exchange. The knowledge I imparted was nothing, compared to that which I received.
But time presses--I must tell you our situation. I am, as you now know, the Kofedix of Kondal.
The other thirteen are fedo and fediro, or, as you would say, princes and princesses of the
same nation. We were captured by one of Nalboon's raiding parties while upon a hunting trip,
being overcome by some new, stupefying gas, so that we could not kill ourselves. As you know,
Kondal and Mardonale have been at war for over ten thousand karkamo--something more than six
thousand years of your time. The war between us is one of utter extermination. Captives are
never exchanged and only once during an ordinary lifetime does one ever escape. Our attendants
were killed immediately. We were being taken to furnish sport for Nalboon's party by being
fed to one of his captive kolono--animals something like your earthly devilfish--when the escort
of battleships was overcome by those four karlono, the animals you saw, and one of them seized
Nalboon's plane, in which we were prisoners. You killed the karlon, saving our lives as well
as those of Nalboon and his party.

       *       *       *       *       *

"Having saved his life, you and your party should be honored guests of the most honored kind,
and I venture to say that you would be so regarded in any other nation of the universe. But
Nalboon, the Domak--a title equivalent to your word 'Emperor' and our word 'Karfedix'--of Mardonale,
is utterly without either honor or conscience, as are all Mardonalians. At first he was afraid
of you, as were we all. We thought you visitors from a planet of our fifteenth sun, which is
now at its nearest possible approach to us. After your display of superhuman power and ability,
we expected instant annihilation. However, after seeing the Skylark as a machine, discovering
that you are short of power, and finding that you are gentle instead of bloodthirsty by nature,
Nalboon lost his fear of you and resolved to rob you of your vessel, with its wonderful secrets
of power. Though we are so ignorant of chemistry that I cannot understand the thousandth part
of what I just learned from you, we are a race of mechanics and have developed machines of
many kinds to a high state of efficiency, including electrical machines of all kinds. In fact,
electricity, generated by our great waterfalls, is our only power. No scientist upon Osnome
has ever had an inkling that intra-atomic energy exists. Nalboon cannot understand the power,
but he solved the means of liberating it at a glance--and that glance sealed your death-warrants.
With the Skylark, he could conquer Kondal, and to assure the downfall of my nation he would
do anything.

"Also, he or any other Osnomian scientist would go to any lengths whatever--would challenge
the great First Cause itself--to secure even one of those little bottles of the chemical you
call 'salt.' It is far and away the scarcest and most precious substance in the world. It is
so rare that those bottles you produced at the table held more than the total amount previously
known to exist upon Osnome. We have great abundance of all the heavy metals, but the lighter
metals are rare. Sodium and chlorin are the rarest of all known elements. Its immense value
is due, not to its rarity, but to the fact that it is an indispensable component of the controlling
instruments of our wireless power stations and that it is used as a catalyst in the manufacture
of our hardest metals.

"For these reasons, you understand why Nalboon does not intend to let you escape and why he
intends that this kokam (our equivalent of a day) shall be your last. About the second or third
kam (hour) of the sleeping period he intends to break into the Skylark, learn its control,
and secure the salt you undoubtedly have in the vessel. Then my party and myself will be thrown
to the kolon. You and your party will be killed and your bodies smelted to recover the salt
that is in them. This is the warning I had to give you. Its urgency explains the use of my
untried mechanical educator; the hope that my party could escape with yours, in your vessel,
explains why you saw me, the Kofedix of Kondal, prostrate myself before that arch-fiend Nalboon."

"How do you, a captive prince of another nation, know these things?" asked Crane, doubtfully.

"I read Nalboon's ideas from the brain of that officer whom the Karfedix Seaton killed. He
was a ladex of the guards--an officer of about the same rank as one of your colonels. He was
high in Nalboon's favor, and he was to have been in charge of the work of breaking into the
Skylark and killing us all. Let me caution you now; do not let any Mardonalian touch our hands
with a wire, for if you do, your thoughts will be recorded and the secrets of the Skylark and
your many other mysterious things, such as smoking, matches, and magic feats, will be secrets
no longer."

"Thanks for the information," responded Seaton, "but I want to correct your title for me. I'm
no Karfedix--merely a plain citizen."

"In one way I see that that is true," replied the Kofedix with a puzzled look. "I cannot understand
your government at all--but the inventor of the Skylark must certainly rank as a Karfedix."

As he spoke, a smile of understanding passed over his face and he continued:

"I see. Your title is Doctor of Philosophy, which must mean that you are the Karfedix of Knowledge
of the Earth."

"No, no. You're way off. I'm...."

"Certainly Seaton is the Karfedix of Knowledge," broke in DuQuesne. "Let it go at that, anyway,
whatever it means. The thing to do now is to figure a way out of this."

"You chirped it then, Blackie. Dunark, you know this country better than we do; what do you
suggest?"

"I suggest that you take my party into the Skylark and escape from Mardonale as soon as possible.
I can pilot you to Kondalek, the capital city of our nation. There, I can assure you, you will
be welcomed as you deserve. My father, the Karfedix, will treat you as a Karfedix should be
treated. As far as I am concerned, nothing I can ever do will lighten the burden of my indebtedness
to you, but I promise you all the copper you want, and anything else you may desire that is
within the power of man to give you."

       *       *       *       *       *

Seaton thought deeply a moment, then shook Dunark's hand vigorously.

"That suits me, Kofedix," he said warmly. "I thought from the first that you were our friend.
Shall we make for the Skylark right now, or wait a while?"

"We had better wait until after the second meal," the prince replied. "We have no armor, and
no way of making any. We would be helpless against the bullets of any except a group small
enough so that you could kill them all before they could fire. The kam after the second meal
is devoted to strolling about the grounds, so that our visiting the Skylark would look perfectly
natural. As the guard is very lax at that time, it is the best time for the attempt."

"But how about my killing his company of guards and blowing up one wing of his palace? Won't
he have something to say about that?"

"I don't know," replied the Kofedix doubtfully. "It depends upon whether his fear of you or
his anger is the greater. He should pay his call of state here in your apartment in a short
time, as it is the inviolable rule of Osnome, that any visitor shall receive a call of state
from one of his own rank before leaving his apartment for the first time. His actions may give
you some idea as to his feelings, though he is an accomplished diplomat and may conceal his
real feelings entirely. But let me caution you not to be modest or soft-spoken. He will mistake
softness for fear."

"All right," grinned Seaton. "In that case I won't wait to try to find out what he thinks.
If he shows any signs of hostility at all, I'll open up on him."

"Well," remarked Crane, calmly, "if we have some time to spare, we may as well wait comfortably
instead of standing in the middle of the room. I, for one, have a lot of questions to ask about
this new world."

Acting upon this suggestion, the party seated themselves upon comfortable divans, and Dunark
rapidly dismantled the machine he had constructed. The captives remained standing, always behind
the visitors until Seaton remonstrated.

"Please sit down, everybody. There's no need of keeping up this farce of your being slaves
as long as we're alone, is there, Dunark?"

"No, but at the first sound of the gong announcing a visitor we must be in our places. Now
that we are all comfortable and waiting, I will introduce my party to yours.

"Fellow Kondalians, greet the Karfedo Seaton and Crane," he began, his tongue fumbling over
the strange names, "of a distant world, the Earth, and the two noble ladies, Miss Vaneman and
Miss Spencer, soon to be their Karfediro.

"Guests from Earth, allow me to present to you the Kofedir Sitar, the only one of my wives
who accompanied me upon our ill-fated hunting expedition."

Then, still ignoring DuQuesne as a captive, he introduced the other Kondolians in turn as his
brothers, sisters, cousins, nieces, and nephews--all members of the great ruling house of Kondal.

"Now," he concluded, "after I have a word with you in private, Doctor Seaton, I will be glad
to give the others all the information in my power."

He led Seaton out of earshot of the others and said in a low voice:

"It is no part of Nalboon's plan to kill the two women. They are so beautiful, so different
from our Osnomian women, that he intends to keep them--alive. Understand?"

"Yes," returned Seaton grimly, his eyes turning hard, "I get you all right--but what he'll
do and what he thinks he'll do are two entirely different breeds of cats."

Returning to the others, they found Dorothy and Sitar deep in conversation.

"So a man has half a dozen or so wives?" Dorothy was asking in surprise. "How do you get along
together? I'd fight like a wildcat if my husband tried to have other wives!"

"We get along splendidly, of course," returned the Osnomian princess in equal surprise. "I
would not think of being a man's only wife. I wouldn't consider marrying a man who could win
only one wife--think what a disgrace it would be! And think how lonely one would be while her
husband is away at war--we would go insane if we did not have the company of the other wives.
There are six of us, and we could not get along at all without each other."

"I've got a compliment for you and Peggy, Dottie," said Seaton. "Dunark here thinks that you
two girls look good enough to eat--or words to that effect." Both girls flushed slightly, the
purplish-black color suffusing their faces. They glanced at each other and Dorothy voiced the
thought of both as she said:

"How can you, Kofedix Dunark? In this horrible light we both look perfectly dreadful. These
other girls would be beautiful, if we were used to the colors, but we two look simply hideous."

"Oh, no," interrupted Sitar. "You have a wonderfully rich coloring. It is a shame to hide so
much of yourselves with robes."

"Their eyes interpret colors differently than ours do," explained Seaton. "What to us are harsh
and discordant colors are light and pleasing to their eyes. What looks like a kind of sloppy
greenish black to us may--in fact, does--look a pale pink to them."

"Are Kondal and Mardonale the only two nations upon Osnome?" asked Crane.

"The only civilized nations, yes. Osnome is divided into two great and almost equal continents,
separated by a wide ocean which encircles the globe. One is Kondal, the other Mardonale. Each
nation has several nations or tribes of savages, which inhabit various waste places."

       *       *       *       *       *

"You are the light race, Mardonale the dark," continued Crane. "What are the servants, who
seem half-way between?"

"They are slaves...."

"Captured savages?" interrupted Dorothy.

"No. They are a separate race. They are a race so low in intelligence that they cannot exist
except as slaves, but they can be trained to understand language and to do certain kinds of
work. They are harmless and mild, making excellent servants, otherwise they would have perished
ages ago. All menial work and most of the manual labor is done by the slave race. Formerly
criminals were sterilized and reduced to unwilling slavery, but there have been no unwilling
slaves in Kondal for hundreds of karkamo."

"Why? Are there no criminals any more?"

"No. With the invention of the thought recorder an absolutely fair trial was assured and the
guilty were all convicted. They could not reproduce themselves, and as a natural result crime
died out."

"That is," he added hastily, "what we regard as crime. Duelling, for instance, is a crime upon
Earth; here it is a regular custom. In Kondal duels are rather rare and are held only when
honor is involved, but here in Mardonale they are an every-day affair, as you saw when you landed."

"What makes the difference?" asked Dorothy curiously.

"As you know, with us every man is a soldier. In Kondal we train our youth in courage, valor,
and high honor--in Mardonale they train them in savage blood-thirstiness alone. Each nation
fixed its policy in bygone ages to produce the type of soldier it thought most efficient."

"I notice that everyone here wears those heavy collars," said Margaret. "What are they for?"

"They are identification marks. When a child is nearly grown, a collar bearing his name and
the device of his house is cast about his neck. This collar is made of 'arenak,' a synthetic
metal which, once formed, cannot be altered by any usual means. It cannot be scratched, cut,
bent, broken, or worked in any way except at such a high temperature that death would result,
if such heat were applied to the collar. Once the arenak collar is cast about a person's neck
he is identified for life, and any adult Osnomian not wearing a collar is put to death."

"That must be an interesting metal," remarked Crane. "Is your belt a similar mark?"

"This belt is an idea of my own," and Dunark smiled broadly. "It looks like opaque arenak,
but isn't. It is merely a pouch in which I carry anything I am particularly interested in.
Even Nalboon thought it was arenak, so he didn't trouble to try to open it. If he had opened
it and taken my tools and instruments, I couldn't have built the educator."

"Is that transparent armor arenak?"

"Yes, the only difference being that nothing is added to the matrix to color or make opaque
the finished metal. It is in the preparation of this metal that salt is indispensable. It acts
only as a catalyst, being recovered afterward, but neither nation has ever had enough salt
to make all the armor they want."

"Aren't those monsters--karlono, I think you called them--covered by the same thing? And what
are those animals, anyway?" Dorothy asked.

"Yes, they are armored with arenak, and it is thought that the beasts grow it, the same as
fishes grow scales. The karlono are the most frightful scourge of Osnome. Very little is known
of them, though every scientist has theorized upon them since time immemorial. It is very seldom
that one is ever killed, as they easily outfly our swiftest battleships, and only fight when
they can be victorious. To kill one requires a succession of the heaviest high-explosive shells
in the same spot, a joint in the armor; and after the armor is once penetrated, the animal
is blown into such small fragments that reconstruction is impossible. From such remains it
has been variously described as a bird, a beast, a fish, and a vegetable; sexual, asexual,
and hermaphroditic. Its habitat is unknown, it being variously supposed to live high in the
air, deep in the ocean, and buried in the swamps. Another theory is that they live upon one
of our satellites, which encounters our belt of atmosphere every karkam. Nothing is certainly
known about the monsters except their terrible destructiveness and their insatiable appetites.
One of them will devour five or six airships at one time, absorbing the crews and devouring
the cargo and all of the vessels except the very hardest of the metal parts."

"Do they usually go in groups?" asked Crane. "If they do, I should think that a fleet of warships
would be necessary for every party."

"No, they are almost always found alone. Only very rarely are two found together. This is the
first time in history that more than two have ever been seen together. Two battleships can
always defeat one karlon, so they are never attacked. With four battleships Nalboon considered
his expedition perfectly safe, especially as they are now rare. The navies hunted down and
killed what was supposed to be the last one upon Osnome more than a karkam ago, and none have
been seen since, until we were attacked...."

       *       *       *       *       *

The gong over the door sounded and the Kondalians leaped to their positions back of the Earthly
visitors. The Kofedix went to the door. Nalboon brushed him aside and entered, escorted by
a full company of heavily-armed soldiery. A scowl of anger was upon his face and he was plainly
in an ugly mood.

"Stop, Nalboon of Mardonale!" thundered Seaton in the Mardonalian tongue and with the full
power of his mighty voice. "Dare you invade my privacy unannounced and without invitation?"

The escort shrank back, but the Domak stood his ground, although he was plainly taken aback.
With an apparent effort he smoothed his face into lines of cordiality.

"I merely came to inquire why my guards are slain and my palace destroyed by my honored guest?"

"As for slaying your guards, they sought to invade my privacy. I warned them away, but one
of them was foolish enough to try to kill me. Then the others attempted to raise their childish
rifles against me, and I was obliged to destroy them. As for the wall, it happened to be in
the way of the thought-waves I hurled against your guards--consequently it was demolished.
An honored guest! Bah! Are honored guests put to the indignity of being touched by the filthy
hands of a mere ladex?"

"You do not object to the touch of slaves!" with a wave of his hand toward the Kondalians.

"That is what slaves are for," coldly. "Is a Domak to wait upon himself in the court of Mardonale?
But to return to the issue. Were I an honored guest this would never have happened. Know, Nalboon,
that when you attempt to treat a visiting Domak of MY race as a low-born captive, you must
be prepared to suffer the consequences of your rashness!"

"May I ask how you, so recently ignorant, know our language?"

"You question me? That is bold! Know that I, the Boss of the Road, show ignorance or knowledge,
when and where I please. You may go."

CHAPTER XV

The Escape from Mardonale

"That was a wonderful bluff, Dick!" exclaimed the Kofedix in English as soon as Nalboon and
his guards had disappeared. "That was exactly the tone to take with him, too--you've sure got
him guessing!"

"It seemed to get him, all right, but I'm wondering how long it'll hold him. I think we'd better
make a dash for the Skylark right now, before he has time to think it over, don't you?"

"That is undoubtedly the best way," Dunark replied, lapsing into his own tongue. "Nalboon is
plainly in awe of you now, but if I understand him at all, he is more than ever determined
to seize your vessel, and every darkam's delay is dangerous."

The Earth-people quickly secured the few personal belongings they had brought with them. Stepping
out into the hall and waving away the guards, Seaton motioned Dunark to lead the way. The other
captives fell in behind, as they had done before, and the party walked boldly toward the door
of the palace. The guards offered no opposition, but stood at attention and saluted as they
passed. As they approached the entrance, however, Seaton saw the major-domo hurrying away and
surmised that he was carrying the news to Nalboon. Outside the door, walking directly toward
the landing dock, Dunark spoke in a low voice to Seaton, without turning.

"Nalboon knows by this time that we are making our escape, and it will be war to the death
from here to the Skylark. I do not think there will be any pursuit from the palace, but he
has warned the officers in charge of the dock and they will try to kill us as soon as we step
out of the elevator, perhaps sooner. Nalboon intended to wait, but we have forced his hand
and the dock is undoubtedly swarming with soldiers now. Shoot first and oftenest. Shoot first
and think afterward. Show no mercy, as you will receive none--remember that the quality you
call 'mercy' does not exist upon Osnome."

Rounding a great metal statue about fifty feet from the base of the towering dock, they saw
that the door leading into one of the elevators was wide open and that two guards stood just
inside it. As they caught sight of the approaching party, the guards raised their rifles; but,
quick as they were, Seaton was quicker. At the first sight of the open door he had made two
quick steps and had hurled himself across the intervening forty feet in a long football plunge.
Before the two guards could straighten, he crashed into them, his great momentum hurling them
across the elevator cage and crushing them into unconsciousness against its metal wall.

"Good work!" said Dunark, as he preceded the others into the elevator, and, after receiving
Seaton's permission, distributed the weapons of the two guards among the men of his party.
"Now we can surprise those upon the roof. That was why you didn't shoot?"

"Yes, I was afraid to risk a shot--it would give the whole thing away," Seaton replied, as
he threw the unconscious guards out into the grounds and closed the massive door.

"Aren't you going to kill them?" asked Sitar, amazement in every feature and a puzzled expression
in her splendid eyes. A murmur arose from the other Kondalians, which was quickly silenced
by the Kofedix.

"It is dishonorable for a soldier of Earth to kill a helpless prisoner," he said briefly. "We
cannot understand it, but we must not attempt to sway him in any point of honor."

Dunark stepped to the controls and the elevator shot upward, stopping at a landing several
stories below the top of the dock. He took a peculiar device from his belt and fitted it over
the muzzle of his strange pistol.

"We will get out here," he instructed the others, "and go up the rest of the way by a little-used
flight of stairs. We will probably encounter some few guards, but I can dispose of them without
raising an alarm. You will all stay behind me, please."

Seaton remonstrated, and Dunark went on:

"No, Seaton, you have done your share, and more. I am upon familiar ground now, and can do
the work alone better than if you were to help me. I will call upon you, however, before we
reach the dock."

The Kofedix led the way, his pistol resting lightly against his hip, and at the first turn
of the corridor they came full upon four guards. The pistol did not move from its place at
the side of the leader, but there were four subdued clicks and the four guards dropped dead,
with bullets through their brains.

"Seaton, that is some silencer," whispered DuQuesne. "I didn't suppose a silencer could work
that fast."

"They don't use powder," Seaton replied absently, all his faculties directed toward the next
corner. "The bullets are propelled by an electrical charge."

In the same manner Dunark disposed of several more guards before the last stairway was reached.

       *       *       *       *       *

"Seaton," he whispered in English, "now is the time we need your rapid pistol-work and your
high-explosive shells. There must be hundreds of soldiers on the other side of that door, armed
with machine-cannon shooting high-explosive shells at the rate of a thousand per minute. Our
chance is this--their guns are probably trained upon the elevators and main stairways, since
this passage is unused and none of us would be expected to know of it. Most of them don't know
of it themselves. It will take them a second or two to bring their guns to bear upon us. We
must do all the damage we can--kill them all, if possible--in that second or two. If Crane
will lend me a pistol, we'll make the rush together."

"I've a better scheme than that," interrupted DuQuesne. "Next to you, Seaton, I'm the fastest
man with a gun here. Also, like you, I can use both hands at once. Give me a couple of clips
of those special cartridges and you and I will blow that bunch into the air before they know
we're here."

It was decided that the two pistol experts should take the lead, closely followed by Crane
and Dunark. The weapons were loaded to capacity and put in readiness for instant use.

"Let's go, bunch!" said Seaton. "The quicker we start the quicker we'll get back. Get ready
to run out there, all the rest of you, as soon as the battle's over. Ready? On your marks--get
set--go!"

He kicked the door open and there was a stuttering crash as the four automatic pistols simultaneously
burst into practically continuous flame--a crash obliterated by an overwhelming concussion
of sound as the X-plosive shells, sweeping the entire roof with a rapidly-opening fan of death,
struck their marks and exploded. Well it was for the little group of wanderers that the two
men in the door were past masters in the art of handling their weapons; well it was that they
had in their tiny pistol-bullets the explosive force of hundreds of giant shells! For rank
upon rank of soldiery were massed upon the roof; rapid-fire cannon, terrible engines of destruction,
were pointing toward the elevators and toward the main stairways and approaches. But so rapid
and fierce was the attack, that even those trained gunners had no time to point their guns.
The battle lasted little more than a second, being over before either Crane or Dunark could
fire a shot, and silence again reigned even while broken and shattered remnants of the guns
and fragments of the metal and stone of the dock were still falling to the ground through a
fine mist of what had once been men.

Assured by a rapid glance that not a single Mardonalian remained upon the dock, Seaton turned
back to the others.

"Make it snappy, bunch! This is going to be a mighty unhealthy spot for us in a few minutes."

Dorothy threw her arms around his neck in relief. With one arm about her, he hastily led the
way across the dock toward the Skylark, choosing the path with care because of the yawning
holes blown into the structure by the terrific force of the explosions. The Skylark was still
in place, held immovable by the attractor, but what a sight she was! Her crystal windows were
shattered; her mighty plates of four-foot Norwegian armor were bent and cracked and twisted;
two of her doors, warped and battered, hung awry from their broken hinges. Not a shell had
struck her: all this damage had been done by flying fragments of the guns and of the dock itself;
and Seaton and Crane, who had developed the new explosive, stood aghast at its awful power.

They hastily climbed into the vessel, and Seaton assured himself that the controls were uninjured.

"I hear battleships," Dunark said. "Is it permitted that I operate one of your machine guns?"

"Go as far as you like," responded Seaton, as he placed the women beneath the copper bar--the
safest place in the vessel--and leaped to the instrument board. Before he reached it, and while
DuQuesne, Crane, and Dunark were hastening to the guns, the whine of giant helicopter-screws
was plainly heard. A ranging shell from the first warship, sighted a little low, exploded against
the side of the dock beneath them. He reached the levers just as the second shell screamed
through the air a bare four feet above them. As he shot the Skylark into the air under five
notches of power, a steady stream of the huge bombs poured through the spot where, an instant
before, the vessel had been. Crane and DuQuesne aimed several shots at the battleships, which
were approaching from all sides, but the range was so extreme that no damage was done.

They heard the continuous chattering of the machine gun operated by the Kofedix, however, and
turned toward him. He was shooting, not at the warships, but at the city rapidly growing smaller
beneath them; moving the barrel of the rifle in a tiny spiral; spraying the entire city with
death and destruction! As they looked, the first of the shells reached the ground, just as
Dunark ceased firing for lack of ammunition. They saw the palace disappear as if by magic,
being instantly blotted out in a cloud of dust--a cloud which, with a spiral motion of dizzying
rapidity, increased in size until it obscured the entire city.

       *       *       *       *       *

Having attained sufficient altitude to be safe from any possible pursuit and out of range of
even the heaviest guns, Seaton stopped the vessel and went out into the main compartment to
consult with the other members of the group, about their next move.

"It sure does feel good to get a breath of cool air, folks," he said, as he drew with relief
a deep breath of the air, which, at that great elevation, was of an icy temperature and very
thin. He glanced at the little group of Kondalians as he spoke, then leaped back to the instrument
board with an apology on his lips--they were gasping for breath and shivering with the cold.
He switched on the heating coils and dropped the Skylark rapidly in a long descent toward the
ocean.

"If that is the temperature you enjoy, I understand at last why you wear clothes," said the
Kofedix, as soon as he could talk.

"Do not your planes fly up into the regions of low temperature?" asked Crane.

"Only occasionally, and all high-flying vessels are enclosed and heated to our normal temperature.
We have heavy wraps, but we dislike to wear them so intensely that we never subject ourselves
to any cold."

"Well, there's no accounting for tastes," returned Seaton, "but I can't hand your climate a
thing. It's hotter even than Washington in August; 'and that,' as the poet feelingly remarked,
'is going some!'

"But there's no reason for sitting here in the dark," he continued, as he switched on the powerful
daylight lamps which lighted the vessel with the nearest approach to sunlight possible to produce.
As soon as the lights were on, Dorothy looked intently at the strange women.

"Now we can see what color they really are," she explained to her lover in a low voice. "Why,
they aren't so very different from what they were before, except that the colors are much softer
and more pleasing. They really are beautiful, in spite of being green. Don't you think so, Dick?"

"They're a handsome bunch, all right," he agreed, and they were. Their skins were a light,
soft green, tanned to an olive shade by their many fervent suns. Their teeth were a brilliant
and shining grass-green. Their eyes and their long, thick hair were a glossy black.

The Kondalians looked at the Earthly visitors and at each other, and the women uttered exclamations
of horror.

"What a frightful light?" exclaimed Sitar. "Please shut it off. I would rather be in total
darkness than look like this!"

"What's the matter, Sitar?" asked the puzzled Dorothy as Seaton turned off the lights. "You
look perfectly stunning in this light."

"They see things differently than we do," explained Seaton. "Their optic nerves react differently
than ours do. While we look all right to them, and they look all right to us, in both kinds
of light, they look just as different to themselves under our daylight lamps as we do to ourselves
in their green light. Is that explanation clear?"

"It's clear enough as far as it goes, but what do they look like to themselves?"

"That's too deep for me--I can't explain it, any better than you can. Take the Osnomian color
'mlap,' for instance. Can you describe it?"

"It's a kind of greenish orange--but it seems as though it ought not to look like that color
either."

"That's it, exactly. From the knowledge you received from the educator, it should be a brilliant
purple. That is due to the difference in the optic nerves, which explains why we see things
so differently from the way the Osnomians do. Perhaps they can describe the way they look to
each other in our white light."

"Can you, Sitar?" asked Dorothy.

"One word describes it--'horrible.'" replied the Kondalian princess, and her husband added:

"The colors are distorted and unrecognizable, just as your colors are to your eyes in our light."

"Well, now that the color question is answered, let's get going. I pretty nearly asked you
the way, Dunark--forgot that I know it as well as you do."

       *       *       *       *       *

The Skylark set off at as high an altitude as the Osnomians could stand. As they neared the
ocean several great Mardonalian battleships, warned of the escape, sought to intercept them;
but the Skylark hopped over them easily, out of range of their heaviest guns, and flew onward
at such speed that pursuit was not even attempted. The ocean was quickly crossed. Soon the
space-car came to rest over a great city, and Seaton pointed out the palace; which, with its
landing dock nearby, was very similar to that of Nalboon, in the capital city of Mardonale.

Crane drew Seaton to one side.

"Do you think it is safe to trust these Kondalians, any more than it was the others? How would
it be to stay in the Lark instead of going into the palace?"

"Yes, Mart, this bunch can be trusted. Dunark has a lot of darn queer ideas, but he's square
as a die. He's our friend, and will get us the copper. We have no choice now, anyway, look
at the bar. We haven't an ounce of copper left--we're down to the plating in spots. Besides,
we couldn't go anywhere if we had a ton of copper, because the old bus is a wreck. She won't
hold air--you could throw a cat out through the shell in any direction. She'll have to have
a lot of work done on her before we can think of leaving. As to staying in her, that wouldn't
help us a bit. Steel is as soft as wood to these folks--their shells would go through her as
though she were made of mush. They are made of metal that is harder than diamond and tougher
than rubber, and when they strike they bore in like drill-bits. If they are out to get us they'll
do it anyway, whether we're here or there, so we may as well be guests. But there's no danger,
Mart. You know I swapped brains with him, and I know him as well as I know myself. He's a good,
square man--one of our kind of folks."

Convinced, Crane nodded his head and the Skylark dropped toward the dock. While they were still
high in air, Dunark took an instrument from his belt and rapidly manipulated a small lever.
The others felt the air vibrate--a peculiar, pulsating wave, which, to the surprise of the
Earthly visitors, they could read without difficulty. It was a message from the Kofedix to
the entire city, telling of the escape of his party and giving the news that he was accompanied
by two great Karfedo from another world. Then the pulsations became unintelligible, and all
knew that he had tuned his instrument away from the "general" key into the individual key of
some one person.

"I just let my father, the Karfedix, know that we are coming," he explained, as the vibrations
ceased.

From the city beneath them hundreds of great guns roared forth a welcome, banners and streamers
hung from every possible point, and the air became tinted and perfumed with a bewildering variety
of colors and scents and quivered with the rush of messages of welcome. The Skylark was soon
surrounded by a majestic fleet of giant warships, who escorted her with impressive ceremony
to the landing dock, while around them flitted great numbers of other aircraft. The tiny one-man
helicopters darted hither and thither, apparently always in imminent danger of colliding with
some of their larger neighbors, but always escaping as though by a miracle. Beautiful pleasure-planes
soared and dipped and wheeled like giant gulls; and, cleaving their stately way through the
numberless lesser craft; immense multiplane passenger liners partially supported by helicopter
screws turned aside from their scheduled courses to pay homage to the Kofedix of Kondal.

As the Skylark approached the top of the dock, all the escorting vessels dropped away and Crane
saw that instead of the brilliant assemblage he had expected to see upon the landing-place
there was only a small group of persons, as completely unadorned as were those in the car.
In answer to his look of surprise, the Kofedix said, with deep feeling:

"My father, mother, and the rest of the family. They know that we, as escaped captives, would
be without harness or trappings, and are meeting us in the same state."

       *       *       *       *       *

Seaton brought the vessel to the dock near the little group, and the Earthly visitors remained
inside their vessel while the rulers of Kondal welcomed the sons and daughters they had given
up for dead.

After the affecting reunion, which was very similar to an earthly one under similar circumstances,
the Kofedix led his father up to the Skylark and his guests stepped down upon the dock.

"Friends," Dunark began, "I have told you of my father, Roban, the Karfedix of Kondal. Father,
it is a great honor to present to you those who rescued us from Mardonale--Seaton, Karfedix
of Knowledge; Crane, Karfedix of Wealth; Miss Vaneman; and Miss Spencer. Karfedix DuQuesne,"
waving his hand toward him, "is a lesser Karfedix of Knowledge, captive to the others."

"The Kofedix Dunark exaggerates our services," deprecated Seaton, "and doesn't mention the
fact that he saved all our lives. But for him we all should have been killed."

The Karfedix, disregarding Seaton's remark, acknowledged the indebtedness of Kondal in heartfelt
accents before he led them back to the other party and made the introductions. As all walked
toward the elevators, the emperor turned to his son with a puzzled expression.

"I know from your message, Dunark, that our guests are from a distant solar system, and I can
understand your accident with the educator, but I cannot understand the titles of these men.
Knowledge and wealth are not ruled over. Are you sure that you have translated their titles
correctly?"

"As correctly as I can--we have no words in our language to express the meaning. Their government
is a most peculiar one, the rulers all being chosen by the people of the whole nation...."

"Extraordinary!" interjected the older man. "How, then, can anything be accomplished?"

"I do not understand the thing myself, it is so utterly unheard-of. But they have no royalty,
as we understand the term. In America, their country, every man is equal.

"That is," he hastened to correct himself, "they are not all equal, either, as they have two
classes which would rank with royalty--those who have attained to great heights of knowledge
and those who have amassed great wealth. This explanation is entirely inadequate and does not
give the right idea of their positions, but it is as close as I can come to the truth in our
language."

"I am surprised that you should be carrying a prisoner with you, Karfedo," said Roban, addressing
Seaton and Crane. "You will, of course, be at perfect liberty to put him to death in any way
that pleases you, just as though you were in your own kingdoms. But perchance you are saving
him so that his death will crown your home-coming?"

The Kofedix spoke in answer while Seaton, usually so quick to speak, was groping for words.

"No, father, he is not to be put to death. That is another peculiar custom of the Earth-men;
they consider it dishonorable to harm a captive, or even an unarmed enemy. For that reason
we must treat the Karfedix DuQuesne with every courtesy due his rank, but at the same time
he is to be allowed to do only such things as may be permitted by Seaton and Crane."

"Yet they do not seem to be a weak race," mused the older man.

"They are a mighty race, far advanced in evolution," replied his son. "It is not weakness,
but a peculiar moral code. We have many things to learn from them, and but few to give them
in return. Their visit will mean much to Kondal."

       *       *       *       *       *

During this conversation they had descended to the ground and had reached the palace, after
traversing grounds even more sumptuous and splendid than those surrounding the palace of Nalboon.
Inside the palace walls the Kofedix himself led the guests to their rooms, accompanied by the
major-domo and an escort of guards. He explained to them that the rooms were all inter-communicating,
each having a completely equipped bathroom.

"Complete except for cold water, you mean," said Seaton with a smile.

"There is cold water," rejoined the other, leading him into the bathroom and releasing a ten-inch
stream of lukewarm water into the small swimming pool, built of polished metal, which forms
part of every Kondalian bathroom. "But I am forgetting that you like extreme cold. We will
install refrigerating machines at once."

"Don't do it--thanks just the same. We won't be here long enough to make it worth while."

Dunark smilingly replied that he would make his guests as comfortable as he could, and after
informing them that in one kam he would return and escort them in to koprat, took his leave.
Scarcely had the guests freshened themselves when he was back, but he was no longer the Dunark
they had known. He now wore a metal-and-leather harness which was one blaze of precious gems,
and a leather belt hung with jeweled weapons replaced the familiar hollow girdle of metal.
His right arm, between the wrist and the elbow, was almost covered by six bracelets of a transparent
metal, deep cobalt-blue in color, each set with an incredibly brilliant stone of the same shade.
On his left wrist he wore an Osnomian chronometer. This was an instrument resembling the odometer
of an automobile, whose numerous revolving segments revealed a large and constantly increasing
number--the date and time of the Osnomian day, expressed in a decimal number of the karkamo
of Kondalian history.

"Greetings, oh guests from Earth! I feel more like myself, now that I am again in my trappings
and have my weapons at my side. Will you accompany me to koprat, or are you not hungry?" as
he attached the peculiar timepieces to the wrists of the guests, with bracelets of the deep-blue
metal.

"We accept with thanks," replied Dorothy promptly. "We're starving to death, as usual."

As they walked toward the dining hall, Dunark noticed that Dorothy's eyes strayed toward his
bracelets, and he answered her unasked question:

"These are our wedding rings. Man and wife exchange bracelets as part of the ceremony."

"Then you can tell whether a man is married or not, and how many wives he has, simply by looking
at his arm? We should have something like that on Earth, Dick--then married men wouldn't find
it so easy to pose as bachelors!"

Roban met them at the door of the great dining hall. He also was in full panoply, and Dorothy
counted ten of the heavy bracelets upon his right arm as he led them to places near his own.
The room was a replica of the other Osnomian dining hall they had seen and the women were decorated
with the same barbaric splendor of scintillating gems.

After the meal, which was a happy one, taking the nature of a celebration in honor of the return
of the captives, DuQuesne went directly to his room while the others spent the time until the
zero hour in strolling about the splendid grounds, always escorted by many guards. Returning
to the room occupied by the two girls, the couples separated, each girl accompanying her lover
to the door of his room.

Margaret was ill at ease, though trying hard to appear completely self-possessed.

"What is the matter, sweetheart Peggy?" asked Crane, solicitously.

"I didn't know that you...." she broke off and continued with a rush: "What did the Kofedix
mean just now, when he called you the Karfedix of Wealth?"

"Well, you see, I happen to have some money...." he began.

"Then you are the great M. Reynolds Crane?" she interrupted, in consternation.

"Leave off 'the great,'" he said, then, noting her expression, he took her in his arms and
laughed slightly.

"Is that all that was bothering you? What does a little money amount to between you and me?"

"Nothing--but I'm awfully glad that I didn't know it before," she replied, as she returned
his caress with fervor. "That is, it means nothing if you are perfectly sure I'm not...."

Crane, the imperturbable, broke a life-long rule and interrupted her.

"Do not say that, dear. You know as well as I do that between you and me there never have been,
are not now, and never shall be, any doubts or any questions."

       *       *       *       *       *

"If I could have a real cold bath now, I'd feel fine," remarked Seaton, standing in his own
door with Dorothy by his side. "I'm no blooming Englishman but in weather as hot as this I
sure would like to dive into a good cold tank. How do you feel after all this excitement, Dottie?
Up to standard?"

"I'm scared purple," she replied, nestling against him, "or, at least, if not exactly scared,
I'm apprehensive and nervous. I always thought I had good nerves, but everything here is so
horrible and unreal, that I can't help but feel it. When I'm with you I really enjoy the experience,
but when I'm alone or with Peggy, especially in the sleeping-period, which is so awfully long
and when it seems that something terrible is going to happen every minute, my mind goes off
in spite of me into thoughts of what may happen. Why, last night, Peggy and I just huddled
up to each other in a ghastly yellow funk--dreading we knew not what--the two of us slept hardly
at all."

"I'm sorry, little girl," replied Seaton, embracing her tenderly, "sorrier than I can say.
I know that your nerves are all right, but you haven't roughed it enough, or lived in strange
environments enough, to be able to feel at home. The reason you feel safer with me is that
I feel perfectly at home here myself, not that your nerves are going to pieces or anything
like that. It won't be for long, though, sweetheart--as soon as we get the chariot fixed up
we'll beat it back to the Earth so fast it'll make your head spin."

"Yes, I think that's the reason, lover. I hope you won't think I'm a clinging vine, but I can't
help being afraid of something here every time I'm away from you. You're so self-reliant, so
perfectly at ease here, that it makes me feel the same way."

"I am perfectly at ease. There's nothing to be afraid of. I've been in hundreds of worse places,
right on Earth. I sure wish I could be with you all the time, sweetheart girl--only you can
understand just how much I wish it--but, as I said before, it won't be long until we can be
together all the time."

Dorothy pushed him into his room, followed him within it, closed the door, and put both hands
on his arm.

"Dick, sweetheart," she whispered, while a hot blush suffused her face, "you're not as dumb
as I thought you were--you're dumber! But if you simply won't say it, I will. Don't you know
that a marriage that is legal where it is performed is legal anywhere, and that no law says
that the marriage must be performed upon the Earth?"

He pressed her to his heart in a mighty embrace, and his low voice showed in every vibration
the depth of the feeling he held for the beautiful woman in his arms as he replied:

"I never thought of that, sweetheart, and I wouldn't have dared mention it if I had. You're
so far away from your family and your friends that it would seem...."

"It wouldn't seem anything of the kind," she broke in earnestly. "Don't you see, you big, dense,
wonderful man, that it is the only thing to do? We need each other, or at least, I need you,
so much now...."

"Say 'each other'; it's right," declared her lover with fervor.

"It's foolish to wait. Mother would like to have seen me married, of course; but there will
be great advantages, even on that side. A grand wedding, of the kind we would simply have to
have in Washington, doesn't appeal to me any more than it does to you--and it would bore you
to extinction. Dad would hate it, too--it's better all around to be married here."

Seaton, who had been trying to speak, silenced her.

"I'm convinced, Dottie, have been ever since the first word. If you can see it that way I'm
so glad that I can't express it. I've been scared stiff every time I thought of our wedding.
I'll speak to the Karfedix the first thing in the morning, and we'll be married tomorrow--or
rather today, since it is past the zero kam," as he glanced at the chronometer upon his wrist,
which, driven by wireless impulses from the master-clock in the national observatory, was clicking
off the darkamo with an almost inaudible purr of its smoothly-revolving segments.

"How would it be to wake him up and have it done now?"

"Oh, Dick, be reasonable! That would never do. Tomorrow will be most awfully sudden, as it
is! And Dick, please speak to Martin, will you? Peggy's even more scared than I am, and Martin,
the dear old stupid, is even less likely to suggest such a thing as this kind of a wedding
than you are. Peggy's afraid to suggest it to him."

"Woman!" he said in mock sternness, "Is this a put-up job?"

"It certainly is. Did you think I had nerve enough to do it without help?"

Seaton turned and opened the door.

"Mart! Bring Peggy over here!" he called, as he led Dorothy back into the girls' room.

"Heavens, Dick, be careful! You'll spoil the whole thing!"

"No, I won't. Leave it to me--I bashfully admit that I'm a regular bear-cat at this diplomatic
stuff. Watch my smoke!"

"Folks," he said, when the four were together, "Dottie and I have been talking things over,
and we've decided that today's the best possible date for a wedding. Dottie's afraid of these
long, daylight nights, and I admit that I'd sleep a lot sounder if I knew where she was all
the time instead of only part of it. She says she's willing, provided you folks see it the
same way and make it double. How about it?"

Margaret blushed furiously and Crane's lean, handsome face assumed a darker color as he replied:

"A marriage here would, of course, be legal anywhere, provided we have a certificate, and we
could be married again upon our return if we think it desirable. It might look as though we
were taking an unfair advantage of the girls, Dick, but considering all the circumstances,
I think it would be the best thing for everyone concerned."

He saw the supreme joy in Margaret's eyes, and his own assumed a new light as he drew her into
the hollow of his arm.

"Peggy has known me only a short time, but nothing else in the world is as certain as our love.
It is the bride's privilege to set the date, so I will only say that it cannot be too soon for me."

"The sooner the better," said Margaret, with a blush that would have been divine in any earthly
light, "did you say 'today,' Dick?"

"I'll see the Karfedix as soon as he gets up," he answered, and walked with Dorothy to his door.

"I'm just too supremely happy for words," Dorothy whispered in Seaton's ear as he bade her
good-night. "I won't be able to sleep or anything!"

CHAPTER XVI

An Osnomian Marriage

Seaton awoke, hot and uncomfortable, but with a great surge of joy in his heart--this was his
wedding day! Springing from the bed, he released the full stream of the "cold" water, filling
the tank in a few moments. Poising lightly upon the edge, he made a clean, sharp dive, and
yelled in surprise as he came snorting to the surface. For Dunark had made good his promise--the
water was only a few degrees above the freezing point! After a few minutes of vigorous splashing
in the icy water, he rubbed himself down with a coarse towel, shaved, threw on his clothes,
and lifted his powerful, but musical, bass voice in the wedding chorus from "The Rose Maiden."

    "Rise, sweet maid, arise, arise,
    Rise, sweet maid, arise, arise,
    'Tis the last fair morning for thy maiden eyes,"

he sang lustily, out of his sheer joy in being alive, and was surprised to hear Dorothy's clear
soprano, Margaret's pleasing contralto, and Crane's mellow tenor chime in from the adjoining
room. Crane threw open the door and Seaton joined the others.

"Good morning. Dick, you sound happy," said Crane.

"Who wouldn't be? Look what's doing today," as he ardently embraced his bride-to-be. "Besides,
I found some cold water this morning."

"Everyone in the palace heard you discovering it," dryly returned Crane, and the girls laughed
merrily.

"It surprised me at first," admitted Seaton, "but it's great after a fellow once gets wet."

"We warmed ours a trifle," said Dorothy. "I like a cold bath myself, but not in ice-water."

All four became silent, thinking of the coming event of the day, until Crane said:

"They have ministers here, I know, and I know something of their religion, but my knowledge
is rather vague. You know more about it than we do, Dick, suppose you tell us about it while
we wait."

Seaton paused a moment, with an odd look on his face. As one turning the pages of an unfamiliar
book of reference, he was seeking the answer to Crane's question in the vast store of Osnomian
information received from Dunark. His usually ready speech came a little slowly.

"Well, as nearly as I can explain it, it's a funny kind of a mixture--partly theology, partly
Darwinism, or at least, making a fetish of evolution, and partly pure economic determinism.
They believe in a Supreme Being, whom they call the First Cause--that is the nearest English
equivalent--and they recognize the existence of an immortal and unknowable life-principle,
or soul. They believe that the First Cause has decreed the survival of the fittest as the fundamental
law, which belief accounts for their perfect physiques...."

"Perfect physiques? Why, they're as weak as children," interrupted Dorothy.

"Yes, but that is because of the smallness of the planet," returned Seaton. "You see, a man
of my size weighs only eighty-six pounds here, on a spring balance, so he would need only the
muscular development of a boy of twelve or so. In a contest of strength, either of you girls
could easily handle two of the strongest men upon Osnome. In fact, the average Osnomian could
stand up on our Earth only with the greatest difficulty. But that isn't the fault of the people;
they are magnificently developed for their surroundings. They have attained this condition
by centuries of weeding out the unfit. They have no hospitals for the feeble-minded or feeble-bodied--abnormal
persons are not allowed to live. The same reasoning accounts for their perfect cleanliness,
moral and physical. Vice is practically unknown. They believe that clean living and clean thinking
are rewarded by the production of a better physical and mental type...."

"Yes, especially as they correct wrong living by those terrible punishments the Kofedix told
us about," interrupted Margaret.

"That probably helps some. They also believe that the higher the type is, the faster will evolution
proceed, and the sooner will mankind reach what they call the Ultimate Goal, and know all things.
Believing as they do that the fittest must survive, and thinking themselves, of course, the
superior type, it is ordained that Mardonale must be destroyed utterly, root and branch. They
believe that the slaves are so low in the scale, millions of years behind in evolution, that
they do not count. Slaves are simply intelligent and docile animals, little more than horses
or oxen. Mardonalians and savages are unfit to survive and must be exterminated.

"Their ministers are chosen from the very fittest. They are the strongest, cleanest-living,
and most vigorous men of this clean and vigorous nation, and are usually high army officers
as well as ministers."

       *       *       *       *       *

An attendant announced the coming of the Karfedix and his son, to pay the call of state. After
the ceremonious greetings had been exchanged, all went into the dining hall for darprat. As
soon as the meal was over, Seaton brought up the question of the double wedding that kokam,
and the Karfedix was overjoyed.

"Karfedix Seaton," he said earnestly, "nothing could please us more than to have such a ceremony
performed in our palace. Marriage between such highly-evolved persons as are you four is wished
by the First Cause, whose servants we are. Aside from that, it is an unheard-of honor for any
ruler to have even one karfedix married beneath his roof, and you are granting me the privilege
of two! I thank you, and assure you that we will do our poor best to make the occasion memorable."

"Don't do anything fancy," said Seaton hastily. "A simple, plain wedding will do."

Unheeding Seaton's remark, the Karfedix took his wireless from its hook at his belt and sent
a brief message.

"I have summoned Karbix Tarnan to perform the ceremony. Our usual time for ceremonies is just
before koprat--is that time satisfactory to you?"

Assured that it was, he turned to his son.

"Dunark, you are more familiar than I with the customs of our illustrious visitors. May I ask
you to take charge of the details?"

While Dunark sent a rapid succession of messages, Dorothy whispered to Seaton:

"They must be going to make a real function of our double wedding, Dick. The Karbix is the
highest dignitary of the church, isn't he?"

"Yes, in addition to being the Commander-in-Chief of all the Kondalian armies. Next to the
Karfedix he is the most powerful man in the empire. Something tells me, Dottie, that this is
going to be SOME ceremony!"

As Dunark finished telegraphing, Seaton turned to him.

"Dorothy said, a while ago, that she would like to have enough of that tapestry-fabric for
a dress. Do you suppose it could be managed?"

"Certainly. In all state ceremonials we always wear robes made out of the same fabric as the
tapestries, but much finer and more delicate. I would have suggested it, but thought perhaps
the ladies would prefer their usual clothing. I know that you two men do not care to wear our
robes?"

"We will wear white ducks, the dressiest and coolest things we have along," replied Seaton.
"Thank you for your offer, but you know how it is. We should feel out of place in such gorgeous
dress."

"I understand. I will call in a few of our most expert robe-makers, who will weave the gowns.
Before they come, let us decide upon the ceremony. I think you are familiar with our marriage
customs, but I will explain them to make sure. Each couple is married twice. The first marriage
is symbolized by the exchange of plain bracelets and lasts four karkamo, during which period
divorce may be obtained at will. The children of such divorced couples formerly became wards
of the state, but in my lifetime I have not heard of there being any such children--all divorces
are now between couples who discover their incompatibility before children are conceived."

"That surprises me greatly," said Crane. "Some system of trial-marriage is advocated among
us on Earth every few years, but they all so surely degenerate into free love that no such
system has found a foothold."

"We are not troubled in that way at all. You see, before the first marriage, each couple, from
the humblest peasantry to the highest royalty, must submit to a mental examination. If they
are marrying for any reason at all other than love, such as any thought of trifling in the
mind of the man, or if the woman is marrying him for his wealth or position, he or she is summarily
executed, regardless of station."

No other questions being asked, Dunark continued:

"At the end of four karkamo the second marriage is performed, which is indissoluble. In this
ceremony jeweled bracelets are substituted for the plain ones. In the case of highly-evolved
persons it is permitted that the two ceremonies be combined into one. Then there is a third
ceremony, used only in the marriage of persons of the very highest evolution, in which the
'eternal' vows are taken and the faidon, the eternal jewel, is exchanged. As you are all in
the permitted class, you may use the eternal ceremony if you wish."

"I think we all know our minds well enough to know that we want to be married for good--the
longer the better," said Seaton, positively. "We'll make it the eternal, won't we, folks?"

"I should like to ask one question," said Crane, thoughtfully. "Does that ceremony imply that
my wife would be breaking her vows if she married again upon my death?"

"Far from it. Numbers of our men are killed every karkam. Their wives, if of marriageable age,
are expected to marry again. Then, too, you know that most Kondalian men have several wives.
No matter how many wives or husbands may be linked together in that way, it merely means that
after death their spirits will be grouped into one. Just as in your chemistry," smiling in
comradely fashion at Seaton, "a varying number of elements may unite to form a stable compound."

       *       *       *       *       *

After a short pause, the speaker went on:

"Since you are from the Earth and unaccustomed to bracelets, rings will be substituted for
them. The plain rings will take the place of your Earthly wedding rings, the jeweled ones that
of your engagement rings. The only difference is that while we discard the plain bracelets,
you will continue to wear them. Have you men any objections to wearing the rings during the
ceremony? You may discard them later if you wish and still keep the marriage valid."

"Not I! I'll wear mine all my life," responded Seaton earnestly, and Crane expressed the same
thought.

"There is only one more thing," added the Kofedix. "That is, about the mental examination.
Since it is not your custom, it is probable that the justices would waive the ruling, especially
since everyone must be examined by a jury of his own or a superior rank, so that only one man,
my father alone, could examine you."

"Not in a thousand years!" replied Seaton emphatically. "I want to be examined, and have Dorothy
see the record. I don't care about having her put through it, but I want her to know exactly
the kind of a guy she is getting."

Dorothy protested at this, but as all four were eager that they themselves should be tested,
the Karfedix was notified and Dunark clamped sets of multiple electrodes, connected to a set
of instruments, upon the temples of his father, Dorothy, and Seaton. He pressed a lever, and
instantly Dorothy and Seaton read each other's minds to the minutest detail, and each knew
that the Karfedix was reading the minds of both.

After Margaret and Crane had been examined, the Karfedix expressed himself as more than satisfied.

"You are all of the highest evolution and your minds are all untainted by any base thoughts
in your marriage. The First Cause will smile upon your unions," he said solemnly.

"Let the robe-makers appear," the Karfedix ordered, and four women, hung with spools of brilliantly-colored
wire of incredible fineness and with peculiar looms under their arms, entered the room and
accompanied the two girls to their apartment.

As soon as the room was empty save for the four men, Dunark said:

"While I was in Mardonale, I heard bits of conversation regarding an immense military discovery
possessed by Nalboon, besides the gas whose deadly effects we felt. I could get no inkling
of its nature, but feel sure that it is something to be dreaded. I also heard that both of
these secrets had been stolen from Kondal, and that we were to be destroyed by our own superior
inventions."

The Karfedix nodded his head gloomily.

"That is true, my son--partly true, at least. We shall not be destroyed, however. Kondal shall
triumph. The discoveries were made by a Kondalian, but I am as ignorant as are you concerning
their nature. An obscure inventor, living close to the bordering ocean, was the discoverer.
He was rash enough to wireless me concerning them. He would not reveal their nature, but requested
a guard. The Mardonalian patrol intercepted the message and captured both him and his discoveries
before our guard could arrive."

"That's easily fixed," suggested Seaton. "Let's get the Skylark fixed up, and we'll go jerk
Nalboon out of his palace--if he's still alive--bring him over here, and read his mind."

"That might prove feasible," answered the Kofedix, "and in any event we must repair the Skylark
and replenish her supply of copper immediately. That must be our first consideration, so that
you, our guests, will have a protection in any emergency."

The Karfedix went to his duties and the other three made their way to the wrecked space-car.
They found that besides the damage done to the hull, many of the instruments were broken, including
one of the object-compasses focused upon the Earth.

"It's a good thing you had three of them, Mart. I sure hand it to you for preparedness," said
Seaton, as he tossed the broken instruments out upon the dock. Dunark protested at this treatment,
and placed the discarded instruments in a strong metal safe, remarking:

"These things may prove useful at some future time."

"Well, I suppose the first thing to do is to get some powerful jacks and straighten these plates,"
said Seaton.

"Why not throw away this soft metal, steel, and build it of arenak, as it should be built?
You have plenty of salt," suggested Dunark.

"Fine! We have lots of salt in the galley, haven't we, Mart?"

"Yes, nearly a hundred pounds. We are stocked for emergencies, with two years' supply of food,
you know."

       *       *       *       *       *

Dunark's eyes opened in astonishment at the amount mentioned, in spite of his knowledge of
earthly conditions. He started to say something, then stopped in confusion, but Seaton divined
his thought.

"We can spare him fifty pounds as well as not, can't we, Mart?"

"Certainly. Fifty pounds of salt is a ridiculously cheap price for what he is doing for us,
even though it is very rare here."

Dunark acknowledged the gift with shining eyes and heartfelt, but not profuse, thanks, and
bore the precious bag to the palace under a heavy escort. He returned with a small army of
workmen, and after making tests to assure himself that the power-bar would work as well through
arenak as through steel, he instructed the officers concerning the work to be done. As the
wonderfully skilled mechanics set to work without a single useless motion, the prince stood
silent, with a look of care upon his handsome face.

"Worrying about Mardonale, Dunark?"

"Yes. I cannot help wondering what that terrible new engine of destruction is, which Nalboon
now has at his command."

"Say, why don't you build a bus like the Skylark, and blow Mardonale off the map?"

"Building the vessel would be easy enough, but X is as yet unknown upon Osnome."

"We've got a lot of it...."

"I could not accept it. The salt was different, since you have plenty. X, however, is as scarce
upon Earth as salt is upon Osnome."

"Sure you can accept it. We stopped at a planet that has lots of it, and we've got an object-compass
pointing at it so that we can go back and get more of it any time we want it. We've got more
of it on hand now than we're apt to need for a long time, so have a hunk and get busy," and
he easily carried one of the lumps out of his cabin and tossed it upon the dock, from whence
it required two of Kondal's strongest men to lift it.

The look of care vanished from the face of the prince and he summoned another corps of mechanics.

"How thick shall the walls be? Our battleships are armed with arenak the thickness of a hand,
but with your vast supply of salt you may have it any thickness you wish, since the materials
of the matrix are cheap and abundant."

"One inch would be enough, but everything in the bus is designed for a four-foot shell, and
if we change it from four feet we'll have to redesign our guns and all our instruments. Let's
make it four feet."

Seaton turned to the crippled Skylark, upon which the first crew of Kondalian mechanics were
working with skill and with tools undreamed-of upon Earth. The whole interior of the vessel
was supported by a complex falsework of latticed metal, then the four-foot steel plates and
the mighty embers, the pride of the great MacDougall, were cut away as though they were made
of paper by revolving saws and enormous power shears. The sphere, grooved for the repellers
and with the members, braces, and central machinery complete, of the exact dimensions of the
originals, was rapidly moulded of a stiff, plastic substance resembling clay. This matrix soon
hardened into a rock-like mass into which the doors, machine-gun emplacements, and other openings
were carefully cut. All surfaces were then washed with a dilute solution of salt, which the
workmen handled as though it were radium. Two great plates of platinum were clamped into place
upon either side of the vessel, each plate connected by means of silver cables as large as
a man's leg to the receiving terminal of an enormous wireless power station. The current was
applied and the great spherical mass apparently disappeared, being transformed instantly into
the transparent metal arenak. Then indeed had the Earth-men a vehicle such as had never been
seen before! A four-foot shell of metal five hundred times as strong and hard as the strongest
and hardest steel, cast in one piece with the sustaining framework designed by the world's
foremost engineer--a structure that no conceivable force could deform or injure, housing an
inconceivable propulsive force!

       *       *       *       *       *

The falsework was rapidly removed and the sustaining framework was painted with opaque varnish
to render it plainly visible. At Seaton's suggestion the walls of the cabins were also painted,
leaving transparent several small areas to serve as windows.

The second work-period was drawing to a close, and as Seaton and Crane were to be married before
koprat, they stopped work. They marveled at the amount that had been accomplished, and the
Kofedix told them:

"Both vessels will be finished tomorrow, except for the controlling instruments, which we will
have to make ourselves. Another crew will work during the sleeping-period, installing the guns
and other fittings. Do you wish to have your own guns installed, or guns of our pattern? You
are familiar with them now."

"Our own, please. They are slower and less efficient than yours, but we are used to them and
have a lot of X-plosive ammunition for them," replied Seaton, after a short conference with Crane.

After instructing the officers in charge of the work, the three returned to the palace, the
hearts of two of them beating high in anticipation. Seaton went into Crane's room, accompanied
by two attendants bearing his suitcase and other luggage.

"We should have brought along dress clothes, Mart. Why didn't you think of that, too?"

"Nothing like this ever entered my mind. It is a good thing we brought along ducks and white
soft shirts. I must say that this is extremely informal garb for a state wedding, but since
the natives are ignorant of our customs, it will not make any difference."

"That's right, too--we'll make 'em think it's the most formal kind of dress. Dunark knows what's
what, but he knows that full dress would be unbearable here. We'd melt down in a minute. It's
plenty hot enough as it is, with only duck trousers and sport-shirts on. They'll look green
instead of white, but that's a small matter."

Dunark, as best man, entered the room some time later.

"Give us a look, Dunark," begged Seaton, "and see if we'll pass inspection. I was never so
rattled in my life."

They were clad in spotless white, from their duck oxfords to the white ties encircling the
open collars of their tennis shirts. The two tall figures--Crane's slender, wiry, at perfect
ease; Seaton's broad-shouldered, powerful, prowling about with unconscious, feline suppleness
and grace--and the two handsome, high-bred, intellectual faces, each wearing a look of eager
happiness, fully justified Dunark's answer.

"You sure will do!" he pronounced enthusiastically, and with Seaton's own impulsive good will
he shook hands and wished them an eternity of happiness.

"When you have spoken with your brides," he continued, "I shall be waiting to escort you into
the chapel. Sitar told me to say that the ladies are ready."

Dorothy and Margaret had been dressed in their bridal gowns by Sitar and several other princesses,
under the watchful eyes of the Karfedir herself. Sitar placed the two girls side by side and
drew off to survey her work.

"You are the loveliest creatures in the whole world!" she cried.

They looked at each other's glittering gowns, then Margaret glanced at Dorothy's face and a
look of dismay overspread her own.

"Oh, Dottie!" she gasped. "Your lovely complexion! Isn't it terrible for the boys to see us
in this light?"

There was a peal of delighted laughter from Sitar and she spoke to one of the servants, who
drew dark curtains across the windows and pressed a switch, flooding the room with brilliant
white light.

"Dunark installed lamps like those of your ship for you," she explained with intense satisfaction.
"I knew in advance just how you would feel about your color."

Before the girls had time to thank their thoughtful hostess she disappeared and their bridegrooms
stood before them. For a moment no word was spoken. Seaton stared at Dorothy hungrily, almost
doubting the evidence of his senses. For white was white, pink was pink, and her hair shone
in all its natural splendor of burnished bronze.

In their wondrous Osnomian bridal robes the beautiful Earth-maidens stood before their lovers.
Upon their feet were jeweled slippers. Their lovely bodies were clothed in softly shimmering
garments that left their rounded arms and throats bare--garments infinitely more supple than
the finest silk, thick-woven of metallic threads of such fineness that the individual wires
were visible only under a lens; garments that floated and clung about their perfect forms in
lines of exquisite grace. For black-haired Margaret, with her ivory skin, the Kondalian princess
had chosen a background of a rare white metal, upon which, in complicated figures, glistened
numberless jewels of pale colors, more brilliant than diamonds. Dorothy's dress was of a peculiar,
dark-green shade, half-hidden by an intricate design of blazing green gems--the strange, luminous
jewels of this strange world. Both girls wore their long, heavy hair unbound, after the Kondalian
bridal fashion, brushed until it fell like mist about them and confined at the temples by metallic
bands entirely covered with jewels.

Seaton looked from Dorothy to Margaret and back again; looked down into her violet eyes, deep
with wonder and with love, more beautiful than any jewel in all her gorgeous costume. Unheeding
the presence of the others, she put her dainty hands upon his mighty shoulders and stood on tiptoe.

"I love you, Dick. Now and always, here or at home or anywhere in the Universe. We'll never
be parted again," she whispered, and her own beloved violin had no sweeter tones than had her
voice.

A few minutes later, her eyes wet and shining, she drew herself away from him and glanced at
Margaret.

"Isn't she the most beautiful thing you ever laid eyes on?"

"No," Seaton answered promptly, "she is not--but poor old Mart thinks she is!"

       *       *       *       *       *

Accompanied by the Karfedix and his son, Seaton and Crane went into the chapel, which, already
brilliant, had been decorated anew with even greater splendor. Glancing through the wide arches
they saw, for the first time, Osnomians clothed. The great room was filled with the highest
nobility of Kondal, wearing their heavily-jeweled, resplendent robes of state. Every color
of the rainbow and numberless fantastic patterns were there, embodied in the soft, lustrous,
metallic fabric.

As the men entered one door Dorothy and Margaret, with the Karfedir and Sitar, entered the
other, and the entire assemblage rose to its feet and snapped into the grand salute. Moving
to the accompaniment of strange martial music from concealed instruments, the two parties approached
each other, meeting at the raised platform or pulpit where Karbix Tarnan, a handsome, stately,
middle-aged man who carried easily his hundred and fifty karkamo of age, awaited them. As he
raised his arms, the music ceased.

It was a solemn and wonderfully impressive spectacle. The room, of burnished metal, with its
bizarre decorations wrought in scintillating gems; the constantly changing harmony of colors
as the invisible lamps were shifted from one shade to another; the group of mighty nobles standing
rigidly at attention in a silence so profound that it was an utter absence of everything audible
as the Karbix lifted both arms in a silent invocation of the great First Cause--all these things
deepened the solemnity of that solemn moment.

When Tarnan spoke, his voice, deep with some great feeling, inexplicable even to those who
knew him best, carried clearly to every part of the great chamber.

"Friends, it is our privilege to assist today in a most notable event, the marriage of four
personages from another world. For the first time in the history of Osnome, one karfedix has
the privilege of entertaining the bridal party of another. It is not for this fact alone, however,
that this occasion is to be memorable. A far deeper reason is that we are witnessing, possibly
for the first time in the history of the Universe, the meeting upon terms of mutual fellowship
and understanding of the inhabitants of two worlds separated by unthinkable distances of trackless
space and by equally great differences in evolution, conditions of life, and environment. Yet
these strangers are actuated by the spirit of good faith and honor which is instilled into
every worthy being by the great First Cause, in the working out of whose vast projects all
things are humble instruments.

"In honor of the friendship of the two worlds, we will proceed with the ceremony.

"Richard Seaton and Martin Crane, exchange the plain rings with Dorothy Vaneman and Margaret
Spencer."

They did so, and repeated, after the Karbix, simple vows of love and loyalty.

"May the First Cause smile upon this temporary marriage and render it worthy of being made
permanent. As a lowly servant of the all-powerful First Cause I pronounce you two, and you
two, husband and wife. But we must remember that the dull vision of mortal man cannot pierce
the veil of futurity, which is as crystal to the all-beholding eye of the First Cause. Though
you love each other truly, unforeseen things may come between you to mar the perfection of
your happiness. Therefore a time is granted you during which you may discover whether or not
your unions are perfect."

A pause ensued, then Tarnan went on:

"Martin Crane, Margaret Spencer, Richard Seaton, and Dorothy Vaneman, you are before us to
take the final vows which shall bind your bodies together for life and your spirits together
for eternity. Have you considered the gravity of this step sufficiently to enter into this
marriage without reservation?"

"I have," solemnly replied the four, in unison.

"Exchange the jeweled rings. Do you, Richard Seaton and Dorothy Vaneman; and you, Martin Crane
and Margaret Spencer; individually swear, here in the presence of the First Cause and that
of the Supreme Justices of Kondal, that you will be true and loyal, each helping his chosen
one in all things, great and small; that never throughout eternity, in thought or in action,
will either your body or your mind or your conscious spirit stray from the path of fairness
and truth and honor?"

"I do."

"I pronounce you married with the eternal marriage. Just as the faidon which you each now wear--the
eternal jewel which no force of man, however applied, has yet been able to change or deform
in any particular; and which continues to give off its inward light without change throughout
eternity--shall endure through endless cycles of time after the metal of the ring which holds
it shall have crumbled in decay: even so shall your spirits, formerly two, now one and indissoluble,
progress in ever-ascending evolution throughout eternity after the base material which is your
bodies shall have returned to the senseless dust from whence it arose."

       *       *       *       *       *

The Karbix lowered his arms and the bridal party walked to the door through a double rank of
uplifted weapons. From the chapel they were led to another room, where the contracting parties
signed their names in a register. The Kofedix then brought forward two marriage certificates--heavy
square plates of a brilliant purple metal, beautifully engraved in parallel columns of English
and Kondalian script, and heavily bordered with precious stones. The principals and witnesses
signed below each column, the signatures being deeply engraved by the royal engraver. Leaving
the registry, they were escorted to the dining hall, where a truly royal repast was served.
Between courses the highest nobles of the nation welcomed the visitors and wished them happiness
in short but earnest addresses. After the last course had been disposed of, the Karbix rose
at a sign from the Karfedix and spoke, his voice again agitated by the emotion which had puzzled
his hearers during the marriage service.

"All Kondal is with us here in spirit, trying to aid us in our poor attempts to convey our
welcome to these our guests, of whose friendship no greater warrant could be given than their
willingness to grant us the privilege of their marriage. Not only have they given us a boon
that will make their names revered throughout the nation as long as Kondal shall exist, but
they have also been the means of showing us plainly that the First Cause is upon our side,
that our age-old institution of honor is in truth the only foundation upon which can be built
a race fitted to survive. At the same time they have been the means of showing us that our
hated foe, entirely without honor, building his race upon a foundation of bloodthirsty savagery
alone, is building wrongly and must perish utterly from the face of Osnome."

His hearers listened, impressed by his earnestness, but plainly not understanding his meaning.

"You do not understand?" he went on, with a deep light shining in his eyes. "It is inevitable
that two peoples inhabiting worlds so widely separated as are our two should be possessed of
widely-varying knowledge and abilities, and these strangers have already made it possible for
us to construct engines of destruction which shall obliterate Mardonale completely...." A fierce
shout of joy interrupted the speaker and the nobles sprang to their feet, saluting the visitors
with upraised weapons. As soon as they had reseated themselves, the Karbix continued:

"That is the boon. The vindication of our system of evolution is easily explained. The strangers
landed first upon Mardonale. Had Nalboon met them in honor, he would have gained the boon.
But he, with the savagery characteristic of his evolution, attempted to kill his guests and
steal their treasures, with what results you already know. We, on our part, in exchange for
the few and trifling services we have been able to render them, have received even more than
Nalboon would have obtained, had his plans not been nullified by their vastly superior state
of evolution."

The orator seated himself and there was a deafening clamor of cheering as the nobles formed
themselves into an escort of honor and conducted the two couples to their apartments.

Alone in their room, Dorothy turned to her husband with tears shining in her beautiful eyes.

"Dick, sweetheart, wasn't that the most wonderful thing that anybody ever heard of? Using the
word in all its real meaning, it was indescribably grand, and that old man is simply superb.
It makes me ashamed of myself to think that I was ever afraid or nervous here."

"It sure was all of that, Dottie mine, little bride of an hour. The whole thing gets right
down to where a fellow lives--I've got a lump in my throat right now so big that it hurts me
to think. Earthly marriages are piffling in comparison with that ceremony. It's no wonder they're
happy, after taking those vows--especially as they don't have to take them until after they
are sure of themselves.

"But we're sure already, sweetheart," as he embraced her with all the feeling of his nature.
"Those vows are not a bit stronger than the ones we have already exchanged--bodily and mentally
and spiritually we are one, now and forever."

CHAPTER XVII

Bird, Beast, or Fish?

"These jewels rather puzzle me, Dick. What are they?" asked Martin, as the four assembled,
waiting for the first meal. As he spoke he held up his third finger, upon which gleamed the
royal jewel of Osnome in its splendid Belcher mounting of arenak as transparent as the jewel
itself and having the same intense blue color. "I know the name, 'faidon,' but that's all I
seem to know."

"That's about all that anybody knows about them. It is a naturally-occurring, hundred-faceted
crystal, just as you see it there--deep blue, perfectly transparent, intensely refractive,
and constantly emitting that strong, blue light. It is so hard that it cannot be worked, cut,
or ground. No amount of the hardest known abrasive will even roughen its surface. No blow,
however great, will break it--it merely forces its way into the material of the hammer, however
hard the hammer may be. No extremity of either heat or cold affects it in any degree, it is
the same when in the most powerful electric arc as it is when immersed in liquid helium."

"How about acids?"

"That is what I am asking myself. Osnomians aren't much force at chemistry. I'm going to try
to get hold of another one, and see if I can't analyze it, just for fun. I can't seem to convince
myself that a real atomic structure could be that large."

"No, it is rather large for an atom," and turning to the two girls, "How do you like your solitaires?"

"They're perfectly beautiful, and the Tiffany mounting is exquisite," replied Dorothy, enthusiastically,
"but they're so awfully big! They're as big as ten-carat diamonds, I do believe."

"Just about," replied Seaton, "but at that, they're the smallest Dunark could find. They have
been kicking around for years, he says--so small that nobody wanted them. They wear big ones
on their bracelets, you know. You sure will make a hit in Washington, Dottie. People will think
you're wearing a bottle-stopper until they see it shining in the dark, then they'll think it's
an automobile headlight. But after a few jewelers have seen these stones, one of them will
be offering us five million dollars apiece for them, trying to buy them for some dizzy old
dame who wants to put out the eyes of some of her social rivals. Yes? No?"

"That's about right, Dick," replied Crane, and his face wore a thoughtful look. "We can't keep
it secret that we have a new jewel, since all four of us will be wearing them continuously,
and anyone who knows jewels at all will recognize these as infinitely superior to any known
Earthly jewel. In fact, they may get some of us into trouble, as fabulously valuable jewels
usually do."

"That's true, too. So we'll let it out casually that they're as common as mud up here--that
we're just wearing them for sentiment, which is true, and that we're thinking of bringing back
a shipload to sell for parking lights."

"That would probably keep anyone from trying to murder our wives for their rings, at least."

"Have you read your marriage certificate, Dick?" asked Margaret.

"Not yet. Let's look at it, Dottie."

She produced the massive, heavily-jeweled document, and the auburn head and the brown one were
very close to each other as they read together the English side of the certificate. Their vows
were there, word for word, with their own signatures beneath them, all deeply engraved into
the metal. Seaton smiled as he saw the legal form engraved below their signatures, and read aloud:

     "I, the Head of the Church and the Commander-in-Chief of the armed
     forces of Kondal, upon the planet Osnome, certify that I have this
     day, in the city of Kondalek, of said nation and planet, joined in
     indissoluble bonds of matrimony, Richard Ballinger Seaton, Doctor
     of Philosophy, and Dorothy Lee Vaneman; Doctor of Music; both of
     the city of Washington, District of Columbia, United States of
     America, upon the planet Earth, in strict compliance with the
     marriage laws, both of Kondal and of the United States of America.

     TARNAN."

     Witnesses:
       ROBAN, Emperor of Kondal.
       TURAL, Empress of Kondal.
       DUNARK, Crown Prince of Kondal.
       SITAR, Crown Princess of Kondal.
       MARC C. DUQUESNE, Ph. D., Washington, D. C.

"That is SOME document," remarked Seaton. "Probably a lawyer could find fault with his phraseology,
but I'll bet that this thing would hold in any court in the world. Think you'll get married
again when we get back, Mart?"

Both girls protested, and Crane answered:

"No, I think not. Our ceremony would be rather an anticlimax after this one, and this one will
undoubtedly prove legal. I intend to register this just as it is, and get a ruling from the
courts. But it is time for breakfast. Pardon me--I should have said 'darprat,' for it certainly
is not breakfast-time by Washington clocks. My watch says that it is eleven-thirty P. M."

"This system of time is funny," remarked Dorothy. "I just can't get used to having no night,
and...."

"And it's such a long time between eats, as the famous governor said about the drinks," broke
in Seaton.

"How did you know what I was going to say, Dick?"

"Husbandly intuition," he grinned, "aided and abetted by a normal appetite that rebels at seventeen
hours between supper and breakfast, and nine hours between the other meals. Well, it's time
to eat--let's go!"

       *       *       *       *       *

After eating, the men hurried to the Skylark. During the sleeping-period the vessel had been
banded with the copper repellers: the machine guns and instruments, including the wonderful
Osnomian wireless system, had been installed; and, except for the power-bars, she was ready
for a voyage. The Kondalian vessel was complete, even to the cushions, but was without instruments.

After a brief conversation with the officer in charge, Dunark turned to Seaton.

"Didn't you find that your springs couldn't stand up under the acceleration?"

"Yes, they flattened out dead."

"The Kolanix Felan, in charge of the work, thought so, and substituted our compound-compensated
type, made of real spring metal, for them. They'll hold you through any acceleration you can
live through."

"Thanks, that's fine. What's next, instruments?"

"Yes. I have sent a crew of men to gather up what copper they can find--you know that we use
practically no metallic copper, as platinum, gold, and silver are so much better for ordinary
purposes--and another to erect a copper-smelter near one of the mines which supply the city
with the copper sulphate used upon our tables. While they are at work I think I will work on
the instruments, if you two will be kind enough to help me."

Seaton and Crane offered to supply him with instruments from their reserve stock, but the Kofedix
refused to accept them, saying that he would rather have their help in making them, so that
he would thoroughly understand their functions. The electric furnaces were rapidly made ready
and they set to work; Crane taking great delight in working that hitherto rare and very refractory
metal, iridium, of which all the Kondalian instruments were to be made.

"They have a lot of our rare metals here, Dick."

"They sure have. I'd like to set up a laboratory and live here a few years--I'd learn something
about my specialty or burst. They use gold and silver where we use copper, and platinum and
its alloys where we use iron and soft steel. All their weapons are made of iridium, and all
their most highly-tempered tools, such as their knives, razors, and so on, are made of opaque
arenak. I suppose you've noticed the edge on your razor?"

"How could I help it? It is hard to realize that a metal can be so hard that it requires forty
years on a diamond-dust abrasive machine to hone a razor--or that once honed, it shaves generation
after generation of men without losing in any degree its keenness."

"I can't understand it, either--I only know that it's so. They have all our heavy metals in
great abundance, and a lot more that we don't know anything about on Earth, but they apparently
haven't any light metals at all. It must be that Osnome was thrown off the parent sun late,
so that the light metals were all gone?"

"Something like that, possibly."

The extraordinary skill of the Kofedix made the manufacture of the instruments a short task,
and after Crane had replaced the few broken instruments of the Skylark from their reserve stock,
they turned their attention to the supply of copper that had been gathered. They found it enough
for only two bars.

"Is this all we have?" asked Dunark, sharply.

"It is, your Highness," replied the Kolanix. "That is every scrap of metallic copper in the city."

"Oh, well, that'll be enough to last until we can smelt the rest," said Seaton. "With one bar
apiece we're ready for anything Mardonale can start. Let 'em come!"

The bars were placed in the containers and both vessels were tried out, each making a perfect
performance. Upon the following kokam, immediately after the first meal, the full party from
the Earth boarded the Skylark and accompanied the Kofedix to the copper smelter. Dunark himself
directed the work of preparing the charges and the molds, though he was continually being interrupted
by wireless messages in code and by messengers bearing tidings too important to trust into the air.

"I hope you will excuse all of these delays," said Dunark, after the twentieth interruption,
"but...."

"That's all right, Dunark. We know that you're a busy man."

"I can tell you about it, but I wouldn't want to tell many people. With the salt you gave us,
I am preparing a power-plant that will enable us to blow Mardonale into...."

He broke off as a wireless call for help sounded. All listened intently, learning that a freight-plane
was being pursued by a karlon a few hundred miles away.

"Now's the time for you to study one, Dunark!" Seaton exclaimed. "Get your gang of scientists
out here while we go get him and drag him in!"

       *       *       *       *       *

As Dunark sent the message, the Skylark's people hurried aboard, and Seaton drove the vessel
toward the calls for help. With its great speed it reached the monster before the plane was
overtaken. Focusing the attractor upon the enormous metallic beak of the karlon, Seaton threw
on the power and the beast halted in midair as it was jerked backward and upward. As it saw
the puny size of the attacking Skylark, it opened its cavernous mouth in a horrible roar and
rushed at full speed. Seaton, unwilling to have the repellers stripped from the vessel, turned
on the current actuating them. The karlon was hurled backward to the point of equilibrium of
the two forces, where it struggled demoniacally.

Seaton carried his captive back to the smelter, where finally, by judicious pushing and pulling,
he succeeded in turning the monster flat upon its back and pinning it to the ground in spite
of its struggles to escape.

Soon the scientists arrived and studied the animal thoroughly, at as close a range as its flailing
arms permitted.

"I wish we could kill him without blowing him to bits," wirelessed Dunark. "Do you know any
way of doing it?"

"We could if we had a few barrels of ether, or some of our own poison gases, but they are all
unknown here and it would take a long time to build the apparatus to make them. I'll see if
I can't tire him out and get him that way as soon as you've studied him enough. We may be able
to find out where he lives, too."

The scientists having finished their observations, Seaton jerked the animal a few miles into
the air and shut off the forces acting upon it. There was a sudden crash, and the karlon, knowing
that this apparently insignificant vessel was its master, turned in headlong flight.

"Have you any idea what caused the noise just then, Dick?" asked Crane; who, with characteristic
imperturbability, had taken out his notebook and was making exact notes of all that transpired.

"I imagine we cracked a few of his plates," replied Seaton with a laugh, as he held the Skylark
in place a few hundred feet above the fleeing animal.

Pitted for the first time in its life against an antagonist, who could both outfly and outfight
it, the karlon redoubled its efforts and fled in a panic of fear. It flew back over the city
of Kondalek, over the outlying country, and out over the ocean, still followed easily by the
Skylark. As they neared the Mardonalian border, a fleet of warships rose to contest the entry
of the monster. Seaton, not wishing to let the foe see the rejuvenated Skylark, jerked his
captive high into the thin air. As soon as it was released, it headed for the ocean in an almost
perpendicular dive, while Seaton focused an object-compass upon it.

"Go to it, old top," he addressed the plunging monster. "We'll follow you clear to the bottom
of the ocean if you go that far!"

There was a mighty double splash as the karlon struck the water, closely followed by the Skylark.
The girls gasped as the vessel plunged below the surface at such terrific speed, and seemed
surprised that it had suffered no injury and that they had felt no jar. Seaton turned on the
powerful searchlights and kept close enough so that he could see the monster through the transparent
walls. Deeper and deeper the quarry dove, until it was plainly evident to the pursuers that
it was just as much at home in the water as it was in the air. The beams of the lights revealed
strange forms of life, among which were huge, staring-eyed fishes, which floundered about blindly
in the unaccustomed glare. As the karlon bored still deeper, the living things became scarcer,
but still occasional fleeting glimpses were obtained of the living nightmares which inhabited
the oppressive depths of these strange seas. Continuing downward, the karlon plumbed the nethermost
pit of the ocean and came to rest upon the bottom, stirring up a murk of ooze.

"How deep are we, Mart?"

"About four miles. I have read the pressure, but will have to calculate later exactly what
depth it represents, from the gravity and density readings."

As the animal showed no sign of leaving its retreat, Seaton pulled it out with the attractor
and it broke for the surface. Rising through the water at full speed, it burst into the air
and soared upward to such an incredible height that Seaton was amazed.

"I wouldn't have believed that anything could fly in air this thin!" he exclaimed.

"It is thin up here," assented Crane. "Less than three pounds to the square inch. I wonder
how he does it?"

"It doesn't look as though we are ever going to find out--he's sure a bear-cat!" replied Seaton,
as the karlon, unable to ascend further, dropped in a slanting dive toward the lowlands of
Kondal--the terrible, swampy region covered with poisonous vegetation and inhabited by frightful
animals and even more frightful savages. The monster neared the ground with ever-increasing
speed. Seaton, keeping close behind it, remarked to Crane:

"He'll have to flatten out pretty quick, or he'll burst something, sure."

       *       *       *       *       *

But it did not flatten out. It struck the soft ground head foremost and disappeared, its tentacles
apparently boring a way ahead of it.

Astonished at such an unlooked-for development, Seaton brought the Skylark to a stop and stabbed
into the ground with the attractor. The first attempt brought up nothing but a pillar of muck,
the second brought to light a couple of wings and one writhing arm, the third brought the whole
animal, still struggling as strongly as it had in the first contest. Seaton again lifted the
animal high into the air.

"If he does that again, we'll follow him."

"Will the ship stand it?" asked DuQuesne, with interest.

"Yes. The old bus wouldn't have, but this one can stand anything. We can go anywhere that thing
can, that's a cinch. If we have enough power on, we probably won't even feel a jolt when we
strike ground."

Seaton reduced the force acting upon the animal until just enough was left to keep the attractor
upon it, and it again dived into the swamp. The Skylark followed, feeling its way in the total
darkness, until the animal stopped, refusing to move in any direction, at a depth estimated
by Crane to be about three-quarters of a mile. After waiting some time Seaton increased the
power of the attractor and tore the karlon back to the surface and into the air, where it turned
on the Skylark with redoubled fury.

"We've dug him out of his last refuge and he's fighting like a cornered rat," said Seaton as
he repelled the monster to a safe distance. "He's apparently as fresh as when he started, in
spite of all this playing. Talk about a game fish! He doesn't intend to run any more, though,
so I guess we'll have to put him away. It's a shame to bump him off, but it's got to be done."

Crane aimed one of the heavy X-plosive bullets at the savagely-struggling monster, and the
earth rocked with the concussion as the shell struck its mark. They hurried back to the smelter,
where Dunark asked eagerly:

"What did you find out about it?"

"Nothing much," replied Seaton, and in a few words described the actions of the karlon. "What
did your savants think of it?"

"Very little that any of us can understand in terms of any other known organism. It seems to
combine all the characteristics of bird, beast, and fish, and to have within itself the possibilities
of both bisexual and asexual reproduction."

"I wouldn't doubt it--it's a queer one, all right."

The copper bars were cool enough to handle, and the Skylark was loaded with five times its
original supply of copper, the other vessel taking on a much smaller amount. After the Kofedix
had directed the officer in charge to place the remaining bars in easily-accessible places
throughout the nation, the two vessels were piloted back to the palace, arriving just in time
for the last meal of the kokam.

"Well, Dunark," said Seaton after the meal was over, "I'm afraid that we must go back as soon
as we can. Dorothy's parents and Martin's bankers will think they are dead by this time. We
should start right now, but...."

"Oh, no, you must not do that. That would rob our people of the chance of bidding you goodbye."

"There's another reason, too. I have a mighty big favor to ask of you."

"It is granted. If man can do it, consider it done."

"Well, you know platinum is a very scarce and highly useful metal with us. I wonder if you
could let us have a few tons of it? And I would like to have another faidon, too--I want to
see if I can't analyze it."

"You have given us a thousand times the value of all the platinum and all the jewels your vessel
can carry. As soon as the foundries are open tomorrow we will go and load up your store-rooms--or,
if you wish, we will do it now."

"That isn't necessary. We may as well enjoy your hospitality for one more sleeping-period,
get the platinum during the first work-period, and bid you goodbye just before the second meal.
How would that be?"

"Perfectly satisfactory."

The following kokam, Dunark piloted the Skylark, with Seaton, Crane, and DuQuesne as crew,
to one of the great platinum foundries. The girls remained behind to get ready for their departure,
and for the great ceremony which was to precede it. The trip to the foundry was a short one,
and the three scientists of Earth stared at what they saw--thousands of tons of platinum, cast
into bars and piled up like pig-iron, waiting to be made into numerous articles of every-day
use throughout the nation. Dunark wrote out an order, which his chief attendant handed to the
officer in charge of the foundry, saying:

"Please have it loaded at once."

Seaton indicated the storage compartment into which the metal was to be carried, and a procession
of slaves, two men staggering under one ingot, was soon formed between the pile and the storage
room.

       *       *       *       *       *

"How much are you loading on, Dunark?" asked Seaton, when the large compartment was more than
half full.

"My order called for about twenty tons, in your weight, but I changed it later--we may as well
fill that room full, so that the metal will not rattle around in flight. It doesn't make any
difference to us, we have so much of it. It is like your gift of the salt, only vastly smaller."

"What are you going to do with it all, Dick?" asked Crane. "That is enough to break the platinum
market completely."

"That's exactly what I'm going to do," returned Seaton, with a gleam in his gray eyes. "I'm
going to burst this unjustifiable fad for platinum jewelry so wide open that it'll never recover,
and make platinum again available for its proper uses, in laboratories and in the industries.

"You know yourself," he rushed on hotly, "that the only reason platinum is used at all for
jewelry is that it is expensive. It isn't nearly so handsome as either gold or silver, and
if it wasn't the most costly common metal we have, the jewelry-wearing crowd wouldn't touch
it with a ten-foot pole. Useless as an ornament, it is the one absolutely indispensable laboratory
metal, and literally hundreds of laboratories that need it can't have it because over half
the world's supply is tied up in jeweler's windows and in useless baubles. Then, too, it is
the best thing known for contact points in electrical machinery. When the Government and all
the scientific societies were abjectly begging the jewelers to let loose a little of it they
refused--they were selling it to profiteering spendthrifts at a hundred and fifty dollars an
ounce. The condition isn't much better right now; it's a vicious circle. As long as the price
stays high it will be used for jewelry, and as long as it is used for jewelry the price will
stay high, and scientists will have to fight the jewelers for what little they get."

"While somewhat exaggerated, that is about the way matters stand. I will admit that I, too,
am rather bitter on the subject," said Crane.

"Bitter? Of course you're bitter. Everybody is who knows anything about science and who has
a brain in his head. Anybody who claims to be a scientist and yet stands for any of his folks
buying platinum jewelry ought to be shot. But they'll get theirs as soon as we get back. They
wouldn't let go of it before, they had too good a thing, but they'll let go now, and get their
fingers burned besides. I'm going to dump this whole shipment at fifty cents a pound, and we'll
take mighty good care that jewelers don't corner the supply."

"I'm with you, Dick, as usual."

Soon the storage room was filled to the ceiling with closely-stacked ingots of the precious
metal, and the Skylark was driven back to the landing dock. She alighted beside Dunark's vessel,
the Kondal, whose gorgeously-decorated crew of high officers sprang to attention as the four
men stepped out. All were dressed for the ceremonial leave-taking, the three Americans wearing
their spotless white, the Kondalians wearing their most resplendent trappings.

"This formal stuff sure does pull my cork!" exclaimed Seaton to Dunark. "I want to get this
straight. The arrangement was that we were to be here at this time, all dressed up, and wait
for the ladies, who are coming under the escort of your people?"

"Yes. Our family is to escort the ladies from the palace here. As they leave the elevator the
surrounding war-vessels will salute, and after a brief ceremony you two will escort your wives
into the Skylark, Doctor DuQuesne standing a little apart and following you in. The war-vessels
will escort you as high as they can go, and the Kondal will accompany you as far as our most
distant sun before turning back."

For a few moments Seaton nervously paced a short beat in front of the door of the space-car.

"I'm getting more fussed every second," he said abruptly, taking out his wireless instrument.
"I'm going to see if they aren't about ready."

"What seems to be the trouble, Dick? Have you another hunch, or are you just rattled?" asked Crane.

"Rattled, I guess, but I sure do want to get going," he replied, as he worked the lever rapidly.

"Dottie," he sent out, and, the call being answered, "How long will you be? We're all ready
and waiting, chewing our finger-nails with impatience."

"We'll soon be ready. The Karfedix is coming for us now."

Scarcely had the tiny sounder become silent when the air was shaken by an urgently-vibrated
message, and every wireless sounder gave warning.

CHAPTER XVIII

The Invasion

The pulsating air and the chattering sounders were giving the same dire warning, the alarm
extraordinary of invasion, of imminent and catastrophic danger from the air.

"Don't try to reach the palace. Everyone on the ground will have time enough to hide in the
deep, arenak-protected pits beneath the buildings, and you would be killed by the invaders
long before you could reach the palace. If we can repel the enemy and keep them from landing,
the women will be perfectly safe, even though the whole city is destroyed. If they effect a
landing we are lost."

"They'll not land, then," Seaton answered grimly, as he sprang into the Skylark and took his
place at the board. As Crane took out his wireless, Seaton cautioned him.

"Send in English, and tell the girls not to answer, as these devils can locate the calls within
a foot and will be able to attack the right spot. Just tell them we're safe in the Skylark.
Tell them to sit tight while we wipe out this gang that is coming, and that we'll call them,
once in a while, when we have time, during the battle."

Before Crane had finished sending the message the crescendo whine of enormous propellers was
heard. Simultaneously there was a deafening concussion and one entire wing of the palace disappeared
in a cloud of dust, in the midst of which could be discerned a few flying fragments. The air
was filled with Mardonalian warships. They were huge vessels, each mounting hundreds of guns,
and the rain of high-explosive shells was rapidly reducing the great city to a wide-spread
heap of debris.

Seaton's hand was upon the lever which would hurl the Skylark upward into the fray. Crane and
DuQuesne, each hard of eye and grim of jaw, were stationed at their machine-guns.

"Something's up!" exclaimed Seaton. "Look at the Kondal!"

Something had happened indeed. Dunark sat at the board, his hand upon the power lever, and
each of his crew was in place, grasping his weapon, but every man was writhing in agony, unable
to control his movements. As they stared, momentarily spellbound, the entire crew ceased their
agonized struggles and hung, apparently lifeless, from their supports.

"They've got to 'em some way--let's go!" yelled Seaton.

As his hand tightened upon the lever, a succession of shells burst upon the dock, wrecking
it completely, all three men fancied that the world had come to an end as the stream of high
explosive was directed against their vessel. But the four-foot shell of arenak was impregnable,
and Seaton shot the Skylark upward into the midst of the enemy fleet. The two gunners fired
as fast as they could sight their weapons, and with each shot one of the great warships was
blown into fragments. The Mardonalians then concentrated the fire of their entire fleet upon
their tiny opponent.

From every point of the compass, from above and below, the enemy gunners directed streams of
shells against the dodging vessel. The noise was more than deafening, it was one continuous,
shattering explosion, and the Earth-men were surrounded by such a blaze of fire from the exploding
shells that they could not see the enemy vessels. Seaton sought to dodge the shells by a long
dive toward one side, only to find that dozens of new opponents had been launched against them--the
deadly airplane-torpedoes of Osnome. Steered by wireless and carrying no crews, they were simply
winged bombs carrying thousands of pounds of terrific electrical explosive--enough to kill
the men inside the vessel by the concussion of the explosion, even should the arenak armor
be strong enough to withstand the blow. Though much faster than the Osnomian vessels, they
were slow beside the Skylark, and Seaton could have dodged a few of them with ease. As he dodged,
however, they followed relentlessly, and in spite of those which were blown up by the gunners,
their number constantly increased until Seaton thought of the repellers.

"'Nobody Holme' is right!" he exclaimed, as he threw on the power actuating the copper bands
which encircled the hull in all directions. Instantly the torpedoes were hurled backward, exploding
as the force struck them, and even the shells were ineffective, exploding harmlessly, as they
encountered the zone of force. The noise of the awful detonations lessened markedly.

"Why the silence, I wonder?" asked Seaton, while the futile shells of the enemy continued to
waste their force some hundreds of feet distant from their goal, and while Crane and DuQuesne
were methodically destroying the huge vessels as fast as they could aim and fire. At every
report one of the monster warships disappeared--its shattered fragments and the bodies of its
crew hurtling to the ground. His voice could not be heard in even the lessened tumult, but
he continued:

"It must be that our repellers have set up a partial vacuum by repelling even the air!"

       *       *       *       *       *

Suddenly the shelling ceased and the Skylark was enveloped by a blinding glare from hundreds
of great reflectors; an intense, searching, bluish-violet light that burned the flesh and seared
through eyelids and eyeballs into the very brain.

"Ultra-violet!" yelled Seaton at the first glimpse of the light, as he threw on the power.
"Shut your eyes! Turn your heads down!"

Out in space, far beyond reach of the deadly rays, the men held a short conference, then donned
heavy leather-and-canvas suits, which they smeared liberally with thick red paint, and replaced
the plain glasses of their helmets with heavy lenses of deep ruby glass.

"This'll stop any ultra-violet ray ever produced," exulted Seaton, as he again threw the vessel
into the Mardonalian fleet. A score of the great vessels met their fate before the Skylark
was located, and, although the terrible rays were again focused upon the intruder in all their
intensity, the carnage continued.

In a few minutes, however, the men heard, or rather felt, a low, intense vibration, like a
silent wave of sound--a vibration which smote upon the eardrums as no possible sound could
smite, a vibration which racked the joints and tortured the nerves as though the whole body
were disintegrating. So sudden and terrible was the effect that Seaton uttered an involuntary
yelp of surprise and pain as he once more fled into the safety of space.

"What the devil was that?" demanded DuQuesne. "Was it infra-sound? I didn't suppose such waves
could be produced."

"Infra-sound is right. They produce most anything here," replied Seaton, and Crane added:

"Well, about three fur suits apiece, with cotton in our ears, ought to kill any wave propagated
through air."

The fur suits were donned forthwith, Seaton whispering in Crane's ear:

"I've found out something else, too. The repellers repel even the air. I'm going to shoot enough
juice through them to set up a perfect vacuum outside. That'll kill those air-waves."

Scarcely were they back within range of the fleet when DuQuesne, reaching for his gun to fire
the first shot, leaped backward with a yell.

"Beat it!"

Once more at a safe distance, DuQuesne explained.

"It's lucky I'm so used to handling hot stuff that from force of habit I never make close contact
with anything at the first touch. That gun carried thousands of volts, with lots of amperage
behind them, and if I had had a good hold on it I couldn't have let go. We'll block that game
quick enough, though. Thick, dry gloves covered with rubber are all that is necessary. It's
a good thing for all of us that you have those fancy condensite handles on your levers, Seaton."

"That was how they got Dunark, undoubtedly," said Crane, as he sent a brief message to the
girls, assuring them that all was well, as he had been doing at every respite. "But why were
we not overcome at the same time?"

"They must have had the current tuned to iridium, and had to experiment until they found the
right wave for steel," Seaton explained.

"I should think our bar would have exploded, with all that current. They must have hit the
copper range, too?"

Seaton frowned in thought before he answered.

"Maybe because it's induced current, and not a steady battery impulse. Anyway, it didn't. Let's
go!"

"Just a minute," put in Crane. "What are they going to do next, Dick?"

"Search me. I'm not used to my new Osnomian mind yet. I recognize things all right after they
happen, but I can't seem to figure ahead--it's like a dimly-remembered something that flashes
up as soon as mentioned. I get too many and too new ideas at once. I know, though, that the
Osnomians have defenses against all these things except this last stunt of the charged guns.
That must be the new one that Mardonale stole from Kondal. The defenses are, however, purely
Osnomian in character and material. As we haven't got the stuff to set them up as the Osnomians
do, we'll have to do it our own way. We may be able to dope out the next one, though. Let's
see, what have they given us so far?"

"We've got to hand it to them," responded DuQuesne, admiringly. "They're giving us the whole
range of wave-lengths, one at a time. They've given us light, both ultra-violet and visible,
sound, infra-sound, and electricity--I don't know what's left unless they give us a new kind
of X-rays, or Hertzian, or infra-red heat waves, or...."

"That's it, heat!" exclaimed Seaton. "They produce heat by means of powerful wave-generators
and by setting up heavy induced currents in the armor. They can melt arenak that way."

"Do you suppose we can handle the heat with our refrigerators?" asked Crane.

"Probably. We have a lot of power, and the new arenak cylinders of our compressors will stand
anything. The only trouble will be in cooling the condensers. We'll run as long as we have
any water in our tanks, then go dive into the ocean to cool off. We'll try it a whirl, anyway."

       *       *       *       *       *

Soon the Skylark was again dealing out death and destruction in the thick of the enemy vessels,
who again turned from the devastation of the helpless city to destroy this troublesome antagonist.
But in spite of the utmost efforts of light-waves, sound-waves, and high-tension electricity,
the space-car continued to take its terrible toll. As Seaton had foretold, the armor of the
Skylark began to grow hot, and he turned on the full power of the refrigerating system. In
spite of the cooling apparatus, however, the outer walls finally began to glow redly, and,
although the interior was comfortably cool, the ends of the rifle-barrels, which were set flush
with the surface of the revolving arenak globes which held them, softened, rendering the guns
useless. The copper repellers melted and dripped off in flaming balls of molten metal, so that
shells once more began to crash against the armor. DuQuesne, with no thought of quitting apparent
in voice or manner, said calmly:

"Well, it looks as though they had us stopped for a few minutes. Let's go back into space and
dope out something else."

Seaton, thinking intensely, saw a vast fleet of enemy reinforcements approaching, and at the
same time received a wireless call directed to Dunark. It was from the grand fleet of Kondal,
hastening from the bordering ocean to the defense of the city. Using Dunark's private code,
Seaton told the Karbix, who was in charge of the fleet, that the enemy had a new invention
which would wipe them out utterly without a chance to fight, and that he and his vessel were
in control of the situation; and ordered him to see that no Kondalian ship came within battle
range of a Mardonalian. He then turned to Crane and DuQuesne, his face grim and his fighting
jaw set.

"I've got it doped right now. Give the Lark speed enough and she's some bullet herself. We've
got four feet of arenak, they've got only an inch, and arenak doesn't even begin to soften
until far above a blinding white temperature. Strap yourselves in solid, for it's going to
be a rough party from now on."

They buckled their belts firmly, and Seaton, holding the bar toward their nearest antagonist,
applied twenty notches of power. The Skylark darted forward and crashed completely through
the great airship. Torn wide open by the forty-foot projectile, its engines wrecked and its
helicopter-screws and propellers completely disabled, the helpless hulk plunged through two
miles of empty air, a mass of wreckage.

Darting hither and thither, the space-car tore through vessel after vessel of the Mardonalian
fleet. She was an embodied thunderbolt; a huge, irresistible, indestructible projectile, directed
by a keen brain inside it--the brain of Richard Seaton, roused to his highest fighting pitch
and fighting for everything that man holds dear. Tortured by the terrible silent waves, which,
now that the protecting vacuum had been destroyed, were only partially stopped by the fur suits;
shaken and battered by the terrific impacts and the even greater shocks occurring every second
as the direction of the vessel was changed; made sick and dizzy by the nauseating swings and
lurches as the Skylark spun about the central chamber; Seaton's wonderful physique and his
nerves of steel stood him in good stead in this, the supreme battle of his life, as with teeth
tight-locked and eyes gray and hard as the fracture of high-carbon steel, he urged the Skylark
on to greater and greater efforts.

Though it was impossible for the eye to follow the flight of the space-car, the mechanical
sighting devices of the Mardonalian vessels kept her in as perfect focus as though she were
stationary, and the great generators continued to hurl into her the full power of their death-dealing
waves. The enemy guns were still spitting forth their streams of high-explosive shells, but
unlike the waves, the shells moved so slowly compared to their target that only a few found
their mark, and many of the vessels fell to the ground, riddled by the shells of their sister-ships.

       *       *       *       *       *

With anxious eyes Seaton watched the hull of his animated cannon-ball change in color. From
dull red it became cherry, and as the cherry red gave place to bright red heat, Seaton threw
even more power into the bar as he muttered through his set teeth:

"Well, Seaton, old top, you've got to cut out this loafing on the job and get busy!"

In spite of his utmost exertions and in spite of the powerful ammonia plant, now exerting its
full capacity, but sadly handicapped by the fact that its cooling-water was now boiling, Seaton
saw the arenak shell continue to heat. The bright red was succeeded by orange, which slowly
changed, first to yellow, then to light yellow, and finally to a dazzling white; through which,
with the aid of his heavy red lenses, he could still see the enemy ships. After a time he noted
that the color had gone down to yellow and he thrilled with exultation, knowing that he had
so reduced the numbers of the enemy fleet that their wave-generators could no longer overcome
his refrigerators. After a few minutes more of the awful carnage there remained only a small
fraction of the proud fleet which, thousands strong, had invaded Kondal--a remnant that sought
safety in flight. But even in flight, they still fought with all their weapons, and the streams
of bombs dropped from their keel-batteries upon the country beneath marked the path of their
retreat with a wide swath of destruction. Half inclined to let the few remaining vessels escape,
Seaton's mind changed instantly as he saw the bombs spreading devastation upon the countryside,
and not until the last of the Mardonalian vessels had been destroyed did he drop the Skylark
into the area of ruins which had once been the palace grounds, beside the Kondal, which was
still lying as it had fallen.

After several attempts to steady their whirling senses, the three men finally were able to
walk, and, opening a door, they leaped out through the opening in the still glowing wall. Seaton's
first act was to wireless the news to Dorothy, who replied that they were coming as fast as
they could. The men then removed their helmets, revealing faces pale and drawn, and turned
to the helpless space-car.

"There's no way of getting into this thing from the outside...." Seaton began, when he saw
that the Kofedix and his party were beginning to revive. Soon Dunark opened the door and stumbled
out.

"I have to thank you for more than my life this time," he said, his voice shaken by uncontrollable
emotion as he grasped the hands of all three men. "Though unable to move, I was conscious and
saw all that happened--you kept them so busy that they didn't have a chance to give us enough
to kill us outright. You have saved the lives of millions of our nation and have saved Kondal
itself from annihilation."

"Oh, it's not that bad," answered Seaton, uncomfortably. "Both nations have been invaded before."

"Yes--once when we developed the ultra-violet ray, once when Mardonale perfected the machine
for producing the silent sound-wave, and again when we harnessed the heat-wave. But this would
have been the most complete disaster in history. The other inventions were not so deadly as
was this one, and there were terrible battles, from which the victors emerged so crippled that
they could not completely exterminate the vanquished, who were able to re-establish themselves
in the course of time. If it had not been for you, this would have been the end, as not a Kondalian
soldier could move--any person touching iridium was helpless and would have been killed."

He ceased speaking and saluted as the Karfedix and his party rounded a heap of boulders. Dorothy
and Margaret screamed in unison as they saw the haggard faces of their husbands, and saw their
suits, dripping with a thick substance which they knew to be red, in spite of its purplish-black
color. Seaton dodged nimbly as Dorothy sought to take him in her arms, and tore off his suit.

"Nothing but red paint to stop their light-rays," he reassured her as he lifted her clear from
the ground in a soul-satisfying embrace. Out of the corner of his eye he saw the Kondalians
staring in open-mouthed amazement at the Skylark. Wheeling swiftly, he laughed as he saw a
gigantic ball of frost and snow! Again donning his fur suit, he shut off the refrigerators
and returned to his party, where the Karfedix gave him thanks in measured terms. As he fell
silent, Dunark added:

"Thanks to you, the Mardonalian forces, instead of wiping us out, are themselves destroyed,
while only a handful of our vessels have been lost, since the grand fleet could not arrive
until the battle was over, and since the vessels that would have thrown themselves away were
saved by your orders, which I heard. Thanks to you, we are not even crippled, though our capital
is destroyed and the lives of some unfortunates, who could not reach the pits in time, have
probably been lost.

"Thanks to you," he continued in a ringing voice, "and to the salt and the new source of power
you have given us, Mardonale shall now be destroyed utterly!"

After sending out ships to relieve the suffering of the few wounded and the many homeless,
Dunark summoned a corps of mechanics, who banded on new repellers and repaired the fused barrels
of the machine-guns, all that was necessary to restore the Skylark to perfect condition.

       *       *       *       *       *

Facing the party from Earth, the Karfedix stood in the ruins of his magnificent palace. Back
of him were the nobles of Kondal, and still further back, in order of rank, stood a multitude
of people.

"Is it permitted, oh noble Karfedo, that I reward your captive for his share in the victory?"
he asked.

"It is," acquiesced Seaton and Crane, and Roban stepped up to DuQuesne and placed in his hand
a weighty leather bag. He then fastened about his left wrist the Order of Kondal, the highest
order of the nation.

He then clasped about Crane's wrist a heavily-jeweled, peculiarly-ornamented disk wrought of
a deep ruby-red metal, supported by a heavy bracelet of the same material, the most precious
metal of Osnome. At sight of the disk the nobles saluted and Seaton barely concealed a start
of surprise, for it bore the royal emblem and delegated to its bearer power second only to
that of the Karfedix himself.

"I bestow upon you this symbol, Karfedix Crane, in recognition of what you have this day done
for Kondal. Wherever you may be upon Kondalian Osnome, which from this day henceforth shall
be all Osnome, you have power as my personal representative, as my eldest son."

He drew forth a second bracelet, similar to the first except that it bore seven disks, each
differently designed, which he snapped upon Seaton's wrist as the nobles knelt and the people
back of them threw themselves upon their faces.

"No language spoken by man possesses words sufficiently weighty to express our indebtedness
to you, Karfedix Seaton, our guest and our savior. The First Cause has willed that you should
be the instrument through which Kondal is this day made supreme upon Osnome.

In small and partial recognition of that instrumentality, I bestow upon you these symbols,
which proclaim you our overlord, the ultimate authority of Osnome.

While this is not the way in which I had thought to bid you farewell, the obligations which
you have heaped upon us render all smaller things insignificant. When you return, as I hope
and trust you soon will, the city shall be built anew and we can welcome you as befits your
station."

Lifting both arms above his head he continued:

"May the great First Cause smile upon you in all your endeavors until you solve the Mystery:
may your descendants soon reach the Ultimate Goal. Goodbye."

Seaton uttered a few heartfelt words in response and the party stepped backward toward the
Skylark. As they reached the vessel the standing Karfedix and the ranks of kneeling nobles
snapped into the double salute--truly a rare demonstration in Kondal.

"What'll we do now?" whispered Seaton.

"Bow, of course," answered Dorothy.

They bowed, deeply and slowly, and entered their vessel. As the Skylark shot into the air with
the greatest acceleration that would permit its passengers to move about, the grand fleet of
Kondalian warship fired a deafening salute.

       *       *       *       *       *

It had been planned before the start that each person was to work sixteen hours out of the
twenty-four. Seaton was to drive the vessel during the first two eight-hour periods of each
day. Crane was to observe the stars during the second and to drive during the third. DuQuesne
was to act as observer during the first and third periods. Margaret had volunteered to assist
the observer in taking his notes during her waking hours, and Dorothy appointed herself cook
and household manager.

As soon as the Skylark had left Osnome, Crane told DuQuesne that he and his wife would work
in the observation room until four o'clock in the afternoon, at which time the prearranged
system of relief would begin, and DuQuesne retired to his room.

Crane and Margaret made their way to the darkened room which housed the instruments and seated
themselves, watching intently and making no effort to conceal their emotion as first the persons
beneath them, then the giant war-vessels, and finally the ruined city itself, were lost to
view. Osnome slowly assumed the proportions of a large moon, grew smaller, and as it disappeared
Crane began to take notes. For a few hours the seventeen suns of this strange solar system
shone upon the flying space-car, after which they assumed the aspect of a widely-separated
cluster of enormous stars, slowly growing smaller and smaller and shrinking closer and closer
together.

At four o'clock in the afternoon, Washington time, DuQuesne relieved Crane, who made his way
to the engine room.

"It is time to change shifts, Dick. You have not had your sixteen hours, but everything will
be regular from now on. You two had better get some rest."

"All right," replied Seaton, as he relinquished the controls to Crane, and after bidding the
new helmsman goodnight he and Dorothy went below to their cabin.

Standing at a window with their arms around each other they stared down with misty eyes at
the very faint green star, which was rapidly decreasing in brilliance as the Skylark increased
its already inconceivable velocity. Finally, as it disappeared altogether, Seaton turned to
his wife and tenderly, lovingly, took her in his arms.

"Littlest Girl.... Sweetheart...." he whispered, and paused, overcome by the intensity of his
feelings.

"I know, husband mine," she answered, while tears dimmed her glorious eyes. "It is too deep.
With nothing but words, we can't say a single thing."

CHAPTER XIX

The Return to Earth

DuQuesne's first act upon gaining the privacy of his own cabin was to open the leather bag
presented to him by the Karfedix. He expected to find it filled with rare metals, with perhaps
some jewels, instead of which the only metal present was a heavily-insulated tube containing
a full pound of metallic radium. The least valuable items in the bag were scores of diamonds,
rubies, and emeralds of enormous size and of flawless perfection. Merely ornamental glass upon
Osnome, Dunark knew that they were priceless upon Earth, and had acted accordingly. To this
great wealth of known gems, he had added a rich and varied assortment of the rare and strange
jewels peculiar to his own world, the faidon alone being omitted from the collection. DuQuesne's
habitual calmness of mind almost deserted him as he classified the contents of the bag.

The radium alone was worth millions of dollars, and the scientist in him exulted that at last
his brother scientists should have ample supplies of that priceless metal with which to work,
even while he was rejoicing in the price he would exact for it. He took out the familiar jewels,
estimating their value as he counted them--a staggering total. The bag was still half full
of the strange gems, some of them glowing like miniature lamps in the dark depths, and he made
no effort to appraise them. He knew that once any competent jeweler had compared their cold,
hard, scintillating beauty with that of any Earthly gems, he could demand his own price.

"At last," he breathed to himself, "I will be what I have always longed to be--a money power.
Now I can cut loose from that gang of crooks and go my own way."

He replaced the gems and the tube of radium in the bag, which he stowed away in one of his
capacious pockets, and made his way to the galley.

       *       *       *       *       *

The return voyage through space was uneventful, the Skylark constantly maintaining the same
velocity with which she had started out. Several times, as the days wore on, she came within
the zone of attraction of various gigantic suns, but the pilot had learned his lesson. He kept
a vigilant eye upon the bar, and at the first sign of a deviation from the perpendicular he
steered away, far from the source of the attraction. Not content with these precautions, the
man at the board would, from time to time, shut off the power, to make sure that the space-car
was not falling toward a body directly in its line of flight.

When half the distance had been covered, the bar was reversed, the travelers holding an impromptu
ceremony as the great vessel spun around its center through an angle of one hundred and eighty
degrees. A few days later the observers began to recognize some of the fixed stars in familiar
constellations and knew that the yellowish-white star directly in their line of flight was
the sun of their own solar system. After a time they saw that their course, instead of being
directly toward that rapidly-brightening star, was bearing upon a barely visible star a little
to one side of it. Pointing their most powerful telescope toward that point of light, Crane
made out a planet, half of its disk shining brightly. The girls hastened to peer through the
telescope, and they grew excited as they made out the familiar outlines of the continents and
oceans upon the lighted portion of the disk.

It was not long until these outlines were plainly visible to the unaided vision. The Earth
appeared as a great, softly shining, greenish half-moon, with parts of its surface obscured
by fleecy wisps of cloud, and with its two gleaming ice-caps making of its poles two brilliant
areas of white. The returning wanderers stared at their own world with their hearts in their
throats as Crane, who was at the board, increased the retarding force sufficiently to assure
himself that they would not be traveling too fast to land upon the Earth.

After Dorothy and Margaret had gone to prepare a meal, DuQuesne turned to Seaton.

"Have you gentlemen decided what you intend to do with me?"

"No. We haven't discussed it yet. I can't make up my own mind what I want to do to you, except
that I sure would like to get you inside a square ring with four-ounce gloves on. You have
been of too much real assistance on this trip for us to see you hanged, as you deserve. On
the other hand, you are altogether too much of a thorough-going scoundrel for us to let you
go free. You see the fix we are in. What would you suggest?"

"Nothing," replied DuQuesne calmly. "As I am in no danger whatever of hanging, nothing you
can say on that score affects me in the least. As for freeing me, you may do as you please--it
makes no difference to me, one way or the other, as no jail can hold me for a day. I can say,
however, that while I have made a fortune on this trip, so that I do not have to associate
further with Steel unless it is to my interest to do so, I may nevertheless find it desirable
at some future time to establish a monopoly of X. That would, of course, necessitate the death
of yourself and Crane. In that event, or in case any other difference should arise between
us, this whole affair will be as though it had never existed. It will have no weight either
way, whether or not you try to hang me."

"Go as far as you like," Seaton answered cheerfully. "If we're not a match for you and your
gang, on foot or in the air, in body or in mind, we'll deserve whatever we get. We can outrun
you, outjump you, throw you down, or lick you; we can run faster, hit harder, dive deeper,
and come up dryer, than you can. We'll play any game you want to deal, whenever you want to
deal it; for fun, money, chalk, or marbles."

His brow darkened in anger as a thought struck him, and the steady gray eyes bored into the
unflinching black ones as he continued, with no trace of his former levity in his voice:

"But listen to this. Anything goes as far as Martin and I personally are concerned. But I want
you to know that I could be arrested for what I think of you as a man; and if any of your little
schemes touch Dottie or Peggy in any way, shape or form, I'll kill you as I would a snake--or
rather, I'll take you apart as I would any other piece of scientific apparatus. This isn't
a threat, it's a promise. Get me?"

"Perfectly. Good-night."

For many hours the Earth had been obscured by clouds, so that the pilot had only a general
idea of what part of the world was beneath them, but as they dropped rapidly downward into
the twilight zone, the clouds parted and they saw that they were directly over the Panama Canal.
Seaton allowed the Skylark to fall to within ten miles of the ground, when he stopped so that
Martin could get his bearings and calculate the course to Washington, which would be in total
darkness before their arrival.

DuQuesne had retired, cold and reticent as usual. Glancing quickly about his cabin to make
sure that he had overlooked nothing he could take with him, he opened a locker, exposing to
view four suits which he had made in his spare time, each adapted to a particular method of
escape from the Skylark. The one he selected was of heavy canvas, braced with steel netting,
equipped with helmet and air-tanks, and attached to a strong, heavy parachute. He put it on,
tested all its parts, and made his way unobserved to one of the doors in the lower part of
the vessel. Thus, when the chance for escape came, he was ready for it. As the Skylark paused
over the Isthmus, his lips parted in a sardonic smile. He opened the door and stepped out into
the air, closing the door behind him as he fell. The neutral color of the parachute was lost
in the gathering twilight a few seconds after he left the vessel.

The course laid, Seaton turned almost due north and the Skylark tore through the air. After
a short time, when half the ground had been covered, Seaton spoke suddenly.

"Forgot about DuQuesne, Mart. We'd better iron him, hadn't we? Then we'll decide whether we
want to keep him or turn him loose."

"I will go fetch him," replied Crane, and turned to the stairs.

He returned shortly, with the news of the flight of the captive.

"Hm ... he must have made himself a parachute. I didn't think even he would tackle a sixty-thousand-foot
drop. I'll tell the world that he sure has established a record. I can't say I'm sorry that
he got away, though. We can get him again any time we want him, anyway, as that little object-compass
in my drawer is still looking right at him," said Seaton.

"I think he earned his liberty," declared Dorothy, stoutly, and Margaret added:

"He deserves to be shot, but I'm glad he's gone. He gives me the shivers."

At the end of the calculated time they saw the lights of a large city beneath them, and Crane's
fingers clenched upon Seaton's arm as he pointed downward. There were the landing-lights of
Crane Field, seven peculiarly-arranged searchlights throwing their mighty beams upward into
the night.

"Nine weeks, Dick," he said, unsteadily, "and Shiro would have kept them burning nine years
if necessary."

The Skylark dropped easily to the ground in front of the testing shed and the wanderers leaped
out, to be greeted by the half-hysterical Jap. Shiro's ready vocabulary of peculiar but sonorous
words failed him completely, and he bent himself double in a bow, his yellow face wreathed
in the widest possible smile. Crane, one arm around his wife, seized Shiro's hand and wrung
it in silence. Seaton swept Dorothy off her feet, pressing her slender form against his powerful
body. Her arms tightened about his neck as they kissed each other fervently and he whispered
in her ear:

"Sweetheart wife, isn't it great to be back on our good old Earth again?"

THE END

  +--------------------------------------------------------------+
  |                                                              |
  | Transcriber's Notes & Errata                                 |
  |                                                              |
  | The editorial notes associated with the three installments   |
  | of the story have been placed in ASCII text boxes and        |
  | incorporated at the appropriate places in the text.          |
  |                                                              |
  | Illustrations have been moved to the appropriate place in    |
  | the text.                                                    |
  |                                                              |
  | The chemical symbol for water is represented as H2O.         |
  |                                                              |
  | The following typographical errors have been corrected.      |
  |                                                              |
  |               |Error         |Correction    |                |
  |               |              |              |                |
  |               |plantinum     |platinum      |                |
  |               |refused.      |refused."     |                |
  |               |We            |"We           |                |
  |               |abstruce      |abstruse      |                |
  |               |I love        |"I love       |                |
  |               |CHAPTE        |CHAPTER       |                |
  |               |food          |fool          |                |
  |               |unmistakeable |unmistakable  |                |
  |               |ever          |even          |                |
  |               |Mat           |Mart          |                |
  |               |gravity.      |gravity."     |                |
  |               |completely.   |completely."  |                |
  |               |ecstacy       |ecstasy       |                |
  |               |embarassment  |embarrassment |                |
  |               |Naloon        |Nalboon       |                |
  |               |inumerable    |innumerable   |                |
  |               |but           |"but          |                |
  |               |efficient     |efficient."   |                |
  |               |Dare          |"Dare         |                |
  |               |wit           |wait          |                |
  |               |They produce  |"They produce |                |
  |                                                              |
  |                                                              |
  | Variable hyphenation                                         |
  |                                                              |
  | The number of times each form appears in the text is given   |
  | in parentheses.                                              |
  |                                                              |
  |           |blue-prints (2)    |blueprints (4)    |           |
  |           |border-line (3)    |borderline (1)    |           |
  |           |break-down (1)     |breakdown (1)     |           |
  |           |devil-fish (1)     |devilfish (1)     |           |
  |           |Good-bye (4)       |Goodbye (1)       |           |
  |           |good-bye (4)       |goodbye (3)       |           |
  |           |good-night (2)     |goodnight (2)     |           |
  |           |half-way (4)       |halfway (1)       |           |
  |           |hand-rail (1)      |handrail (2)      |           |
  |           |hand-rails (1)     |handrails (1)     |           |
  |           |home-coming (1)    |homecoming (1)    |           |
  |           |major-domo (3)     |majordomo (1)     |           |
  |           |near-by (1)        |nearby (4)        |           |
  |           |nitro-glycerin (2) |nitroglycerin (2) |           |
  |           |to-night (2)       |tonight (7)       |           |
  |                                                              |
  +--------------------------------------------------------------+