If you are to love a woman, for heaven's sake, says he, take care that she be safe bound beyond
your reach. All attainment is dead-sea fruit. But how is anyone to believe this depressing
sort of doctrine when the woman in question is such an engaging divinity as his Caroline Ashley,
interpreted by Miss IRENE VANBRUGH at the very top of her form? The doctrine, indeed, may be
hanged for the nefarious half-truth it is; but this would still leave you free to appreciate
one of the most brilliant and finished pieces of work which Mr. MAUGHAM has yet done for the
stage. True, it is merely an airy trifle; but it is almost perfect of its kind.

The action opens on the morning of the announcement in The Times of the death of Caroline's
extremely difficult husband, who has long been a wanderer seeking spirituous consolations in
out-of-the-way places of the earth. Robert Oldham, a quite delightful barrister (Mr. LEONARD
BOYNE; so you will understand the "delightful"), has worshipped Caroline with an honourable
fidelity for ten years, waiting patiently for the day on which she shall be free. Well, here
is the long-desired day. Affectionate, officious friends come to congratulate each of the pair
before they meet, and each confesses to a curious chilling sense of dread. When the embarrassing
moment of the téte-à-téte arrives, Robert, obviously ill-at-ease and apparently more as a matter
of duty than of eager conviction, suggests that Caroline shall name the day. She gives him
a blank refusal. Both affect dismay at this queer ending of their long-deferred hopes, but
eventually confess, mid peals of their own happy laughter, their actual relief. So ends the
first chapter.

A later hour of the same day finds our heroine on her sofa, languid from the morning's emotions,
and indulging in the luxury of not feeling at all well. Her world is crumbling. She cannot
do without a slave, and Robert can no longer fill quite the old rôle. Clearly a matter for
counsel with her physician and friend, Dr. Cornish (Mr. DION BOUCICAULT), who pleasantly diagnoses
middle-age and prescribes a young adorer, than which no advice could be more nicely calculated
to restore her lost feeling of queenly complacency. She sends for young Rex Cunningham (Mr.
MARTIN LEWIS), a morbid egoist, who nourishes a hopeless passion for her (and others), being
well aware of the paramount claims of Robert. She contrives to let him know that she is free,
and the youth, whose pet hobby is hopeless passion, at once sheers off in alarm. Caroline is
learning--is beginning to understand the dark philosophy of Mr. SOMERSET MAUGHAM. In despair
she again turns to Robert. They become engaged and promptly begin quarrelling about their houses.
He objects to her Futurist bathroom; she to his, which is so like a tube station that she would
bathe in constant apprehension of the sudden appearance of a young man demanding tickets. Robert
begins to assert his masculine rights to control these and sundry matters. She realises (oh,
venerable gag of the cynics!) that the fetters which would unite their bodies would put a barrier
between their souls. The engagement is by mutual consent declared off.

Realising, however, in Chapter III., that she needs Robert's devotion more than anything else,
she conceives a plot. Dr. Cornish makes an opportune call, not this time as a doctor, but as
a whole-hearted admirer. With just such an one for my husband, thinks Caroline, Robert could
again assume his accustomed part of loyal friend and incense-bearer. She accordingly proposes.
Appreciating the difficulty of directly refusing without discourtesy, he temporises and appears
to fall in with her suggestion that he shall announce their engagement to Robert and her interfering
friends, who are promptly telephoned for to hear an interesting statement. But Cornish proves
himself a WOLFF in sheep's clothing. Instead of announcing the engagement he asserts that he
has just seen Stephen Ashley, the husband: a lie which obtains credence with the others because
of the dead man's amiable habit of occasionally putting about a rumour of his decease. Caroline,
with superb presence of mind, seeing a glorious way out of a dilemma, adopts the lie, contrives
a more or less plausible explanation, and thus establishes the status quo ante--the grass widow
with the faithful and contented adorer.

The play, whose only flaw was a certain rather upsetting ambiguity (whether accidental or designed
I could not quite gather) in the last few sentences before the curtain fell, was interpreted
with a very fine intelligence. Miss IRENE VANBRUGH'S superbly trained talent showed itself
in an astonishing range of moods tethered in a plausible unity of conception. Mr. BOYNE, who
is just coming into his own, scored bull after bull. Perhaps he didn't make Oldham quite the
Englishman that the author (I should say) designed, but rather an Irishman of that delightfully
faint flavour which is so entirely attractive. Miss LILLAH MACARTHY, as Maude Fulton, a well-preserved
bachelor in the most bizarre modern mode, also a dexterous liar and officious matchmaker, played
with her head in her most accomplished manner and gave full value in the general scheme to
a character which the author made a person when he might have been content with a peg. Mr.
DION BOUCICAULT'S physician was as bland a humbug as ever coined guineas in Mayfair. Mr. MARTIN
LEWIS, as a profoundly silly ass, played a difficult hand without fault. Miss NINA SEVENING,
as a consoler of handsome men in trouble, and Miss FLORENCE LLOYD, as Caroline's maid, competently
rounded off in subsidiary rôles the work of the principals.

Yes, undoubtedly a brilliant performance.

    T.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

OUR BOOKING-OFFICE.

(By Mr. Punch's Staff of Learned Clerics.)

THE evolution of the long novel appears to be following that of the human race. Instead of
the individual, the family now threatens to become the central unit. I confess that this prospect,
as evidenced by Three Pretty Men (METHUEN), fills me with some just apprehension. Mr. GILBERT
CANNAN has set out to tell how a Scotch family, three brothers, a mother, and some sisters
in the background, determines to make its fortune in a South Lancashire city (very recognisable
under the name of Thrigsby), and how eventually all but one of them succeed. It is a long book
and a close; and the dialogue (which of its kind is good dialogue, crisp and illuminating),
being printed without the usual spacing, produces an indigestible-looking page that might well
alarm a reader out for enjoyment. The book, in its record of the progress of the three, Jamie
and Tom and John, is really more a study of social conditions in mid-Victorian Manchester than
a work of imagination. But there is clever character-drawing in it, especially in Jamie, who
from a worldly point of view is the failure of the group, making no money, and drifting through
journalism to emigration; and in the finely suggested figure of Tibby, the ill-favoured kitchen
drudge, who is his real centre of inspiration. But first and last it remains a dull business,
partly from an entire lack of humour, partly from the absence of any settled plan that might
help one to endure the dreariness of the setting. Mr. CANNAN certainly knows his subject, and
few novels indeed have given me, rightly or wrongly, a greater suggestion of autobiography.
But for once the art of being exhaustive without being exhausting seems to have eluded him.

       *       *       *       *       *

If you want really to get a picture of war as she is waged by an obscure unit in the thick
of the dirtiest, dampest and most depressing part, read PATRICK MACGILL'S The Red Horizon (JENKINS).
Here we meet the author of The Children of the Dead End and The Rat Pit as Rifleman 3008 of
the London Irish, involved in the grim routine of the firing line--reliefs, diggings and repairs,
sentry-go's, stand-to's, reserves, working and covering parties, billets; and so da capo. With
a rare artistic intuition, instead of diffusing his effects in a riot of general impressions,
he has confined himself to a record of the doings of his section, and I have read nothing that
gives anything near so convincing an impression of the truth, at once splendid and bitter.
It is a privilege to be shown, through the medium of an imaginative temperament, the fine comradeship
of the trenches, the heroism that shines through the haunting fear of death, mostly conquered
with a laugh, but sometimes frankly expressed in the pathetic desire for a "blighty" wound--a
wound just serious enough to send the envied hero home.

       *       *       *       *       *

If you were the hero of a novel, the only possible mate for the heroine, and, in short, taking
you all round, an important sort of person, would you not consider yourself hardly treated
if you were not allowed to make the girl's acquaintance till page 311, when you knew there
were to be only three hundred and thirty-two pages in the book? I disagree entirely with Roger
Quinn, in Miss BEATRICE KELSTON'S The Blows of Circumstance (LONG), when, reviewing the affair,
he writes to a friend: "It's amazing that we fell short of perfect understanding." My opinion
is that Roger did extremely well in the little time he was given. Of course he had conducted
the case for the Crown when she was in the dock, charged with murder, and that formed a sort
of bond between them; but even so I don't see how he could have got much nearer to a complete
understanding, considering that the girl dashed off and committed suicide almost before he
could get a word in. If my enjoyment of The Blows of Circumstance waned towards the end and
the book seemed to me to lose grip, it was because the sudden discovery on the part of Quinn
and Amalie Gayne that they were soul-mates was too sudden to convince me. Up to the beginning
of the trial the story has vigour and an air of probability, with its careful building-up of
Amalie's curious character and the vivid description of her life on the stage and off it in
the society of a drug-taking husband; but from that point on it seemed to me to fail. In real
life all might have happened just as it is set down, but real life is sloppily constructed.
A novel must obey more rigid rules. Miss KELSTON writes extremely well, if a trifle too gloomily
for my personal taste, but she cannot afford to ignore the laws of construction and hurl her
big situation at the reader with an abrupt "Take it or leave it!"

       *       *       *       *       *

  For Thirteen Stories I've nought but praise,
    Although you'll find when you overhaul them
  They're best described, in the author's phrase,
    As "sketches, studies or what do you call them?"

  Per DUCKWORTH forward and back you trek;
    You may book right through or choose between a
  Peep at Perim or Chapultepec,
    Sahara, Hampstead or Argentina.

  You may halt, if you will, at phalansteries,
    Where Mescaleros on maturangos
  Eat or drink (whichever it is)
    Baked tortillas and twang changangos.

  Suchlike things come easy as pie
    To the author, Mr. CUNNINGHAME GRAHAM,
  And I quite like 'em so long as I
    Have only to read and not to say 'em.

       *       *       *       *       *

If 'tis love that makes the world go round, it is certainly the same force that maintains the
circulation of the libraries. So it is safe to assume that such a title as The Little Blind
God (MELROSE) is itself enough to preserve the volume that bears it from any wallflower existence
on the less frequented shelves. But as for the story to which Miss ANNE WEAVER has given this
attractive name I find it very difficult to say anything, good or bad. Only once did its placid
unfolding cause me any emotion, even the mildest. Old Lady Conyers had adopted as companion
one Mistress Barbara Cardeen (need I interpolate that the time is the eighteenth century? O
brocade and lavender! O swords and candle-light and general tushery!), whom she found playing
a violin in the streets of Bath--I should say the Bath; let us above all things be atmospheric!
As her ladyship had a most eligible son, and as Barbara--the chit!--naturally hadn't a guinea,
I own I was slightly astonished to find the dowager positively hurling the young couple at
each other's heads. However, doubtless Lady Conyers, as herself a novel-reader, knew that the
thing was inevitable anyway. But before this there were of course the misunderstandings. Mistress
Barbara had, in the violin days, a half-brother and this gentleman very obligingly turns up
incognito at Conyers End, and even goes to the expense of hiring rooms in a cottage on the
estate, for no other purpose in life than that his conspicuously clandestine meetings with
the fair Barbara should be misconstrued as an assignation. Ha! out, rapiers! and let us be
ready for the moment when Barbara, rushing between the combatants, receives in her own bosom
the blade intended for ----, etc. But of course not enough blade to endanger the happy ending.
So there you are. A placid, undistinguished tale, that may be commended as nourishment or soporific
according to the taste and fancy of the reader.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

An Optimist.

    "Gentlewoman, bright, owing to War, offers Companionship
    in Return for hospitality, laundry, and travelling
    expenses."

    Morning Paper.

       *       *       *       *       *

    "An attack on the compulsory vice bill now before the
    House of Lords was made by the president of the
    conference, William C. Anderson."--New York Globe.

Our American contemporary is misinformed. The measure in question seeks to make virtue compulsory--the
virtue of patriotism.

       *       *       *       *       *

    "The following French official communiqué was issued
    this afternoon:--3.25.--Bouton Rouge 1, Dordogne 2,
    Kitch 3. Eight ran."--Evening Times and Echo.

We are sorry that K. OF K. didn't do better.