5 yards quarter of scarlett coloured satten for a
   doublett, and to line my cassocke, at 16s. per yard,  4£.  4s.
5 yards halfe of fine scarlett, at 55s. per yard, to
   make hose cassocke and cloake [sic]                  14£.
7 yards dim of blacke rich velvett, att 24s. per yard,   9£.
22 ounces of blacke galloune lace                        2£. 15s.
Taffaty to line the doublett                                 17s.
5 [sic] grosse of buttons, at 8s. the grosse             1£.  4s.
pinkinge and racing the doublett, and lininge of ye
   copell                                                     8s.
ffor embrioderinge doublett, copell, and scarfe,         2£. 10s.
5 dozen of small buttons                                      1s.  8d.
Stickinge and sowing silke                                   14s.
ffor cuttinge ye scallops                                     2s.
holland to line the hose                                      5s.  6d.
Dutch bays for the hose                                       4s.  6d.
Pocketts to ye hose                                               10d.
2 dozen of checker riband pointes                            12s.
drawinge ye peeces in ye suite and cloake                     5s.
canvas and stiffninge to ye doublett                          3s.  6d.
ffor makinge ye doublett and hose                            18s.
making ye copell                                         1£.  8s.
making ye cloake                                              9s.

Sum of this suite                                       40£.  2s."

I must not occupy more of your space this week by extending these extracts. If likely to supply
useful "notes" to your readers, they shall have, in some future number, the remainder of the
bridegroom's wardrobe. In whatever niggardly array the bride came to her lord's arms, he, at
{131} least, was pranked and decked in all the apparel of a young gallant, an exquisite of
the first water, for this was only one of several rich suits which he provided for his marriage
outfit; and then follows a list of costly gloves and presents, and all the lavish outlay of
this his "desperate quarter."

In some future number, too, if acceptable to your readers, you shall be furnished with a list
of other and better objects of expenditure from this household book; for Sir Edward, albeit,
as Clarendon depicts him, the victim of his own vanity, was worthy of better fame than is yet
been his lot to acquire.

He was a most accomplished scholar and a learned antiquary. He had his foibles, it is true,
but they were redeemed by qualities of high and enduring excellence. The eloquence of his parliamentary
speeches has elicited the admiration of Southey; to praise them therefore now were superfluous.
The noble library which he formed at Surrenden, and the invaluable collection of charters which
he amassed there, during his unhappily brief career, testify to his ardour in literary pursuits.
The library and a large part of the MSS. are unhappily dispersed. Of the former, all that remains
to tell of what it once was, are a few scattered notices among the family records, and the
titles of books, with their cost, as they are entered in the weekly accounts of our "household
book." Of the latter there yet remain a few thousand charters and rolls, some of them of great
interest, with exquisite seals attached. I shall be able occasionally to send you a few "notes"
on these heads, from the "household book," and, in contemplating the remains of this unrivalled
collection of its day, I can well bespeak the sympathy of every true-hearted "Chartist" and
Bibliographer, in the lament which has often been mine--"Quanta fuisti cum tantæ sint reliquiæ!"

LAMBERT B. LARKING.

Ryarsh Vicarage, Dec. 12. 1849.

       *       *       *       *       *

BERKELEY'S THEORY OF VISION VINDICATED.

In reply to the query of "B.G." (p. 107. of your 7th No.), I beg to say that Bishop Berkeley's
Theory of Vision Vindicated does not occur either in the 4to. or 8vo. editions of his collected
works; but there is a copy of it in the library of Trinity College, Dublin, from which I transcribe
the full title as follows:--

    "The Theory of Vision, or Visual Language, shewing the immediate
    Presence and Providence of a Deity, vindicated and explained. By
    the author of Alciphron, or The Minute Philosopher.

    "Acts, xvii. 28.

    "In Him we live, and move, and have our being.

    "Lond. Printed for J. Tonson in the Strand.

    "MDCCXXXIII."

Some other of the author's tracts have also been omitted in his collected works; but, as I
am now answering "a Query," and not making "a Note," I shall reserve what I might say of them
for another opportunity. The memory of Berkeley is dear to every member of this University;
and therefore I hope you will permit me to say one word, in defence of his character, against
Dugald Stewart's charge of having been "provoked," by Lord Shaftesbury's Characteristics, "to
a harshness equally unwonted and unwarranted."

Mr. Stewart can scarcely suppose to have seen the book upon which he pronounces this most "unwarranted"
criticism. The tract was not written in reply to the Characteristics, but was an answer to
an anonymous letter published in the Daily Post-Boy of September 9th, 1732, which letter Berkeley
has reprinted at the end of his pamphlet. The only allusion to the writer of this letter which
bears the slightest tinge of severity occurs at the commencement of the tract. Those who will
take the trouble of perusing the anonymous letter, will see that it was richly deserved; and
I think it can scarcely, with any justice, be censured as unbecomingly harsh, or in any degree
unwarranted. The passage is as follows:--

    [After mentioning that an ill state of health had prevented his
    noticing this letter sooner, the author adds,] "This would have
    altogether excused me from a controversy upon points either
    personal or purely speculative, or from entering the lists of
    the declaimers, whom I leave to the triumph of their own
    passions. And indeed, to one of this character, who contradicts
    himself and misrepresents me, what answer can be made more than
    to desire his readers not to take his word for what I say, but
    to use their own eyes, read, examine, and judge for themselves?
    And to their common sense I appeal."

The remainder of the tract is occupied with a philosophical discussion of the subject of debate,
in a style as cool and as free from harshness as Dugald Stewart could desire, and containing,
as far as I can see, nothing inconsistent with the character of him, who was described by his
contemporaries as the possessor of "every virtue under heaven."

JAMES H. TODD.

Trin. Coll. Dublin, Dec. 20. 1849.

       *       *       *       *       *

BISHOP BARNABY.

Mr. Editor,--Allow me, in addition to the Note inserted in your 4th Number, in answer to the
Query of LEGOUR, by your correspondent (and I believe my friend) J.G., to give the following
extract from Forby's Vocabulary of East Anglia:--

    "Bishop Barnabee-s. The pretty insect more generally called the
    Lady-bird, or May-bug. It is one of those highly favoured among
    God's harmless creatures which superstition protects from wanton
    injury. Some obscurity seems to hang over this popular name
    {132} of it. It has certainly no more relation to the companion
    of St. Paul than to drunken Barnaby, though some have supposed
    it has. It is sometimes called Bishop Benebee, which may
    possibly have been intended to mean the blessed bee; sometimes
    Bishop Benetree, of which it seems not possible to make any
    thing. The name has most probably been derived from the
    Barn-Bishop; whether in scorn of that silly and profane
    mockery, or in pious commemoration of it, must depend on the
    time of its adoption, before or since the Reformation; and it is
    not worth inquiring. The two words are transposed, and bee
    annexed as being perhaps thought more seemly in such a
    connection than fly-bug or beetle. The dignified ecclesiastics
    in ancient times wore brilliant mixtures of colours in their
    habits. Bishops had scarlet and black, as this insect has on its
    wing-covers. Some remains of the finery of the gravest
    personages still exist on our academical robes of ceremony.
    There is something inconsistent with the popish episcopal
    character in the childish rhyme with which Bishop Barnabee is
    thrown up and dismissed when he happens to light on any one's
    hand. Unluckily the words are not recollected, nor at present
    recoverable; but the purport of them is to admonish him to fly
    home, and take care of his wife and children, for that his house
    in on fire. Perhaps, indeed, the rhyme has been fabricated long
    since the name by some one who did not think of such niceties."

G.A.C.

Sir,--In the explanation of the term Bishop Barnaby, given by J.G., the prefix "Bishop" seems
yet to need elucidation. Why should it not have arisen from the insect's garb? The full dress
gown of the Oxford D.D.--scarlet with black velvet sleeves--might easily have suggested the
idea of naming the little insect "Dr. Burn bug," and the transition is easy to "Dr. Burnabee,"
or "Bishop Burnaby." These little insects, in the winter, congregate by thousands in barns
for their long slumber till the reappearance of genial weather, and it is not impossible that,
from this circumstance, the country people may have designated them "Barn bug," or "Barn bee."

L.B.L.

Sir,--I cannot inform LEGOUR why the lady-bird (the seven-spotted, Coccinella Septempunctata,
is the most common) is called in some places "Bishop Barnaby." This little insect is sometimes
erroneously accused of destroying turnips and peas in its larva state; but, in truth, both
in the larva and perfect state it feeds exclusively on aphides. I do not know that it visits
dairies, and Tusser's "Bishop that burneth," may allude to something else; still there appears
some popular connection of the Coccinellidæ with cows as well as burning, for in the West Riding
of Yorkshire they are called Cush Cow Ladies; and in the North Riding one of the children's
rhymes anent them runs:--

   "Dowdy-cow, dowdy-cow, ride away heame,
    Thy[1] house is burnt, and thy bairns are tean,
    And if thou means to save thy bairns
    Take thy wings and flee away!"

The most mischievous urchins are afraid to hurt the dowdy-cow, believing if they did evil would
inevitably befall them. It is tenderly placed on the palm of the hand--of a girl, if possible--and
the above rhyme recited thrice, during which it usually spreads its wings, and at the last
word flies away. A collection of nursery rhymes relating to insects would, I think, be useful.

W.G.M.J. BARKER.

[Footnote 1: Thy is pronounced as thee.]

    [We have received many other communications respecting the
    epithet of this insect--so great a favourite with children.
    ALICUI and several other correspondents incline to L.B.L.'s
    opinion that it takes its name from a fancied resemblance of its
    bright wing-cases to the episcopal cope or chasuble. J.T.
    reminds us that St. Barnabas has been distinguished of old by
    the title of bright, as in the old proverbial distich intended
    to mark the day of his festival according to the Old Style (21st
    June):--

                       "Barnaby bright!
      The longest day and the shortest night."

    The name which this pretty insect bears in the various languages
    of Europe is clearly mythic. In this, as in other cases, the
    Virgin has supplanted Freya; so that Freyjuhaena and
    Frouehenge have been changed into Marienvoglein, which
    corresponds with Our Lady's Bird. There, can, therefore, be
    little doubt that the esteem with which the lady-bird, or Our
    Lady's cow, is still regarded, is a relic of the ancient cult.]

       *       *       *       *       *

MATHEMATICAL ARCHÆOLOGY.

Sir,--I cannot gather from your "Notes" that scientific archæology is included in your plan,
nor yet, on the other hand, any indications of its exclusion. Science, however, and especially
mathematical science, has its archæology; and many doubtful points of great importance are
amongst the "vexed questions" that can only be cleared up by documentary evidence. That evidence
is more likely to be found mixed up amongst the masses of papers belonging to systematic collectors
than amongst the papers of mere mathematicians--amongst men who never destroy a paper because
they have no present use for it, or because the subject does not come within the range of their
researches, than amongst men who value nothing but a "new theorem" or "an improved solution."

As a general rule I have always habituated myself to preserve every scrap of paper of any remote
(and indeed recent) period, that had the appearance of being written by a literary man, whether
I {133} knew the hand, or understood the circumstance to which it referred, or not. Such papers,
whether we understand them or not, have a possible value to others; and indeed, as my collections
have always been at the service of my friends, very few indeed have been left in my hands,
and those, probably, of no material value.

I wish this system were generally adopted. Papers, occasionally of great historical importance,
and very often of archæological interest, would thus be preserved, and, what is more, used,
as they would thus generally find their way into the right hands.

There are, I fancy, few classes of papers that would be so little likely to interest archæologists
in general, as those relating to mathematics; and yet such are not unlikely to fall in their
way, often and largely, if they would take the trouble to secure them. I will give an example
or two, indicating the kind of papers which are desiderata to the mathematical historian.

1. A letter from Dr. Robert Simson, the editor of Euclid and the restorer of the Porisms, to
John Nourse of the Strand, is missing from an otherwise unbroken series, extending from 1 Jan.
1751 to near the close of Simson's life. The missing letter, as is gathered from a subsequent
one, is Feb. 5. 1753. A mere letter of business from an author to his publisher might not be
thought of much interest; but it need not be here enforced how much of consistency and clearness
is often conferred upon a series of circumstances by matter which such a letter might contain.
This letter, too, contains a problem, the nature of which it would be interesting to know.
It would seem that the letter passed into the hands of Dodson, editor of the Mathematical Repository;
but what became of Dodson's papers I could never discover. The uses, however, to which such
an unpromising series of letters have been rendered subservient may be seen in the Philosophical
Magazine, under the title of "Geometry and Geometers," Nos. ii. iii. and iv. The letters themselves
are in the hands of Mr. Maynard, Earl's Court, Leicester Square.

2. Thomas Simpson (a name venerated by every geometer) was one of the scientific men consulted
by the committee appointed to decide upon the plans for Blackfriars Bridge, in 1759 and 1760.

