In the first act of "The Crossroads" we find Ellen at home, in her old peasant dress, having
made the hens lay so well in winter as to arouse wonder in a neighbor as to whether, "Is it
right for hens to be laying that way so early in the year?" A match is being made for her by
her mother with a man that has a good farm. Ellen desires the match very much, for this is
just the farm on which to try the new methods that shall bring prosperity to the people of
the valley and so stem the emigration to America. She does not love Tom Dempsey, this strong
farmer, and she does half-love Brian Connor, whom she had known in Dublin, but now that he
has come down to ask her to marry him she chooses the farmer, brutal though she knows him,
because as his wife she can do the work for Ireland that she has imagined for herself. The
loveless marriage, so universal an institution all over Ireland, made it nothing out of the
way for Ellen to act as she did, even though at the time of the action of the play a higher
ideal of marriage than that of the old matchmaking had come in. It is this institution that
Mr. Robinson, from one point of view, might be thought to be attacking in the play; it is this
institution, certainly, that is the theme of the play. Is it a tribute to Irishmen and Irishwomen
to acknowledge that this loveless marriage has worked on the whole as well as the marriage
of sentiment, or as the marriage of sexual infatuation, or as the marriage of comrade hearts
that we believe we have in America? As a matter of fact there were not as many loveless marriages
as might seem at first thought. The match made up between the father of the girl and the father
of the boy was the usual sort of marriage among the stay-at-home Irish girls and boys up to
1880, but how many girls and boys for the past one hundred and fifty years have come to America
to escape it? Look up your family traditions, you who have Irish ancestors, and find is it
not true that these ancestors, whether Reeds of Down or Nolans of Meath, fled to America because
they would wed the mate of their choice. Even to-day boys and girls come here from the same
motive, though of course it would be preposterous to deny that to many it is rather Eldorado
than the land of freedom.

Act II reveals poor Ellen seven years later. She has lost her two boys by fever; she has failed
in her work on her own farm, though she has brought untold blessings of progressiveness to
the other farms around Ballygurteen; she has lost the appreciation of her husband. She whom
we loved for a personality as winning as that of an Emma or a Tess is now a drudge, almost
a slattern, gray-haired, hopeless, almost hated by a brutal husband. The loveless marriage
has proved a curse. Upon the woman of his dreams so dethroned comes Brian Connor, now a successful
novelist, and, finding how things are, falls, for all his intended restraint, into a fight
with Tom, whom but for Ellen he would have choked to death. Brian urges Ellen to go away with
him, but, after a moment's faltering, she refuses to go. This is the last scene. Tom, who has
heard Brian's proposal and his wife's rejection of it, comes slowly down the room.

     Tom. Was it me you saved or was it the young man? When you
     pulled him off me, did you save me, or was it him you saved
     from being hung? Tell me that, Ellen McCarthy.

     [Silence.

     Ah! 't is aisy seen.

     [Puts his hat on, and goes to the door, and takes the key out
     of the lock.

     Ellen (looking round). What are you doing? (Frightened.)
     What are you doing?

     Tom. I'll tell you what I'm doing. I'm locking the door the
     way you won't go after that young man; an' I'm going to step
     down to the village now for a sup of drink. An' then--I'm
     coming back; an', by God, I'll make you pay for this night's
     work, Ellen McCarthy, till you'd wish you were dead--for the
     black curse you brought on this farm, an' for the liking you
     have to the young man.

     [Goes out. Ellen remains sitting at the table, staring in
     front of her with sad, hopeless eyes.

The turning of the key in the lock ends the play, leaving brutality unimaginable as the fate
of Ellen.

It is a severe reading of the Irish peasant, this of Tom Dempsey. Murder may come of his blackness
of heart. He is a far worse man, of course, than poor John Clancy, who killed a man in an unpremeditated
fight, sure murderer though Clancy be. Yet despite such heroes or at least such characters
in his plays, no one would say that in either "The Clancy Name" or "The Crossroads" Mr. Robinson
held a brief against the Irish peasant. He most certainly does not. He likes the Irish peasant.
His plays are "stories of mine own people" faithfully told. He does not spare the Cork farmer,
but he does not distort him. Why however, his "Harvest" was allowed to be played unmolested
in New York, after the "The Playboy of the Western World" met with organized opposition, can
be explained only by recognition of the fact that the Irishmen of the patriotic societies are
slaves of precedent. "The Playboy of the Western World" had always met with opposition, so
it should meet with opposition in New York. "Harvest" escaped in New York because its uncomplimentary
personages were unheralded. Not that there is anything in "Harvest," any more than in "The
Playboy of the Western World," that any self-respecting Irishman need object to. "Harvest"
shows the disastrous effects the wrong sort of primary education, as taught by the country
schoolmaster of the old type, the type that was prevalent before the present type, brought
about. The present-day schoolmaster is in sympathy with system of education that will keep
the children on the land or in an industry near the home place; the older type would give them
an education that would send them to the cities to be priests and lawyers and secretaries and
typists and chemists and what-nots. Old William Lordan, the schoolmaster, had, evidently, in
the opinion of the playwright, the sins of many on his shoulders, and yet one, knowing that
it is the system and not the man that is at fault, cannot help feeling that Mr. Robinson is
rather severe on what is in life a really lovable though mistaken sort of man.

"Harvest" shows that of the six children of Tim Hurley, but the three that come into the play
are loyal to their father: Maurice, who works the home farm; Jack, the apothecary's clerk from
Dublin, who tries to help with the farmwork, but is too much of a weakling to be anything of
a help; and Mary, who from typist has turned mistress, now to this man, now to that. Mary,
come home to get away from her wrong life, is called back to London by the excitement of its
life, which has become a necessity to her. Jack, the chemist, in the end deserts the home;
and is off at the end of the play, with his upper-class wife, for America or the colonies.
Only Maurice is more than half-entitled to our respect. The son who is the priest is in America
to collect for the Church at the time of his family's need, and so is not helpful to his family;
the solicitor son is climbing socially, and, needing a motor-car to help him to position, prefers
to spend his money on himself rather than on the home place that was robbed to pay for his
education; and the secretary son is so ashamed of "the ditch out of which he was digged" that
he has changed both his name and his religion.

All five of the children who went out from the home educated, as the schoolmaster wished them
to go, have been educated at the expense of those that remained on the farm, Maurice the hard-working
farmer and old Timothy the father. But the father, too, is far from what he should be, as one
must suspect, not believing that education alone can account for so many gone wrong. Timothy
burns down some unimportant farm buildings for the insurance upon them. This practice is so
common in all parts of the world civilized sufficiently to have insurance that I wonder insurance
companies take risks on backwoods farms anywhere. An old man with whom I have talked often
in the mountains of northeastern Pennsylvania answered me one day, when I asked him how it
was his barn caught fire, "The insurance got too hot." He was a German, a man in his prime
a good worker and not a bad representative of the mountaineer of his state. One must not, then,
fasten on old Timothy as a character distinctively Irish, at least in this phase of his character.
He surely is universal, a representative of one type of disingenuous countryman.

The characterization in "Harvest" falls short of that of "The Crossroads," but perhaps it had
to be if Mr. Robinson was to make his point. As one realizes that perhaps these people are
but pawns with which to win the game that Mr. Robinson has set out, one remembers that their
creator spent some weeks with Mr. Shaw and Mr. Barker in London, and one understands, too,
many other of the failings of "Harvest." It is but another of many illustrations of the blight
that Mr. Shaw has brought upon the modern English stage.

It is a two-edged satire that Mr. Robinson employs in his "Patriots" (1912), a satire that
cuts into the sham agitation of some political leagues, an agitation that is talk only, and
at the same time cuts with almost equal sharpness into the physical force party. It is true
that it is not the motives but the wisdom of these latter men that Mr. Robinson satirizes in
the failure of James Nugent, the returned political prisoner, to stir his townsmen with the
kind of talk that set them to arming in 1893. That their propaganda is no longer possible,
if it was ever possible, is a corollary to the play, even if it could overcome the inertia
that has come to Irishmen with their greater prosperity since the Land Purchase Act went into
force.

The revolt of the patriot who hates talk and is willing to sacrifice personal happiness for
country is recorded here as it was in "The Crossroads," and the uselessness of the sacrifice
made only too plain. To one not an Irishman it would perhaps seem that the real drama there
is in the play is smothered by the political satire and that the politics satirized are of
too local an interest for it to have so universal an appeal as "The Crossroads" or "Harvest."
There is an universal story in "Patriots" that is but slightly developed--the story of the
prisoner's wife, Ann; her love for her daughter, who is a cripple because of her mother's being
dragged here and there by James Nugent in his campaigning just before her birth; Ann Nugent's
turning against her husband, on his liberation from an eighteen years' imprisonment for political
murder, because of the wrong done her so long ago and because of the danger to Rose's health
that campaigning with her father would entail. The turning of Ann Nugent from her husband is
the really significant part of the play,--and in thoughts of that we pay scant heed to the
political satire and even to the pathos of the desertion of a leader by almost all he expected
to follow him, and the reduction of his life, as he puts it bitterly, "to an anecdote--a thing
to be told stories about." And in the end that is the fate he will meet. Time and a wife that
he wronged have broken him. As he staggers off at the end of the play, a stricken man and older
than his forty-five years, this is his cry:--

     I've killed a man, I've crippled a child, I've got myself shut up
     for eighteen years--God knows what good came of it
     all--but--Peter--I meant--I tried ... I know I meant right--and in
     prison my cell used to be filled with the sad faces of men like me
     who had given everything for Ireland--they wouldn't have come to
     me, would they? if I hadn't been of their company. They are here
     now--I see them all around me--there is Wolfe Tone, and there is
     ... oh, quiet watching faces, I have tried--tried as you tried--and
     been broken....

With this ability of his to pick out a theme that is basic in Irish life, and with the years
bringing him an experience of life that will dominate any propagandist purpose, Mr. Robinson
should grow in seriousness of intention and accomplishment. He hates sham, he has sane and
cleansing satire of pretension, he writes good dialogue, his experience as stage manager of
the Abbey Theatre is teaching him the stage; he is only twenty-five. Do not these things augur
a future?

MR. RUTHERFORD MAYNE

It so happened that the last time I was reading the plays of Mr. Rutherford Mayne, I was also
reading the plays of Sir Arthur Wing Pinero. All the world has heard of the one; only the little
band scattered here and there through the English-speaking countries to whom letters are a
real part of life has heard of the other. I laughed over "Dandy Dick"; I thought of Miss Rehan
playing Georgianna Tidman with all that gush of spirits that was hers; I thought of Miss Nethersole
in her wonderful youth playing Paula Tanqueray; and as I thought of these two, each in her
way inimitable in her part, thoughts of past moments with the characters of Mr. Mayne's plays,
plays I have never seen on the stage, came back to me. Had I seen them on the stage would my
thoughts of them have been thoughts of the theatre, as were all my thoughts of Sir Arthur's
plays? It may be, but I think not, I think the great strength of Mr. Mayne is that he takes
you to life; I think the great weakness of the wide-heard author is that he takes you immediately,
in almost all of his plays, to the theatre, and only secondarily, if at all, after the memory
of his artificiality has died away, to life itself.

William John Granahan and John Smith the Tory,--will you forget them, or Robbie John whom the
fiddle called away, or Ebenezer McKie and Francey Moore, Protestant and Catholic, who together
lay in wait for the hated landlord and shot him as he passed through the glen; or John Murray,
good man, and his bauchle of a brother? You will not forget them, for they are from life; you
have known them, all save Francey, if you have known Scotchmen who are Lowlanders and Presbyterians,
or such North of Ireland men as are unalterably opposed to Home Rule. They are very like the
Orangemen of the novels of Mr. Shan Bullock, very like the peasants the English-speaking world
outside of Scotland first met in the verse of Burns; harsher than the Baillie Nicol Jarvies
and Dugald Dalgettys of the kindly Sir Walter, but akin to them and to his Davie Deans and
Dumbiedikeses.

We are in a more familiar world in the plays of Mr. Mayne than in those of most of the other
writers in the movement--that is, I mean most American readers are--simply because of Burns
and Scott. Had Ireland had a peer of either in his generation as satirist or romancer the Irish-Irish
would to-day be as familiar to us as are the Scotch-Irish, who are, of course, transplanted
Scotch. The women of this world are not, however, of types so well known to us as are the men,
because the chivalry of Sir Walter prevented him from giving us his peasant Scotswomen in as
full detail as he gave us his men; but it is not difficult for us to appreciate Mrs. Granahan
and her daughter; Mrs. McKie, a "woman with a dead soul"; Mary Murray with her daftness over
the boys; and even Sarah McMinn, so true in her managing and meanness, qualities necessary
to the prosperity of her folk. Puritan America can understand these women and men because they
are Puritan, too, with the ignoble that is in the Puritan as well as with the noble that is
just as surely there.

It is in the first three plays of Mr. Mayne that we meet these people I have named, County
Down folk all of them, and all Protestant but Francey Moore. They are the leading characters
in "The Turn of the Road" (1906), "The Drone" (1908), and "The Troth" (1908). The motive of
Mr. Mayne's first play is the old call to wander, the unrest of the vagrant heart, here the
heart of the musician. It is the story of Robbie John Granahan, who, after burning his fiddle
at the desire of a strong farmer whose daughter he wished to marry, is driven out into the
world to try his fortune with another through her determination that her lover should follow
his star. There is more beauty in "The Turn of the Road" than in either of the other plays
of the North of Ireland, more beauty of theme, more beauty of thought, more beauty of expression.
Its themes are not new, Wanderlust and the Puritans' hatred of art; its thoughts are not new,
but they are beautiful, and the words themselves are freshly used. Its phrases that hold in
memory are given to Robbie John and to his father and to his grandfather, most of them to the
grandfather. This is the grandfather's lament for the boy gone on the roads with his fiddle
and his father's curse:--

     It's the wee things you think nothing of, but that make your home a
     joy to come back till, after a hard day's work. And you've sent out
     into the could and wet the one that was making your home something
     more than the common. D'ye think them proud city folk will listen
     to his poor ould ballads with the heart of the boy singing through
     them? It's only us--it's only us. I say, as knows the long wild
     nights, and the wet and the rain and the mist of nights on the
     boglands--it's only us, I say, could listen him in the right way.
     And ye knowed, right well ye knowed, that every string of his
     fiddle was keyed to the crying of your own heart.

There is no beauty at all in "The Drone." There is little beauty possible to such a subject
realistically treated as that of the exposure of the utter sham that is the pretended inventor
of a bellows, a man who has for years fattened on a brother's tolerance and family pride. There
might have been beauty of construction, but dramatic construction is not Mr. Mayne's strongest
quality. Let that not be held too much against him, for many an English dramatist, like almost
every English novelist, is weak in the architectonic qualities of his work. Yet such is the
hardness of the people that exposed Daniel Murray that you rejoice in his duping of them at
the end through his sale to them of his pretended invention, especially as that frees his brother
John, and John's daughter, artful coax that she is, from Sarah McMinn, who is determined to
marry the one and manage the two. The ideals of the people of the play and the grim humor of
Mr. Mayne are well illustrated by this declaration of John Murray, the best of them all, anent
the suit for breach of promise with which Sarah threatens him: "I would as soon do without
the marrying if I could. I don't want the woman at all, but I'll marry her before she gets
a ha'penny off me."

The people here are the people of "The Squireen" of Mr. Bullock,--hard, grasping, resentful,
passionate, brutal even, but doers of the world's work. All that differentiates them from the
Fermanagh Protestants is the different conditions of County Down and a slightly lower social
position.

In "The Troth" the theme is the shooting of a landlord by two peasants whom his agents are
to evict on the morrow. To the cottage of the Protestant McKie comes his Catholic neighbor,
Francey Moore, whose wife is dying. Here there is no turf for the fire, and no hope in the
heart of father or mother, for the child of the house has died, and, they think, because of
the landlord's hardness to them. The two men swear a troth that they shall lie in wait for
Colonel Fotheringham, and that if but one escapes, as is likely, the one arrested shall hold
his tongue as to his companion. You do not see the murder on the stage, but you hear the shot
and see McKie return to his home, and you know it was he killed the landlord. The tension of
the last scene is almost unendurable. His wife's providential lie for McKie, her agony in her
knowledge of his guilt when she sees his face on his return, the man's terror, are handled
with masterly firmness and sureness. To see this scene on the stage in the hands of actors
worthy of it must be to know real tragedy. In this play, too, brief as is the glimpse we have
into these four lives of small farmer and his wife, his farmhand and his neighbor, a neighbor
of alien race and hated faith, you get to know them as if they were friends of long standing.
Character creation and character presentation in pithy, tense dialogue are the great gifts
of Mr. Mayne. Francey Moore, the "dark man," with his sensibility, his eloquence, and his flaming
rage, is not of the characteristic men of Mr. Mayne. They are men of slow ways all un-Celtic
and with smouldering hearts like those of the Northmen we read about in the tales of "Origines
Islandicæ."

In "Red Turf" (1911) Mr. Mayne turns away from County Down to the Galway bogs, admirably symbolizing
the hot land feud between neighbors in his title. There are but five characters in the play,
Martin Burke, farmer, and his spitfire of a wife; and his neighbors the Flanagans, father and
son, who have won away from the Burkes, by the surveyor's decision, their bank of stone turf
that had come to Mary Burke from her father; and an old fellow little better than a beggar.
Mary taunts her husband until he shoots the elder Flanagan as he is working away on the "great
stone bank." It was not his own gun Burke had, but, ironically, it was one just brought to
his house by the poor old man whom they had often befriended, John Heffernan, brought that
it might not be found in his house by the gauger, and he unable to pay the license. It is not
made clear that there was malevolence in the leaving of the gun at the Burkes by the old fellow,
malevolent as are some of his remarks. Akin to him, not in his malevolence but in that each
is in a way a bit of a prophet, is the grandfather in "The Turn of the Road," but more nearly
akin to old Granahan is Uncle Bartle of "The Mineral Workers" of Mr. Boyle. Synge records old
men of prophecy and tales in his travel sketches, but he put none such who were gentle in his
plays, or I would say that Grandfather Granahan, like the old gaffer in Mr. Masefield's "Nan,"
was a part of the influence of Synge that is felt by both Mr. Masefield and Mr. Mayne. Their
styles, respectively, in "Nan" and "Red Turf," have in them more than echoes of the style of
Synge. The "wambling" old men of Mr. Hardy come also to mind as one thinks of these old men
of Mr. Masefield and Mr. Mayne and Mr. Boyle. All in a sense play "chorus" to the action of
the play, but there is no one of them that is in the story or play in which he appears on such
grounds only. There are, of course, old men everywhere, in all life they are an integral part,
and everywhere they are commentators on life once they feel that their day is done, spectators
of a pageant from the forefront of which they have dropped to watch the following troupe pass by.

There is little mating in these plays of Mr. Mayne, and love of woman worthy of the name of
love only in "The Turn of the Road"; there is parental love, too, but perhaps more of parental
tyranny. Such parental love as there is, however, actually expressed, makes one of the memorable
passages of Mr. Mayne. Mary Burke, after taunting her husband to madness, tries to turn him
from murder when she sees him, gun in hand, by crying: "For the love of God, would you leave
it down. Leave it down and go in and look at the child sleeping. It would take the badness
from your mind the same as it did with me."

Though Mr. Mayne is a writer for the Ulster Literary Theatre of Belfast, his allegiance to
the Abbey group is clearly indicated in "Red Turf," which is the result of a study of Synge.
I do not mean to say that Mr. Mayne is not familiar with the speech of Connacht, but that it
is Synge who has taught him how to listen to it. There is little of the influence of Synge
in his three plays of the Black North, but when he turns to Galway in "Red Turf," it is but
natural that, writing of other than his own people, he should write in a speech that has in
it an echo of that of him who has transmuted this speech into prose of the most beautiful rhythm
that English dramatic prose has known. The Bible is the book of books in Ulster, and there
is no page of Mr. Mayne's Ulster plays but shows him acquainted with its great rhythms. Mr.
Boyle, skillful artificer of situation, and truthful depicter of character that he is, and
Mr. Colum, too, for all his closeness to the earth, are now and then betrayed, Mr. Boyle more
often than now and then, into the English of the newspaper or of the public speaker; but the
English of Mr. Mayne is all but always an unworn English, an English used freshly, or if with
reminiscences in it, reminiscences of the seventeenth-century English that has survived in
the Bible or in the memory of the folk from the time of King James.

Mr. Mayne has, then, style, and his dialogue is living speech; he has knowledge of the people
of North Ireland, earnestness and sincerity; and having these qualities, he has more that is
precious to art than have most of the dramatists his countrymen. There is no consistent reading
of life in his plays, no great power over the unrolling of plot, but perhaps these will come
with the years. An actor himself, he knows the stage; and this knowledge has given him power
over situation. Once he learns to lead situation into situation, once he ripens into fuller
knowledge of life, Mr. Mayne will be a dramatist to reckon with, indeed.

"NORREYS CONNELL"

There have been many other dramatists than these I have mentioned who have had one or more
plays produced at the Abbey Theatre. Some of these, like Mr. Bernard Shaw, are Irishmen abroad
that have gained the ear of the world and do a play for Dublin out of a sense of duty It was
thus that "John Bull's Other Island" came into being, but that play, being considered "beyond
the scope" of the National Theatre Society, was not produced at the Abbey, but at the Court
Theatre, London, November 1, 1904. When "The Showing-up of Blanco Posnet" was "censored" in
London, however, the Abbey opened its doors to it, the "crude melodrama" receiving its premier
in late August, 1909. Little as "John Bull's Other Island" was in the Abbey tradition, with
moral purpose and unhumanity of its very essence, it was at least a newspaper leader on an
Irish subject, but "The Showing-up of Blanco Posnet," a sort of sentimentalized travesty of
Bret Harte preaching the usual Shavian evangel, has no more relation to Irish life than it
has to literature. It marred the repertoire the Abbey Company brought to America, as would
a camp-meeting hymn the music of the pipes.

Out of the Abbey tradition, too, are the plays of "Norreys Connell" (Mr. Conal O'Riordan),
whose "Piper" had its day of lesser notoriety of Playboy-like quality on its presentation on
February 13, 1908. It is a very obvious allegory, outlining under guise of an incident of '98
the weaknesses of contemporaneous Ireland, its love of talk; its lack of hold-together; its
refusal to see things as they are; its incapacity in practical matters; the reckless temper
of this faction of its people, the subjection to clerical influence of that, the suicidal patriotism
of a third; in short, the Celts' willful rebellion against the despotism of fact. It was not
pleasant listening to, or seeing, "The Piper," to many groups of Irishmen, for it cut alike
at the Parliamentary Nationalists, the Sein Feiner, and the shoneen. Even though one admires
the courage of the Piper and Black Mike, one realizes the futility of both, and of Larry the
Talker, Tim the Trimmer, and Pat Dennehy, all typical of too many men in Ireland to be endurable
to the usual theatre audience. There is a white heat of feeling, however, under the play that
to some degree makes one forget its rather indifferent writing, its failure to attain true
dramatic speech, its obviousness as of a morality play.

Another little drama of Mr. O'Riordan, "Time," is almost a morality play. It was produced shortly
after its author became director of the Abbey Theatre, succeeding Mr. Synge in the spring of
1909. Mr. O'Riordan does not include "Time" among the plays of his volume of 1912, "Shakespeare's
End, and Other Irish Plays," but one cannot but feel there was room for it there, if there
was room for the play that gives title to the volume. "Shakespeare's End," however, was doubtless
included because it gives its author's ideas as to the mission of Ireland in the world. "An
Imaginary Conversation," the second play of the volume, was performed at the Abbey Theatre
May 13, 1909, following shortly after "Time"; a discussion of art and patriotism and love among
Tom Moore, and his sister Kate and Robert Emmet, with a little, a very little, of the intensity
that made "The Piper" something more than second-rate.

MR. ST. JOHN G. ERVINE

Mr. St. John G. Ervine I know through two plays, "Mixed Marriage," produced at the Abbey Theatre
on March 30, 1911, and "The Magnanimous Lover," produced in the same playhouse on October 17,
1912. Like his fellow from County Down, the master dramatist of the Ulster Literary Theatre,
Mr. Mayne, Mr. Ervine excels in characterization. You remember his people, even after one reading
of the plays, so clearly are they distinguished, so definite are their personalities. With
the five men and women of "The Magnanimous Lover," you pass but a few minutes, as it is only
a one-act play, but you remember them as well as you do the six of "Mixed Marriage," though
you follow their fortunes through four acts. All these characters are typical of the artisan
class of the North of Ireland, the five Protestants of "The Magnanimous Lover" and the four
Protestants and two Catholics of "Mixed Marriage." It is the troubles that arise from the difference
in religion of the Protestant Raineys, mother, father, and the two young men; the Catholic
betrothed, Nora, of the elder son Hugh; and their common friend the Catholic labor agitator,
O'Hara, that are the motive forces of the latter play. Faintest etched is Tom, the younger
son, and most like a stock character. Nora and O'Hara are well done, but one remembers both
as stage parts rather than as characterizations. Hugh is still better done, but the two absolute
creations are the father and mother. Tom Rainey, the Orangeman, forgets his bitterness against
"Cathliks" for a moment to help win the strike in which his fellow workmen of Belfast, "Cathlik
an' Prodesans," both are fighting side by side. He is all the more bitter, however, when he
learns that his eldest son is going to marry out of his faith, and his speeches, hitherto devoted
to smoothing out the troubles between the men of different faith, turn to bitter denunciations
of the strike as "a Popish Plot." In the end Tom Rainey is responsible for riots his wild words
have stirred up, the calling-out of the soldiery, and the death of Nora, who is shot down by
a volley as she runs out of the Rainey house into the rioting street. On the stage, of course,
Mrs. Rainey is the more sympathetic character, her tolerance, her tact, her humor, her infinite
kindliness winning an audience as it is given to few characters to win it. She is less like
a type, too, than her husband, but for all, I cannot but think he is better drawn.

Mr. Ervine has not a style like Mr. Mayne, nor such a rhythm to his prose, but he has more
humor, and it is natural humor, a humor that arises out of the situation and is not simply
dragged in for the purposes of comic relief. Mr. Ervine evidently knows the life he depicts
in and out. He ought to know it, for he was born to it, being the son of a workingman in the
shipyards of Belfast. And knowing it well he finds it far from hopeless. It is a pleasure to
come upon a play of the North written in a spirit other than that of revolt against its Puritanism.
There are "kindly Irish of the Irish" in the Black North as well as in the three other provinces,
but most of the authors of the North are content to picture its hardness, its hypocrisy, its
bigotry, its love of wife and child remorselessly concealed as a weakness of the flesh.

It is to this darker picturing of the North, however, that Mr. Ervine turns in "The Magnanimous
Lover," which indicts the self-righteousness of the Ulster Protestant with a severity such
as is possible only to a man bitter against a weakness of his own people. It is an old theme
Mr. Ervine has to handle, the refusal of the wronged woman to wed her betrayer, when, after
years of disloyalty, he is willing, by marrying her, to make her again an "honest woman." To
speak only of recent plays of similar plot, there is "The Last of the De Mullens" of St. John
Hankin, and "A Woman of No Importance" of Wilde. Mr. Ervine, it is true, handles the theme
freshly, but the real power of the play is in his creation of the heroine, Maggie Cather. The
danger with such a character is that it will be only a mouthpiece for woman's demand for a
common moral standard for men and women; but Maggie is not a mouthpiece but a real woman, triumphantly
alive, with hot anger in her heart at the injustice of the world, and at the "unco guidness"
of her old-time lover, Henry Hinde. Ten years before the time of the action of the play Henry
Hinde had fled, just as her child was to be born, to Liverpool, and there he has prospered,
and so risen in the world that it is possible for him to wed a minister's daughter. Fear of
God's wrath has now driven him home to make such amends as he can, but there is in him no pity
for the woman or love for his child. Maggie has faced it out alone all these years in the seaside
village of Down as Hester faced it out in the seaside village of Massachusetts, while Henry
forgot it all until he was "saved" and "convicted of sin." If no more cowardly than Dimmesdale,
Henry is more heartless, utterly callous, indeed,--as he confesses, in "the devil's grip."
And yet Mr. Ervine is so true to the life that he is depicting, a life at once passionate and
prosaic, that he makes anger for the past and fear of a nagged future with Henry as effective
agents in her rejection of him as are self-respect and right feeling. It is a "big" part that
Mr. Ervine has created for the leading actress, and though the story is unequivocally "unpleasant"
and may prevent "The Magnanimous Lover" from being a favorite play, there can be no two minds
as to its success as drama. It is very real drama, of elemental human emotion all unveiled.
With such a play as this, and with "Mixed Marriage" to his credit, I look forward eagerly to
the promised production and publication of "The Eviction."

MR. JOSEPH CAMPBELL

Another dramatist from the North and of promise is Mr. Joseph Campbell. His "Judgment" is of
the northwest, however, the whole breadth of Ulster between its Donegal mountains and the Belfast
of "Mixed Marriage"; and it is of the country, not of the city; and of an Ireland wholly Catholic,
not of an Ireland of Protestant and Catholic at war over religion. There are moments of real
drama in "Judgment," but no such inevitable rise to climax as in "Mixed Marriage." Its undoubted
power is in the feeling underlying it, in its characterization, and in its style. Mr. Campbell
was already known when his play was put on at the Abbey Theatre, April 15, 1912, as the author
of "The Mountainy Singer" (1909), a volume of freshly felt and singing verse; and of "Mearing
Stones" (1911), little prose records of things seen and of moods felt in a corner of Donegal.
Many a striking phrase of "Judgment," indeed, is already written down in the paragraphs of
"Mearing Stones" as actual talk heard in the roads, and several of the situations of the plays
are workings-up of situations of which its author found himself a spectator on the streets
of Andara or on the highway between Slieve a-Tooey and the sea.

I first came upon his verses, if I remember rightly, in "The United Irishmen," but I was first
impressed by him as an illustrator, his name being always signed in those days after the Irish
fashion, Seosamh MacCathmhaoil. A Dublin friend sent me at Christmas in 1907 a "Calendar of
the Saints," for which Mr. Campbell did the illustrations, illustrations akin to those of Miss
Althea Gyles, which so surely take one back to Ireland's heroic age, instinct as they are with
the primitive aloofness of antiquity.

It is not antiquity, however, that Mr. Campbell has chosen for his play. Indeed, he rejects
antiquity, deliberately "using peasants as ... protagonists instead of kings--who, like Pharaoh,
are 'but a cry in Egypt,' outworn figures in these days with no beauty and no significance."
"Judgment" is made out of the story of the countryside concerning "a tinker's woman," Peg Straw,
and we may well believe Mr. Campbell has changed it but little, as he says, for the purposes
of his play. It had been a better play, perhaps, had he changed more the facts of the story.
As it stands, the first act of the play is adequate dramatically, and beautiful with that sort
of wild and outworld beauty Synge brought into English literature in Ireland; and the second
act beautiful with that beauty, and inadequate dramatically.

Peg Straw is an old, worn woman of the roads whom the people hold little better than a witch,
even attributing to her the power fabled of the witches in folk-tales of turning themselves
into hares. Her nickname "Straw" indicates the nature of the mild dementia that sets the children
and the idlers at her heels. She goes about picking up "straws" until "she'd have a bunch in
her hand ... every little stalk bit off as neat as neat, and it like a scrubber or dandy brush
you'd put to a horse."

Peg speaks no word at all in the play, coming into sight in it only to die, but always she
is in the background. Talk of her comes up early in the first act, and we learn that Nabla,
the woman whose cabin is the play's first scene, has turned Peg away from the door only that
morning; and from the moment we first hear of her most of the talk is of her, and the action
because of her. Toward this first act's end you hear her cries as the tinkers beat her, and
at its end she crawls into the cabin to die, and in dying to shock the woman of the house so
that her child comes before its time. All the second act Peg lies in sight in the room just
off the stage with candles stuck around her, bringing the horror and dignity of death into
the wild scenes of her wake. These are wild not because of drinking for no one is drunk and
only one "had drink taken," but because of the wildness of nature of these men of westernmost
Europe, and because of the wildness of the roads that a "traveling man" brings with him out
of the night. There is no action in this second and last act save that sprung of this stranger's
entrance and quarrelsomeness, and his interruptions of an old, old man's story of what he knows
of Peg's life. The stranger listens while Parry Cam tells of the cause of her madness, but
when he repeats what for years has been the gossip of the countryside about her supposed killing
of her babe, the "traveling man" interrupts and declares he is the son whom it was rumored
she had drowned. In the end he is turned out of the house, not altogether unkindly, but as
much for decency's sake as for his own. That the son, for any motive at all, should be turned
out of the house where his mother lies dead, even though he had not stood by her living, is
hard enough in the estimation of any people, but in the estimation of the Irish peasant it
is intolerably tragic. If we realize this, the ending of the play will be on a note deeper
and more significant than if we fail to realize it, but not even the utmost sympathy with the
intention of the author and a full realization of the significance to Donegal peasants of the
action can bring this act to an intensity comparable to that of the end of Act I, where two
mysteries confront one another--"the passing of a life from this world, the coming of a life
into it."

All the characters in "Judgment" are "created." The personality of each colors his words and
puts him before you distinct from every other. Owen Ban the weaver, who takes in Peg when his
wife Nabla, heavy with her first child, and nervous because of her condition and fearful of
the birth, would keep out the outcast; old Parry Cam; John Gilla Carr; Colum Johnston and Father
John; Nabla herself; and Kate Kinsella the midwife--each is himself or herself, each remains
as distinct in your mind the unforgettable scenes of the play. Somehow or other, too, the country
is suggested; you are aware that you are on a wild hillside above a glen,--you are aware of
this not because the author tells us at the outset that the scene of the play is in the mountains
of western Donegal, south of Lochros Beg Bay, but through the dialogue of the play itself.
Both scenes of the play are indoors, and on dark nights of midwinter, but so instinct with
many phases of the life of the people is it that its background of landscape rises before you
only less distinctly than the visualization of its characters. Atmosphere the play has, and
quality, both sprung of the sincerity of its feeling and imagination. So true are these, and
so keen the author's reading of human nature, and so sure his character drawing, that for all
his weakness of construction we may speak of his play alongside of the best Irish plays. The
future promises finer things: meanwhile we are thankful for what is, for "Judgment,"--especially
for its far-offness, its desolateness as of the world's end and the wind crying.

CHAPTER IX

WILLIAM SHARP ("FIONA MACLEOD")

There were relations other than that of a common purpose between William Sharp and the Irish
writers of the Celtic Renaissance. He was a friend of Mr. Yeats, a correspondent of Mr. Russell,
and the chief commentator in the English reviews on the work of the Irish group of its writers.
At one time, after 1897, the relationship promised to be very close, indeed. William Sharp,
experimenting in psychics with Mr. Yeats, found occasion to interest him in "Fiona Macleod,"
and as a result of that interest Mr. Yeats came to think the new writer might write Celtic
plays for performances he intended to arrange for Irish literary organizations. Thus it is
that Mrs. Sharp has to include in her memoir of her husband a long letter to "Fiona Macleod"
from Mr. Yeats, in which he suggests: "The plays might be almost in some cases modern mystery
plays. Your 'Last Supper,' for instance, would make such a play." Mr. Sharp, apparently, did
not follow up this suggestion, but shortly after the first performances of "The Irish Literary
Theatre" in 1899 he wrote the two plays that, together with "Vistas," comprise all the dramatic
writing that he has to his name. That "The Immortal Hour" and "The House of Usna" were intended
for "The Irish Literary Theatre," I think there is little doubt, and it was only, I take it,
when circumstances dictated that only plays by Irish writers should be put on by that theatre
that Mr. Sharp looked elsewhere for their presentation. Only "The House of Usna" was, however,
placed,--in the spring performances in London of The Stage Society, on April 29, 1900. Two
months later "The House of Usna" was published in the July number of "The National Review."
It pleased more, if we are to judge by the reviews, in the pages of the magazine than on the
stage, but I hardly know why. "The House of Usna" is profoundly moving read in the study, surely,
and if acted in such simplicity and enthusiasm as is that of the Abbey Theatre Players, I should
think it would appeal as do the verse plays of Mr. Yeats. No play I have read carries me further
into antiquity than this, none preserves more of what imagination tells us must have been the
wilder beauty of what still are places of wild beauty, of the savagery of that old life of
the hero tales of Ireland. Mr. Yeats's plays do not so recapture the past, they take us rather
to places out of time, where all things are possible, because the world we know is put aside
and all but forgot. Even on the stage, however, the new beauty of "The House of Usna" was recognized,
a beauty as distinctive as that of the two plays of M. Maeterlinck that were produced with
it, "Interior" and "The Death of Tintagiles," but it was adjudged not to be drama in the accepted
sense of the word. "The House of Usna" is written in a prose that has many of the effects of
verse, but that is less luxuriant than the prose of "Vistas." "The Immortal Hour," published
shortly afterwards in the "Fortnightly Review" (1900), is written in blank verse that shows
its author has been carefully attentive to the rhythms of the blank verse of Mr. Yeats, but
it is neither so poetic nor so dramatic as "The House of Usna." Both plays are written out
of the old legends that are the common property of Irish and Scottish Gael, and in both Sharp
has treated his material with his wonted freedom of adaptation, a freedom that is generally
justified by his results, his instinctive surety of reconstruction of myths being such as to
make one wonder, with Mr. Russell, if Sharp is not, in some fashion, a reincarnation of a shanachie
that sang as contemporary in the wars of Gael and Gall.

A common preoccupation with the plays of M. Maeterlinck is another bond between the founder
of the Abbey Theatre and Sharp, a preoccupation passing rather quickly from Mr. Yeats, but
long retaining its hold on the changing selves of Sharp. For all his early interest in "spiritual
things," an interest very definitely expressed in "Romantic Ballads" (1888), Sharp would not
have come to "Vistas" (1894) without the guidance of M. Maeterlinck, and he admits as much
in his preface to these "psychic episodes." "Vistas" he often referred to as heralding a "great
dramatic epoch," and he evidently regarded them as, in a way, drama, but it is hardly likely
that he dreamed of their enactment on the stage. Many of them are essentially dramatic, but
their method of presentation is almost always lyric or narrative rather than dramatic, even
in the Maeterlinckian sense of the word.

It is possible, however, that Sharp might have written other of his projected plays, "The Enchanted
Valleys," "The King of Ys," "Drosdan and Yssul," and their many fellows he had projected by
title, and others, too, had not developments in Dublin, as I have said, carried Mr. Yeats away
from him during 1899 and 1900, and had Sharp himself not during this drifting written that
article "Celtic" which so aroused many in Ireland on its appearance in "The Contemporary Review."
In this essay, basically a literary protest, "Fiona Macleod" declared "herself" against Separatist
politics and affirmed "her" belief, as "she" had in "The House of Usna," that the future greatness
of Ireland was to come, not through independence, but through the rebirth of her ancient spirituality
in other nations to whom she had given her children.

     The Celtic element in our national life [wrote "Fiona Macleod"] has
     a vital and great part to play. We have a most noble ideal if we
     will but accept it. And that is, not to perpetuate feuds, not to
     try to win back what is gone away upon the wind, not to repay
     ignorance with scorn, or dullness with contempt, or past wrongs
     with present hatred, but so to live, so to pray, so to hope, so to
     work, so to achieve, that we, what is left of the Celtic races, of
     the Celtic genius, may permeate the greater race of which we are a
     vital part, so that, with this Celtic emotion, Celtic love of
     beauty, and Celtic spirituality, a nation greater than any the
     world has seen may issue, a nation refined and strengthened by the
     wise relinquishings and steadfast ideals of Celt and Saxon, united
     in a common fatherland, and in singleness of pride and faith.

There was, however, if less intimacy with the Irish writers in these later years, no less admiration
of their art, an admiration that led not only to praise of them in critical articles, but to
a greater praise of imitation of their art. So possessed, indeed, was Sharp by the verse of
the younger Irish poets as he read them to write of them, that when he turned to verse as "Fiona
Macleod," he fell into their rhythms and reproduced the colors of their styles. Writing in
prose as a critic of Mr. Yeats, Sharp came to write in verse as Mr. Yeats wrote, as in "The
Dirge of the Four Cities": writing of "A.E." in prose as critic, Sharp came to write in verse
as "A.E." wrote, as in "Flame on the Wind": writing of "Moira O'Neill," in prose as critic,
Sharp came to write in verse as "Moira O'Neill" wrote, as in "I--Brasil": writing in prose
as critic, of "Ethna Carberry," Sharp came to write in verse as "Ethna Carberry" wrote, as
in "The Exile." So it was, also, that, coming to write of Celtic literature after study of
Renan and Arnold, Sharp attained to something of their large utterance.

Sharp sees the Celtic Renaissance, however, always in relation to English literature, and always,
it should be added, with French literature and Greek literature in the background. In this
wide outlook, in his freedom from political prejudice, in his sympathy with Celtic literature
and his knowledge of it, is his greatest strength as a critic of the Celtic Renaissance. His
greatest weakness is his willingness in this writing, as elsewhere in his writing, to abide
by first impressions, to abide also by the first-come phrase or epithet, banes of the ready
writer. But read his essay "Celtic" after you have read the great essays of Renan and Arnold,
and read it alongside of what Mr. Yeats has to say of that literature, and you will find it,
as I said, of the stature of these. You will at the same time find in this writing the answer
to the contention that there were really two personalities in William Sharp. Even Mrs. Sharp,
who writes so restrainedly about this question of dual personality, believes the analytical
faculty belonged to William Sharp, the imaginative to "Fiona Macleod." But in this criticism
of the Celtic Renaissance which is signed "Fiona Macleod," there is as much analysis as is
to be found anywhere in his work as William Sharp. So obviously was he identifying "F.M." with
"W.S." in this critical writing that Mrs. Janvier, of those in the secret, wrote to him to
take warning lest he betray himself. She pointed out to him that such a display of learning
as he was making in the later "Fiona Macleod" work would surely lead to discovery. But he did
not heed. The truth probably was that he wrote about Celtic things as "Fiona Macleod" because
he perhaps felt about them, as "Fiona Macleod," as one who is bilingual thinks about work he
is doing, say in German, in German, and about work he is doing in English, in English; but
just as surely I believe, because what "Fiona Macleod" wrote commanded more respect than what
William Sharp wrote, readier entrance into the magazines, and better pay. If there are those
to whom such an explanation seems belittling to William Sharp, I can only say that they cannot
have realized that he was a driven man earning his living by his pen. I am not, I confess,
a sentimentalist in such matters, and while I do not wholly like his procedure in maintaining
the fiction of "Fiona Macleod," it does not seem to me a very heinous sin.

He who would write of the work of William Sharp, indeed, must be resolute to remember that
it is to be considered as an essay in the art of letters. There are so many temptations toward
writing of it as a scientific problem,--for who is not interested in "dual personality"?--or
as a "psychic revelation," if one is bitten--and who is not?--by curiosity about hidden "things";
or as an irritating hoax, if one has been befooled--and who, for one moment or another has
not been?--into believing that this writing under the pseudonym of "Fiona Macleod" was the
confession of a woman. The romance of it remains, no matter from what point of view you consider
it, and, despite your preoccupation with this or that phase of it, the beauty of literary art
of parts of it. Parts of it, I say, for to me no writer of our time was more uneven in his
work. My point of view, indicated perhaps brutally, and with a firstly and secondly is:--

Firstly, that until he was nearly forty, William Sharp was no more than a skillful literary
practitioner, a higher sort of hack, who had done some better writing of a tenuous kind of
beauty but imitative in substance and art, in "Sospiri di Roma" and "Vistas," and that after
forty, when he was developing one undeveloped side of himself as "Fiona Macleod," he developed
another undeveloped side of himself in "Silence Farm." That he attained in a sort of writing,
and greatly, that he had not attained in before, in "Silence Farm," has not been acknowledged,
so easy has it been to those interested in his work to lose sight of all else in their pursuit
of the "Fiona Macleod" side of his nature. It is true of "Silence Farm," as of almost all his
other work done under the name of William Sharp, that it is imitative; but it is equally true
that a large part of the "Fiona Macleod" work is imitative, too. "Silence Farm" is done under
the influence of the later work of Mr. Hardy, but the material of "Silence Farm" is its author's
own, and the color of the writing is as distinctly of the Lowlands as the color of "Tess" is
of Wessex. That "Silence Farm" is better work in its kind, though that kind is less original
than some of his writing as "Fiona Macleod," I have been forced against my prejudices to believe.
If I did not so believe I would not have spoken of it side by side with "Tess."

Secondly, that as "Fiona Macleod," William Sharp did much good writing in almost everything
published under the pseudonym, achieving wholeness of good tissue in certain sketches and tales
and verses on rather varying kinds of subjects, but that his work as "Fiona Macleod" that is
really distinguished is in stories of prehistoric Scotland and Ireland, and of Scotland and
Ireland in the earliest historic time. In these tales of the Gaels of old time he for the first
time breaks ground for others. Before he wrote "Silk o' the Kine," and "The Harping of Cravetheen,"
"The Annir Choile," and "Enya of the Dark Eyes," there were no short tales of like temper and
content and style in literature.

To me little is significant in the early verse of "Fiona Macleod," as little was significant
in all the verse of William Sharp until the time of "Sospiri di Roma." And for all the beauty
of these pictures in words of the Campagna it is but a transient beauty. It was not until he
was mastered by the new beauty that Mr. Yeats brought into English poetry that the verse of
William Sharp won to itself abiding beauty and glamour and inevitable phrase. "The House of
Usna" (1900) brought to me "Dim face of beauty haunting all the world," and the 1901 edition
of "From the Hills of Dream," "The Enchanted Valleys,"; but it was not until after his death
that I came upon his best verse of all, the verse of his last five years, which was gathered
together posthumously in the 1907 edition of "From the Hills of Dream," and included as "The
House of Beauty" in "The Poems and Dramas" of 1911. Who does not know these sets of verses
and "The Dirge of the Four Cities," does not know the ultimate accomplishment of William Sharp
in poetry.

That the "'Fiona Macleod' mystery" ended with the death of William Sharp is, then, my belief,
as it is that it began before he conceived of exploiting a feminine sub-self he had long been
aware of in himself. The beginnings of that sort of writing that made "Fiona Macleod" a reputation
are to be found very early in his writing, in "The Son of Allan" of 1881, in the "Record" of
1884, in the preface to the "Romantic Ballads" of 1888, in the "Vistas" of 1894. That these
earlier expressions of "spiritual" states and guesses at mysteries are not, except for certain
parts of "Vistas," so well written as the best writing of similar kind by "Fiona Macleod,"
is true, and perhaps, at first glance, a matter of wonder. It is, however, I think, not difficult
to find an explanation of the better quality of the later work, and that explanation is afforded,
firstly and most largely, by the Celtic Renaissance. A man of thirty-five, to all who know
him a very vital force, a very original personality, who has all his life wanted to make beautiful
things in words out of his dream of life, has disappointed himself and his friends. He is suddenly
afforded the opportunity, by the interest in Gaelic subjects that the Celtic Renaissance has
awakened, to gain a hearing for work of a kind he has long wanted to do. He had not done such
work previously, because he had to live by his pen and could work consistently only at the
sort of thing that would sell. He was well known as a journeyman of letters, so well known
for bookmaking, and the ways of getting commissions from London editors and publishers, that
his knowledge of Highland life would be questioned. All in London knew him as a Londoner. It
would be useless for him to say that the Celtic Renaissance had brought back his childhood
to him, a childhood as definitely dominated by a Highland nurse as Stevenson's was by the Lowland
Alison Cunningham. It would be useless to tell of his summers in Argyllshire and among the
inner isles, his intimacy with fishermen who were as elemental as his own dreams of old time.
It would have been cast up to him that the editor of "The Canterbury Poets" could not be an
original writer, and the very nine days' wonder of "Vistas" would have been pointed to to prove
that he might now do well enough, as an imitator, perhaps of Mr. Yeats, as he was in "Vistas;"
successful as an imitator of M. Maeterlinck, but that an original Highland writer could not
come out of Hampstead. There is no doubt in my mind that it was the part of wisdom for Sharp
to put out the new work under a pseudonym, worldly wise if you will, but wise, too, with a
higher wisdom. If he could keep the side of him he had never yet exhausted through hackwork
apart from his other work, it would grow as it could not if it were a part of his daily stint.

Why Sharp chose a woman's name for his pseudonym has troubled many, but this choice was, I
think, as was the assumption of a pseudonym, the part of wisdom. I do not believe, as he at
times liked to believe, that he attained a woman's standpoint. He had been complimented on
all sides for his composition of the wife's letters in "A Fellowe and his Wife" (1892), in
which Mrs. von Teuffel wrote the husband's. Sharp enjoyed their writing as a tour de force
and he probably believed they were very womanly. I should say that they showed insight into
womanly ways of looking at things rather than a dramatic identification of himself with woman
such as is George Meredith's. Sharp had already been experimenting with pseudonyms, that of
"H.P. Siwaarmill," an anagram on his own name, being that he recurred to most often. He had
written the whole of "The Pagan Review" in 1892 under eight different pseudonyms, and though,
in the estimation of those to whom "Fiona Macleod" is all but a sacred name, it be sacrilegious
to say it, William Sharp loved all sorts of fantastic tricks, hoaxes, mystifications, though
in almost all his writing save in "Wives in Exile" he was seriousness itself. But the chiefest
reason of all, in my estimation, for his assumption of a woman's name as his pseudonym was
that it afforded greater protection against discovery. There are those who believe that he
chose it because he wanted a chance to express that womanly element of human nature there is
in all men, and there are others who believe that he was the possessor of a real dual personality
in which the "Fiona Macleod's self" was a woman's consciousness; but he very infrequently,
after "The Mountain Lovers" (1895), kept in mind in the writings he published as "Fiona Macleod's"
that their author was supposed to be a woman, and it is wonderful, indeed, that he was able
to preserve the secret until the end. In the earlier "Fiona Macleod" writing there is no revelation
of the wide acquaintance with literature that was Sharp's, but despite his harassment by the
constant identification of himself with "Fiona Macleod," he gradually allowed to creep into
that writing more and more of what was known to be the knowledge of William Sharp, a knowledge
unlikely to be also that of a Highland lady who lived apart from the world. His friends pointed
out to him the danger he was running in writing from what was obviously a man's standpoint,
as in his tales of the wars of Gael and Gall, and of revealing several sorts of interest that
were known to be his, but their warnings were in vain. He was apparently unable to limit himself
to the restrictions of the part of himself he had essayed to restrict himself to.

For my own part I was now sure the writing must be Sharp's and now sure it could not be his.
I did not know of his intimate concern with questions of feminism until I read Mrs. Sharp's
"Memoir," so that outspoken chant, the "Prayer of Women" in "Pharais," "Fiona Macleod's" first
book, colored my outlook on all the writing that followed. I had no doubt at all but that "Pharais"
was written by a woman, but "The Dan-nan-Ron" and "Silk o' the Kine" in "The Sin-Eater" (1895)
seemed to me hardly a woman's. "The Washer of the Ford" (1896) was written from the man's point
of view, too, but "Green Fire" (1896) seemed feminine again. So I wobbled in my opinion until
"The Divine Adventure" (1900) and the critical writings of the volume that story gives title
to, and the critical writing in "The Winged Destiny" (1905), made me believe again that "Fiona
Macleod" was surely Sharp. I did not come upon the articles that now make up "Where the Forest
Murmurs" (1907) until after the death of Sharp and the disclosure of the secret. Had his death
not divulged the secret of the identity of "Fiona Macleod," it seems to me that collection
must have disclosed it. Had Sharp lived after this there would not have been possible for him
much further work from the seclusion his pseudonym gave him, and I doubt, once the secret was
out, it would have been possible for him to write of things Celtic with the old gusto.

After all has been said it must be confessed, I think, that Sharp did not know the Highlander,
either of the mainland or of the islands, very intimately. He wrote much better of his dream
of life on the west coast in prehistoric times--out of his imagination of what that life must
have been, an imagination founded on the reading of the old legends and modern collections
of folk-lore, such as the "Carmina Gadelica" of Mr. Carmichael--than he did out of his knowledge
of Highland life of to-day. The Achannas are in many of his tales of modern times, and wherever
they are there is unreality, if not melodrama. Unreality, too, there is, in many phases, in
the modern tales, and "highfalutinness" everywhere in them. And both unreality and "highfalutinness"
offend in these modern tales as they would not in the tales of far times, though in these,
as a matter of fact, they are not so much in evidence.

It would almost seem that the approach to reality drove Highland atmosphere from the stories.
In "The Sin-Eater," one of the best of his writings that might be classed as a short story,
the sin-eater and his confidant are Highlanders, but the description of the scene of his misfortune,
the steading of the Blairs, might well have been that nearest to "Silence Farm." It is faithfully
described, the scenes about the little home, whose owner lies dead, having the very smack of
realism. In the latter part of the story the scene shifts to the coast and the tang of the
story turns Gaelic and unreal. Was it thus, I wonder, always to the imagination of William
Sharp, Lowland life real, Highland life mystical?

Sharp was handicapped, of course, in coming to the subject material he could best handle late
in life, "Pharais" (1894) and "The Mountain Lovers" (1895), the first books published as by
"F.M.," being just as definitely 'prenticework in their kind as was "Children of To-morrow"
(1890) in its kind. Of the long stories other than "Children of To-morrow" published in his
own name, "A Fellowe and his Wife" (1892) and "Wives in Exile" (1896) have no very serious
intention, though both are well done after their kind, records of imaginings, respectively
of experiences of art life in Rome, and of yachting experiences in the Irish Sea. It was not
until "Silence Farm" (1899), as I have said, that, as William Sharp, he found himself.

"The Gypsy Christ" (1896), which might well have been developed into a full-fledged romance,
is less original than any of his longer writings. It is, like "The Weird of Michael Scott"
and "A Northern Night," closely allied to essays of his other rôle, that of "F.M.," to catch
and express "the tempestuous loveliness of terror," such as the catastrophe of "The Mountain
Lovers," "The Barbaric Tales," and those short stories in which Gloom Achanna is hero-villain.
It is in such work that Sharp shows his affinities to Poe, affinities which are not elsewhere
as obvious as his affinities to De Quincey. Narrative was not native to De Quincey any more
than it was to Sharp, though Sharp was led toward it by his interest in character, an interest
that was not in any large measure given to De Quincey, who, when he turned to narrative other
than that which relates what had happened to him or what he had dreamed had happened to him,
makes the reader feel he did so as a concession to the public. Another interest that was Sharp's,
an interest amounting to a passion,--out-of-doors,--De Quincey had not at all, for all his
devotion to Wordsworth and to Wordsworth's interests. Like De Quincey, on the other hand, Sharp
delights in "fine writing," in both senses of the phrase, in the "highfalutin" that is objectionable,
and in the ornately beautiful that is one fitting expression of romantic thought. Both men
preferred the mouth-filling word to the simple one, the Latinical adjective to the Saxon; both
had rather see visions and dream dreams than write about the "common light of common hours";
both goad their imaginations until they run riot and so confuse their possessors, who should
control them, that they are unable to distinguish between what is fact and what is fancy. You
could carry the analogy further, to events of their lives--the runnings-away in boyhood; the
devoted friendships to poets in youth; the incredible amount of hard work achieved in manhood
despite of often recurring illnesses.

Of the long stories published as by "F.M.," Sharp repudiated "Flora MacDonald" because it was
too much in the way of "ordinary romance," and "Green Fire" for the same reason and because
it was largely about Brittany, a country with which, by some strange chance, he did not make
himself familiar, though he had visited and learned to know well at least parts of all the
other Celtic countries. It is to my mind, however, if not so definitely of a wholeness of texture
as "Pharais" or "The Mountain Lovers," or so singular, less monotonous than either. All three
of these stories disappoint my memory of them when I again read them. This is, I believe, because
all three of them--and for that matter many of the short stories as well--are incompletely
realized, or because--in the case of two of them, "The Mountain Lovers" and "Green Fire"--they
are unevenly written. Their high intention and atmosphere remain with you after you have put
the books aside, and in the course of time you forget their hurried writing, their inconsistencies,
and their qualities of the "Shilling Shocker," the result of their author's failure to attain
"the tempestuous loveliness of terror" that are in so many of them, long or short. As aids
to this effacement of the cheapening elements are the very materials of the tales, their characters,
now elemental, now other-worldly, and their background of mountains that uplift the spirit,
and of menacing sea.

That Sharp wrote less exactly of the present-day people of the Highlands than of the background
of their lives was largely because he had few opportunities to learn to know them intimately.
There was a basis for such intimacy laid in his childhood, in the fact that his nurse was a
Highland woman; there was something built on this basis by his boyhood's vacations in many
parts of Argyllshire and voyages elsewhere along the west coast. Youth spent in Arran and Skye
would have counted for much more, for the boy, once he is no longer child and before he has
reached his youth and is awakening man, is not much more interested in people in real life
for what they are than he is in minute description of their characters in books. He likes men
for the sportsmanlike and adventurous things they can do, and he likes to read records of things
sportsmanlike and adventurous, but men as men, unless they are eccentric to grotesqueness,
do not arrest his attention. Even the dreamy boys, the artistic boys, are not likely to learn
much of others, so preoccupied are they with themselves.

It was thus, I think, that Sharp's childhood was not what he would in later years have had
it, not what in "The Laughter of Peterkin" he alleges the childhood of "Fiona Macleod" to have
been. For all the influence of "Barabal," his nurse, it seems from his writing that her stories
remain with him more as suggestions to imagination than as definite memories, and that the
fisherman referred to in "Sheumas" left with him little more than "Barabal." How fresh and
wonderful to him was actual contact with Highland life is almost pathetically revealed in a
letter he wrote to Mrs. Sharp from Kilcreggan in the summer of 1894. In this letter he is all
but exultant in the recording of the securing of "Celtic" material from a "Celtic Islesman
from Iona." Of the actual life of the Islesmen and Glensmen he could have known but little,
for long living among them is necessary to their understanding,--they are, as he wrote in this
same letter, "passionately reticent." It was not the way of Sharp to fall back, in this deficiency
of experience, on old legends and folk-tales collected in his own day, but to trust to his
imagination as that was quickened by what knowledge he had of life in the inner isles and in
Argyllshire, and by the very atmosphere of known places there that seemed to demand, as Stevenson
put it, to have stories invented to fit them.

It is said, too,--Mrs. Sharp gives her authority to the story,--that friendship with the woman
to whom he dedicated "Pharais," "E.W.R.," stimulated him to the work. And Mrs. Sharp quotes
him further as declaring "without her there would have been no 'Fiona Macleod.'" Perhaps; but
I doubt if, after the Celtic Renaissance had won a hearing, anything could have prevented Sharp
from following what was, after all, a natural bent. I am not going to argue the matter out,
but he himself admitted that his development as "Fiona Macleod" began "while I was still a
child," and there is proof in almost every volume he published, even before he knew Mrs. Rinder
("E.W.R.," must of course be the author of "The Shadow of Arvor"), that his tendency was toward
what became characteristic of "Fiona Macleod."

It was the love that Sharp had for all sorts of "psychic things," the mysterious, the unaccountable,
the hidden, that led him to believe that "without her there would have been no 'Fiona Macleod.'"
Sharp himself, when his "other self," with sense of humor alert, was more than willing to admit
that it is easy to believe what one wishes to believe; and he delighted to tell a story at
the expense of Mr. Yeats illustrative of the trite fact. Sharp went one day, in London, to
call on Mr. Yeats. When lunch-time came, they set about cooking eggs. Mr. Yeats held them in
a frying-pan over the little fire in the grate. As they slipped about, Mr. Yeats, all the while
looking back in the room away from the fire as he talked to Sharp, allowed the pan to tip too
far and the eggs fell out into the fire. So absorbed was he in the topic of conversation, most
appropriately the disappearance of material things, that he did not notice the catastrophe
or the quick disappearance of the eggs among the coals. When his perfervidness subsided for
a moment, he turned to see if they were done. "There, what did I tell you!" said he; "our talk
of these things has conjured up the powers and the eggs are gone." Sharp did not tell him of
the accident. And there were no more eggs in the room to have for lunch.

One of the reasons that led William Sharp to write "Silence Farm" (1899) was to have something
under his own name that might be very different from the stories of "Fiona Macleod." And "Silence
Farm" is very different, a story without the distinguishing qualities of "Pharais" or "The
Divine Adventure," and suggesting kinship to the work of his other self only through certain
likenesses of domestic irregularity in the family of Archibald Ruthven to other domestic irregularity
in the family of Torcall Cameron of "The Mountain Lovers." Though not of so original a kind,
perhaps, as the best of the "Fiona Macleod" work, "Silence Farm" has to it a "wholeness of
good tissue" that belongs to little work of this most uneven writer. "Silence Farm," I would
emphasize again as I emphasized at the opening of this paper, is better written, both as regards
style and architectonic quality, and it is a truer reading of life, than any of the Highland
stories. Though it is a story of to-day, and about a life much like that made familiar by the
writers of the Kailyard school, it is not to them, but to such kindred unsentimentalized work
as Mr. Shan Bullock's, that you instinctively compare it. The people, indeed, are the same
dour Presbyterians, though the one writes of Scotland and the other of the North of Ireland.
And as you compare the material of "Silence Farm" with that of "The Squireen," for instance,
you note, too, that the art of both is the art of Mr. Hardy.

There is little modern writing with which to compare the Highland stories of Sharp. It is not
that the Highlands have not been much written about, but that they have been written about
intimately by but few. No part of the world so out of the world as their outlying islands,
the Hebrides, has been so bewritten by travelers from Martin's time to our own; but comparatively
few have known either islands or mainland well enough to dare novels of their life, and of
those who have so dared no one up to the time of Sharp had written a great realistic story
of the Highlands, and but one or two great romances. Now we have Mr. Neil Munro, like Sharp
a very uneven writer, whose "Children of Tempest"--to take one of his best stories--now delights
and now tortures you; and yesterday we had William Black, famous for sunsets. Black knew the
Hebrides well, very well for a Lowlandman turned Londoner, and he labored hard to make his
books true and beautiful. Unfortunately it was not in him to do fine work, not even the best
sort of the second order of novelists,--such work as Trollope's, for instance, which by dint
of faithfulness and humanity almost persuades you now and then that it is of higher than second
order. Black was faithful to what he saw and broadly sympathetic, but his writing not only
lacks distinction, but, even at its best, as in "The Princess of Thule," home thrust to one's
interest. Yet, such as it is, it is all but all that we have which attempts to put before us
any broad view of Highland life. The one man of the generation older than the generation of
Mr. Sharp who might have drawn Highland life greatly, Robert Buchanan, was diverted all his
life, as Sharp was in the twenties and thirties, from doing what he would to what would boil
the pot, but he left at least one story, a story of Sutherland, "A Child of Nature," to prove
to us what his reading of Highland life might have been. Had Stevenson been born a Highlander,
he might have given us both novels of the Highlands of the order of "Weir of Hermiston," and
romances really Highland in quality, as "Kidnapped" and "Catriona" are not.

I suppose that, back of all the failure to deal realistically with Highland life, this rare
attainment of a romance of Highland life at all faithful to it, is the making of the Highlander
into a stage hero by Scott. There are those to-day who fail to find any glamour in "Waverley"
or "Rob Roy" or "The Legend of Montrose," but it is still there to me, investing the figures
of Fergus MacIvor and the MacGregor and the Children of the Mist as it did in childhood, when
I was so fascinated that I prized my Campbell plaided paper soldiers next to my Continentals
in blue and buff. In going through an old trunkful of school-books only the other day, I came
upon one of these bonneted fellows, still wonderfully preserved, in an old atlas of the heavens,
and then I knew all of a flash why it was that the poor boy soldiers that I saw in Highland
accoutrement in the yard of Edinburgh Castle during the Boer War so disappointed me by their
appearance and bearing. They were not half so brave as the piper who used to make the rounds
of my boyhood's town and bring tears to my eyes with his "Campbells are Comin'." I write this
that my quarrel with much of what Sharp has written of the Highlands, that portion that seems
to me sentimentalized or one-sided, may not be put down to lack of appreciation of the romance,
the eeriness, and otherworldliness that there unquestionably are in that life.

It is their aloofness from the everyday story, their unusual use of the supernatural that has
given the longer stories written out of the "Fiona mood," as Mr. Sharp once spoke of his possession,
their appeal to most readers, but there is here in America a class who put the highest valuation
on the shorter stories Mr. Sharp called "spiritual tales." To those who hold this view "The
Divine Adventure" is of the nature of revelation. To me it is hardly this, but very interesting,
not so much for its putting of the relations of Body, Will, and Spirit to one another in life
and at death, as for its beautiful writing, and for its definite betrayal, when its author
is writing most intimately, of a man's attitude, though he published the story as the work
of "Fiona Macleod." These "spiritual tales" do not belong, all of them, to his "Fiona Macleod"
period, for "Vistas" (1894) contains many of them, though they are cast here in dialogue form,
and there are others among the work published under his own name. In fact, the writing under
the two names never becomes liker in quality and intention than when it is "spiritual." The
sketch from Part II of "The Dominion of Dreams" (1899), entitled "The Book of the Opal," for
instance, is written on the very key of "Fragments of the Lost Journals of Piero di Cosimo"
(1896), far apart their subject material, and "The Hill-Wind" by "W.S." dedicated as it is
to "F.M.," might well be a rejected passage from "The Mountain Lovers." There is the color
of the Highlands and Islands about many of these mystical stories, about "The Hill-Wind," by
"W.S." and "The Wind, the Shadow, and the Soul," the epilogue "F.M." wrote to the "Dominion
of Dreams"; but most of these shorter mystical tales have not the tang and savor of farm-home
on lonely moors, or fisher's hut on the lonelier machar, that is characteristic of most of
the tales long and short, that deal with modern days.

Nor are the meanings of these "spiritual tales" consistently indicated in symbols taken from
Scottish life, nor is their supernaturalism native to it. Mrs. Spoer (Ada Goodrich-Freer),
in her "Outer Isles" (1902), tells us "The Celtic Gloom" amuses the Hebridean. If so, what
effect would such discussion as that of "The Lynn of Dreams" and "Maya" have upon him? But
if such essays are not written out of Highland life, they are none the less interesting, and
in the case of "Maya," with its consideration of waking dream, beautiful as art, and valuable,
too, as a contribution to science.

So far does Sharp go in his belief as to the apprehension of thought through powers other than
those of the senses, that in "The Winged Destiny" he can look forward to a time "when the imagination
shall lay aside words and pigments and clay, as raiment needless during the festivals of the
spirit, and express itself in the thoughts which inhabit words--as light inhabits water or
as greenness inhabits grass." Not only does he foresee such a time, but he foreshadows it,
heralds it in some of his sketches, "Aileen" for one, by attempting it. Perhaps he has succeeded,
perhaps not. To me the attempt is a failure, not, I think, because he is writing for to-morrow,
for that age when the spiritual awakening he so often prophesied shall have come, but because
he is attempting what cannot be done in any age. If he were seeking only suggestion, well and
good. But he seeks more, and fails, I think, to attain more. It seems to me impossible that
the suggestions he creates can ever be more than suggestions. They cannot become definite concepts
that will mean the same thing to all men. Suggestion, the opening-up of vistas, is a high attribute
of the art he follows; but he is not content with suggestion, he would seek more definite expression
of what, after all, is not thought but mood. So it is that he is most successful when conveying
mood and less successful when conveying esoteric thought. As a critic, of course, on a plane
easier for the conveyance of thought, Sharp is definite enough, completely successful in conveying
the ideas that he intends to convey.

Often, I fear, when Sharp intends "spiritual history," either in a tale wholly devoted to this
purpose, as "The Divine Adventure," or as explanatory to the incidents of some more tangible
tale, he is really only playing with words, beautiful words, words sometimes so beautiful that
we are apt to forget that words are to be used not alone for beauty's sake. Often, again, I
fear, he will introduce beautiful symbols simply for their beauty and not because they have
a real purpose, not because they will more intimately convey, even to the initiated, the intent
of his writing. That these practices are the result of carelessness, sometimes, as well as
of his subservience to beauty, the fascination that words merely as words or visions merely
as visions exert upon him, is, I think, true. It is but seldom, I believe, that the underlying
thought is incoherent. In almost all of his earlier writing, however, even in the earlier "Fiona"
writing, he is very careless. He contradicts himself in his short stories as to facts, he gets
his family relationships tangled in a way that cannot be explained by any process of nature,
and so, too, I think, he gets his symbols mixed, or deludes himself into the belief that something
that was hastily written "came to him" that way and so should be preserved in that exact expression,
even though to him at the second reading it meant nothing definite. He jumps to conclusions
again and again in what he writes about birds, where I can follow him on a certain footing
of knowledge. If he is so careless about facts, if he can, even though it is a slip, confuse
Mary Magdalene and the Virgin Mary, if he can mention birds in a description of Highland landscape
that is characteristic of a certain time of year when birds of that species would be in the
Highlands only by accident at that time of year, it is more than likely, slips though these
may be, that there will be similar slips in all he writes, no fewer, it is likely, in his writings
of psychic things than elsewhere.

There is possible, of course, no hard-and-fast classification of his writings. Class shades
into class almost imperceptibly. It is particularly difficult to draw the line between the
several kinds of stories and sketches he writes that involve supernaturalism of one kind and
another. There is possible, however, a rough-and-ready distinction between those stories of
his which are esoterically mystical and those which, while concerned with the supernatural,
are concerned with it in the way familiar in old romance. Of this "usual supernatural" are
those in which "second sight" is the motive, second sight which is always to be looked for
as the commonest supernatural motive in the writing of all Gaels, either Alban or Irish. Sharp
introduced "second sight" into "The Son of Allan" (1881); it is in "Pharais" (1894), the first
of his "F.M." work; it is developed at some length in "Iona" (1900), which is a microcosm of
all his writing. In "Iona," Sharp puts himself on record as holding stoutly belief in the reality
of the power:--

     The faculty itself is so apt to the spiritual law that one wonders
     why it is so set apart in doubt. It would, I think, be far stranger
     if there were no such faculties. That I believe, it were needless
     to say, were it not that these words may be read by many to whom
     this quickened inward vision is a superstition, or a fantastic
     glorification of insight.

The Achannas, in the uncanny stories in which they are heroes and villains, are all possessed
by the power of the second sight, but second sight is not the most remarkable of their supernatural
powers. Hypnotic suggestion Gloom uses as an everyday agent in his affairs. It is through hypnotic
suggestion that he puts madness upon Alasdair M'Ian, playing to him the Pibroch of the Mad,
Alasdair M'Ian, in telling whose story "Fiona Macleod" revealed--I suppose, by chance--something
of the struggle of William Sharp to succeed in letters. Much more frequently, however, he uses
a supernatural power that is further removed from those in which modern science is interested,
such as the machination of fairies that made Allison Achanna the "Anointed Man"--that, in plain
speech, had driven him fey; or such as the lure of the serpent goddess that drove to his death
the piper hero of "By the Yellow Moon Rock," or the exchanging of human child for fairy child
that is the burden of "Faraghaol."

It is much more likely that William Sharp would have made more of this changeling motive had
it not come so near to the question of dual personality, which it would be dangerous to him
to discuss, as would that question so closely akin, the question of people who are "away,"--that
is, with the fairies,--a kindly explanation of insanity, chronic or recurrent. As William Sharp
he has touched on the question of dual personality several times in his verses, and very definitely
in "A Fellowe and his Wife." In this last-named book he says, in a letter that the Countess
Ilse writes to her husband in Rügen: "This duality is so bewildering. I to be myself, whom
you know, and whom I know--and then that other I, whom you do not know at all and whom I only
catch glimpses of as in a mirror, or hear whispering for a moment in the twilight." That he
could not take up the topic so definitely in his later writings must have, indeed, been a cross
to him, for there was hardly any other question, unless perhaps that of "ancestral memory,"
which interested him more deeply. It might be argued, I suppose, that he did discuss it in
"The Divine Adventure," in considering the relations of Spirit, Will, and Body. Mrs. Sharp,
I take it, so holds when she says in her "Memoir" that the William Sharp work was that of the
Will and the "Fiona Macleod" work beyond the control of the Will. And it is true that these
three, the Spirit, Will, and Body, though each is given a distinctive personality, each a memory
distinct from the memory of the others, are all but the component parts of one man. Mrs. Sharp
does not, however, anywhere avow directly a belief in the possession of a real dual personality
by her husband, and she definitely contradicts Mr. Yeats for his expression of belief that
"William Sharp could not remember what as 'Fiona Macleod' he had said to you in conversation."

Very different from these short stories I have been discussing are three of the four contained
in the volume entitled "Madge o' the Pool" (1896), published as by William Sharp. Of the one
that is somewhat in the manner of certain of the "F.M." stories, the "Gypsy Christ," I have
spoken. Two, "The Coward" and "The Lady in Hosea," are but "the usual thing." "Madge o' the
Pool" is the one really worth while. In this story, with such river pirates as we have met,
sentimentalized, in "Our Mutual Friend," as material, Sharp writes as realistically as he does
in "Silence Farm," and with a sympathy and pathos that his objective method cannot exclude.

There are episodes or sketches, some of them what sharp calls "prose imaginings," throughout
his many books, that one may hardly call short stories, or myths, or studies in folk-lore,
or criticism, or any of the other many kinds of writing that he essayed. Perhaps "memories"
would be the proper general term for writing of this kind. In almost every one of these episodes
or sketches there is a germ of a story, and some, I suppose, regard them as but unrealized
art. But I for one am glad Mr. Sharp did not "work them up." In them are some of his best writing
and some of that most personal and intimate. I have spoken of "Aileen" and "Barabal"; "Sheumas,
a Memory," is another that is memorable, and memorable too, are "The Sea Madness" and "The
Triad." "The Triad" is almost his credo, certainly a statement of the things he holds "most
excellent"--"primitive genius, primitive love, primitive memory." Here Sharp recurs, as so
often in his writing, to "ancestral memory," that possession of men by which they are aware
of what was in the world before they were, through oneness with the universal memory into which
they are absorbed in dream or vision or of which they become aware by what we call intuition.
If such a power be restricted so that its possessor recalls only certain parts of antiquity,
he is virtually in the state of him who believes he remembers what he remembers because of
previous incarnations. I have no personal opinion to express on the subject, but if such memories
exist in us because of our participation in a universal memory or because of reincarnation,
it is easy to explain why Sharp is best in his writing of myths, his pictures of the wild beauties
of love and war and dream in barbaric Erin and Alba. It is because he is the reincarnation
of the shanachie of the Dark Ages. When he thought of reincarnation, however, in relation to
himself, he thought, I have no doubt, of himself as the reincarnation of a druid, one who had
been aware of mysteries; but what he really was, in life, with his magnificent enthusiasm and
bravado,--picturesque raiment after all and no more for the high-hearted and inherently ailing
body of him,--was this reincarnation of the shanachie, such an one as his own Oran the Monk
turned tale-teller. If you doubt that he was shanachie, not druid, compare the two legends
in "Beyond the Blue Septentrions." The ordered beauty of the legend that tells of the derivation
of the name of Arthur from Arcturus falls familiarly on our ears. It is evidently made under
a lamp by one who has read many old legends. It is no druidic revelation. The other, that which
ends with the three great hero-leaps of Fionn from the Arctic Floes to the Pole, from the Pole
up to Arcturus, from Arcturus to the Hill of Heaven itself, is fantastic, bizarre, extravagant
to grotesqueness, with the very flamboyance of old Irish legend and modern Irish folk-tale.
In other words, it is in the very manner of the shanachie of the Dark Ages, whether his work
was recorded then as court poem or has been handed down by word of mouth among the folk. Nor
is there anything inconsistent in this wild imagining with a very different power displayed
in "moralities" like his "Last Supper." I have heard stories as incongruous, one uproarious,
another of cloistral quiet and piety, from the old Irish gardener with whom I spent a large
part of my happier days, the days from seven to seventeen. Lawrence lost his life doing a "retreat"
morning after morning on the cold stone floor of a Vincentian church, not in any sudden repentance
at fourscore and three for the sins of his youth for they had been fewer than those of almost
all I know, but in the usual way of his austere life. Yet Lawrence was just as much himself
when he was telling me stories of Dean Swift that were full of malice and brutality and orgiac
ecstasy.

The range of the shanachie is wide, and wide, too, the range of Sharp in the rôle of shanachie
of barbaric life on both sides of the Moyle. Among such writings there are few tellings of
the order of the folk-tale, more of the order of the hero saga, many--perhaps the best of them--of
an order all his own that has developed, it is likely, from the old "Saints' Lives," but to
which he has given a ring of authenticity that makes them seem descended from an antiquity
as remote as that of folk-tale or hero-tale. "The Flight of the Culdees" brings before you
with vividness what must have been the life of the Celtic missionaries in the days when the
men out of Lochlin began to seek the Summer Isles; and "The Annir Choile" and "The Woman with
the Net," what was the fate they meted out to those among themselves who slipped back into
the pleasant old ways of paganism. These are written out of his own revisualization of the
past. More immediately sprung of the old legends are "The Three Marvels of Hy," which tells
of the inner life of Columba and his brethren on Iona, and "Muime Chriosd," which utilizes
folk-lore as old or older than the legends collected by Mr. Alexander Carmichael in his pursuit
of the stories of St. Bride among the peasantry of the Outer Isles. "The Song of the Sword"
and "Mircath" have in them the battle-madness of the Viking, whetted to its keenest intensity
as he meets the hard resistance of the Hebrideans; and "The Laughter of Scathach" and "The
Sad Queen," that more terrible fury of the Amazon who ruled in Skye. Than this last-named story
Sharp has done no starker writing, but it is so evidently from a man's point of view that it
confirmed many in the belief that "Fiona Macleod" could not be a woman.

"The Washer of the Ford" has its roots in folk-lore, but it is so remoulded in the mind of
the writer that it is rather a re-creation of the old belief than a restoration of it. There
are those who would rather have had Sharp follow the tales as they are told by Campbell of
Islay, Cameron of Brodick, and Carmichael of South Uist, but to me, unless the tale is one
familiar to many readers, such a remoulding, if done with power, is surely a prerogative of
the artist. But when he takes a well-known legendary character, as well known among the Gaels
as Achilles among English school-boys, and changes his hair from black to golden and his stature
from short to tall, utterly transforming not only our picture of him, but the significance
of his deeds, then I object, as I would object if he had made the fair-haired and great-statured
Achilles into such "a little dark man" as the Red Branch legends record Cuchullin to have been.
Nor would I quarrel even with his changing of the spirit of the old tales if he had always,
as he has almost always, substituted a new beauty for the old beauty of the legend in its bardic
or folk form. It is in the few instances in which his dream of the old tale does not lift to
so great a power in its way as the old tale possessed in its way that I protest. Of such a
nature are some of the changes Sharp made in his retelling of the "Three Sorrows of Story-Telling"
in "The Laughter of Peterkin," which, it must be remembered, however, was hurried work, almost
hackwork.

Sharp was particularly successful, I think, in his handling, in the three tales--he calls them
"legendary moralities"--in which he brings Christ to the straths of Argyll. These three are
"The Last Supper," "The Fisher of Men," and "The Wayfarer." The last is the least successful
of the three, but significant in its attack on certain forms of Presbyterianism for their attempts
to kill out, as un-Christian, the old ways of life among the Highlanders. This charge was made
fifty years ago by Campbell of Islay, and it had been repeated only yesterday by Mr. Carmichael.
William Black and Mr. Munro confirm it, too, in their novels, and, in fact, it is only what
one expects of Puritanism, whether in its dominating of the Scotch Presbyterian minister or
of the Irish Catholic priest. The latter is to-day doing as much to kill the joy of life in
Connacht as did even the minister of the Free Kirk yesterday on the Lews. It may have been
partly to hide his identity that Sharp assumed what some thought an anti-Presbyterian attitude
in his "Fiona Macleod" writing; it may have been the sympathy of the artist toward a church
that has conserved art that led him to what some thought a pro-Catholic attitude; but scratch
this gypsy artist and you find, surprising as it may be, moral prejudice for Protestantism.
Does he not admire Torcall Cameron and Archibald Ruthven, stern Calvinists both? "The Fisher
of Men," and "The Last Supper" have in them the austere beauty of the old morality plays, a
beauty that is akin to the beauty of the Puritan imagination of Bunyan, and a tenderness that
we may in vain look for there. They are written in all reverence and simplicity, and it is
no wonder we find Mr. Yeats suggesting that "Fiona Macleod" turn them into plays for the Irish
Theatre.

I do not care so much for "The Birds of Emar," myths he has rewoven from the "Mabinogion" into
Gaelic texture, or the series that purport to be collected among the Isles and are found to
be very like certain well-known Greek legends. These, too, seem to me reweavings, and the "Treud-nan-Ron"
and "The Woman at the Crossways"; and "The Man on the Moor," though its origin is far from
their origins, is also a reweaving. In certain of his writing of this time Sharp passes over
virtually into criticism or comparative mythology, as in "Queens of Beauty" and "Orpheus and
Oisin," and in many of the papers of "Where the Forest Murmurs." These all have interest; but
some smell much of the lamp; and none of them are to be compared to the best of his "Seanchas,"
to "The Harping of Cravetheen," or "Enya of the Dark Eyes," or "Silk o' the Kine," or "Ula
and Urla"; or to his Plays "The House of Usna" and "The Immortal Hour," in which, for all the
savagery, there is nobility, the nobility that was in the old legends themselves, that nobility
that withstood even the hand of Macpherson, that nobility that has been reproduced most nobly
of all in the "Deirdre" of Synge.

I am not so sure that the tone of these old myths is always distinctively Celtic, as it is
undoubtedly in "The Annir Choile," and in other "Seanchas" that reveal him at his best. There
was viking blood in Sharp, and it comes out, I think, in such tales as "The Song of the Sword."
How he came to write these barbaric tales I do not know, though I have sometimes thought that
the "Dhoya" (1891) of Mr. Yeats may have suggested them, as the Hanrahan stories may have suggested
certain of the more modern tales. But whatever their genesis, the heroes and heroines of the
"Seanchas" seem to him like the heroes and heroines of Homer and the Greek tragedians; and
his friend whom he thought inspired him to much of the "F.M." work stood, we must remember,
as symbolical to him of the women of Greek as well as of Celtic legend.

There are many indications, in his last writing, not only in that unpublished book on "Greek
Backgrounds" and in his articles in the magazines on Sicily, all by William Sharp, but in the
"Fiona Macleod" work, that he would have come to write of Greek antiquity with an enthusiasm
very like that with which he wrote of Gaelic antiquity. "W.S." is speaking with the voice of
"F.M." when he says in a letter to Mrs. Sharp, dated Athens, January 29, 1904: "It is a marvelous
homecoming feeling I have here. And I know a strange stirring, a kind of spiritual rebirth."

One reason, perhaps, that the best work of Sharp has come out of his consideration of the Celts
of antiquity is that the stark stories he has to tell of them restrain his style, a style too
flamboyant when there is in what he is writing a large opportunity for description of landscape
or exhibition of great emotion in his characters. Another reason is, perhaps, that his tendency
to introduce the supernatural is more in harmony with the subject material got out of antiquity
than of the subject material got out of to-day. We can accept magic in these old tales, even
to the incantations of Bobaran the White that swayed the waves of the sea so that Gaer, the
son of Deirdre, was saved from the men of Lochlin. That is as it should be in druidic times.
It is impossible, of course, that Bobaran had power over the waves, but in such a story such
an episode seems more probable than the possible hypnotic suggestion of Gloom Achanna's pipe-playing
that sent Manus MacOdrum to his death among the fighting seals, because to-day we do not often
come upon such things. It is even less easy to accept the piping to madness of Alasdair in
"Alasdair the Proud." Hypnotic suggestion may drive to death in the sea a man half fey because
of sorrow long endured and the superstition that he is descended from seals, but pipe-playing
cannot believably in modern tales drive a man insane, whatever it may do in the famous old
"Pied Piper of Hamelin" or other folk-tale.

So, too, in the verse of Sharp, whether lyric or dramatic, it is the Celt that inspires him
to his best work. Nowhere does his verse win so much of beauty and glamour as when his thought
turns to the four cities of Murias and Finias and Falias and Glorias, or when it breaks into
a chant on the lips of Etain, in "The Immortal Hour."

Though there is less unevenness of technique, both in the style and in the unfolding of the
story, in these "Seanchas" than elsewhere in his writing, the technique breaks down at times
here, too, more usually through sins of omission than through sins of commission. Sharp realized
the something wanting that so many find in much of his writing, even in much that is most beautiful,
realized it so keenly that he felt called upon to explain. He explained not directly, it is
true, as if in answer to criticism, but none the less definitely in thus affirming his attitude
toward legends in the "Sunset of Old Tales": "We owe a debt, indeed, to the few who are truly
fit for the task [the collecting of tales from oral tradition], but there are some minds which
care very little to hear about things when they can have the things themselves." This statement
explains in part why it is that the life of the people, even that part of their life that fronts
the past, has escaped him. He prefers his dream, thinking that it is their dream, or the dream
of their ancestors. He has, indeed, the thing itself, the Highlander's dream, and when it is
given to him to impart that dream fully we forgive him the proud words I have just quoted.
The pity of it is he has not always so succeeded through the way he has chosen, and then it
is, of course, that we condemn him for the lack of that humility the great dramatic artist
must have whereby he must forget himself and so subordinate himself that tradition or life
speaks through him.

It is not to be wondered, then, that there is little direct record of folk-lore of his own
collecting in his writing, even when he is writing of folk-topics. There are borrowings in
plenty, especially in "Where the Forest Murmurs," and even when the collecting seems his own,
as it does in "Earth, Fire, and Water," "Children of Water," and "Cuilidh Mhoire," it is diamond
dust, not diamonds, to which he gives so beautiful setting.

Just as appealing to Sharp as the old myths themselves are the localities that tradition or
the stories themselves assign as background to them. He loves Iona not only for its gray and
barren beauty, but because it was here Columba wrought his wonders. "Iona," which fills the
major part of the volume "The Divine Adventure" gives title to, is the finest in quality as
well as the longest of his writings that may be called, prosaically, topographical. They, in
their varying ways, are much more than merely topographical, whether done in the way of "F.M.,"
as "Iona" is, and as "From the Hebrid Isles" is, and several papers from "Where the Forest
Murmurs"; or in the way of "W.S.," as "Literary Geography" is. In this last-named book, Scott
and Stevenson, among others, are put against the background that inspired their work, as in
"Iona" certain stories are imagined so as to fit their surroundings and certain legendary history
narrated that is fitting to these surroundings with an appropriateness almost too exact to
be believable. In "Iona," because he loved the island that inspired its writing beyond any
other of the places he loved greatly, is to be found some of his very best work, and examples
of all kinds of his writing, as I have said; and even when this "topographical writing," as
in some of his magazine articles, is evidently of the sort initially intended to "float cuts,"
it is very well done, done most often with distinction. At times, of course, it suffers from
over-emphasis, as do the descriptive portions of his long stories, but generally he attunes
his writing to the genius of the place. This is as true of his letters as of what he wrote
for the public, especially true of that series on Algiers from which Mrs. Sharp quotes in her
"Memoir." Papers of this sort, papers giving the genius of place, Sharp was happier in, I think,
than in those which are more definitely the out-of-door essay. Sharp knew much of birds and
small mammals, of trees and plants, with a knowledge that evidently began in childhood, but,
as with so much else in his life, this knowledge he never had time to fill out and deepen through
patient observation. You must not, then, turn to "Where the Forest Murmurs" to find writing
of a kind with that in which Thoreau and Jefferies so finely attained, much less that loving
intimacy with the personal side of birds and animals that so humanly tempers the scientific
spirit in White of Selborne. Nor is there in them the racy earthiness of Mr. Burroughs. Their
greatest asset is their enthusiasm over the beauty of the world they are written to praise;
the next greatest their power of catching in words the mood of a landscape; their next greatest
their distinction of style, though there are several in which the style is wholly without distinction.
Now and then, too, they are valuable for their guesses at the whys and wherefores of things.
There are to-day many explanations of what is commonly called "The Lure of the Wild." Is not
this as revelatory as any?--

     Is this because, in the wilderness, we recover something of what we
     have lost?... Because we newly find ourselves as though surprised
     into an intimate relationship of which we have been unaware or have
     indifferently ignored? What a long way the ancestral memory has to
     go, seeking, like a pale sleuth-hound, among obscure dusks and
     forgotten nocturnal silences, for the lost trails of the soul! It
     is not we only, you and I, who look into the still waters of the
     wilderness and lonely places, and are often dimly perplext, are
     often troubled we know not how or why: some forgotten reminiscence
     in us is aroused, some memory, not our own, but yet our heritage is
     perturbed, footsteps that have immemorially sunk in ancient dusk
     move furtively along obscure corridors in our brain, the ancestral
     hunter or fisher awakes, the primitive hillman or woodlander
     communicates again with old forgotten intimacies and the secret
     oracular things of lost wisdoms. This is no fanciful challenge of
     speculation. In the order of psychology it is as logical as in the
     order of biology is the tracing of our upright posture or the deft
     and illimitable use of our hands, from unrealizably remote periods
     wherein the pioneers of man reach slowly forward to inconceivable
     arrivals.

The weakness of these essays that are like out-of-door essays, but are not out-of-door essays,
is their dearth of freshly observed fact. This dearth would not matter so much if there were
not so many of them, but a book full of such essays with little original observation will pall,
no matter how well written, no matter how interesting the personality of the writer. Thus it
is that some of the essays of Jefferies pall, some of those written in his last days, of Jefferies
who had in his earlier writing been so objective. In Thoreau there is a happy combination of
freshly observed fact with personal comment, and in Mr. Burroughs a personal element greatly
subdued, and presented in most of the essays only through the selective art that has preserved
the incidents he relates out of many of a vast store of their kind.

In these "nature studies" of Sharp, as in so much of his writing, there is a great deal of
generalization from phenomena superficially observed. He is not so often inaccurate, but he
is very often merely repetitive, giving us in beautiful and oftentimes distinguished phrase
what others have given us before. Sharp wrote sometimes, I have no doubt, with the thing he
describes before him but oftener, it would seem, from notes, and oftenest, I take it, from
memory. Sometimes it is best to write thus from memory. The unessential will fade out, the
essential remain; but with Sharp the trouble is that the first observation has often been hurried.
He was content with the beauty that he saw when he first noticed the incident; he did not wait
to observe what in the further actions of the life observed would make that beautiful incident
more significant. It may, of course, be said that all he was after was the impression that
the passing incident made upon him. Perhaps so, and if so, more is the pity, because, while,
as I have said, one out-of-door essay with little or even with nothing but the personality
of the writer may interest, or perhaps two such, or even ten, a book full will be monotonous.
At its best, however, his writing of "natural romance" is of great beauty. "Still Waters,"
for one, is almost perfect, as perfect as this sort of thing may be. It is wrought of his own
experiences with just enough of mythological data to give it the texture of old and lasting things.

"The Rainy Hyades," on the other hand, is largely a rehash of folk-lore notes, second-hand
work with very little added from experience and very little finely imagined or recaptured by
way of ancestral memory. At times it would seem that, poor, tired man, he had to feed his flagging
invention from a dictionary of quotations. So, it appears, he has done in his "Winter Stars"
as well as in "The Rainy Hyades." As I think over the unevenness of these essays, the beauty
of "Still Waters," and the obviousness of these others, I am brought back again to wondering
what Sharp would have done had all his time been his to do as he would with. Such wonderment
is, of course, idle, idle as that as to what Keats would have done had he lived, for a man's
art is judged by what it is, with no tempering of the appraisement by what the man's life has
been. Fortunately there is inspiring work in plenty in Sharp, in this, as in other phases of
his work, to make readers turn to him when interest in him as a phenomenon of current literature
has passed away. It is hard to think of the time when writing so beautiful as that of "Still
Waters" will not be sought by lovers of beauty in words and by lovers of beauty in landscape,
and when the opening of "The Coming of Dusk" will not be turned to, as the opening of Emerson's
"Nature" is turned to to-day.

Were I to attempt to enumerate the critical writings of Sharp, from the "Rossetti" of 1882
to "The Winged Destiny" of 1904, I should run up a catalogue that would exceed any even of
Walt Whitman's. For years Sharp lived by criticism, as editor of "The Canterbury Poets" and
as reviewer for many of the London journals. To me none of this critical work is significant
until he came to write of the movement that carried him to fame,--to fame, I say, because "Fiona
Macleod" was famous for a decade, and not only as a mystery, but as a revealer of a new beauty
in words, and as a widener of horizons.

I have, I think, by this time made clear what to me is the great strength of William Sharp--his
power to revisualize the Celtic past of Scotland and to imagine stories of that past that are
as native to it as those handed down in Bardic legend or folk-lore. I have emphasized my belief
that in other kinds of writing his attainment is less original, though often beautiful in its
imitativeness, and this imitativeness I will explain as being due partly to that quality of
the play-actor that was in him as in so many of Celtic blood, partly to his lack of time to
hew out for himself a way of his own, and partly to his quick responsiveness to any new beauty
pointed out by work that he admired. It was not altogether, however, lack of time that prevented
his attainment of a larger originality, an originality in other sorts of writing than the "Seanchas."
Sharp had an unfortunate disbelief in early life in the value of technique. In the preface
to the "Romantic Ballads" (1888), for instance, he expressed the belief that "the supreme merit
of a poem is not perfection of art, but the quality of the imagination which is the source
of such real or approximate perfection." This, as I interpret it means that a poem, when of
perfect art, has back of that perfect art a high imaginative quality; but by his own practice
Sharp knows that he thought the quality would suffice without the highest art in its expression.
It was this belief that made him leave his work incomplete; he read his verses, no doubt, with
the glow in which he wrote them recalled to memory, and without the realization that he had
not got down on paper for others half of the creative force that was in him as he wrote.

I have found a reason for a lesser success than the early work of "Fiona Macleod" promised
to him in his imitativeness, but in some ways he was handicapped, too, by lack of models to
follow. Granted he could have blazed other ways for himself than that of the "Seanchas," he
lessened the originality of his attainment by imitation, but if he could not have so blazed
other ways he just as surely could have gone further had he had models, or rather good models,
to follow, models, for instance, in novels of Highland life. The very fact of there being great
realistic stories of Highland life might have made it possible for him to have written a Highland
"Silence Farm."

But enough of what might have been: what is is good enough, good enough at its best to treasure
among those things that are a lasting part of our lives. However great may be the reaction
against his work because of the nine days' wonder about the identity of its creator, certain
parts of it, certain tales and certain verses and a play, will hold their own against the years.
Through such tales as "The Sad Queen," and such verses as "The Dirge of the Four Cities," and
"The House of Usna" even eyes of little vision may see "eternal beauty wandering on her way,"
leaving about them a glamour as recurrent to the mind as sunset to the skies.

THE END

APPENDIX

APPENDIX

PLAYS PRODUCED, IN DUBLIN, BY THE ABBEY THEATRE COMPANY AND ITS PREDECESSORS, WITH DATES OF
FIRST PERFORMANCES

IRISH LITERARY THEATRE AT ANTIENT CONCERT ROOMS

May    8, 1899. "The Countess Cathleen."           W.B. Yeats. May    9, 1899. "The Heather
Field."               Edward Martyn.

IRISH LITERARY THEATRE AT THE GAIETY THEATRE

Feb.  19, 1900. "The Bending of the Bough."        George Moore.
Feb.  19, 1900. "The Last Feast of the Fianna."    Alice Milligan.
Feb.  20, 1900. "Maeve."                           Edward Martyn.
Oct.  21, 1901. "Diarmuid and Grania."             W.B. Yeats and
                                                     George Moore.
Oct.  21, 1901. "The Twisting of the Rope."        Douglas Hyde.
                (The first Gaelic play produced in any theatre.)

MR. W.G. FAY'S IRISH NATIONAL DRAMATIC COMPANY AT ST. TERESA'S HALL,
  CLARENDON STREET

Apr.   2, 1902. "Deirdre."                         "A.E." Apr.   2, 1902. "Kathleen ni Houlihan."
W.B. Yeats.

IRISH NATIONAL DRAMATIC COMPANY AT ANTIENT CONCERT ROOMS

Oct.  29, 1902. "The Sleep of the King."           Seumas O'Cuisin. Oct.  29, 1902. "The Laying
of the Foundations."   Fred Ryan. Oct.  30, 1902. "A Pot of Broth."                  W.B. Yeats.
Oct.  31, 1902. "The Racing Lug."                  Seumas O'Cuisin.

IRISH NATIONAL THEATRE SOCIETY, MOLESWORTH HALL

Mar.  14, 1903. "The Hour-Glass."                  W.B. Yeats. Mar.  14, 1903. "Twenty-Five."
Lady Gregory. Oct.   8, 1903. "The King's Threshold."            W.B. Yeats. Oct.   8, 1903.
"In the Shadow of the Glen."       J.M. Synge. Dec.   3, 1903. "Broken Soil."             
Padraic Colum. Jan.  14, 1904. "The Shadowy Waters."              W.B. Yeats. Jan.  14, 1904.
"The Townland of Tamney."          Seumas McManus. Feb.  25, 1904. "Riders to the Sea."   
J.M. Synge.

IRISH NATIONAL THEATRE SOCIETY AT THE ABBEY THEATRE

Dec.  27, 1904. "On Baile's Strand."               W.B. Yeats. Dec.  27, 1904. "Spreading the
News."              Lady Gregory. Feb.   4, 1905. "The Well of the Saints."          J.M. Synge.
Mar.  25, 1905. "Kincora."                         Lady Gregory. Apr.  25, 1905. "The Building
Fund."               William Boyle. June   9, 1905. "The Land."                        Padraic
Colum.

NATIONAL THEATRE SOCIETY, LTD. (ABBEY COMPANY)

Dec.   9, 1905. "The White Cockade."               Lady Gregory.
Jan.  20, 1906. "The Eloquent Dempsey."            William Boyle.
Feb.  19, 1906. "Hyacinth Halvey."                 Lady Gregory.
Oct.  20, 1906. "The Gaol Gate."                   Lady Gregory.
Oct.  20, 1906. "The Mineral Workers."             William Boyle.
Nov.  24, 1906. "Deirdre."                         W.B. Yeats.
Dec.   8, 1906. "The Canavans."                    Lady Gregory.
Dec.   8, 1906. New Version of "The Shadowy        W.B. Yeats.
                 Waters."
Jan.  26, 1907. "The Playboy of the Western        J.M. Synge.
                 World."
Feb.  23, 1907. "The Jackdaw."                     Lady Gregory.
Mar.   9, 1907. "The Rising of the Moon."          Lady Gregory.
Apr.   1, 1907. "The Eyes of the Blind."           Miss W.M. Letts.
Apr.   3, 1907. "The Poorhouse."                   Douglas Hyde and
                                                    Lady Gregory.
Apr.  27, 1907. "Fand."                            Wilfred Scawen
                                                    Blunt.
Oct.   3, 1907. "The Country Dressmaker."          George Fitzmaurice.
Oct.  31, 1907. "Devorgilla."                      Lady Gregory.
Nov.  21, 1907. "The Unicorn from the Stars."      W.B. Yeats and
                                                    Lady Gregory.
Feb.  13, 1908. "The Man who missed the Tide."     W.F. Casey.
Feb.  13, 1908. "The Piper."                       "Norreys Connell."
Mar.  10, 1908. "The Piedish."                     George Fitzmaurice.
Mar.  19, 1908. "The Golden Helmet."               W.B. Yeats.
Apr.  20, 1908. "The Workhouse Ward."              Lady Gregory.
Oct.   1, 1908. "The Suburban Groove."             W.F. Casey.
Oct.   8, 1908. "The Clancy Name."                 Lennox Robinson.
Oct.  15, 1908. "When the Dawn is come."           Thomas MacDonogh.
Oct.  21, 1908. New Version of "The Man who        W.F. Casey.
                  missed the Tide."
Feb.  11, 1909. Revised Version of "Kincora."      Lady Gregory.
Mar.  11, 1909. "Stephen Grey."                    D.L. Kelleher.
Apr.   1, 1909. "The Crossroads."                  Lennox Robinson.
Apr.   1, 1909. "Time."                            "Norreys Connell."
Apr.  29, 1909. "The Glittering Gate."             Lord Dunsany.
May   27, 1909. "An Imaginary Conversation."       "Norreys Connell."
Aug.  25, 1909. "The Showing-up of Blanco Posnet." Bernard Shaw.
Sept. 16, 1909. "The White Feather."               R.J. Ray.
Oct.  14, 1909. "The Challenge."                   Miss W.M. Letts.
Nov.  11, 1909. "The Image."                       Lady Gregory.
Jan.  13, 1910. "Deirdre of the Sorrows."          J.M. Synge.
Feb.  10, 1910. "The Green Helmet."                W.B. Yeats.
Mar.   2, 1910. "The Travelling Man."              Lady Gregory.
May   12, 1910. "Thomas Muskerry."                 Padraic Colum.
May   26, 1910. "Harvest."                         Lennox Robinson.
Sept. 28, 1910. "The Casting-out of Martin         R.J. Ray.
                  Whelan."
Oct.  27, 1910. "Birthright."                      T.C. Murray.
Nov.  10, 1910. "The Full Moon."                   Lady Gregory.
Nov.  24, 1910. "The Shuiler's Child."[3]          Seumas O'Kelly.
Dec.   1, 1910. "Coats."                           Lady Gregory
Jan.  12, 1911. "The Deliverer."                   Lady Gregory.
Jan.  26, 1911. "King Argimenes and the            Lord Dunsany.
                  Unknown Warrior."
Feb.  16, 1911. "The Land of Heart's Desire."[4]   W.B. Yeats.
Mar.  30, 1911. "Mixed Marriage."                  St. John G. Ervine.
Nov.  23, 1911. "The Interlude of Youth."          Anon., first
                                                     printed 1554.
Nov.  23, 1911. "The Second Shepherds' Play."      Anon., circa
                                                     1400.
Nov.  30, 1911. "The Marriage."                    Douglas Hyde.
Dec.   7, 1911. "Red Turf."                        Rutherford Mayne.
Dec.  16, 1911. Revival of "The Countess           W.B. Yeats.
                  Cathleen."
Jan.   4, 1912. "The Annunciation."              circa 1400.
Jan.   4, 1912. "The Flight into Egypt."         circa 1400.
Jan.  11, 1912. "MacDarragh's Wife."               Lady Gregory.
Feb.   1, 1912. Revival of "The Country            George Fitzmaurice.
                  Dressmaker."
Feb.  16, 1912. "The Tinker and the Fairy."        Douglas Hyde.
                 (Played in Gaelic.)
Feb.  29, 1912. "The Worlde and the Chylde."       15th century.
Mar.  28, 1912. "Family Failings."                 William Boyle.
Apr.  11, 1912. "Patriots."                        Lennox Robinson.
June  20, 1912. "Maurice Harte."                   T.C. Murray.
July   4, 1912. "The Bogie Men."                   Lady Gregory.
Oct.  17, 1912. "The Magnanimous Lover."           St. John G. Ervine.
Nov.  21, 1912. "Damer's Gold."                    Lady Gregory.

TRANSLATIONS OF THE FOLLOWING HAVE BEEN PRODUCED

Apr.  16, 1906. "The Doctor in spite of Himself."  (Molière.) Translated
                                                     by Lady Gregory.
Mar.  16, 1907. "Interior."                        (Maeterlinck.)
Mar.  19, 1908. "Teja."                            (Sudermann.)
                                                     Translated by Lady
                                                     Gregory.
Apr.   4, 1909. "The Rogueries of Scapin."         (Molière.)
                                                     Translated by Lady
                                                     Gregory.
Jan.  21, 1909. "The Miser."                       (Molière.)
                                                     Translated by Lady
                                                     Gregory.
Feb.  24, 1910. "Mirandolina."                    (Goldini.) Translated
                                                     by Lady Gregory.
Jan.   5, 1911. "Nativity Play."                   (Douglas Hyde.)
                                                     Translated by Lady
                                                     Gregory.

FOOTNOTES:

[3] First produced by an amateur company at the Molesworth Hall in 1909.

[4] First produced at the Avenue Theatre, London, in 1894.

INDEX

Abbey Theatre, organization of company, 13-36.

All Ireland Review, 86.

All on the Irish Shore, 6.

Allgood, Sara, 19, 22, 23, 24, 26, 27, 28, 211.

Allingham, William, 39.

Ancient Legends of Ireland, 51.

Antient Concert Rooms, the, 18, 78, 86, 106, 200.

Apostle, The, 111.

Aran Islands, The, 168, 187, 188, 191.

Aran Islands, the, 147, 162, 166, 170, 171, 177, 178, 179, 181, 187,
 188, 190, 191, 192.

Argyll, 4, 267, 268.

Arnold, Matthew, 3, 59, 255.

Arran, 267.

Arthurian stories, 3, 48.

Austen, Jane, 155, 156.

Ave, 73, 76, 94, 99, 108, 109.

Avenue Theatre, London, 25, 50.

Bards and Saints, 8.

Barker, Granville, 230.

Barlow, Jane, 1, 7, 148.

Beerbohm, Max, 81.

Belfast, 47.

Beltaine, 75, 85.

Bending of the Bough, The, 76, 88, 95, 98, 105.

Benson, Sir Frank, 18.

Benson Company, the, 106.

Beowulf, 142.

Berkeley, George, 135.

Bernhardt, Sara, 16.

Bhagavad-Gîta, 117.

Birmingham, George A. (The Rev. Dr. James O. Hannay), 8.

Birthright, 216, 217, 218, 219, 222.

Björnson, Björnstjerne, 36.

Black, William, 271, 284.

Blake, William, 38.

Bodley Head, the, 2.
  Book of Saints and Wonders, 138, 142.

Borrow, George, 161, 165, 173, 179.

Boucicault, Dion, 168.

Boyle, William, 15, 33, 208-215, 238, 239, 240.
  Building Fund, The, 209-213;
  Eloquent Dempsey, The, 208, 209, 213;
  Family Failings, 208;
  Mineral Workers, The, 208, 213-214, 238.

Brigit, St., 142, 147, 282.

Brittany, 3, 266.
  Broken Soil, 32, 202.

Brown, T.E., 4, 5.

Browning, Robert, 50.

Buchanan, Robert, 272.

Buckley, William, 7, 8.
  Building Fund, The, 208, 209-213, 214.

Bullock, Shan, 7, 214, 234, 236, 270.

Bunyan, John, 285.

Burns, Robert, "Jolly Beggars," 177, 234.

Burroughs, John, 290, 292.
  Bursting of the Bubble, The, 9.
  By Thrasna River, 7.

Calendar of the Saints, 247.

Cameron, Dr., of Brodick, 283.

Campbell, John F., of Islay, 283, 284.

Campbell, Joseph (Seosamh MacCathmhaoil), 246-250.
  Judgment, 247-250;
  Mearing Stones, 247;
  The Mountainy Singer, 247.

Campbell, Mrs. Patrick, 23, 28, 45.

Canavans, The, 149, 152.

"Carberry, Ethna" (Anna Johnston MacManus), 10, 216, 255.

Carmichael, Alexander, 263, 282, 283, 284.

Carmina Gadelica, 263.

Carnegie Lyceum, The, New York, 85.

Cathleen ni Houlihan, 10, 17, 19, 31, 50-51, 53, 54, 55, 77.

Catriona, 272.

"Celtic Gloom, The," 274.

Celtic Literature, On the Study of, 3.

Celtic Renaissance, The, 1-12, 13, 18, 33, 36, 41, 93, 105, 114, 158,
  251, 256, 259, 260.

Celtic Twilight, The, 37, 41, 42, 54.

Chesson, Nora Hopper, 10.

Child of Nature, A, 272.

Children of Lir, 200.

Children of Tempest, The, 4, 271.

Children of To-morrow, 264.

Church, Richard William, 138.

Clancy Name, The, 223, 224, 228.

Clare, 84, 141.

Coleridge, Samuel Taylor, 210, 211.

Colum, Padraic, 11, 15, 21, 198-208, 240.
  Broken Soil, 32, 202;
  Children of Lir, 200;
  Eoghan's Wife, 201;
  The Fiddler's House, 200, 202, 204-205, 206;
  The Foleys, 201;
  The Kingdom of the Young, 201;
  The Land, 200, 202, 204, 206;
  The Miracle of the Corn, 200, 202;
  The Saxon Shillin', 201;
  Studies, 200;
  Thomas Muskerry, 199, 200, 206;
  Wild Earth, 200, 208.

Columba, 147, 282, 289.

Congreve, William, 13.

Conn the Shaughraun, 168.

Connacht, 39, 154, 179, 188, 215, 239.

"Connell, Norreys" (Conal O'Riordan), 31, 241-243.
  An Imaginary Conversation, 242;
  Piper, 31, 33, 242, 243;
  Shakespeare's End, 242;
  Time, 242.

Connemara, 7, 147, 188.

Connla, 20, 21.

Conway, Hart, 218.

Cork, 15, 47, 220, 222.

Cork Dramatic Society, The, 35, 216, 223.

Cork Realists, 216.

Cornwall, 2, 3, 4.

Countess Cathleen, The, 18, 32, 43, 47, 48-49, 50, 51, 59, 64,
  69, 78.

Court Theatre, London, The, 241.

Cousins, James H., 20, 32.

Craig, Gordon, 29.

Craigie, Pearl Teresa ("John Oliver Hobbes"), 104, 105.

Crashaw, Richard, 135.

Croker, Crofton, 168.

Croppies Lie Down, 7.

Crossroads, The, 224-228, 230, 231.

Cuchulain of Muirthemne, 58, 138, 143.

Cumann nan Gaedheal, 90, 115.

Dan the Dollar, 7, 214.

Dandy Dick, 233.

Darragh, Miss, 28.

Dartmoor, 6.

Daughters of Erin, The, 18, 200.

Davis, Thomas, 39.

Death of Dermid, The, 109.

Death of Tintagiles, The, 252.

Deirdre (G.W. Russell), 20, 21, 31, 77, 115.

Deirdre (W.B. Yeats), 23, 27, 28, 44, 50, 61-63.

Deirdre of the Sorrows, 160, 163, 166, 168, 181, 183, 192, 196,
  197, 285.

Deliverer, The, 149.

DeMax, 16.

De Quincey, Thomas, 265.

Derry, 14.

Destruction of the Hostel, The, 205.

Devorgilla, 152.

Dhoya, 41, 286.

Diarmid and Grania, 32, 106-110, 143.

Dickens, Charles, 6.

Digges, T. Dudley, 21, 22.

Discoveries, 42.

Divine Adventure, The, 263, 270, 273, 275, 279, 289.

Divine Vision, The, 116, 122.

Dolmetsch, Arnold, 64, 98.

Dome, The, 81.

Dominion of Dreams, The, 273, 274.

Donegal, 7, 246, 247, 249, 250.

Donegal Fairy Stories, 7.

Donne, John, 164.

Down, 15, 210, 216, 226, 235, 237, 238, 243.

Drama in Muslin, A, 96, 101, 102, 110, 171.

Drone, The, 210, 235, 236.

Drosdan and Yssul, 254.

Dual personality, 278.

Dublin Castle, 32.

Dublin University Review, 38.

Duffy, Sir Charles Gavan, 2.

Dun Theatre, the, Cork, 224.

Earth Breath, The, 116.

Edgeworth, Maria, 6.

"Eglinton, John." (See Magee, W.K.)

Elizabethan Stage Society, the, 30.

Eloquent Dempsey, The, 208, 209, 213.

Emerson, R.W., 115, 120, 122, 125, 126, 127, 135, 293.

Enchanted Sea, The, 75, 77, 83, 85-87, 89, 90.

Enchanted Valleys, The, 254.

Eoghan's Wife, 201.

Ervine, St. John G., 15, 33, 243-246.
  The Eviction, 246;
  The  Magnanimous Lover, 243, 245, 246;
  Mixed Marriage, 243, 246, 247.

Esther Waters, 6, 96, 112.

Evelyn Innes, 95, 96, 97, 98, 122.

Everyman, 30, 51.

Eviction, The, 246.

Fairies, 39, 41.

Family Failings, 208.

Farr, Florence, 25, 26, 27, 28.

Fay, Frank J., 19, 21, 22, 23, 24.

Fellowe and his Wife, A, 261, 264, 278.

Ferguson, Sir Samuel, 39, 61, 109, 184.

Fermanagh, 7.

Fiddler's House, The, 200, 202, 204-205, 206.

FitzGerald, Edward, 141.

Flamel, 43.

Flora MacDonald, 266.

Foleys, The, 201.

Folk-plays, 17, 29, 35, 49.

Folk-songs, 2, 40.

Folk-tales, 283.

From the Hills of Dream, 259.

Full Moon, The, 152.

Gaelic League, the, 1, 18, 41, 107.

Gaiety Theatre, the, Dublin, 30, 106, 110.

Galway, 73, 101, 108, 141, 189, 208, 210, 216, 238, 240.

Gaol Gate, The, 153, 154.

Ghosts, 80.

Gilbert, Lady (Rosa Mulholland), 6.

Gillian the Dreamer, 4.

Gods and Fighting Men, 109, 138, 141, 145.

Golden Helmet, The, 27, 63.

Goldsmith, Oliver, 13.

Gonne, Maud, 27, 59, 136.

Gore-Booth, Eva, 11.

Grangecolman, 91-92.

Grania (Lady Gregory), 110, 154, 156-157.

Grania (The Hon. Emily Lawless), 7.

Greek Backgrounds, 286.

Green Fire, 263, 266.

Green Helmet, The, 63.

Gregory, Lady, 8, 9, 15, 22, 30, 31, 32, 47, 53, 54, 56, 58, 73, 74,
  75, 76, 88, 92, 93, 108, 109, 110, 114, 138-159, 179, 206, 215.
  Book of Saints and Wonders, 138, 142;
  The Canavans, 149, 152;
  Cuchulain of Muirthemne, 58, 138, 143;
  The Deliverer, 149;
  Devorgilla, 152;
  The Full Moon, 152;
  The Gaol Gate, 153, 154;
  Gods and Fighting Men, 109, 138, 141, 145;
  Grania, 110, 154, 156-157;
  Hyacinth Halvey, 150, 151;
  The Image, 150, 151;
  The Jack Daw, 151;
  Kincora, 152;
  MacDaragh's Wife, 154, 155;
  Poets and Dreamers, 147;
  The Poorhouse, 9;
  The Rising of the Moon, 22, 31, 32, 152;
  Spreading the News, 150, 151;
  A Travelling Man, 153;
  Twenty-five, 32, 152;
  The Unicorn from the Stars, 27, 53-56;
  The White Cockade, 152;
  The Workhouse Ward, 152, 154.

Gregory, Robert, 30.

Grundy, Sydney, 104.

Gwynn, Stephen, 122.

Gyles, Althea, 247.

Gypsy Christ, The, 265, 279.

Hail and Farewell, 73, 92, 98, 113.

Hankin, St. John, 245.

Hardy, Thomas, 6, 7, 101, 164, 175, 176, 192, 193, 239, 258, 271.

Harrigan plays, the, 22.

Harte, Bret, 241.

Harvest, 221, 224, 228, 229, 230, 231.

Hawthorne, Nathaniel, 82, 175.

Heather Field, The, 18, 78-83, 85, 89, 91, 92, 93, 95.

Hebrides, the, 271, 274, 283.

Hedda Gabler, 104, 175.

Hermetic Society, the, 39, 117, 120.

Hewlett, Maurice, 165.

Highlands of Scotland, the, 3, 4, 260, 263, 264, 267, 268, 270, 271,
  272, 274, 276, 284, 295.

Hinkson, Katherine Tynan, 1, 6, 10.

Homer, 64, 120, 144, 286.

Homestead, The, 117.

Homeward, 116.

Horniman, Miss, 21, 31, 33, 35.

House of Usna, The, 251, 252, 253, 254, 259, 285.

Hyacinth Halvey, 150, 151.

Hyde, Douglas, 1, 2, 8, 18, 40, 41, 46, 107, 147, 153, 158, 166,
  171, 179.

Hypnotic suggestion, 278.

Ibsen, Henrik, 13, 34, 36, 38, 80, 93, 163, 168, 178, 213.

Ideas of Good and Evil, 42.

Image, The, 150, 151.

Imaginary Conversation, An, 242.

Immortal Hour, The, 251, 252, 285, 287.

Impressions and Opinions, 103.

In a Balcony, 50.

In Chimney Corners, 7.

Independent Theatre, The, London, 103, 104, 105.

Iona, 277, 289.

Iona, 282.

"I.O.," 116.

Irish Idylls, 7, 148.

Irish Agricultural Organization Society, the, 13, 117, 118, 137, 225.

Irish Literary Theatre, The, 5, 18, 19, 42, 52, 73, 74, 76, 85, 105,
  109, 110, 115, 251.

Irish Pastorals, 7.

Irving Terry Company, the, 105.

Island of Statues, The, 47.

Jack Daw, The, 151.

Janvier, Mrs. Thomas A., 256.

Jefferies, Richard, 290, 291.

John Bull's Other Island, 241.

John Sherman and Dhoya, 41.

John Splendid, 4.

Johnson, Lionel, 5, 10, 64.

Johnston, Charles, 125, 134, 146.

Journeys End in Lovers Meeting, 105.

Joyce, Dr. P.W., 3, 110, 139.

Judgment, 246, 249, 250.

Kailyard School, the, 270.

Keats, John, 48, 293.

Kelley, P.J., 21, 22.

Kelpius, 122.

Kembles, the, 18.

Kerrigan, J.M., 23, 27, 217.

Kerry, 166, 188, 190, 216.

Kidnapped, 272.

Kiltartan English, 141, 142.

Kincora, 152.

King of Ys, The, 254.

Kingdom of the Young, The, 201.

King's Threshold, The, 60, 69.

Kingston, Thomas, 81.

Kipling, Rudyard, 47.

Lady from the Sea, The, 85.

Lake, The, 96, 99, 101, 102, 111, 112, 113.

Land, The, 200, 202, 204, 206.

Land League, the, 102.

Land of Heart's Desire, The, 25, 43, 49-50, 51, 59.

Larminie, William, 8.

Last of the De Mullins, The, 245.

Last Supper, The, 251.

Laughter of Peterkin, The, 267, 284.

Lawless, The Hon. Emily, 6.

Laying of the Foundations, The, 32.

Lays of the Western Gael, The, 110.

Leabhar Sgeuluigheachta, 41.

Lear, 45.

Legend of Montrose, The, 272.

Leinster, 215.

Le Moyne, Mrs., 50.

Lesson of Life, The, 224.

Lever, Charles James, 102.

Literary Geography, 289.

Lost Pibroch, The, 4.

Lost Saint, The, 9.

Love in the Valley, 49.

Love Songs of Connacht, The, 1, 9, 166, 179.

Lover, Samuel, 101.

Lowlands  of Scotland, the, 258, 260, 264.

Luke Delmege, 7.

Lynchehaun case, the, 171.

Lyra Celtica, 4.

Mabinogion, 285.

MacDaragh's Wife, 154, 155.

McGee, Eithne, 23, 26, 211.

"Macleod,  Fiona." (See Sharp, William.)

MacManus, Anna Johnstone. (See "Ethna Carberry.")

MacManus, Seumas, 7.

Macpherson, James, 3, 285.

Madge o' the Pool, 279.

Maeterlinck, Maurice, 13, 38, 45, 48, 113, 135, 178, 192, 202, 252,
  253, 260.

Magee, W.K. ("John Eglinton"), 8, 10.

Magic, 67.

Magnanimous Lover, The, 243, 245, 246.

Man, Isle of, 3, 4, 5.

Martin, Martin, 271.

Martyn, Edward, 13, 18, 46, 72, 73, 74-95, 97, 98, 102, 105, 112, 115,
  178, 207.

Masefield, John, 238, 239.

Maurice Harte, 216, 219-221, 222.

Mayne, Rutherford, 15, 210, 233-240, 244.
  The Drone, 210, 235, 236;
  Red Turf, 238, 239, 240;
  The Troth, 235, 237;
  The Turn of the Road, 216, 235, 238, 239.

Mayo, 95.

Mearing Stones, 247.

Measure for Measure, 24.

Meath, 226.

Memoirs of My Dead Self, 98.

Meredith, George, 4, 11, 101, 165, 166, 261.

Meynell, Alice, 10.

Milligan, Alice, 116.

Milton, John, 48, 120, 135.

Mineral Workers, The, 208, 213, 214, 238.

Miracle of the Corn, The, 200, 202.

Mixed Marriage, 243, 246, 247.

Modern Lover, A, 74, 96.

Modern Painting, 95.

Molesworth Hall, 163.

Monna Vanna, 45.

Moore, George, 6, 8, 18, 52, 72, 73, 74, 75, 80, 81, 88, 92, 94,
  95-113, 122, 158. I), 73, 76, 94, 99, 108, 109;
  Salve (vol.

More, Henry, 135.

Morgan, Sydney J., 217.

Morgante the Lesser, 97.

Morris, William, 38.

Mosada, 47.

Mountain Lovers,  The, 262, 264, 265, 266, 270, 274.

Mountainy Singer, The, 247.

Mulholland, Rosa. (See Lady Gilbert.)

Mummer's Wife, A, 101.

Munro, Neil, 4, 6, 59, 271, 284.

Munster, 178, 215.

Murray, T.C., 15, 215-222.
  Birthright, 216, 217, 218, 219, 222;
  Maurice Harte, 216, 219-221, 222;
  The Wheel o' Fortune, 216.

My New Curate, 7.

Mysticism, 11, 123, 134, 135, 273, 274, 275.

Nan, 238, 239.

Nash, Thomas, 66.

National Dramatic Company, the 16, 19, 20, 21, 29, 32, 56, 77, 110,
  115, 118.

National Players, the, 35.

National Theatre Society, the Ltd., 30, 35, 60, 202, 223, 241.

Nethersole, Olga, 233.

New Songs, 116.

Norway, 36.

O'Curry, Eugene, 140.

O'Doherty, Eileen, 217.

O'Donoghue, Taidgh, 108.

O'Donovan, Fred, 23, 26, 27, 211, 217.

"Oghma," 116.

O'Grady, Standish Hayes, 110, 140, 141.

O'Grady, Standish James, 3, 86, 117, 139.

Oisin, 13, 40, 69.

Olcott, Chauncey, 22.

Old Celtic Romances, 139.

Old Knowledge, The, 122.

Omar Khayyám, 141.

On Baile's Strand, 27, 28, 58, 59.

O'Neill, Maire, 23, 26.

"Moira O'Neill" (Mrs. Nesta Higginson Skrine), 10, 255.

Origines Islandicæ, 238.

O'Riordan, Conal. (See "Norreys Connell.")

O'Rourke, J.A., 211, 217.

Ossian, 3, 138.

O'Sullivan, Seumas, 11.

Our Dramatists and their Literature, 103.

Our Mutual Friend, 279.

Outer Isles, The, 274.

Pagan Review, The, 261.

Palestrina, 77.

Parnell, Charles Stewart, 2, 147, 149.

Parnell and his Island, 96, 97, 101.

Pater, Walter, 121, 133.

Patrick, St., 13, 40, 142.

Patriots, 231-232.

"Paul Gregan," 116.

Pebbles from a Brook, 8.

Peer Gynt, 163.

Pharais, 262, 263, 264, 266, 270, 277.

Phèdre, 16.

Phillpotts, Eden, 6.

Pinero, Sir Arthur Wing, 104, 214, 233.

Piper, The, 31, 33, 242, 243.

Place Hunters, The, 75, 78, 90, 93.

Playboy of the Western World, The, 23, 26, 31, 32, 33, 75, 149,
  163, 164, 166, 170, 171, 176, 178, 180, 182, 184, 196, 218, 228.

Players Club, The, 86.

Plotinus, 125.

Poe, Edgar Allan, 40, 48, 265.

Poel, William, 24.

Poems and Ballads, 49.

Poetry of the Celtic Races, The, 3.

Poets and Dreamers, 147.

Pomfret, John, 203.

Poorhouse, The, 9.

Pope, Alexander, 203.

Porphyry, 54.

Pot of Broth, A, 22, 32, 51, 52, 54.

Pre-Raphaelites, The, 10, 158.

Princess of Thule, The, 271.

Proclus, 126.

Psaltery, 64.

Puritanism, 135, 234, 235, 244, 285.

Quiller-Couch, Sir Arthur, 3.

Quinn, Maire T., 21, 22.

Racing Lug, The, 20, 21.

Raftery, 147.

Red Turf, 238, 239, 240.

Rehan, Ada, 233.

Religious Songs of Connacht, The, 9, 171, 179.

Renan, Ernest, 3, 255.

Revival of Irish Literature, The, 2.

Rhys, Ernest, 4.

Riders to the Sea, 149, 162, 178, 179, 181, 183, 195, 197.

Rinder, Edith Wingate, 268, 269.

Rising of the Moon, The, 22, 31, 32, 152.

Robin Hood, 138.

Robinson, S. Lennox, 15, 33, 112, 215, 221, 222-232.
  The Clancy Name, 223-224, 228;
  The Crossroads, 224-228, 230, 231;
  Harvest, 221, 224, 228-230;
  Lesson of Life, 224;
  Patriots, 231-232.

Rob Roy, 272.

Romantic Ballads, 253, 259, 294.

Rosmersholm, 91.

Ross, Martin. (See Somerville, E. Oe.)

Rossetti, Dante Gabriel, 293.

Ruskin, John, 89, 158, 159.

Russell, G.W. ("A.E."), 1, 5, 8, 11, 19, 20, 21, 39, 41, 46, 95, 98,
  111, 112, 114-137, 146, 251, 253, 255.
  Deirdre, 20, 21, 31, 77, 115;
  The Divine Vision, 116, 122;
  The Earth Breath, 116;
  Homeward, 116;
  "Symbolism," 126;
  "Weariness," 128;
  "Memory of Earth," 130.

Ryan, Frederick, 32.

Salve, 99.

Samhain, 16, 29, 76, 81, 109.

Saturday Review, The, London, 81.

Saxon Shillin', The, 201.

Scotch Irish, the, 215, 234.

Scott, Sir Walter, 6, 100, 234, 272, 289.

Scotus Erigena, 135.

Second Mrs. Tanqueray, The, 104.

Secret Rose, The, 41, 54.

Seething Pot, The, 8.

Seven Woods, In the, 43.

Shadow of the Glen, In the, 32, 60, 77, 162, 168, 169, 175, 178,
  181, 184, 190, 195, 218.

Shadowy Waters, The, 28, 56-58, 60.

Shakespeare, 120.

Shakespeare's End, 242.

Sharp, William ("Fiona Macleod"), 4, 86, 251-296.

Sharp, Mrs. William, 251, 256, 262, 268, 279, 286, 290.

Shaw, George Bernard, 53, 177, 230, 241.

Sheehan, Canon, 7.

Shelley, P.B., 38.

Sheridan, Richard Brinsley, 13.

Shorter, Dora Sigerson, 11.

Showing-up of Blanco Posnet, The, 241.

Sigerson, Dr. George, 2.

Sims, George Robert, 103, 104.

Sinclair, Arthur, 19, 23, 24, 27, 211.

Sin-Eater, The, 263.

Sister Teresa, 98.

Skrine, Nesta Higginson. (See "Moira O'Neill.")

Skye, 267, 283.

Sligo, 40, 41.

Sohrab and Rustum, 59.

Some Experiences of an Irish R.M., 6.

Somerville, E. Oe., and Martin Ross, 6.

Sospiri di Roma, 257, 258.

Sowing the Wind, 104.

Spenser, Edmund, 38, 39, 123.

Spoer, Ada Goodrich-Freer, 274.

Spreading the News, 150, 151.

Squireen, The, 7, 236, 271.

Stage Society, the, London, 53, 112, 252.

Stephens, James, 8.

Stevenson, Robert Louis, 49, 260, 272, 289.

Stokes, Whitley, 140.

Strand Theatre, the, London, 81.

Strike at Arlingford, The, 103, 104.

Studies, 200.

Sutherland, 272.

Swift, Jonathan, 13, 173, 196, 282.

Swinburne, Algernon Charles, 43, 49.

Symbolism, 65-67, 126, 176.

Synge, John Millington, 15, 22, 26, 31, 32, 47, 61, 114, 148, 149, 155,
   160-197, 205, 206, 238, 239, 240, 242, 285.

Tables of the Law, The, 41.

Taliaferro, Mabel, 50.

Taylor, Thomas, 117.

Tempest, The, 45.

Tess of the D'Urbervilles, 7, 258.

Thackeray, W.M., 6, 101.

Théâtre Français, 17.

Theatre of Ireland, the, 35, 202.

Theatre Royal, Dublin, 30.

Thomas Muskerry, 199, 200, 206.

Thompson, Francis, 135.

Thoreau, Henry David, 290, 291.

Through the Turf Smoke, 7.

Time, 242.

Tipperary, 171.

Travelling Man, A, 153.

Treasure of the Humble, The, 115.

Trench, Herbert, 11.

Trinity College, 32, 33.

Trollope, Anthony, 271.

Twenty-five, 32, 152.

Twilight People, The, 11.

Twisting of the Rope, The, 107.

Two Essays on the Remnant, 8.

Ulster, 215, 240, 245, 246.

Ulster Literary Theatre, the, 35, 239, 243.

Unicorn from the Stars, The, 27, 53-56.

Untilled Field, The, 101, 102, 111, 112.

Upanishads, 117.

Villon, François, 182.

Vistas, 251, 252, 253, 259, 260, 273.

Von Teuffel, Mrs., 261.

Wales, 2, 3, 4.

Walker, Mary, 20, 21, 22.

Wanderings of Oisin, The, 1, 39, 40, 41, 63, 64, 139.

Washer of the Ford, The, 263, 283.

Watts, George Frederic, 122.

Waverley, 272.

Weekes, Charles, 116.

Weir of Hermiston, 272.

Wessex, 7, 258.

West Britons, 32.

West Irish Folk-Tales, 9.

Wexford, 141, 152.

Wheel o' Fortune, The, 216.

Where the Forest Murmurs, 263, 285, 289, 290.

Where there is Nothing, 52, 53, 54, 55, 56.

White, Gilbert, 290.

White Cockade, The, 152.

Whitman, Walt, 39, 173, 193, 294.

Wicklow, 162, 166, 170, 177, 184, 190, 216.

Wild Duck, The, 80, 91.

Wild Earth, 200, 208.

Wild Goose, The, 101.

Wilde, Oscar, 13, 53, 245.

Wilde, Lady, 51.

William Sharp: A Memoir, 262, 279, 290.

Wind among the Reeds, The, 43, 54.

Wolfe, Charles, 94.

Woman of no Importance, A, 245.

Wordsworth, 48, 94, 265.

Workhouse Ward, The, 152, 154.

Wycherly, Margaret, 51.

Yeats, J.B., Sr., 38, 119.

Yeats, J.B., Jr., 118, 119.

Yeats, W.B., 1, 5, 8, 10, 11, 13, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 22, 23, 25, 26,
  27, 28, 29, 30, 31, 32, 36, 37-71, 73, 74, 75, 76, 77, 81, 85, 88,
  92, 94, 95, 97, 98, 102, 105, 106, 107, 108, 109, 110, 112, 114, 115,
  116, 117, 123, 139, 145, 146, 148, 155, 158, 162, 179, 199, 251, 252,
  253, 255, 259, 269, 279, 285, 286.