Barron, following her gesture, perceived through the half-open door two figures standing in
the road on the farther side of a bit of village green. Meynell, who had just emerged from
Maudeley Park upon the highroad, had met Alice Puttenham on her way to pay an evening visit
to the Elsmeres, and had stopped to ask a question about some village affairs. Miss Puttenham's
face was turned toward John Broad's cottage; the Rector had his back to it. They were absorbed
in what they were talking about, and had of course no idea that they were watched.

"Why do you say my Miss Alice?" Barron inquired in astonishment.

Mrs. Sabin gave a low laugh. And at the moment, Meynell turned so that the level light now
flooding the village street shone full upon him. Mrs. Sabin tottered back from the door, with
another stifled cry, and sank into her chair. Her eyes seemed to be starting out of her head.
"But--but they told me he was dead. He'll have married her then?"

She raised herself, peering eagerly at her companion.

"Married whom?" said Barron, utterly mystified, but affected himself, involuntarily, by the
excitement of his strange companion.

"Why--Miss Alice!" she said gasping.

"Why should he marry her?"

Mrs. Sabin tried to control herself. "I'm not to talk about that--I know I'm not. But they
give me my money for fifteen year--and then they stopped giving it--three year ago. I suppose
they thought I'd never be back here again. But John's my flesh and blood, all the same. I made
Mr. Sabin write for me to Sir Ralph. But there came a lawyer's letter and fifty pounds--and
that was to be the last, they said. So when Mr. Sabin died, I said I'd come over and see for
myself. But I'm ill--you see--and John's a fool--and I must find some one as 'ull tell me what
to do. If you're a gentleman living here"--she peered into his face--"perhaps you'll tell me?
Lady Fox-Wilton's left comfortable, I know. Why shouldn't she do what's handsome? Perhaps you'll
give me a word of advice, sir? But you mustn't tell!--not a word to anybody. Perhaps they'll
be for putting me in prison?"

She put her finger to her mouth; and then once more she bent forward, passionately scrutinizing
the two people in the distance. Barron had grown white.

"If you want my advice you must try and tell me plainly what all this means," he said, sternly.

She looked at him--with a mad expression flickering between doubt and desire.

"Then you must shut the door, sir," she said at last. Yet as he moved to do so, she bent forward
once more to look intently at the couple outside.

"And what did they tell me that lie for?" she repeated, in a tone half perplexed, half resentful.
Then she turned peremptorily to Barron.

"Shut the door!"

       *       *       *       *       *

Half an hour later Barron emerged into the road, from the cottage. He walked like a man bewildered.
All that was evil in him rejoiced; all that was good sorrowed. He felt that God had arisen,
and scattered his enemies; he also felt a genuine horror and awe in the presence of human frailty.

All night long he lay awake, pondering how to deal with the story which had been told him;
how to clear up its confusions and implications; to find some firm foothold in the mad medley
of the woman's talk--some reasonable scheme of time and place. Much of what she had told him
had been frankly incoherent; and to press her had only made confusion worse. He was tolerably
certain that she was suffering from some obscure brain trouble. The effort of talking to him
had clearly exhausted her; but he had not been able to refrain from making her talk. At the
end of the half hour he had advised her--in some alarm at her ghastly look--to see a doctor.
But the suggestion had made her angry, and he had let it drop.

In the morning news was brought to him from Broad's cottage that John Broad's mother, Mrs.
Richard Sabin, who had arrived from America only forty-eight hours before, had died suddenly
in the night. The bursting of an unsuspected aneurism in the brain was, according to the doctor
called in, the cause of death.

BOOK II

HESTER

"Light as the flying seed-balls is their play The silly maids!"

"Who see in mould the rose unfold, The soul through blood and tears."

CHAPTER VII

"I cannot get this skirt to hang as Lady Edith's did," said Sarah Fox-Wilton discontentedly.

"Spend twenty guineas on it, my dear, as Lady Edith did on hers, and it'll be all right," said
a mocking voice.

Sarah frowned. She went on pinning and adjusting a serge skirt in the making, which hung on
the dummy before her. "Oh, we all know what you would like to spend on your dress, Hester!"
she said angrily, but indistinctly, as her mouth was full of pins.

"Because really nice frocks are not to be had any other way," said Hester coolly. "You pay
for them--and you get them. But as for supposing you can copy Lady Edith's frocks for nothing,
why, of course you can't, and you don't!"

"If I had ever so much money," said Sarah severely, "I shouldn't think it right to spend what
Lady Edith does on her dress."

"Oh, wouldn't you!" said Hester with a laugh and a yawn. "Just give me the chance--that's all!"
Then she turned her head--"Lulu!--you mustn't eat any more toffy!"--and she flung out a mischievous
hand and captured a box that was lying on the table, before a girl, who was sitting near it
with a book, could abstract from it another square of toffy.

"Give it me!" said Lulu, springing up, and making for her assailant. Hester laughingly resisted,
and they wrestled for the box a little, till Hester suddenly let it go.

"Take it then--and good luck to you! I wouldn't spoil my teeth and my complexion as you do--not
for tons of sweets. Hullo!"--the speaker sprang up--"the rain's over, and it's quite a decent
evening. I shall go out for a run and take Roddy."

"Then I shall have to come too," said Sarah, getting up from her knees, and pulling down her
sleeves. "I don't want to at all, but mamma says you are not to go out alone."

Hester flushed. "Do you think I can't escape you all--if I want to? Of course I can. What geese
you are! None of you will ever prevent me from doing what I want to do. It really would save
such a lot of time and trouble if you would get that into your heads."

"Where do you mean to go?" said Sarah stolidly, without taking any notice of her remark. "Because
if you'll go to the village, I can get some binding I want."

"I have no intention whatever of going out for your convenience, thank you!" said Hester, laughing
angrily. "I am going into the garden, and you can come or not as you please." She opened the
French window as she spoke and stepped out.

"Has mamma heard from that Paris woman yet?" asked Lulu, looking after Hester, who was now
standing on the lawn playing with a terrier-puppy she had lately brought home as a gift from
a neighbouring farmer--much to Lady Fox-Wilton's annoyance. Hester had an absurd way of making
friends with the most unsuitable people, and they generally gave her things.

"The Rector expected to hear to-day."

"I don't believe she'll go," said Lulu, beginning again on the toffy. She was a heavily made
girl of twenty, with sleepy eyes and a dull complexion. She took little exercise, was inordinately
fond of sweet things, helped her mother a little in the housekeeping, and was intimately acquainted
with all the gossip of the village. So was Sarah; but her tongue was sharper than Lulu's, and
her brain quicker. She was therefore the unpopular sister; while for Lulu her acquaintances
felt rather a contemptuous indulgence. Sarah had had various love affairs, which had come to
nothing, and was regarded as "disappointed" in the village. Lulu was not interested in young
men, and had never yet been observed to take any trouble to capture one. So long as she was
allowed sufficient sixpenny novels to read, and enough sweet things to eat, she was good-humoured
enough, and could do kind things on occasion for her friends. Sarah was rarely known to do
kind things; but as her woman friends were much more afraid of her than of Lulu, she was in
general treated with much more consideration.

Still it could not be said that Lady Fox-Wilton was to be regarded as blessed in either of
her two elder daughters. And her sons were quite frankly a trouble to her. The eldest, Sarah's
junior by a year and a half, had just left Oxford suddenly and ignominiously, without a degree,
and was for the most part loafing at home. The youngest, a boy of fifteen, was supposed to
be delicate, and had been removed from school by his mother on that account. He too was at
home, and a tutor who lodged in the village was understood to be preparing him for the Civil
Service. He was a pettish and spiteful lad, and between him and Hester existed perpetual feud.

But indeed Hester was at war with each member of the family in turn; sometimes with all of
them together. And it had been so from her earliest childhood. They all felt instinctively
that she despised them and the slow, lethargic temperament which was in most of them an inheritance
from a father cast in one of the typical moulds of British Philistinism. There was some insurmountable
difference between her and them. In the first place, her beauty set her apart from the rest;
and, beside her, Sarah's sharp profile, and round apple-red cheeks, or Lulu's clumsiness, made,
as both girls were secretly aware, an even worse impression than they need have made. And in
the next, there were in her strains of romantic, egotistic ability to which nothing in them
corresponded. She could play, she could draw--brilliantly, spontaneously--up to a certain point,
when neither Sarah nor Lulu could stumble through a "piece," or produce anything capable of
giving the smallest satisfaction to their drawing-master. She could chatter, on occasion, so
that a room full of people instinctively listened. And she had read voraciously, especially
poetry, where they were content with picture-papers and the mildest of novels. Hester brought
nothing to perfection; but there could be no question that in every aspect of life she was
constantly making, in comparison with her family, a dashing or dazzling effect all the more
striking because of the unattractive milieu out of which it sprang.

The presence of Lady Fox-Wilton, in particular, was needed to show these contrasts at their
sharpest.

As Hester still raced about the lawn, with the dog, that lady came round the corner of the
house, with a shawl over her head, and beckoned to the girl at play. Hester carelessly looked
round.

"What do you want, mamma!"

"Come here. I want to speak to you."

Hester ran across the lawn in wide curves, playing with the dog, and arrived laughing and breathless
beside the newcomer. Edith Fox-Wilton was a small, withered woman, in a widow's cap, who more
than looked her age, which was not far from fifty. She had been pretty in youth, and her blue
eyes were still appealing, especially when she smiled. But she did not smile often, and she
had the expression of one perpetually protesting against all the agencies--this-worldly or
other-worldly--which had the control of her existence. Her weak fretfulness depressed all the
vitalities near her; only Hester resisted.

At the moment, however, her look was not so much fretful as excited. Her thin cheeks were much
redder than usual; she constantly looked round as though expecting or dreading some interruption;
and in a hand which shook she held a just opened letter.

"What is the matter, mamma?" asked Hester, a sharp challenging note in her gay voice. "You
look as though something had happened."

"Nothing has happened," said Lady Fox-Wilton hastily. "And I wish you wouldn't romp with the
puppy in that way, Hester. He's always doing some damage to the flowers. I'm going out, and
I wished to give you a message from the Rector."

"Is that from Uncle Richard?" said Hester, glancing carelessly at the letter.

Lady Fox-Wilton crushed it in her hand.

"I told you it was. Why do you ask unnecessary questions? The Rector has heard from the lady
in Paris and he wants you to go as soon as possible. Either he or Aunt Alice will take you
over. We have had the best possible recommendations. You will enjoy it very much. They can
get you the best lessons in Paris, they say. They know everybody."

"H'm--" said Hester, reflectively. Then she looked at the speaker. "Do you know, mamma, that
I happen to be eighteen this week?"

"Don't be silly, Hester! Of course I know!"

"Well, you see, it's rather important. Am I or am I not obliged to do what you and Mr. Meynell
want me to do? I believe I'm not obliged. Anyway, I don't quite see how you're going to make
me do it, if I don't want to."

"You can behave like a naughty, troublesome girl, without any proper feeling, of course!--if
you choose," said Lady Fox-Wilton warmly. "But I trust you will do nothing of the kind. We
are your guardians till you are twenty-one; and you ought to be guided by us."

"Well, of course I can't be engaged to Stephen, if you say I mayn't--because there's Stephen
to back you up. But if Queen Victoria could be a queen at eighteen, I don't see why I shouldn't
be fit at eighteen to manage my own wretched affairs! Anyway--I--am--not--going to Paris--unless
I want to go. So I don't advise you to promise that lady just yet. If she keeps her room empty,
you might have to pay for it!"

"Hester, you are really the plague of my life!" cried Lady Fox-Wilton helplessly. "I try to
keep you--the Rector tries to keep you--out of mischief that any girl ought to be ashamed--of--and--"

"What mischief?" demanded Hester peremptorily. "Don't run into generalities, mamma."

"You know very well what mischief I mean!"

"I know that you think I shall be running away some day with Sir Philip Meryon!" said the girl,
laughing, but with a fierce gleam in her eyes. "I have no intention at present of doing anything
of the kind. But if anything could make me do it, it would be the foolish way in which you
and the others behave. I don't believe the Rector ever told you to set Sarah and Lulu on to
dog me wherever I go!"

"He told me you were not to be allowed to meet that man. You won't promise me not to meet him--and
what can we do? You know what the Rector feels. You know that he spent an hour yesterday arguing
and pleading with you, when he had been up most of the night preparing papers for this commission.
What's the matter with you, Hester? Are you quite in your right senses?"

The girl had clasped her hands behind her back, and stood with one foot forward, "on tiptoe
for a flight," her young figure and radiant look expressing the hot will which possessed her.
At the mention of Meynell's name she clearly hesitated, a frown crossed her eyes, her lip twitched.
Then she said with vehemence:

"Who asked him to spend all that time? Not I. Let him leave me alone. He does not care twopence
about me, and it's mere humbug and hypocrisy all his pretending to care."

"And your Aunt Alice--who's always worshipped you? Why, she's just miserable about you!"

"She says exactly what you and Uncle Richard tell her to say--she always has! Well, I don't
know about Paris, mamma--I'll think about it. If you and Sarah will just let me be, I'll take
Roddy for a stroll, and then after tea I'll tell you what I'll do." And, turning, she beckoned
to a fine collie lazily sunning himself on the drawing-room steps, and he sprang up, gambolling
about her.

"Promise you won't meet that man!" said Lady Fox-Wilton, in agitation.

"I believe he went up to Scotland to-day," said Hester, laughing. "I haven't the smallest intention
of meeting him. Come, Roddy!"

The eyes of the two met--in those of the older woman, impatience, a kind of cold exasperation;
in Hester's, defiance. It was a strange look to pass between a mother and daughter. Hester
turned away, and then paused:

"Oh, by the way, mamma--where are you going?"

Lady Fox-Wilton hesitated unaccountedly.

"Why do you ask?"

Hester opened her eyes.

"Why shouldn't I? Is it a secret? I wanted you to tell Aunt Alice something if you were going
that way."

"Mamma!"

Sarah suddenly emerged from the schoolroom window and ran excitedly across the lawn toward
her mother. "Have you heard this extraordinary story about John Broad's mother? Tibbald has
just told me."

Tibbald was the butler, and Sarah's special friend and crony.

"What story? I wish you wouldn't allow Tibbald to gossip as you do, Sarah!" said Lady Fox-Wilton
angrily. But a close observer might have seen that her bright colour precipitately left her.

"Why, what harm was it?" cried Sarah, wondering. "He told me, because it seems Mrs. Sabin used
to be a servant of ours long ago. Do you remember her, mamma?"

Again Lady Fox-Wilton stumbled perceptibly in replying. She turned away, and, with the garden
scissors at her waist, she began vaguely to clip off some dead roses from some bushes near her.

"We once had a maid--for a very short time," she said over her shoulder, "who married some
one of that name. What about her?"

"Well, she came back from America two days ago. John Broad thought she was dead. He hadn't
heard of her for four years. But she turned up on Tuesday--the queerest old woman! She sat
there boasting and chattering--in a silk dress with gold bracelets!--they thought she was going
to make all their fortunes. But she must just have been off her head, for she died last night
in her sleep, and there were only a few shillings on her--not enough to bury her. There's to
be an inquest this evening, they say."

"Don't spend all your time chattering in the village, Sarah," said Lady Fox-Wilton severely,
as, still with her back toward the girls, she moved away in the direction of the drive. "You'll
never get your dress done if you do."

"I say--what's wrong with mamma?" said Hester coolly, looking after her. "I suppose Bertie's
been getting into some fresh bother."

Bertie was the elder brother, who was Sarah's special friend in the family. So that she at
once resented the remark.

"If she's worrying about anything, she's worrying about you," said Sarah tartly, as she went
back to the house. "We all know that."

Hester, with her dog beside her, went strolling leisurely through the village street, past
Miss Puttenham's cottage on the one hand and the Rectory gates on the other, making for a footpath
that led from the back of the village, through fields and woods, on to the Chase.

As she passed beneath the limes that overhung Miss Puttenham's railings she perceived some
distant figures in the garden. Uncle Richard, with mamma and Aunt Alice on either side of him.
They were walking up and down in close conversation; or, rather, Uncle Richard seemed to be
talking earnestly, addressing now one lady, now the other.

What a confabulation! No doubt all about her own crimes and misdemeanours. What fun to creep
into the garden and play the spy. "That's what Sarah would do--but I'm not Sarah." Instead,
she turned into the footpath and began to mount toward the borders of the Chase. It was a brilliant
September afternoon, and the new grass in the shorn hayfields was vividly green. In front rose
the purple hills of the Chase, while to the left, on the far borders of the village, the wheels
and chimneys of two collieries stood black against a blaze of sun. But the sharp emphasis of
light and colour, which in general would have set her own spirits racing, was for a while lost
on Hester. As soon as she was out of sight of the village, or any passers-by, her aspect changed.
Once or twice she caught her breath in what was very like a sob; and there were moments when
she could only save herself from the disgrace of tears by a wild burst of racing with Roddy.
It was evident that her brush with Lady Fox-Wilton had not left her as callous as she seemed.

Presently the path forsook the open fields and entered a plantation of dark and closely woven
trees where the track was almost lost in the magnificence of the bracken. Beyond this, a short
climb of broken slopes, and Hester was out on the bare heath, with the moorland wind blowing
about her.

She sat down on a bank beneath a birch tree, twisted and tortured out of shape by the northwesterly
gales that swept the heath in winter. All round her a pink and purple wilderness, with oases
of vivid green and swaying grass. Nothing in sight but a keeper's hut, and some grouse butts
far away; an ugly red building on the horizon, in the very middle of the heath, the Markborough
isolation hospital; and round the edge of the vast undulating plateau in all directions the
faint smoke of the colliery chimneys. But the colour of the heath was the marvel. The world
seemed stained in crimson, and in every shade and combination of it. Close at hand the reds
and pinks were diapered with green and gold as the bilberries and the grasses ran in and out
of the heather; but on every side the crimson spread and billowed to the horizon, covering
the hollows and hills of the Chase, absorbing all lesser tones into itself. After the rain
of the morning, the contours of the heath, the distances of the plain, were unnaturally clear;
and as the sunshine, the high air, the freshly moving wind, played upon Hester, her irritation
passed away in a sensuous delight.

"Why should I let them worry me? I won't! I am here! I am alive! I am only eighteen! I am going
to manage my life for myself--and get out of this coil. Now let me think!"

She slid downward among the heather, her face propped on her hands. Close beneath her eyes
was an exquisite tuft of pink bell-heather intergrown with bunchberries. And while a whole
vague series of thoughts and memories passed through her mind she was still vividly conscious
of the pink bells, the small bright leaves. Sensation in her was exceptionally keen, whether
for pleasure or pain. She knew it and had often coolly asked herself whether it meant that
she would wear out--life and brain--quicker than other people--burn faster to the socket. So
much the better if it did.

What was it she really wanted?--what did she mean to do? Proudly, she refused to admit any
other will in the matter. The thought of Meynell, indeed, touched some very sore and bitter
chords in her mind, but it did not melt her. She knew very well that she had nothing to blame
her guardian for; that year after year from her childhood up she had repelled and resisted
him, that her whole relation to him had been one of stubbornness and caprice. Well, there were
reasons for it; she was not going to repent or change.

Of late his conduct with regard to Stephen's proposal had stirred in her a kind of rage. It
was not that she imagined herself in love with Stephen; but she had chosen to be engaged to
him; and that any one should affect to control her in such a matter, should definitely and
decidedly cross her will, was intolerable to her wild pride. If Stephen had rebelled with her,
she might have fallen fiercely in love with him--for a month. But he had submitted--though
it was tolerably plain what it had cost him; and all her careless liking for him, the fruit
of years of very poorly requited devotion on his part, seemed to have disappeared in a night.

Why shouldn't she be engaged at seventeen--within two months of eighteen, in fact? Heaps of
girls were. It was mere tyranny and nonsense. She recalled her interview with Meynell, in which
the Rector had roused in her a new and deeper antagonism than any she had yet felt toward his
efforts to control her. It was as though he did not altogether believe in his own arguments;
as though there were something behind which she could not get at. But if there were something
behind, she had a right to know it. She had a right to know the meaning of her father's extraordinary
letter to Meynell--the letter attached to his will--in which she had been singled out by name
as needing the special tutelage of the Rector. So far as the Rector's guardianship of the other
children was concerned, it was almost a nominal thing. Another guardian had been named in the
will, Lady Fox-Wilton's elder brother, and practically everything that concerned the other
children was settled by him, in concert with the mother. The Rector never interfered, was never
indeed consulted, except on purely formal matters of business. But for her--for her only--Uncle
Richard--as she always called her guardian--was to be the master--the tyrant!--close at hand.
For so Sir Ralph had laid it down, in his testamentary letter--"I commend Hester to your special
care. And in any difficulties that may arise in connection with her, I beg for our old friendship's
sake that you will give my wife the help and counsel that she will certainly need. She knows
it is my wish she should rely entirely upon you."

Why had he written such a letter? Since Sir Ralph's death, two years before, the story of it
had got about; and the injustice, as she held, of her position under it had sunk deep into
the girl's passionate sense, and made her infinitely more difficult to manage than she had
been before. Of course everybody said it was because of her temper; because of the constant
friction between her and her father; people believed the hateful things he used sometimes to
say about her.

Nor was it only the guardianship--there was the money too! Provision made for all of them by
name--and nothing for her! She had made Sarah show her a copy of the will--she knew! Nothing
indeed for any of them--the girls at least--till Lady Fox-Wilton's death, or till they married;
but nothing for her, under any circumstances.

"Well, why should there be?" Sarah had said. "You know you'll have Aunt Alice's money. She
won't leave a penny to us."

All very well! The money didn't matter! But to be singled out and held up to scorn by your
own father!

A flood of bitterness surged in the girl's heart. And then they expected her to be a meek and
obedient drudge to her mother and her elder sisters; to open her mouth and take what they chose
to send her. She might not be engaged to Stephen--for two years at any rate; and yet if she
amused herself with any one else she was to be packed off to Paris, to some house of detention
or other, under lock and key.

Her cheeks flamed. When had she first come across Philip Meryon? Only the day before that evening
when Uncle Richard had found her fishing with him. She knew very well that he was badly spoken
of; trust Upcote for gossip and scandal! Well, so was she!--they were outcasts together. Anyway,
he was more amusing to walk and talk with than her sisters, or the dreadful young men they
sometimes gathered about them. Why shouldn't she walk and talk with him? As if she couldn't
protect herself! As if she didn't know a great deal more of the world than her stupid sisters
did, who never read a book or thought of anything beyond the tittle-tattle of their few local
friends.

But Philip Meryon had read lots of books, and liked those that she liked. He could read French
too, as she could. And he had lent her some French books, which she had read eagerly--at night
or in the woods--wherever she could be alone and unobserved. Why shouldn't she read them? There
was one among them--"Julie de Trecoeur," by Octave Feuillet, that still seemed running, like
a great emotion, through her veins. The tragic leap of Julie, as she sets her horse to the
cliff and thunders to her death, was always in Hester's mind. It was so that she herself would
like to die, spurning submission and patience, and all the humdrum virtues.

She raised herself, and the dog beside her sprang up and barked. The sun was just dropping
below a bank of fiery cloud, and a dazzling and garish light lay on the red undulations of
the heath. As she stood up she suddenly perceived the figure of a man about a hundred yards
off emerging from a gully--a sportsman with his gun over his shoulder. He had apparently just
parted from the group with whom he had been shooting, who were disappearing in another direction.

Philip Meryon! Now she remembered! He and two other men had taken the shooting on this side
of the Chase. Honestly she had forgotten it; honestly her impression was that he had gone to
Scotland. But of course none of her family would ever believe it. They would insist she had
simply come out to meet him.

What was she to do? She was in a white serge dress, and with Roddy beside her, on that bare
heath, she was an object easily recognized. Indeed, as she hesitated, she heard a call in the
distance, and saw that Meryon was waving to her and quickening his pace. Instantly, with a
leaping pulse, she turned and fled, Roddy beside her, barking his loudest. She ran along the
rough track of the heath, as though some vague wild terror had been breathed into her by the
local Pan. She ran fleet and light as air--famous as a runner from her childhood. But the man
behind her had once been a fine athlete, and he gained upon her fast. Soon she could hear his
laugh behind her, his entreaties to her to stop. She had reached the edge of the heath, where
the wood began, and the path ran winding down it, with banks of thick fern on either hand.

If it had not been for the dog she could have slipped under the close-set trees, whence the
light had already departed, and lain close among the fern. But with Roddy--no chance! She suddenly
turned toward her pursuer, and with her hand on the dog's neck awaited him.

"Caught--caught!--by Jove!" cried Philip Meryon, plunging to her through the fern. "Now what
do you deserve--for running away?"

"A gentleman would not have tried to catch me!" she said haughtily, as she faced him, with
dilating nostrils.

"Take care!--don't be rude to me--I shall take my revenge!"

As he spoke, Meryon was fairly dazzled, intoxicated by the beauty of the vision before him--this
angry wood-nymph, half-vanishing like another Daphne into the deep fern amid which she stood.
But at the same time he was puzzled--and checked--by her expression. There was no mere provocation
in it, no defiance that covers a yielding mind; but, rather, an energy of will, a concentrated
force, that held at bay a man whose will was the mere register of his impulses.

"You forget," said Hester coolly, "that I have Roddy with me." And as she spoke the dog couching
at her side poked up his slender nose through the fern and growled. He did not like Sir Philip.

Meryon looked upon her smiling--his hands on his sides. "Do you mean to say that when you ran
you did not mean me to follow?"

"On the contrary, if I ran, it was evidently because I wished to get away."

"Then you were very ungrateful and unkind; for I have at this moment in my pocket a book you
asked me to get for you. That's what I get for trying to please you."

"I don't remember that I asked you to get anything for me."

