The large assembly drew a deep breath as the combatants approached each other with extended
right hands--Dam clad in a pair of blue silk shorts, silk socks and high, thin, rubber-soled
boots, the Gorilla in an exiguous bathing-garment and a pair of gymnasium shoes.

Dam a picture of the Perfect Man, was the taller, and the Gorilla, a perfect Caliban, was the
broader and had the longer reach. Their right hands touched in perfunctory shake, Dam drew
back to allow the Snake to assume sparring attitude, and, as he saw the huge shoulders hunch,
the great biceps rise, and the clenched gloves come to position, he assumed the American "crouch"
attitude and sprang like a tiger upon the incarnation of the utter Damnation and Ruin that
had cursed his life to living death.

The Gorilla was shocked and pained! The tippy pink-and-white blasted rookie was "all over him"
and he was sent staggering with such a rain of smashing blows as he had never, never felt,
nor seen others receive. The whole assembly of soldiers, saving the Garrison Artillerymen,
raised a wild yell, regardless of the referee's ferocious expostulations (in dumb-show) and
even the ranks of the Horse-Gunners could scarce forbear to cheer. The Queen's Greys howled
like fiends and Hawker, unknown to himself, punched the boards before him with terrific violence.
Never had anything like it been seen. Matthewson was a human whirlwind, and Dowdall had not
had a chance to return a blow. More than half the tremendous punches, hooks and in-fighting
jabs delivered by his opponent had got home, and he was "rattled". A fair hook to the chin
might send him down and out at any moment.

Surely never had human being aimed such an unceasing, unending, rain of blows in the space
of two minutes as had Trooper Matthewson. His arms had worked like the piston rods of an express
engine--as fast and as untiringly. He had taken the Gorilla by surprise, had rushed him, and
had never given him a fraction of time in which to attack. Beneath the rain of sledge-hammer
blows the Gorilla had shrunk, guarding for dear life. Driven into a corner, he cowered down,
crouched beneath his raised arms, and allowed his face to sink forward. Like a whirling piece
of machinery Dam's arm flew round to administer the coup-de-grace, the upper cut, that would
lay the Snake twitching and unconscious on the boards.

The Gorilla was expecting it.

As it came, his bullet head was jerked aside, and as the first swung harmlessly up, he arose
like a flash, and, as he did so, his mighty right shot up, took Darn on the chin and laid him
flat and senseless in the middle of the ring.

The Gorilla breathed heavily and made the most of the respite. He knew it must be about "Time,"
and that he had not won. If it wasn't "Time," and the cub arose he'd knock him to glory as
he did so. Yes, the moment the most liberal-minded critic could say he was just about on his
feet, he'd give him a finisher that he'd bear the mark of. The bloomin' young swine had nearly
"had" him--him, the great G'rilla Dowdall, about to buy himself out with his prize-money, and
take to pugilism as a profession.

"One--two--three--four," counted the timekeeper amid the most deathly silence, and, as he added,
"five--six--Time," a shout arose that was heard for miles.

Trooper Matthewson was saved--if his seconds could pull him round in time.

At sound of the word "Time," the seconds leapt into the ring. Hawker and Bear rushed to the
prostrate Dam, hauled him to his feet, and dragged him to the chair which Goate had placed
ready. As he was dropped into it, a spongeful of icy water from Goate's big sponge brought
Dam to consciousness.

"Breave for all y'r worf," grunted Hawker, as he mightily swung a big bath-towel in swift eddies,
to drive refreshing air upon the heaving, panting body of his principal.

Bear and Goate applied massaging hands with skilled violence.

"By Jove, I thought you had him," panted Goate as he kneaded triceps and biceps. "And then
I thought he had you. It's anybody's fight, Matty--but don't try and knock him out. You couldn't
do it with an axe."

"No," agreed Bear. "You've got to keep on your feet and win on points."

"I've got to kill the Snake," hissed Dam, and his seconds glanced at each other anxiously.

He felt that nothing could keep him from victory. He was regaining his faith in a just Heaven,
now that the Snake had been compelled to face him in the puny form of a wretched pugilist.
Some one had said something about an axe. It would be but fair if he had an axe, seeing that
hitherto the Snake had had him utterly defenceless while exercising its own immeasurable and
supernatural powers, when torturing him to its heart's content for endless aeons. But--no--since
it was here in human form and without weapons, he would use none, and would observe the strictest
fairness in fight, just as he would to a real human enemy.

"Abaht that there little bet, 'Enery," observed Seaman Jones, "I fink we'll alter of it. I
don't wish to give no moral support to this 'ere Griller. T'other bloke's only jus' fresh from
the Novice Class, I reckon, jedgin' by 'is innercent young faice, an' e's aputtin' up the werry
best fight as ever I see. We'll chainge it like this 'ere. We backs the 'orse-soldier to win,
and, if he do, we drinks a gallon between us. If 'e don't, we drinks two fer to console 'im,
an' drahn sorrer, wot?"

"So it are, Will'm," agreed Henery. "Then we wins either way! You got a 'ead fer logger-rhythms.
Oughter been a bloomin' bookie. They 'as to be big an' ugly----"

"Seconds out of the Ring," called the referee, and a hush fell upon the excited throng.

Bear and Goate dropped to the ground, Hawker splashed water all over Dam's body and, as he
rose on the word "Time" snatched away the chair and joined his colleagues, who crouched with
faces on a level with the boards.

"Oh, buck him up, good Lord, and put ginger in his short-arm work, and O Lord, take care of
his chin and mark," prayed Trooper Bear, with deep and serious devoutness.

No need to shake hands this bout--not again till the fifteenth, noted Dam, as he arose and
literally leapt at his opponent with a smashing drive of his right and a feint of his left
which drew the Gorilla's guard and left his face exposed. The Gorilla received Dam's full weight
and full strength, and, but for the ropes, would have been knocked among the spectators.

A tremendous yell went up, led by the Queen's Greys.

As the tautening of the ropes swayed the Gorilla inward again, Dam delivered a brace of lightning
strokes that, though they did not find the chin, staggered and partly stunned him, and, ere
he could pull himself together, Dam was inside his guard, almost breast to breast with him,
and raining terrific blows, just above the belt. Left, right, left, right, and no chance for
the Gorilla to get his own hands up for a couple of seconds, and, when he could, and drove
an appalling blow at Dam's chin, it was dodged and he received a cross-counter that shook him.
He must sham weariness and demoralization, lead the tippy rookie on to over-confidence and
then land him clean over the ropes. A sullen rage grew in the Gorilla's heart. He wasn't doing
himself justice. He wasn't having a fair show. This blasted half-set pink and white recruit
hadn't given him time to settle down. A fifteen-round contest shouldn't be bustled like this!
The bloke was more like a wild-cat than a sober heavyweight boxer.

He received a heavy blow in the face and, as he shook his head with an evil grin, according
to his custom when well struck, he found it followed practically instantaneously by another.
The swab was about the quickest thing that ever got into a ring. He was like one of these bloomin',
tricky, jack-in-the-box featherweights, instead of a steady lumbering "heavy". And the Gorilla
allowed himself to be driven to a corner again, and let his head sink forward, that the incautious
youth might again put all his strength into an upper-cut, miss as the other dodged, and be
at the mercy of the Gorilla as the errant fist completed its over-driven swing.

But Damocles de Warrenne fought with his brain as well as his strength and skill. He had learnt
a lesson, and no dull-witted oaf of a Gorilla was going to have him like that twice. As the
Gorilla cowered and crouched in simulated defeat and placed his face to tempt the coup de grace
which he would see swinging up, and easily dodge, Dam swiftly side-stepped and summoning every
ounce of strength, rage, and mad protesting frenzy against the life-long torturing tyrant,
he delivered a Homeric blow at the champion's head, beside and behind the ear. (Since he was
indestructible by the ordinary point-of-the-chin knock-out, let him make the best of that fearful
blow upon the base of the brain and spinal cord, direct.)

Experienced men said it was the heaviest blow they had ever seen struck with the human fist.
It was delivered slightly downward, coolly, at measured distance, with change from left foot
to right in the act of delivery, and with the uttermost strength of a most powerful athlete
in perfect training--and Hate Incarnate lent the strength of madness to the strength of training
and skill.

THUD!--and the Gorilla dropped like a log.

"One--two--three--four--five--six--seven--" counted the time-keeper, as men scarcely breathed
in the dead silence into which the voice cut sharply--"eight--" and, in perfect silence, every
man of those thousands slowly rose to his feet--"nine--OUT!" and such a roar arose as bade
fair to rend the skies. "Outed" in two rounds! Men howled like lunatics, and the Queen's Greys
behaved like very dangerous lunatics. Hawker flung his arms round Dam and endeavoured to raise
him on his shoulders and chair him unaided. Bear and Goate got each a hand and proceeded to
do their best to crush it.

Seamen Jones and Smith exchanged a chaste kiss.

Damocles de Warrenne was the hero of the Queen's Greys. Best Man-at-Arms in the Division, winner
in Sword v. Sword Mounted and Dismounted, Tent-pegging, Sword v. Lance, and Individual Jumping,
and in the winning teams for Tug-of-War, Section Jumping, and Section Tent-pegging!

"Give him a trial as Corporal then, from the first of next month, sir, if there's no sign of
anything wrong during the week," agreed Captain Daunt, talking him over with the Colonel, after
receiving through Troop-Sergeant-Major Scoles a petition to promote the man.

Within twenty-four hours of his fight with the Gorilla, Dam found himself on sentry-go over
what was known in the Regiment as "the Dead 'Ole"--which was the mortuary, situated in a lonely,
isolated spot beyond a nullah some half-furlong from the Hospital, and cut off from view of
human habitation by a belt of trees.

On mounting guard that evening, the Sergeant of the Guard had been informed that a corpse lay
in the mortuary, a young soldier having been taken ill and having died within a few hours,
of some disease of a distinctly choleraic nature.

"I'll tell you orf for that post, Matthewson," said the Sergeant. "P'raps you'll see ghosties
there, for a change," for it was customary to mount a sentry over "the Dead 'Ole" when it contained
an occupant, and one of the sentry's pleasing duties was to rap loudly and frequently upon
the door throughout the night to scare away those vermin which are no respecters of persons
when the persons happen to be dead and the vermin ravenous.

"I'm not afraid of ghosts, Sergeant," replied Dam--though his heart sank within him at the
thought of the long lonely vigil in the dark, when he would be so utterly at the mercy of the
Snake--the Snake over whom he had just won a signal victory, and who would be all the more
vindictive and terrible in consequence. Could he keep sane through the lonely darkness of those
dreadful hours? Perhaps--if he kept himself in some severe physical agony. He would put a spur
beneath his tight-drawn belt and next to his skin, he would strike his knee frequently with
the "toe of the butt" of his carbine, he would put pebbles in his boots, and he would cause
cramp in his limbs, one after the other. Any kind of pain would help.

       *       *       *       *       *

It must be quarter of an hour since he had rapped on the mortuary door and sent his messages
of prohibition to mouse, rat, bandicoot, civet-cat, wild-cat or other vermin intruder through
the roof-ventilation holes. He would knock again. A strange thing this--knocking at a dead
man's door in the middle of the night. Suppose the dead man called "Come in!" It would be intensely
interesting, but in no wise terrifying or horrible. Presumably poor young Trooper Priddell
was no more dangerous or dreadful in the spirit than he had been in the flesh.... Fortunate
young man! Were he only on sentry-go outside the peaceful mortuary and Damocles de Warrenne
stretched on the bier within, to await the morrow and its pomp and ceremony, when the carcass
of the dead soldier would receive honours never paid to the living, sentient man, be he never
so worthy, heroic, virtuous and deserving. Oh, to be lying in there at rest, to be on the other
side of that closed door at peace!...

To-morrow that poor dead yokel's body would receive a "Present Arms" (as though he were an
armed party commanded by an Officer) from the Guard, which the sentry would turn out as the
coffin passed the Guard-room. For the first and last time in his life, he would get a "Present
Arms". It wouldn't be in his life though. For the first and last time in his death? That didn't
sound right either. Anyhow he would get it, and lots of strange, inexplicable, origin-forgotten
rites would be observed over this piece of clay--hitherto so cheaply held and roughly treated.

Queer! As "Trooper Priddell" he was of no account. As a piece of fast-decaying carrion he would
be the centre of a piece of elaborate ceremonial! His troop would parade in full dress and
(save for a firing-party of twelve who would carry carbines) without arms. A special black
horse would be decked out with a pall of black velvet and black plumes. Across this horse the
spurred jackboots of the dead man would be slung with toes pointing to the rear. Two men, wearing
black cloaks, would lead the horse by means of new handkerchiefs passed through the bridoon
rings of its bridle, handkerchiefs which would become their perquisites and memento mori.

With crape-draped drums, the band, in silence, would lead the troop to the mortuary where would
await it a gun-carriage with its six horses and coffin-supporting attachment. Here the troop
would break ranks, file into the mortuary and bare-headed take, each man, his last look at
the face of the dead as he lay in his coffin. The lid would then be screwed on, the troop would
form a double line, facing inward, the firing-party would "present arms," and six of the dead
man's more particular pals, or of his "townies," would bear the coffin out and place it upon
the gun-carriage. It would then be covered with a Union Jack and on it would be placed the
helmet, sword, and carbine of the deceased trooper, the firing-party standing meanwhile, leaning
on their reversed carbines, with bowed heads.

As the melancholy procession formed up for its march to the graveyard, the smallest and junior
men would take front place, the bigger and senior men behind them, non-commissioned officers
would follow, and subalterns and captain last of all. In stepping off from the halt, all would
step off with the right foot instead of with the left. Apparently the object was to reverse
ordinary procedure to the uttermost--which would but be in keeping with the great reversal
of showing honour to such an unhonoured thing as a private soldier--one of the despised and
rejected band that enable the respectable, wealthy, and smug to remain so; one of the "licentious
soldiery" that have made, and that keep, the Empire of which the respectable wealthy and smug
are so proud.

At the "slow march," and in perfect silence until beyond hearing by the inmates of the Hospital,
the cortege would proceed. Anon the band would call heaven and earth to mourn with the sonorous
dreadful strains of the Dead March; whereafter the ordinary "quick march" would bring the funeral
party to the cemetery, in sight of which the "slow march" would be resumed, and the Chaplain,
surpliced, book-bearing, come forth to put himself at its head, leading the way to the grave-side
where, with uncovered heads, the mourners would listen to the impressive words with feelings
varying as their education, religion, temperament, and--digestion--impelled.

At the close of the service, the firing-party in their places, six on either side of the grave,
would fire three volleys into the air, while the band breathed a solemn dirge.

And--perhaps most impressively tragic touch of all--the party would march briskly off to the
strains of the liveliest air in the whole repertoire of the band.

Why should John Humphreyville Priddell--doubtless scion of the great Norman houses of Humphreyville
and Paradelle, who shared much of Dorsetshire between them from Domesday Book to Stuart downfall--have
been born in a tiny village of the Vale of Froom in "Dorset Dear," to die of cholera in vile
Motipur? Was some maid, in barton, byre, or dairy, thinking of him but now--with an ill-writ
letter in her bosom, a letter beginning with "I now take up my pen to right you these few lines
hopping they find you the same which they now leave me at present" according to right tradition
and proper custom, and continuing to speak of homesick longings, dreams of furlough, promotion,
marrying "on the strength," and retirement to green fair Dorset Dear on a Sergeant-Major's pension?

What was the meaning of it all? Was it pure chance and accident--or had a Living, Scheming,
Purposeful Deity a great wise object in this that John Humphreyville Priddell should have been
born and bred and nurtured in the Vale of Froom to be struck from lusty life to a death of
agony in a few hours at Motipur in the cruel accursed blighted land of Ind?

Well, well!--high time to rap again upon the door, the last door, of John Humphreyville Priddell,
Trooper, ex-dairyhand, decaying carrion,--and scare from his carcass such over-early visitants
as anticipated....

How hollowly the blows re-echoed. Did they strike muffled but murderous upon the heart of the
thousand-league distant dairymaid, or of the old cottage-mother whose evenings were spent in
spelling out her boy's loving letters--that so oft covered a portion of his exiguous pay?...

Was that a scuttling within? Quite probably. It might be--rats, it might be a bandicoot; it
could hardly be a jackal; it might be a SNAKE,--and Trooper Matthewson's carbine clattered
to the ground and his knees smote together as he thought the word. Pulling himself together
he hastily snatched up his carbine with a flush of shame at the slovenly unsoldierly "crime"
of dropping it. He'd be dropping his arms on parade next! But it might be a snake--for he had
certainly heard the sound of a movement of some sort. The strong man felt faint and leant against
the mortuary wall for a moment.

Oh, that the wretched carbine were a sword! A man could feel a man with a sword in his hand.
He could almost face the Snake, even in Snake form, if he had a sword ... but what is a carbine,
even a loaded Martini-Henry carbine with its good soft man-stopping slug? There are no traditions
to a carbine--nothing of the Spirit of one's Ancestors in one--a vile mechanic thing of villainous
saltpetre. How should the Snake fear that? Now a sword was different. It stood for human war
and human courage and human deeds from the mistiest past, and behind it must be a weight of
human wrath, feats, and tradition that must make even the Snake pause. Oh, for his sword--if
the Snake came upon him when he had but this wretched carbine he would probably desert his
post, fling the useless toy from him, and flee till he fell blind and fainting on the ground....
And what would the Trooper of the Queen get who deserted his sentry-post, threw away his arms
and fled--and explained in defence that he had seen a snake? Probably a court-martial would
give him a spell of Military Prison. Yes--Jail.... What proportion of truth could there be
in the firmly-held belief of the men that "crimes" are made so numerous and so inevitable,
to the best-meaning and most careful, because there exist a great Military Prison System and
a great Military Prison personnel--and that "criminals" are essential to the respective proper
inhabitation and raison d'être thereof--that unless a good supply of military "criminals" were
forthcoming there might have to be reductions and curtailments--loss of snug billets.... Certainly
soldiers got years of imprisonment for "crimes" for which civilians would get reprimands or
nominal fines, and, moreover, when a man became a soldier he certainly lost the elementary
fundamental rights guaranteed to Englishmen by Magna Charta--among them the right of trial
by his peers....

Would poor Priddell mind if he did not knock again? If it were the Snake it could do Priddell
no harm now--he being happily dead--whereas, if disturbed, it might emerge to the utter undoing--mind,
body, and soul--of Trooper Matthewson. It would certainly send him to Jail or Lunatic Asylum--probably
to both in due succession, for he was daily getting worse in the matter of the Snake.

No--it was part of his orders, on this sentry-post, to knock at the door, and he would do his
duty, Snake or not. He had always tried to do his duty faithfully and he would continue....

Once more to knock at a dead man's door....

Bump, Bump: Bump, Bump: Bump, Bump.

"You'll soon be at rest, Priddell, old chap--and I wish I could join you," called Dam, and
it seemed to his excited brain that a deep hollow groan replied.

"By Jove! He's not dead," coolly remarked the man who would have fled shrieking from a harmless
blind-worm, and, going round to the back of the building, he placed his carbine against the
wall and sprang up at a kind of window-ledge that formed the base of a grated aperture made
for purposes of ventilation. Slowly raising his body till his face was above the ledge, he
peered into the dimly moonlit cell and then dropped to the ground and, catching up his carbine,
sprinted in the direction of the Hospital Guard-room.

There arrived, he shouted for the Corporal of the Guard and was quickly confronted by Corporal
Prag.

"Wot the devil you deserted yore".... he began.

"Get the key of the mortuary, send for the Surgeon, and come at once," gasped Dam as soon as
he could speak. "Priddell's not dead. Must be some kind of catalepsy. Quick, man"....

"Catter wot? You drunken 'og," drawled the Corporal. "Catterwaulin' more like it. Under arrest
you goes, my lad. Now you 'ave done it. 'Ere, 'Awker, run down an' call up the Sergeant o'
the Guard an' tell 'im Maffewson's left 'is post. 'E'll 'ave to plant annuvver sentry. Maffewson
goes ter clink."

"Yes--but send for the Surgeon and the key of the mortuary too," begged Dam. "I give you fair
warning that Priddell is alive and groaning and off the bier--"

"Pity you ain't 'off the beer' too," said the Corporal with a yawn.

"Well--there are witnesses that I brought the report to you. If Priddell is found dead on the
ground to-morrow you'll have to answer for manslaughter."

"'Ere, chuck it you snaike-seeing delirying trimmer, will yer! Give anyone the 'orrers to listen
to yer! When Priddell is wrote off as 'Dead' 'e is dead, whether 'e likes it or no," and he
turned to give orders to the listening guard to arrest Trooper Matthewson.

The Sergeant of the Guard arrived at the "double," followed by Trooper Bear carrying a hurricane-lamp.

"What's the row?" panted the Sergeant. "Matthewson on the booze agin?"

"I report that there is a living man in the mortuary, Sergeant," replied Dam. "Priddell is
not dead. I heard him groan, and I scrambled up to the grating and saw him lying on the ground
by the door."

"Well, you'll see yerself groanin' an' lyin' on the ground in the Digger, now," replied the
Sergeant, and, as much in sorrow as in anger, he added, "An' you're the bloke I signed a petition
for his permotion are yer? At it agin a'ready!"

"But, good Heavens, man, can't you see I'm as sober as you are, and much less excited? Can't
you send for the key of the mortuary and call the doctor? The poor chap may die for your stupidity."

"You call me a 'man' again, my lad, an' I'll show you what a Sergeant can do fer them as 'e
don't like! As fer 'sober'--I've 'ad enough o' you 'sober'. W'y, in two ticks you may be on
the ground 'owlin' and bellerin' and squealin' like a Berkshire pig over the blood-tub. Sober!
Yus--I seen you at it."

"Why on earth can't you come and prove I'm drunk or mad," besought Dam. "Open the mortuary
and prove I'm wrong--and then put me under arrest. Call the Surgeon and say the sentry over
the mortuary reports the inmate to be alive--he has heard of catalepsy and comatose collapse
simulating death if you haven't."

"Don' use sech 'orrible languidge," besought the respectable Corporal Prag.

"Ho, yus! I'm agoin' to see meself whipt on the peg fer turnin' out the Surgin from 'is little
bed in the middle o' the night--to come an' 'ave a look at the dead corpse 'e put in orders
fer the Dead 'Ole, ain't I? Jest becos the champion snaike-seer o' E Troop's got 'em agin, wot?"

Corporal Prag laughed merrily at the wit of his superior.

Turning to Bear, whom he knew to be as well educated as himself, Dam remarked:--

"Poor chap has rallied from the cholera collapse and could probably be saved by stimulants
and warmth. This suspended animation is common enough in cholera. Why, the Brahmins have a
regular ritual for dealing with cases of recovery on the funeral pyre--purification after defilement
by the corpse-washers or something of the sort. These stupid oafs are letting poor Priddell die--"

"What! you drunken talkin' parrot," roared the incensed Sergeant. "'Ere, sling 'is drunken
rotten carkis--"

"What's the row here?" cut in a quiet curt voice. "Noise enough for a gang of crows----"

Surgeon-Captain Blake of the Royal Army Medical Corps had just left the Hospital, having been
sent for by the night Nursing Sister. The men sprang to attention and the Sergeant saluted.

"Drunk sentry left 'is post, Sir," he gabbled. "'Spose the Dead 'Ole--er--Morshuerry, that
is, Sir, got on 'is nerves. 'E's given to secret boozin', Sir----"

"Excuse me, Sir," broke in Dam, daring to address an Officer unbidden, since a life was at
stake, "I am a total abstainer and Trooper Priddell is not dead. It must have been cataleptic
trance. I heard him groan and I climbed up and saw him lying on the ground."

"This man's not drunk," said Captain Blake, and added to himself, "and he's an educated man,
and a cultured, poor devil."

"Oh, that's how 'e goes on, Sir, sober as a judge you'd say, an' then nex' minnit 'e's on the
floor aseein' blue devils an' pink serpients----"

"The man's dying while we talk, Sir," put in Dam, whose wrath was rising. (If these dull-witted
ignorant louts could not tell a drunken man from a sober, nor realize that a certified dead
man may not be dead, surely the doctor could.)

The Sergeant and the Corporal ventured on a respectful snigger.

"Bring me that lamp," said Captain Blake, and Trooper Bear raised it to his extended hand.
Lifting it so that its light shone straight in Dam's face the doctor scanned the latter and
examined his eyes. This was not the face of a drunkard nor was the man in any way under the
influence of liquor now. Absurd! Had he fever? Was he of deranged intellect? But, alas, the
light that shone upon Dam's face also shone upon Captain Blake's collar and upon the badge
of his Corps which adorned it--and that badge is a serpent entwining a rod.

It was the last straw! Dam had passed through a most disturbing night; he had kept guard in
the lonely Snake-haunted darkness, guard over a mortuary in which lay a corpse; he had had
to keep knocking at the corpse's door, his mind had run on funerals, he had thought he heard
the dead man groan, he believed he had seen the dead man moving, he had wrestled with thick
intelligences who held him drunk or mad while precious moments passed, and he had had the Snake
before his mental vision throughout this terrible time--and here was another of its emissaries
wearing its badge, an emissary of high rank, an Officer-Emissary!... Well, he was in the open
air, thank God, and could put up a fight as before.

Like a panther he sprang upon the unfortunate officer and bore him to the ground, with his
powerful hands enclosing the astounded gentleman's neck, and upon the couple sprang the Sergeant,
the Corporal, and the Hospital Guard, all save the sentry, who (disciplined, well-drilled man!)
brought his carbine to the "order" and stood stiffly at "attention" in a position favourable
for a good view of the proceedings though strictly on his beat.

Trooper Bear, ejaculating "Why do the heathen rage furiously together," took a running jump
and landed in sitting posture on the heap, rolled off, and proceeded to seize every opportunity
of violently smiting his superior officers, in his apparent zeal to help to secure the dangerous
criminal-lunatic. Thoughts of having just one punch at a real Officer (if only a non-combatant
still a genuine Commissioned Officer) flashed across his depraved mind.

It was a Homeric struggle. Captain Blake was himself an old Guy's Rugger three-quarter and
no mean boxer, and the Sergeant, Corporal, and Guard, were all powerful men, while Dam was
a Samson further endowed with the strength of undeniable madness. When at length he was dragged
from Captain Blake's recumbent form, his hands torn from that officer's throat, and the group
stood for a second panting, Dam suddenly felled Corporal Prag with such a blow as had been
the undoing of the Gorilla, sent Sergeant Wotting head over heels and, ere the Guard could
again close with him, drove his fist into the face of the supposed myrmidon of the Snake and
sprang upon his body once more....

It was some time before seven strong men could pinion him and carry him on a stretcher to the
Guard-room, and, of those seven strong men, only Trooper Bear bore no mark of serious damage.
(Trooper Bear had struck two non-commissioned officers with great violence, in his misdirected
zeal, and one Commissioned Officer--though only playfully and for the satisfaction of being
able to say that he had done so.) That night, half dead, wholly mad, bruised and bleeding,
Damocles de Warrenne lay in the dark cell awaiting trial on a charge of assaulting an Officer,
striking his superior officers, resisting the Guard, deserting his sentry-post, and being drunk
and disorderly.

       *       *       *       *       *

"What'll he get, d'you think?" sadly asked Trooper Goate of Trooper Hawker.

"Two stretch 'ard laiber and discharged from the Army wiv' iggernerminny," groaned Trooper
Hawker. "Lucky fer 'im floggin's erbolished in the British Army."

       *       *       *       *       *

When the mortuary door was unlocked next morning a little force was required to open it, some
obstacle apparently retarding its inward movement. The obstacle proved to be the body, now
certainly the dead body, of Trooper Priddell who had died with his fingers thrust under the
said door.[26]

PART III.

THE SAVING OF A SOUL

CHAPTER XII.

VULTURES AND LUCK--GOOD AND BAD.

To the strongest and sanest mind there is something a small trifle disturbing, perhaps, in
riding silently hour after hour on a soft-footed camel over soft sand in a silent empty land
through the moonlit silent night, beside an overland-telegraph wire on every individual post
of which sits a huge vulture!... Just as the sun set, a fiery red ball, behind the distant
mountains, Damocles de Warrenne, gentleman-at-large, had caught sight of what he had sought
in the desert for some days, the said overland telegraph, and thereby saved himself from the
highly unpleasant death that follows prolonged deprivation of water. He had also saved his
camel from a little earlier death, inasmuch as he had decided to probe for the faithful creature's
jugular vein and carotid artery during the torturing heats of the morrow and prolong his life
at its expense. (Had he not promised Lucille to do his best for himself?)

The overland telegraph pointed absolutely straight to the border city of Kot Ghazi and, better
still, to a river-bed which would contain pools of water, thirty miles this side of it, at
a spot a few miles from which stood a lost lone dak-bungalow on Indian soil--a dak-bungalow
whereat would be waiting a shikarri retainer, and such things as tea, fuel, potted foods, possibly
fresh meat, and luxury of luxuries, a hot bath....

And, with a sigh of relief, he had wheeled his camel under the telegraph wires after a glance
at the stars and brief calculation as to whether he should turn to left or right. (He did not
want to proceed until he collapsed under the realization that he was making for the troubled
land of Persia.)

Anyhow, without knowing where he was, he knew he was on the road to water, food, human companionship
(imagine Abdul Ghani a human companion!--but he had not seen a human face for three weeks,
nor heard nor uttered a word), and safety, after suffering the unpleasant experience of wandering
in circles, lost in the most inhospitable desert on the earth. Vultures! He had not realized
there were so many in the world. Hour after hour, a post at every few yards, and on every post
a vulture--a vulture that opened its eyes as he approached, regarded him from its own point
of view--that of the Eater whose life is an unending search for Meat--calculatingly, and closed
them again with a sigh at his remaining vigorousness.

He must have passed hundreds, thousands,--had he died of thirst in actual fact and was he doomed
to follow this line through this desert for evermore as a punishment for his sins? No--much
too mild a punishment for the God of Love to inflict, according to the Chaplain. This would
be Eternal Bliss compared with the Eternal Fire. He must be still alive ... Was he mad, then,
and imagining these unending bird-capped posts? If not mad, he soon would be. Why couldn't
they say something--mannerless brutes! Should he swerve off and leave the telegraph line? No,
he had starved and suffered the agonies of thirst for nearly a week--and, if he could hang
on all night, he might reach water tomorrow and be saved. Food was a minor consideration and
if he could drink a few gallons of water, soak his clothes in it, lie in it,--he could carry
on for another day or two. Nearly as easy to sprawl face-downward on a camel-saddle as on the
ground--and he had tied himself on. The camel would rub along all right for days with camel-thorn
and similar dainties.... No, better not leave the line. Halt and camp within sight of it till
the morning, when the brutes would fly away in search of food? No ... might find it impossible
to get going again, if once man and beast lay down now ... Ride as far as possible from the
line, keeping it in sight? No ... if he fell asleep the camel would go round in a circle again,
and he'd wake up a dozen miles from the line, with no idea of direction and position. Best
to carry straight on. The camel would stick to the line so long as he was left exactly on it
... think it a road ... He could sleep without danger thus. He would shut his eyes and not
see the vultures, for if he saw a dozen more he knew that he would go raving mad, halt the
camel and address an impassioned appeal to them to say something--for God's sake to say something.
Didn't they know that he had been in solitary confinement in a desert for three weeks or three
centuries (what is time?) without hearing a sound or seeing a living thing--expecting the SNAKE
night and day, and, moreover, that he was starving, dying of thirst, and light-headed, and
that he was in the awful position of choosing between murdering the camel that had stood by
him--no, under him--all that fearful time, and breaking his word to Lucille--cheating and deceiving
Lucille. Then why couldn't they say something instead of sitting there in their endless millions,
mile after billions of miles, post after billions of trillions of posts--menacing, watchful,
silent, silent as the awful desert, silent as the SNAKE.... This would not do ... he must think
hard of Lucille, of the Sword, of his Dream, his Dream that came so seldom now. He would repeat
Lucille's last letter, word for word:--

  "MY DARLING,

  "It is over, thank God--Oh, thank God--and you can
  leave the army at once and become a 'gentleman' in
  position as well as in fact. Poor old Grumper died
  on Saturday (as I cabled) and before he died he
  became quite another man--weak, gentle and anxious
  to make any amends he could to anybody. For nearly
  a week he was like this, and it was a most
  wonderful and pathetic thing. He spent most of the
  time in telling me, General Harringport, Auntie
  Yvette or the Vicar, about wicked things he had
  done, cruelties, meannesses, follies--it was most
  distressing, for really he has been simply a
  strong character with all the faults of
  one--including, as we know too well, lack of
  sympathy, hardness, and sometimes savage cruelty,
  which, after all, was only the natural result of
  the lack of sympathy and understanding.

  "As he grew weaker he grew more sympathetic with
  illness and suffering, I suppose, for he sent for
  me in the middle of the night to say that he had
  suddenly remembered Major Decies' story about your
  probably being subject to fits and seizures in
  certain circumstances, and that he was coming to
  the conclusion that he had been hasty and unjust
  and had unmercifully punished you for no fault
  whatever. He said 'I have punished him for being
  punished. I have added my injustice to that of
  Fate. Write to him that I ask his pardon and
  confess my fault. Tell him I'll make such
  reparation as I can,' and oh, Dam--he leaves you
  Monksmead, and me his money, on the
  understanding that we marry as soon as any
  physician, now living in Harley Street, says that
  you are fit to marry (I must write it I suppose)
  without fear of our children being epileptic,
  insane, or in any way tainted. If none of them
  will do this, I am to inherit Monksmead and part
  of the money and you are to have a part of the
  money. If we marry then, we lose everything and
  it goes to Haddon Berners. Mr. Wyllis, who has
  been his lawyer and agent for thirty years, is to
  take you to Harley Street (presumably to prevent
  your bribing and corrupting the whole of the
  profession there residing).

  "Come at once, Darling. If the silly old
  physicians won't certify, why--what does it
  matter? I am going to let lodgings at Monksmead to
  a Respectable Single Man (with board) and Auntie
  Yvette will see that he behaves himself.

  "Cable what boat you start by and I'll meet you at
  Port Said. I don't know how I keep myself sitting
  in this chair. I could turn head over heels for
  joy! (And poor Grumper only just buried and his
  Will read!) He didn't lose quite all his grim
  humour in that wonderful week of softening,
  relenting and humanizing. What do you think he
  solemnly gave and bequeathed to the poor Haddock?
  His wardrobe!!! And nothing else, but if the
  Haddock wears only Grumper's clothes, including
  his boots, shirts, ties, collars and everything
  else, for one full and complete year, and wears
  absolutely nothing else, he is to have five
  thousand pounds at the end of it--and he is to
  begin on the day after the funeral! And even at
  the last poor Grumper was a foot taller and a foot
  broader (not to mention thicker) than the
  Haddock! It appears that he systematically tried
  to poison Grumper's mind against you--presumably
  with an eye on this same last Will and Testament.
  He hasn't been seen since the funeral. I wonder if
  he is going to try to win the money by remaining
  in bed for a year in Grumper's pyjamas!

  "Am I not developing 'self-control and balance'?
  Here I sit writing news to you while my heart is
  screaming aloud with joy, crying 'Dam is coming
  home. Dam's troubles are over. Dam is saved!'
  Because if you are ever so 'ill,' Darling, there
  is nothing on earth to prevent your coming to your
  old home at once--and if we can't marry we can be
  pals for evermore in the dear old place of our
  childhood. But of course we can marry. Hurry
  home, and if any Harley Street doctor gives you
  even a doubtful look, throw him up his own stairs
  to show how feeble you are, or tie his poker round
  his neck in a neat bow, and refuse to undo it
  until he apologizes. I'm sure you could! 'Ill'
  indeed! If you can't have a little fit, on the
  rare occasions when you see a snake, without fools
  saying you are ill or dotty or something, it is a
  pity! Anyhow there is one small woman who
  understands, and if she can't marry you she can at
  any rate be your inseparable pal--and if the
  Piffling Little World likes to talk scandal, in
  spite of Auntie Yvette's presence--why it will be
  amusing. Cable, Darling! I am just bursting
  with excitement and joy--and fear (that something
  may go wrong at the last moment). If it saved a
  single day I should start for Motipur myself at
  once. If we passed in mid-ocean I should jump
  overboard and swim to your ship. Then you'd do the
  same, and we should 'get left,' and look silly....
  Oh, what nonsense I am talking--but I don't think
  I shall talk anything else again--for sheer joy!

  "You can't write me a lot of bosh now about
  'spoiling my life' and how you'd be ten times more
  miserable if I were your wife. Fancy--a soldier
  to-day and a 'landed proprietor' to-morrow! How I
  wish you were a landed traveller, and were in
  the train from Plymouth--no, from Dover and
  London, because of course you'd come the quickest
  way. Did my cable surprise you very much?

  "I enclose fifty ten-pound notes, as I suppose
  they will be quicker and easier for you to cash
  than those 'draft' things, and they'll be quite
  safe in the insured packet. Send a cable at once,
  Darling. If you don't I shall imagine awful things
  and perhaps die of a broken heart or some other
  silly trifle.

  "Mind then:--Cable to-day; Start to-morrow; Get
  here in a fortnight--and keep a beady eye open at
  Port Said and Brindisi and places--in case there
  has been time for me to get there. Au revoir.
  Darling Dam,

  "Your

  "LUCILLE.

  "Three cheers! And a million more!"

       *       *       *       *       *

Yes, a long letter, but he could almost say it backwards. He couldn't be anything like mad
while he could do that?... How had she received his answer--in which he tried to show her the
impossibility of any decent man compromising a girl in the way she proposed in her sweet innocence
and ignorance. Of course he, a half-mad, epileptic, fiend-ridden monomaniac--nay, dangerous
lunatic,--could not marry. Why, he might murder his own wife under some such circumstances
as those under which he attacked Captain Blake. (Splendid fellow Blake! Not every man after
such a handling as that would make it his business to prove that his assailant was neither
drunk, mad, nor criminal--merely under a hallucination. But for Blake he would now be in jail,
or lunatic asylum, to a certainty. The Colonel would have had him court-martialled as a criminal,
or else have had him out of the regiment as a lunatic. Nor, as a dangerous lunatic, would he
have been allowed to buy himself out when Lucille's letter and his money arrived. Blake had
got him into the position of a perfectly sober and sane person whose mind had been temporarily
upset by a night of horror--in which a coffin-quitting corpse had figured, and so he had been
able to steer between the cruel rocks of Jail and Asylum to the blessed harbour of Freedom.)

Yes--in spite of Blake's noble goodness and help, Dam knew that he was not normal, that he
was dangerous, that he spent long periods on the very border-line of insanity, that he stood
fascinated on that border-line and gazed far into the awful country beyond--the Realms of the
Mad....

Marry! Not Lucille, while he had the sanity left to say "No"!

As for going to live at Monksmead with her and Auntie Yvette--it would be an even bigger crime.
Was it for him to make Lucille a "problem" girl, a girl who was "talked about," a by-word for
those vile old women of both sexes whose favourite pastime is the invention and dissemination
of lies where they dare, and of even more damaging head-shakes, lip-pursings, gasps and innuendoes
where they do not?

Was it for him to get Lucille called "The Woman Who Did," by those scum of the leisured classes,
and "That peculiar young woman," by the better sort of matron, dowager and chaperone,--make
her the kind of person from whose company careful mothers keep their innocent daughters (that
their market price may never be in danger of the faintest depreciation when they are for sale
in the matrimonial market), the kind of woman for whom men have a slightly and subtly different
manner at meet, hunt-ball, dinner or theatre-box? Get Lucille "talked about"?

No--setting aside the question of the possibility of living under the same roof with her and
conquering the longing to marry.

No--he had some decency left, tainted as he doubtless was by his barrack-room life.

Tainted of course.... What was it he had heard the senior soldierly-looking man, whom the other
addressed as "General," say concerning some mutual acquaintance, at breakfast in the dining-car
going up to Kot Ghazi?

"Yes, poor chap, was in the ranks--and no man can escape the barrack-room taint when he has
once lived in it. Take me into any Officers' Mess you like--say 'There is a promoted gentleman-ranker
here,' and I'll lay a thousand to one I spot him. Don't care if he's the son of a Dook--nor
yet if he's Royal, you can spot him alright...."

Pleasant hearing for the "landed proprietor," whom a beautiful, wealthy and high-bred girl
proposed to marry!

Tainted or not, in that way--he was mentally tainted, a fact beside which the other, if as
true as Truth, paled into utterest insignificance.

No--he had taken the right line in replying to Lucille that he was getting worse mentally,
that no doctor would dream of "vetting" him "sound," that he was not scoundrel enough to come
and cause scandal and "talk" at Monksmead, and that he was going to disappear completely from
the ken of man, wrestle with himself, and come to her and beg her to marry him directly he
was better--sufficiently better to "pass the doctor," that is. If, meanwhile, she met and loved
a man worthy of her, such a man as Ormonde Delorme, he implored her to marry him and to forget
the wholly unworthy and undesirable person who had merely loomed large upon her horizon through
the accident of propinquity ...

(He could always disappear again and blow out such brains as he possessed, if that came to
pass, he told himself.)

Meanwhile letters to the Bank of Bombay would be sent for, at least once a year--but she was
not to write--she was to forget him. As to searching for him--he had not quite decided whether
he would walk from Rangoon to Pekin or from Quetta to Constantinople--perhaps neither, but
from Peshawur to Irkutsk. Anyhow, he was going to hide himself pretty effectually, and put
himself beyond the temptation of coming and spoiling her life. Sooner or later he would be
mad, dead, or cured. If the last--why he would make for the nearest place where he could get
news of her--and if she were then happily married to somebody else--why--why--she would be
happy, and that would make him quite happy ...

Had the letter been quite sane and coherent--or had he been in a queer mental state when he
wrote it?...

He opened his eyes, saw a vulture within a few yards of him, closed them again, and, soon after,
fell into an uneasy slumber as the camel padded on at a steady seven miles an hour unurged--save
by the smell of pure clear water which was still a score of miles distant....

When Damocles de Warrenne awoke, he was within a few hundred yards of the nearly dry River
Helnuddi, where, failing occasional pools, the traveller can always procure water by digging
and patiently awaiting the slow formation of a little puddle at the bottom of the hole.

For a minute he halted. Should he dig while he had strength, or should he turn to the left
and follow the river-bed until he came to a pool--or could go no farther? Perhaps he would
be too weak to dig, though, by that time.... Remarkable how eager to turn to the left and get
on, the camel was--considering how tired he must be--perhaps he could smell distant water or
knew of a permanent pool hereabouts. Well, let that decide it....

An hour later, as the camel topped a rise in the river-bank, a considerable pool came into
view, tree-shaded, heron-haunted, too incredibly beautiful and alluring for belief. Was it
a mirage?...

A few minutes later, Damocles de Warrenne and his camel were drinking, and a few hours later
entered the dreary featureless compound of a wretched hovel, which, to the man at least, was
a palatial and magnificent asylum (no, not asylum--of all words)--refuge and home--the more
so that a camel knelt chewing in the shade of the building, and a man, Abdul Ghani himself,
lay slumbering in the verandah....

"You understand, then," said Dam in the vernacular, to the malodorous, hideous, avaricious
Abdul who reappeared from Kot Ghazi a few days later, "you return here again, one week from
to-day, bringing the things written down on this paper, from the shop of Rustomji at Kot Ghazi.
Here you wait until I come. If I find there is truth in your khubbar[27] of ibex you will be
rewarded ... Why don't I take you? Because I want to be alone. Set out now for Kot Ghazi. I
may return." A stone fell and clattered. Dam shrank, cringed, and shut his eyes--as one expecting
a heavy blow. Ah-h-h-h-h--had the beast bolted? With the slowness of an hour-hand he raised
his head above the bank of the watercourse until his eye cleared the edge. No--still there.
After a painful crawl that seemed to last for hours, he reached the point where the low ridge
ran off at right-angles, crept behind it, and lay flat on his face, to rest and recover breath.
He was soaked in perspiration from head to foot, giddy with sun and unnatural posture, very
sore as to elbows and knees, out of breath, trembling--and entirely happy. The half-mile crawl,
with the greater part of his body on the burning ground, and the rifle to shuffle steadily
along without noise or damage, was the equivalent of a hard day's work to a strong man. At
the end of it he lay gasping and sick, aching in every limb, almost blind with glare and over-exertion,
weary to death--and entirely happy. Thank God he would be able to stand up in a moment and
rest behind a big cactus. Then he would have a spell of foot-work for a change, and, though
crouching double, would not be doing any crawling until he had crossed the plateau and reached
the bushes.

The upward climb was successfully accomplished with frequent halts for breath, behind boulders.
On the plateau all that was required was silence. The ibex could not see him up there. In his
rubber-soled khaki-coloured shoes he could almost run, but it was a question whether a drink
of cold water would not be worth more than all the ibexes in the world.

He tip-toed rapidly across the level hill-top, reached the belt of low bushes, dropped, and
lay to recover breath before resuming the painful and laborious crawling part of his journey.
Was it possible to tap one's tongue against one's teeth and hear the noise of it as though
it were made of wood? It seemed so. Was this giddiness and dimness of vision sunstroke? What
would he give to have that fly (that had followed him for hundreds of thousands of miles that
morning) between his fingers?

Last lap! There was the rock, and below it must be the quarry--if it had not fled. He must
keep that rock between himself and his prey and he must get to it without a sound. It would
be easy enough without the rifle. Could he stick it through his belt and along his back, or
trail it behind him? What nonsense! He must be getting a touch of sun. Would these stones leave
marks of burns on his clothes? Surely he could smell himself singeing. Enough to explode the
rifle ... The big rock at last! A rest and then a peep, with infinite precaution. Dam held
his breath and edged his face to the corner of the great boulder. Moving imperceptibly, he
peeped ... No ibex! ... He was about to spring up with a hearty malediction on his luck when
he perceived a peculiar projection on a large stone some distance down the hill. It moved--and
Dam dropped back. It must be the top of the curve of one of the horns of the ibex and the animal
must be lying down.... What to do? It might lie for hours and he himself might go to sleep.
It might get up and depart at any moment without coming into the line of fire--without being
seen indeed. Better continue the stalk and hope to get a standing shot, or, failing that, a
running one.

It looked a nasty descent, since silence was essential--steep, slippery, and strewn with round
stones. Anyhow, he could go down on his feet, which was something to be thankful for, as it
was agony to put a knee or elbow to the ground. He crept on.

Surely his luck was changing, for here he was, within fifty yards of a stone behind which lay
an unsuspecting ibex with a world's-record head. Hullo! a nasty little precipice! With a nastily
sloping shelf at the bottom too, eight feet away--and then another little precipice and another
sloping shelf at its base.

Better lay the rifle on the edge, slip over, hang by the hands, grab it with one, and then
drop the intervening few inches. Rubber soles would play their part here! Damn this giddiness--touch
of sun, no doubt. Damocles de Warrenne knelt on the edge of the eight-foot drop, turned round,
swayed, fell, struck the sloping ledge, rolled off it, fell, struck the next sloping ledge,
fell thirty feet--arousing an astounded ibex en route--and landed in a queer heap on a third
shelf, with a few broken ribs, a dislocated shoulder, broken ankles, and a fractured thigh.

A vulture, who had been interested in his proceedings for some time, dropped a few thousand
feet and had a look. What he saw decided him to come to earth. He perched on a rock and waited
patiently. He knew the symptoms and he knew the folly of taking risks. A friend or two joined
him--each, as he left his place in the sky, being observed and followed by a brother who was
himself in turn observed and followed by another who brought others....

One of the hideous band had drawn quite near and was meditating rewarding his own boldness
with a succulent eye, when Dam groaned and moved. The pretty birds also moved and probably
groaned in spirit--but they didn't move far.

What was that Miss Smellie had been so fond of saying? "There is no such thing as 'luck,' Damocles.
All is ordered for the best by an all-seeing and merciful Providence." Yes. No doubt.

What was that remark of his old friend, "Holy Bill"?

"What do you mean by 'luck,' Damocles? All that happens is ordained by God in His infinite
mercy." Yes.

Holy Bill had never done a day's work in his life nor missed a meal--save when bilious from
overeating....

A pity the infinite mercy didn't run to a little water! It would have been easy for the all-seeing
and merciful Providence to move him to retain his water-bottle when starting the stalk--if
it were necessary to the schemes of the Deity to have him smashed like a dropped egg.... What
agony a human being could endure!...

Not even his rifle at hand with its means of speedy death. He might live for days and then
be torn alive by those accursed vultures. One mighty effort to turn on his back and he would
breathe easier--but that would bring his eyes to the sun--and the vultures.... Had he slept
or fainted? How long had he lain there?... Chance of being found? Absolutely none. Shikarri
would have visited the dak-bungalow a week ago. Camel left below on the plain--and it would
wander miles from where he left it when it grew hungry. Even if Abdul and an organized search-party
were after him now they might as well be searching for a needle in a hay-stack. No one knew
which of the thousand gullies he had ascended and no one could track camel-pads or flat rubber
soles over bare solid rock, even if given the starting-point. No--he had got to die of thirst,
starvation, and vultures, barring miracles of luck--and he had never had any good luck--for
luck existed, undoubtedly, in spite of mealy-mouthed platitude-makers and twaddle about everything
being pre-arranged and ordained with care and deliberation by a kind paternal Providence.

And what luck he had had--all his life! Born fated!

Had he fainted again or slept? And could he hear the tinkle of ice against the sides of a tall
thin tumbler of lemonade, or was it the sound of a waterfall of clear, cold water close by?
Were the servants asleep, or was the drink he had ordered being prepared?... No--he was dying
in agony on a red-hot rock, surrounded by vultures and probably watched by foxes, jackals and
hyenas. And a few yards away were the rifle that would have put him out of his misery, and
the water-bottle that would have alleviated his pain--to the extent, at any rate, of enabling
him to think clearly and perhaps scribble a few words in blood or something, somehow, for Lucille
... Lucille! Would the All-Merciful let him see her once again for a moment in return for an
extra thousand years of Hell or whatever it was that unhappy mortals got as a continuation
of the joys of this gay world? Could he possibly induce the vultures to carry him home--if
he pledged himself to feed them and support their progeny? They could each have a house in
the compound. It would pay them far better than eating him now. Did they understand Pushtoo
or was it Persian? Certainly not Hindustani and Urdu. People who came shooting alone in the
desert and mountains, where vultures abounded, should learn to talk Vulture and pass the Higher
Standard in that tongue. But even if they understood him they might be unwilling to serve a
coward. Was he a coward? Anyhow he lay glued with his own blood to the spot he would never
leave--unless the vultures could be bribed. Useless to hope anything of the jackals. He had
hunted too many foxes to begin now to ask favours. Besides they could only drag, and he had
been dragged once by a horse. Quite enough for one lifetime. But he had never injured a vulture.
Pity he had no copy of Grimm or Anderson with him--they contained much useful information about
talking foxes, obliging birds, and other matters germane to the occasion. If he could only
get them to apply it, a working-party of vultures and jackals certainly had the strength to
transport him a considerable distance--alternately carrying and dragging him. The big bird,
stalking nearer, was probably the macuddam or foreman. Would it be at all possible for vultures
to bring water? He would be very willing to offer his right hand in return for a little water.
The bird would be welcome to eat it off his body if it would give him a drink first. Did not
ravens bring meat to the prophet Elijah? Intelligent and obliging birds. Probably cooked it,
too. But water was more difficult to carry, if easier to procure.

How close they were coming and how they watched with their horrible eyes--and pretended not
to watch!...

Oh, the awful, unspeakable agony! Why was he alive again? Was his chest full of terribly rusty
machinery that would go on when it ought to stop for want of oil?... If pain is punishment
for sin, as placid stall-fed Holy Bill held (never having suffered any), then Damocles de Warrenne
must have been the prince of sinners. Oh God! a little drop of water! Rivers of it flowing
not many miles away!

Monsoons of it falling recently! A water-bottle full a few yards distant--and he must die for
want of a drop ... What a complete circle the vultures made on the rocks and stunted trees
of the sloping hill-side. Oh, for a revolver! A man ought to carry one on shikar expeditions.
One would give him a chance of life when under a tiger or panther--and a chance of decent death
in a position such as this. Where had he read that vultures begin on the eyes of their prey?
Without awaiting its death either, so long as it could not defend itself. There were other
depraved gustatory preferences, too, if he remembered rightly-He would have an opportunity
of testing the accuracy of the statement--though not of assuring its author as to its correctness.

Water ... Water ... Water ...

Had he fainted again, that the vultures were so much nearer?... Why should he be a second Prometheus?
Had he not had suffering enough in his life, without having more in his death?... If the sending
of a little water were too obvious a miracle, was it too much to ask that his next fainting
and collapse might last long enough for the vultures to get to work, make a beginning, and an end?

Surely that would not be too great a miracle, since he had lain for years on a red-hot rock
with blood in his mouth and his body wrecked like a smashed egg. He must be practically dead.
Perhaps if he held his laboured breath and closed his eyes they would begin, and he would have
the strength to keep still when they did so. That would be the quickest way. Once they started,
it would not be long before his bones were cleaned. No possible ghost of a chance of being
saved. Probably no human foot had been on these particular rocks since human feet existed.
Nor would he ever again have the strength to drag his shattered body to where the rifle lay.
Only a few yards away lay speedy happy release.

"No such thing as luck, Damocles."

Perhaps the vultures thought otherwise.

Colonel John Decies, still of Bimariabad, but long retired on pension from the Indian Medical
Service, was showing his mental and physical unfitness for the service of the Government that
had ordered his retirement, by devoting himself at the age of fifty-nine to aviation--aviation
in the interests of the wounded on the battlefield. What he wanted to live to see was a flying
stretcher-service of the Royal Army Medical Corps that should flash to and fro at the rate
of a hundred miles an hour between the rear of the firing-line and the field hospital and base
hospital in aeroplanes built especially for the accommodation of wounded men--an officer of
the Corps accompanying each in the dual capacity of surgeon and potential pilot. When he allowed
his practical mind to wander among the vast possibilities of the distant future, he dreamed
of bigger and bigger aeroplanes until they became fully equipped flying hospitals themselves,
and removed the wounded from the danger zone to the nearest salubrious spot for their convalescence.
Meanwhile, he saw no reason why the more powerful biplanes should not carry an operating-table
and all surgical accessories, a surgeon, and two or three wounded men who could not be made
sitting-up cases.

To Colonel John Decies it seemed that if soldiers schemed to adapt the flying-machine to purposes
of death and destruction, doctors might do the same to purposes of life and salvation. Think
of the difference between being jolted for hours in a bullock-cart in the dust and heat and
being borne through the air without jerk or jar. Think of the hundreds of men who, in the course
of one campaign, would be saved from the ghastly fate of lying unfound, unseen by the stretcher-bearers,
to starve to death, to lie weltering in their blood, to live through days of agony....

He was making quite a name for himself by his experiments at the Kot Ghazi flying-school and
by his articles and speeches on the formation and training of a R.A.M.C. flying branch. Small
beginnings would content him (provided they were intended to lead to great developments)--an
aeroplane at first, that could carry one or two special cases to which the ordinary means of
transport would be fatal, and that could scour the ground, especially in the case of very broken
terrain and hill-country, for overlooked cases, wounded men unable to move or call, and undiscovered
by the searchers.

He was hard at work on the invention of a strong collapsible operating-table (that could readily
be brought into use in the field and also be used in aerial transport) and a case for the concentration
of equipment--operation instruments, rubber gloves, surgical gauntlets, saline infusion apparatus,
sterilizer, aseptic towels, chloroform, bandages, gauze, wool, sponges, drainage-tubing, inhaler,
silk skeins, syringes, field tourniquets, waterproof cloth, stethoscope--everything, and the
whole outfit, table and all, weighing forty pounds. This would be an improvement on the system
of having to open half a dozen medical and surgical cases when operating on the line of march,
cases requiring the most expert repacking after use ...

       *       *       *       *       *

Perhaps it was a sign of advancing years and weakening mind that this fine specimen of a fine
service felt that, when flying some thousands of feet above the earth, he was nearer to Lenore
in Heaven. All his science and sad experience had failed to deprive him of a sub-conscious
belief in an actual place "above," a material Hereafter beyond the sky, and, when clouds cut
him off from sight of the earth, he had a quaint, half-realized feeling of being in the ante-room
of the Great House of many mansions, wherein dwelt Lenore.

Yes, when flying, Colonel John Decies felt that he was nearer to the woman he had lost nearly
a quarter of a century before. In one sense he may have been so, for he was a very reckless
airman, and never in greater danger than when engaged in what he called "ground-scouring" among
the air-current haunted, mist-haunted mountains of the Border. He anticipated an early Border-war
and realized that here would be a great opportunity for a keen-sighted and iron-nerved medical
airman to locate, if not to pick up, overlooked wounded. Here, too, would be a double need
of such service in a country where "the women come out to cut up what remains"! Imagine, too,
cavalry reconnaissances and bad casualties a score of miles from medical help ...

Whether it brought him nearer in any sense to Lenore de Warrenne, it brought him nearer to
her son, on one of those hundred-mile circular "scours" which he practised when opportunity
offered, generally accompanied by a like-minded officer of the R.A.M.C., to which Corps he
had become a kind of unofficial and honorary instructor in "First- Aid Flying" at the Kot Ghazi
flying-school, situate in the plains at the foot of the "Roof of the World".

"Hullo!" said Colonel John Decies to himself--"vultures! I suppose they might be referred to
in my manual as a likely guide to the wounded. Good idea. 'The flying casualty-scout should
always take note of the conduct of vultures, noting the direction of flight if any are seen
dropping to earth. These birds may prove invaluable guides. A collection of them on the ground
may indicate a wounded man who may be alive.' ..."

The Colonel was thinking of his magnum opus, "The Aeroplane and the Surgeon, in War," wherewith
he lived laborious days at Bimariabad in the intervals of testing, developing, and demonstrating
his theories at Kot Ghazi.

Turning his head, he shouted to Surgeon-Captain Digby-Soames, R.A.M.C., his passenger and pupil:--

"Vultures on the left-front or starboard bow. 'Invariable battle-field sign of wounded man.
Note spot if unable to land and rescue. Call up stretcher-party by signal--Vide page 100 of
Decies' great work,' what?"

"By Jove, it is a wounded man," replied Captain Digby-Soames, who was using field-glasses.
"Damned if it isn't a Sahib, too! Out shikarring and sprained his ankle, I suppose. Dead, I'm
afraid. Poor devil!"

"Vultures aren't at work, anyhow," commented Colonel Decies. "Can't land anywhere hereabouts,
and I'm afraid 'calling up the stretcher party' isn't in the game here."

"Nothing nearer than Kot Ghazi and that's a good thirty miles," replied Captain Digby-Soames
as the aeroplane hovered and slowly sank.

"Let's see all we can and then find the nearest landing-place. Search all round for any sign
of a tent or encampment. There may be a dak-bungalow somewhere down in the plains, too. The
river-bed down on the right there, marks the border."

Captain Digby-Soames "scoured" earnestly with his glasses.

"Camel on the port-bow, at the foot of the hills," he announced. "What may be a dak-bungalow
several miles away ... a white square dot, anyhow ... Camel saddled up, kneeling ... His, no
doubt. Wonder where his shikarri is--"

As the aeroplane approached, the disappointed vultures departed, misliking the size, shape
and sounds of the strange fowl. As it passed over him, and the Major shouted, Dam opened his eyes.

This must be pretty well the end--when he heard the voice of some one he knew well, and saw
a flying-machine just above him. He would see blocks of ice and cascades of cold water in a
moment, doubtless, and hear Lucille calling.

A flying-machine in Ghazistan! The voice of an old, old friend to whom he could not, for the
moment, give a name ... Why couldn't the cowardly brutes of vultures begin their business,
and end his? What was that familiar voice calling:--

"Hold on a bit, we'll soon be with you! Don't give up. We can't land just here. If we drop
anything can you crawl and get it?"

"He opened his eyes," said Captain Digby-Soames, "but I doubt if he's conscious. He must have
come a frightful cropper. You can see there's a compound fracture of the right femur from here,
and one of his feet is fairly pointing backwards. Blood from the mouth, too. Anyhow he's alive.
Better shoot him if we can't shift him----"

"We'll get him all right. This is a Heaven-sent 'problem' and we'll solve it--and I'll quote
it in my 'manual'. Quite war-conditions. Very badly wounded man--inaccessible position--stretcher-parties
all out of sight--aeroplane can't land for any first-aid nor to pick up the casualty--excellent
problem and demonstration. That oont[28] will simplify it, though. Look here--I'll drop down
and land you by it, and then come here again and hover. You bring the beast up--you'll be able
to ride most of the way if you zig-zag, and lead him most of the rest. Then you'll have to
carry the casualty to the oont and bring him down."

The aeroplane swooped down and grounded gently within a hundred yards of the kneeling camel,
who eyed it with the cold and supercilious disdain of his kind.

"Tell you what," said Colonel Decies, "when I get up there again, have a good squint and see
if you think you can locate the spot for yourself from below. If you can, I'll come down again
and we'll both go up on the oont. Bring the poor beggar down much better if one of us can hold
him while the other drives the camel. It's no Grand Trunk Road, by Jove."

"Right-O," acquiesced Captain Digby-Soames. "If I can get a clear bearing to a point immediately
below where you hover, I'll lie flat on the ground as an affirmative signal. If there's no
good landmark I'll stay perpendicular, what?"

"That's it," said Colonel Decies, and, with a swift run and throbbing whirr, the aeroplane
soared from the ground and rose to where, a thousand feet from the plain, lay the mangled "problem".
As it came to a halt and hovered[29] (like a gigantic dragon-fly poised on its invisibly-rapid
wings above a pool), the junior officer's practised eye noted a practicable gully that debouched
on a level with, and not far from, the ledge over which the aeroplane hung, and that a stunted
thorn-tree stood below the shelf and two large cactus bushes on its immediate left. Having
taken careful note of other landmarks and glanced at the sun, he lay on the ground at full
length for a minute and then arose and approached the camel, who greeted him with a bubbling
snarl. On its great double saddle were a gun-cover and a long cane, while from it dangled a
haversack, camera, cartridge-case, satchel, canvas water-bag, and a cord-net holdall of odds
and ends.

Obviously the "problem's" shikar-camel. Apparently he was out without any shikarri, orderly,
or servant--a foolish thing to do when stalking in country in which a sprained ankle is more
than a possibility, and a long-range bullet in the back a probability anywhere on that side
of the border.

The aeroplane returned to earth and grounded near by. Stopping the engine Colonel Decies climbed
out and swung himself into the rear seat of the camel saddle. Captain Digby-Soames sprang into
the front one and the camel lurched to its feet, and was driven to the mouth of the gully which
the Captain had noted as running up to the scene of the tragedy.

To and fro, in and out of the gully, winding, zig-zagging, often travelling a hundred yards
to make a dozen, the sure-footed and well-trained beast made its way upward.

"Coming down will be joy," observed the Colonel. "I'd sooner be on a broken aeroplane in a
cyclone."

"Better hop off here, I should think," said Captain Digby-Soames anon. "We can lead him a good
way yet, though. Case of divided we stand, united we fall. Let him fall by himself if he wants
to," and at the next reasonably level spot the camel was made to kneel, that his riders might
descend. Slithering down from a standing camel is not a sport to practise on a steep hillside,
if indulged in at all.

Another winding, scrambling climb and the head of the nullah was reached.

"Have to get the beast kneeling when we climb down to him with the casualty," opined the Colonel.
"Better get him down here, I think. Doesn't seem any decent place farther on," and the camel
was brought to an anchor and left to his own devices.

"By Jove, the poor beggar has come a purler," said Captain Digby-Soames, as the two bent over
the apparently unconscious man.

"Ever seen him at Kot Ghazi or Bimariabad?" inquired Colonel Decies.

"No," said the Captain, "never seen him anywhere. Why--have you?"

"Certainly seen him somewhere--trying to remember where. I thought perhaps it might have been
at the flying-school or at one of the messes. Can't place him at all, but I'll swear I've met him."

"Manoeuvres, perhaps," suggested the other, "or 'board ship."

"Extraordinary thing is that I feel I ought to know him well. Something most familiar about
the face. I'm afraid it's a bit too late to--Broken ribs--fractured thigh--broken ankles--broken
arm--perforated lungs--not much good trying to get him down, I'm afraid. He might linger for
days, though, if we decided to stand by, up here. A really first-class problem for solution--we're
in luck," mused Colonel Decies, making his rapid and skilful examination. "Yes, we must get
him down, of course--after a bit of splinting."

"And then the real 'problem' will commence, I suppose," observed Captain Digby-Soames. "You
couldn't put him into my seat and fly him to Kot Ghazi while I dossed down with the camel and
waited for you to come for me. And it wouldn't do to camel him to that building which looks
like a dak-bungalow."

"No. I think you'll have to stand by while I fly to Kot Ghazi and bring the necessary things
for a temporary job, and then return and try to guide an ambulance waggon here. Oh, for an
aeroplane-ambulance! This job brings it home to you pretty clearly, doesn't it? Or I might
first go and have a look at the alleged dak-bungalow and see if we could possibly run him over
there on a charpoy[30] or an improvised camel-stretcher. It'll be a ghastly job getting down.
I don't know that you hadn't better stick to him up here while I go straight back for proper
splints and bandages and so forth, and bring another chap too ... Where the devil have I seen
him before? I shall forget my own name next."

The Colonel pondered a moment.

"Look here," he decided. "This case is urgent enough to justify a risky experiment. He's been
here a devil of a time and if he's not in a pukka hospital within the next few hours it's all
up with him. He's going to have the distinction of being the first casualty removed to hospital
by flying-machine. I'll tie him on somewhere. We'll splint him up as well as possible, and
then make him into a blooming cocoon with the cord, and whisk him away."

"Pity we haven't a few planks," observed Captain Digby-Soames. "We could make one big splint
of his whole body and sling him, planks and all, underneath the aeroplane."

"Well, you start splinting that right leg on to the left and stiffen the knees with something
(you'll probably be able to get a decent stick or two off that small tree), and shove the arm
inside his leather legging. We've two pairs of putties you can bandage with, and there are
puggries on all three topis. Probably his gun's somewhere about, for another leg-splint, too.
I'll get down to the machine for the cord and then I'll skirmish around for anything in the
nature of poles or planks. I can get over to that hut and back before you've done. It'll be
the camelling that'll kill him."

At the distant building the Colonel found an abandoned broken-wheeled bullock-cart, from which
he looted the bottom-boards, which were planks six feet long, laid upon, but not fastened to,
the framework of the body of the cart. From the compound of the place (an ancient and rarely-visited
dak-bungalow, probably the most outlying and deserted in India) he procured a bamboo pole that
had once supported a lamp, the long leg-rests of an old chair, and two or three sticks, more
or less serviceable for his purpose.

Returning to the camel, he ascended to where his passenger and pupil awaited him. Over his
shoulder he bore the planks, pole and sticks that the contemptuous but invaluable camel had
borne to a point a few yards below the scene of the tragedy.

"Good egg," observed the younger man. "We'll do him up in those like a mummy."

"Yes," returned the Colonel, "then carry him to the oont and bind him along one side of the
saddle, and then lead the beast down. Easily sling him on to the machine, and there we are.
Lucky we've got the coil of cord. Fine demonstration for the Kot Ghazi fellers! Show that the
thing can be done, even without the proper kind of 'plane and surgical outfit. What luck we
spotted him--or that he fell just in our return track!"

"Doubtless he was born to that end," observed the Captain, who was apt to get a little peevish
when hungry and tired.

And when the Army Aeroplane Hawk returned from its "ground-scouring for casualties" trip, lo,
it bore, beneath and beside the pilot and passenger, a real casualty slung in a kind of crude
coffin-cradle of planks and poles, a casualty in whose recovery the Colonel took the very deepest
interest, for was he not a heaven-sent case, born to the end that he might be smashed to demonstrate
the Colonel's theories? But no credit was given to the vultures, without whom the "casualty"
would never have been found.

CHAPTER XIII.

FOUND.

Colonel John Decies, I.M.S. (retired), visiting the Kot Ghazi Station Hospital, whereof his
friend and pupil, Captain Digby-Soames, was Commandant, scanned the temperature chart of the
unknown, the desperately injured "case," retrieved by his beloved flying-machine, who, judging
by his utterances in delirium, appeared to be even worse damaged in spirit than he was in body.

"Very high again last night," he observed to Miss Norah O'Neill of the Queen Alexandra Military
Nursing Sisterhood.

"Yes, and very violent," replied Miss O'Neill. "I had to call two orderlies and they could
hardly hold him. He appeared to think he was fighting a huge snake or fleeing from one. He
also repeatedly screamed: 'It is under my foot! It is moving, moving, moving out.'"

"Got it, by God!" cried the Colonel, suddenly smiting his forehead with violence. "Of course!
Fool! Fool that I am! Merciful God in Heaven--it's her boy--and I have saved him! Her boy!
And I've been cudgelling my failing addled brains for months, wondering where I had seen his
face before. He's my godson, Sister, and I haven't set eyes on him for the last--nearly twenty
years!"

Miss Norah O'Neill had never before seen an excited doctor in a hospital ward, but she now
beheld one nearly beside himself with excitement, joy, surprise, and incredulity. (It is sad
to have to relate that she also heard one murmuring over and over again to himself, "Well,
I am damned".)

At last Colonel John Decies announced that the world was a tiny, small place and a very rum
one, that it was just like The Hawk to be the means of saving her boy of all people, and then
took the patient's hand in his, and sat studying his face, in wondering, pondering silence.

To Miss Norah O'Neill this seemed extraordinarily powerful affection for a mere godson, and
one lost to sight for twenty years at that. Yet Colonel Decies was a bachelor and, no, the
patient certainly resembled him in no way whatsoever. The tiny new-born germ of a romance died
at once in Miss O'Neill's romantic heart--and yet, had she but known, here was a romance such
as her soul loved above all things--the son of the adored dead mistress discovered in extremis,
and saved, by the devout platonic lover, the life-long lover, and revealed to him by the utterance
of the pre-natally learnt words of the dead woman herself!

Yes--how many times through those awful days had Decies heard that heart-rending cry! How cruelly
the words had tortured him! And here, they were repeated twenty years on--for the identification
of the son by the friend!

That afternoon Colonel Decies dispatched a cablegram addressed to a Miss Gavestone, Monksmead,
Southshire, England, and containing the words, "Have found him, Kot Ghazi, bad accident, doing
well, Decies," and by the next mail Lucille, with Aunt Yvette and a maid, left Port Said, having
travelled overland to Brindisi and taken passage to Egypt by the Osiris to overtake the liner
that had left Tilbury several days before the cable reached Monksmead. And in Lucille's largest
trunk was an article the like of which is rarely to be found in the baggage of a young lady--nothing
more nor less than an ancient rapier of Italian pattern!...

To Lucille, who knew her lover so well, it seemed that the sight and feel of the worshipped
Sword of his Ancestors must bring him comfort, self-respect, memories, thoughts of the joint
youth and happiness of himself and her.

She knew what the Sword had been to him, how he had felt a different person when he held its
inspiring hilt, how it had moved him to the telling of his wondrous dream and stories of its
stirring past, how he had revered and loved it ...surely it must do him good to have it? If
he were stretched upon a bed of sickness, and it were hung where he could see it, it must help
him. It would bring diversion of thought, cheer him, suggest bright memories--perhaps give
him brave dreams that would usurp the place of bad ones.

If he were well or convalescent it might be even more needful as a tonic to self-respect, a
reminder of high tradition, a message from dead sires. Yes, surely it must do him good where
she could not. If there were any really insurmountable obstacle to their--their --union--the
Sword could still be with him always, and say unceasingly: "Do not be world-beaten, son of
the de Warrennes and Stukeleys. Do not despair. Do not be fate-conquered. Fight! Fight! Look
upon me not as merely the symbol of struggle but as the actual Sword of your actual Fathers.
Fight Fate! Die fighting--but do not live defeated"--but of course her hero Dam needed no such
exhortations. Still--the Sword must be a comfort, a pleasure, a hope, an inspiration, a symbol.
When she brought it him he would understand. Swords were to sever, but the Sword should be
a link--a visible bond between them, and between them again and their common past.

To her fellow-passengers Lucille was a puzzling enigma. What could be the story of the beautiful,
and obviously wealthy, girl with the anxious, preoccupied look, whose thoughts were always
far away, who took no interest in the pursuits and pastimes usual to her sex and age on a long
sea voyage; who gave no glance at the wares of local vendors that came aboard at Port Said
and Aden; who occupied her leisure with no book, no writing, no conversation, no deck-games;
and who constantly consulted her watch as though impatient of the slow flight of time or the
slow progress of the ship?

Many leading questions were put to Auntie Yvette, but, dearly as she would have liked to talk
about her charge's romantic trouble, her tongue was tied and she dreaded to let slip any information
that might possibly lead to a train of thought connecting Lucille, Dam, and the old half-forgotten
scandal of the outcast from Monksmead and Sandhurst. If her beloved nephew foolishly chose
to hide his head in shame when there was no shame, it was not for those who loved him best
to say anything which might possibly lead to his discovery and identification.

While cordially polite to all men (including women) Lucille was found to be surrounded by an
impenetrable wall of what was either glass or ice according to the nature of the investigator.
Those who would fain extend relationship beyond that of merest ephemeral ship-board acquaintanceship
(and the inevitabilities of close, though temporary, daily contact), while admitting that her
manner and manners were beautiful, had to admit also that she was an extremely difficult young
person "to get to know". A gilt-edged, bumptious young subalternknut, who commenced the voyage
apoplectically full of self-admiration, self-confidence, and admiring wonder at his enormous
attractiveness, importance, and value, finished the same in a ludicrously deflated condition--and
a quiet civilian, to whom the cub had been shamefully insolent, was moved to present him with
a little poem of his composition commencing "There was a puppy caught a wasp," which gave him
the transient though salutary gift of sight of himself as certain others saw him....

Even the Great Mrs. "Justice" Spywell (her husband was a wee meek joint-sessions-judge) was
foiled in her diligent endeavours, and those who know the Great Mrs. "Justice" Spywell will
appreciate the defensive abilities of Lucille. To those poor souls, throughout the world, who
stand lorn and cold without the charmed and charming circle of Anglo-Indiandom, it may be explained
that the Great Mrs. "Justice" Spywell was far too Great to be hampered by silly scruples of
diffidence when on the track of information concerning the private affairs of lesser folk--which
is to say other folk.

When travelling abroad she is THE Judge's Wife; when staying at Hill Stations she is The JUDGE'S
Wife, and when adorning her proper sphere, her native heath of Chota Pagalabad, she is The
Judge's WIFE. As she is the Senior Lady of all Chota Pagalabad she, of course, always (like
Mary) Goes In First at the solemn and superior dinner parties of that important place, and
is feared, flattered, and fawned upon by the other ladies of the station, since she can socially
put down the mighty from their seat and exalt the humble and meek and them of low degree (though
she would not be likely to touch the last-named with a pair of tongs, socially speaking, of
course). And yet, such is this queer world, the said lesser ladies of the famous mofussil station
of Chota Pagalabad are, among themselves, agreed nemine contradicente that the Great Mrs. "Justice"
Spywell is a vulgar old frump ("country-bred to say the least of it"), and call her The First
Seven Sister. This curious and unsyntactically expressed epithet alludes to the fact that she
and six other "ladies" of like instincts meet daily for tea and scandal at the Gymkhana and,
for three solid hours, pull to pieces the reputations of all and sundry their acquaintances,
reminding the amused on-looker, by their voices, manner, and appearance, of those strange birds
the Sat Bai or Seven Sisters, who in gangs of seven make day hideous in their neighbourhood ...

"Are you going to India to be married, my dear child?" she asked Lucille, before she knew her name.

"I really don't know," replied Lucille.

"You are not actually engaged, then?"

"I really don't know."

"Oh, of course, if you'd rather keep your own counsel, pray do so," snapped the Great Lady,
bridling.

"Yes," replied Lucille, and Mrs. Spywell informed her circle of stereotypes that Lucille was
a stupid chit without a word to say for herself, and an artful designing hussy who was probably
an adventuress of the "fishing-fleet".

To Auntie Yvette it appeared matter of marvel that earth and sky and sea were much as when
she last passed that way. In quarter of a century or so there appeared to be but little change
in the Egyptian and Arabian deserts, in the mountains of the African and Arabian coasts, of
the Gulf of Suez, in the contours of the islands of the Red Sea, and of Aden, whilst, in mid-ocean,
there was absolutely no observable difference between then and now. Wonderful indeed!

This theme, that of what was going on at Monksmead, and that of what to do when Dam was recaptured,
formed the bulk of her conversation with her young companion.

"What will you do, dear, when we have found the poor darling boy?" she would ask.

"Take him by the ear to the nearest church and marry him," Lucille would reply; or--"Stick
to him like a leech for evermore, Auntie"; or--"Marry him when he isn't looking, or while he's
asleep, if he's ill--or by the scruff of his neck if he's well...."

(What a pity the Great Mrs. "Justice" Spywell could not hear these terrible and unmaidenly
sentiments! An adventuress of the "fishing-fleet" in very truth!)

And with reproving smile the gentle spinster would reply:--

"My dear! Suppose anyone overheard you, what would they think?" Whereunto the naughty girl
would answer:--

"The truth, Auntie--that I'm going to pursue some poor young man to his doom. If Dam were a
leper in the gutter, begging his bread, I would marry him in spite of himself--or share the
gutter and bread in--er--guilty splendour. If he were a criminal in jail I would sit on the
doorstep till he came out, and do the same dreadful thing. I'm just going to marry Dam at the
first possible moment--like the Wild West 'shoot on sight' idea. I'm going to seize him and
marry him and take care of him for the rest of his life. If he never had another grief, ache,
or pain in the whole of his life, he must have had more than ten times his share already. Anyhow
whether he'll marry me or whether he won't--in his stupid quixotic ideas of his 'fitness' to
do so--I'm never going to part from him again."

And Auntie Yvette would endeavour to be less shocked than a right-minded spinster aunt should
be at such wild un-Early-Victorian sentiments.

       *       *       *       *       *

Come, this was a better sort of dream! This was better than dreaming of prison-cells, lunatic
asylums, tortures by the Snake, lying smashed on rocks, being eaten alive by vultures, wandering
for aeons in red- hot waterless deserts, and other horrors. However illusory and tantalizing,
this was at least a glorious dream, a delirium to welcome, a wondrous change indeed--to seem
to be holding the hand of Lucille while she gazed into his eyes and, from time to time, pressed
her lips to his forehead. A good job most of the bandages were gone or she could hardly have
done that, even in a dream. And how wondrously real! Her hand felt quite solid, there were
tears trickling down her cheeks, tears that sometimes dropped on to his own hand with an incredible
effect of actuality. It was even more vivid than his Sword-dream which was always so extraordinarily
realistic and clear. And there, yes, by Jove, was dear old Auntie Yvette, smiling and weeping
simultaneously. Such a dream was the next best thing to reality--save that it brought home
to one too vividly what one had lost. Pain of that kind was nevertheless a magnificent change
from the other ghastly nightmares, of the wholly maleficent kind. This was a kindly, helpful
pain....It is so rare to see the faces of our best-beloved in dreams ... Sleep was going to
be something other than a procession of hideous nightmares then ...

"I believe he knew me, Auntie," whispered Lucille. "Oh, when will Colonel Decies come back.
I want him to be here when he opens his eyes again. He would know at a glance whether he were
in his right mind and knew me."

"I am certain he did, dear," replied Auntie Yvette. "I am positive he smiled at you, and I
believe he knew me too."

"I won't believe I have found him too late. It couldn't be true," wept the girl, overstrained
and unstrung by long vigils, heart-sick with hope deferred, as she turned to her companion.

"Lucille! Is it real?" came a feeble whisper from the bed--and Lucille, in the next moments,
wondered if it be true that joy cannot kill ...

       *       *       *       *       *

A few weeks later, Damocles de Warrenne sat on the verandah of the Grand Imperial Hotel Royal
of Kot Ghazi, which has five rooms and five million cockroaches, and stared blankly into the
moonlit compound, beyond which stretched the bare rocky plain that was bounded on the north
and west by mighty mountains, on the east by a mighty river, and on the south by the more mighty
ocean, many hundreds of miles away.

He had just parted from Auntie Yvette and Lucille--Lucille whose last words as she turned to
go to her room had been:--

"Now, understand, Dammy, what you want now is a sea-voyage, a sea-voyage to England and Monksmead.
When we have got you absolutely right, Mr. Wyllis shall show you as a specimen of the Perfect
Man in Harley Street--and then, Dammy ..." and his burning kisses had closed her mouth.

Was he scoundrel enough to do it? Had he deteriorated to such a depth of villainy? Could he
let that noblest and finest flower of womanhood marry a--dangerous lunatic, a homicidal maniac
who had nearly killed the man who proved to be almost his greatest benefactor? Could he? Would
the noble-hearted Decies frankly say that he was normal and had a right to marry? He would
not, and no living man was better qualified to give an opinion on the case of Damocles de Warrenne
than the man who was a foster-father to him in childhood, and who brought him into the world
in such tragic circumstances. Decies had loved his mother, Lenore de Warrenne. Would he have
married her in such circumstances? Would he have lived under the same roof with her permanently--knowing
how overpowering would be the temptation to give way and marry her, knowing how scandal would
inevitably arise? A thousand times No. Was there no gentlemanliness left in Damocles de Warrenne
that he should even contemplate the doing of a deed at which his old comrades-in-arms, Bear,
Burke, Jones, Little, Goate, Nemo and Peerson would stand aghast, would be ready to kick him
out of a decent barrack-room--and the poor demented creature called for a "boy," and ordered
him to send, at once, for one Abdul Ghani who would, as usual, be found sleeping beside his
camels in the market-place ...

Anon the gentle Abdul came, received certain instructions, and departed smiling till his great
yellow fangs gleamed in the moonlight beneath the bristling moustache, cut back from the lips
as that of a righteous Mussulman shikarri and oont-wallah should be.

Damocles de Warrenne's brain became active with plots and plans for escape--escape from himself
and the temptation which he must avoid by flight, since he felt he could not conquer it in fight.

He must disappear. He must die--die in such a way that Lucille would never suppose he had committed
suicide. It was the only way to save himself from so awful a crime and to save her from himself.

He would start just before dawn on Abdul's shikar camel, be well away from Kot Ghazi by daylight
and reach the old deserted dak-bungalow, that no one ever used, by evening. There Abdul would
come to him with his bhoja-oont[31] bringing the usual supplies, and on receipt of them he
would dismiss Abdul altogether and disappear again into the desert, this time for good. Criminal
lunatics and homicidal maniacs are better dead, especially when they are tempted beyond their
strength to marry innocent, beautiful girls who do not understand the position.

CHAPTER XIV.

THE SNAKE AND THE SWORD.

The dak-bungalow again at last! But how terribly dreary, depressing, and horrible it looked
now--the hut that had once seemed a kind of heaven on earth to the starving wanderer. Then,
Lucille was thousands of miles away (geographically, and millions of miles away in imagination).
Now, she was but thirty miles away--and it was almost more than human endurance could bear....
Should he turn back even now, ride straight to Kot Ghazi, fall at her feet and say: "I can
struggle no longer. Come back to Monksmead--and let what will be, be. I have no more courage."

And go mad, one day, and kill her? Keep sane, and sully her fair name? On to the hovel. Rest
for the night, and, at dawn, strike into the desert and there let what will be, be.

Making the camel kneel, Damocles de Warrenne removed its saddle, fastened its rein-cord tightly
to a post, fed it, and then detached the saddle-bags that hung flatly on either side of the
saddle frame, as well as a patent-leather sword-cover which contained a sword of very different
pattern from that for which it had been made.

Entering the hut, of which the doors and windows were bolted on the outside, he flung open
the shutters of the glassless windows, lit a candle, and prepared to eat a frugal meal. From
the saddlebags he took bread, eggs, chocolate, sardines, biscuits and apples. With a mixture
of permanganate of potash, tea and cold water from the well, if the puddle at the bottom of
a deep hole could be so termed, he made a drink that, while drinkable by one who has known
worse, was unlikely to cause an attack upon an enfeebled constitution, of cholera, enteric,
dysentery or any other of India's specialities. What would he not have given for a clean whisky-and-soda
in the place of the nauseating muck--but what should be the end of a man who, in his position,
turned to alcohol for help and comfort? "The last state of that man ..."

After striking a judicious balance between what he should eat for dinner and what he should
reserve for breakfast, he fell to, ate sparingly, lit his pipe, and gazed around the wretched
room, of which the walls were blue-washed with a most offensive shade of blue, the bare floor
was frankly dry mud and dust, the roof was bare cob-webbed thatch and rafter, and the furniture
a rickety table, a dangerous-looking cane-bottomed settee and a leg-rest arm-chair from which
some one had removed the leg-rests. Had some scoundrelly oont-wallah pinched them for fuel?
(No, Damocles, an ex-Colonel of the Indian Medical Service "pinched" them for splints.) A most
depressing human habitation even for the most cheerful and care-free of souls, a terrible place
for a man in a dangerous mental state of unstable equilibrium and cruel agony.... Only thirty
miles away--and a camel at the door. Lucille still within a night's ride. Lucille and absolute
joy.... The desert and certain death--a death of which she must be assured, that in time she
might marry Ormonde Delorme or some such sound, fine man. Abdul must find his body--and it
must be the body not of an obvious suicide, but of a man who, lost in the desert, had evidently
travelled in circles, trying to find his way to the hut he had left, on a shooting expedition.
Yes--he knew all about travelling in circles--and what he had done in ignorance (as well as
in agony and horror), he would now do intentionally and with grim purpose. Hard on the poor
camel!... Perhaps he could manage so that it was set free in time to find its way back somehow.
It would if it were loosed within smell of water.... He must die fairly and squarely of hunger
and thirst--no blowing out of brains or throat-cutting, no trace of suicide; just lost, poor
chap, and no more to be said.... Death of thirst--in that awful desert--again--No! God in Heaven
he had faced the actual pangs of it once, and escaped--he could not face it again--he wasn't
strong enough ... and the unhappy man sprang to his feet to rush from the room and saddle-up
the camel for--Life and Lucille--and then his eye fell on the Sword, the Sword of his Fathers,
brought to him by Lucille, who had said, "Have it with you always, Dearest. It can talk to
you, as even I can not...."

He sat down and drew it from the incongruous modern case and from its scabbard. Ha! What did
it say but "Honour!" What was its message but "Do the right thing. Death is nothing--Honour
is everything. Be worthy of your Name, your Traditions, your Ancestors--"

He would die.

Let him die that Lucille's honour, Lucille's happiness, Lucille's welfare, might live--and
he kissed the hilt of the Sword as he had so often done in childhood. Having removed boots,
leggings and socks, he lay down on the settee--innocent of bedding and pillows, pulled over
him the coat that had been rolled and strapped trooper-fashion behind the saddle and fell asleep....

And dreamed that he was shut naked in a tiny cell with a gigantic python upon whose yard-long
fangs he was about to be impaled and, as usual, awoke trembling and bathed in perspiration,
with dry mouth and throbbing head, sickness, and tingling extremities.

The wind had got up and had blown out the candle which should have lasted till dawn!...

As he lay shaking, terrified (uncertain as to whether he were a soul in torment or a human
being still alive), and debating as to whether he could get off the couch, relight the candle,
and close the windward window, he heard a sound that caused his heart to miss a beat and his
hair to rise on end. A strange, dry rustle merged in the sound of paper being dragged across
the floor, and he knew that he was shut in with a snake, shut up in a blue room, cut off from
the matches on the table, and doomed to lie and await the Death he dreaded more than ten thousand
others--or, going mad, to rush upon that Death.

He was shut in with the SNAKE. At last it had come for him in its own concrete form and had
him bound and gagged by fascination and fear--in the Dark, the awful cruel Dark. No more mere
myrmidons. The SNAKE ITSELF.

He tried to scream and could not. He tried to strike out at an imaginary serpent-head, huge
as an elephant, that reared itself above him--and could not.

He could not even draw his bare foot in under the overcoat. And steadily the paper dragged
across the floor ... Was it approaching? Was it progressing round and round by the walls? Would
the Snake find the bed and climb on to it? Would it coil round his throat and gaze with-luminescent
eyes into his, and torture him thus for hours ere thrusting its fangs into his brain? Would
it coil up and sleep upon his body for hours before doing so, knowing that he could not move?
Here were his Snake-Dreams realized, and in the actual flesh he lay awake and conscious, and
could neither move nor cry aloud!

In the Dark he lay bound and gagged, in a blue-walled room, and the Snake enveloped him with
its Presence, and he could in no wise save himself.

Oh, God, why let a sentient creature suffer thus? He himself would have shot any human being
guilty of inflicting a tithe of the agony on a pariah dog. There could be no God!... and then
the beams of the rising moon fell upon the blade of the Sword, making it shine like a lamp,
and, with a roar as of a charging lion, Damocles de Warrenne sprang from the bed, seized it
by the hilt, and was aware, without a tremor, of a cobra that reared itself before him in the
moonlight, swaying in the Dance of Death.

With a mere flick of the sword he laid the reptile twitching on the floor--and for a few minutes
was madder with Joy than ever in his life he had been with Fear.

For Fear was gone. The World of Woe had fallen from his shoulders. The Snake was to him but
a wretched reptile whose head he would crush ere it bruised his heel. He was sane--he was safe--he
was a Man again, and ere many days were past he would be the husband of Lucille and the master
of Monksmead.

"Oh, God forgive me for a blind, rebellious worm," he prayed. "Forgive me, and strike not this
cup from my lips. You would not punish the blasphemy of a madman? I cannot pray in ordered
forms, but I beg forgiveness for my hasty cry 'There is on God' ..." and then pressed the Sword
to his lips--the Sword that, under God, had overthrown the "Darling, I am cured! I have not
the slightest fear of snakes. The Sword has saved me. I am a Man again."

He told her all as she sat laughing and sobbing for joy and the dying snake lay at their feet.

In her heart of hearts Lucille determined that the wedding should take place immediately, so
that if this were but a temporary respite, the result of the flash of daring inspired by the
Sword, she would have the right to care for him for the rest of his life ... She would----

"Look!" she suddenly shrieked, and pointed to where, in the doorway, cutting them off from
escape, was the mate of the cobra that lay mangled before them. Had the injured reptile in
some way called its mate--or were they regular inhabitants of this deserted hut?

It was Lucille's first experience of cobras and she shuddered to see the second--evidently
comprehending, aggressive, vengeful--would it spring from there ... and the Sword lay on the
bed, out of reach.

Dam arose with a laugh, picked up his heavy boot as he did so, and, all in one swift movement,
hurled it at the half-coiled swaying creature, with the true aim of the first-class cricketer
and trained athlete; then, following his boot with a leap, he snatched at the tail of the coiling,
thrashing reptile and "cracked" the snake as a carter cracks a whip--whereafter it dangled
limp and dead from his hand! Lucille shrieked, paled, and sprang towards him.

"Oh, Dam!" she cried, "how could you!"

"Pooh, Kiddy," he replied. "I'm going to invite the Harley Street cove to have a match at that--and
I'm going to give a little exhibition of it on the lawn at Monksmead--to all the good folk
who witnessed my disgrace.... What's a snake after all? It's my turn now;" and Lucille's heart
was at rest and very thankful. This was not a temporary "cure". Oh, thank God for her inspiration
anent the Sword ... Thank God, thank God!...

SEVEN YEARS AFTER.

A beautiful woman, whose face is that of one whose soul is full of peace and joy, passes up
the great staircase of the stately mansion of Monksmead. Slowly, because her hand holds that
of a chubby youth of five, a picture of sturdy health, strength and happiness. They pass beneath
an ancient Sword and the boy wheels to the right, stiffens himself, brings his heels together,
and raises a fat little hand to his forehead in solemn salute. The journey is continued without
remark until they reach the day nursery, a big, bright room of which a striking feature is
the mural decoration in a conventional pattern of entwined serpents, the number of brilliant
pictures of snakes, framed and hung upon the walls, and two glass cases, the one containing
a pair of stuffed cobras and the other a finely-mounted specimen of a boa-constrictor (which
had once been the pride of the heart of a Folkestone taxidermist).

"Go away, Mitthis Beaton," says the small boy to a white-haired but fresh-looking and comely
old dame; "I'se not going to bed till Mummy hath tolded me about ve bwacelet again."

"But I've told you a thousand times, Dammykins," says the lady.

"Well, now tell me ten hundred times," replies the young man coolly, and attempts to draw from
the lady's wrist a huge and remarkable bracelet.

This uncommon ornament consists of a great ruby-eyed gold snake which coils around the lady's
arm and which is pierced through every coil by a platinum, diamond-hilted sword, an exact model
of the Sword which hangs on the staircase.

"You tell me, Sonny, for a change," suggests the lady.

"Velly well," replies the boy.... "Vere was once a Daddy and a hobberell gweat Thnake always
bovvered him and followed him about and wouldn't let him gone to thleep and made him be ill
like he had eaten too much sweets, and the doctor came and gave him lotths of meddisnin. Then
he had to wun away from the Thnake, but it wunned after him, and it wath jutht going to kill
him when Mummy bwoughted the Thword and Daddy killed the Thnake all dead. And I am going to
have the Thword when I gwow up, but vere aren't any more bad Thnakes. They is all good now
and Daddy likes vem and I likes vem. Amen."

"I never said Amen, when I told you the story, Sonny," remarks the lady.

"Well you can, now I have tolded you it," permits her son. "It means bus[32]--all finished.
Mitthis Beaton thaid tho. And when I am as big as Daddy I'm going to be the Generwal of the
Queenth Gweyth and thay 'Charge!' and wear the Thword."

Lucille de Warrenne here smothers conversation in the manner common to worshipping mothers
whose prodigies make remarks indicative of marvellous precocity, in fact absolutely unique
intelligence.

EPILOGUE.

Is it well, O my Soul, is it well?

    In silent aisles of sombre tone
    Where phantoms roam, thou dwell'st apart
    In drear alone.
    Where serpents coil and night-birds dart
    Thou liest prone, O Heart, my Heart,
    In dread unknown.
    O Soul of Night, surpassing fair,
    Guide this poor spirit through the air,
    And thus atone ...

This sad Soul, searching for the light....

O Soul of Night, enstarréd bright,
    Shine over all.
    Enforce thy right to fend for us
    Extend thy power to fight for us
    Raise thou night's pall.
    Ensteep our minds in loveliness
    In all sweet hope and godliness
    Give guard o'er all ...
This brave Soul striving in stern fight....

Thou soul of Night, thou spirit-elf,
    Rise up and bless.
    Help us to cleanse in holiness
    Show how to dress in saintliness
    Our weary selves,
    Expurge our deeds of earthiness
    Expunge desires of selfliness
    Rise up and bless ...
This strong Soul dying in such plight....

       *       *       *       *       *

Night gently spreads her wings and flies Star-laden, wide across the skies. My Soul, new strong,
So late enstained with earthly dust So long estranged in wander-lust Gives praise and song,
Strives to create in morning light The starry wonders of the night In praise and song ...

This strong Soul praising in new right. It is well, O my Soul, it is well....

A. L. WREN.

[Footnote 1: Store-room.]

[Footnote 2: Footman and male "housemaid".]

[Footnote 3: Gardener.]

[Footnote 4: Groom.]

[Footnote 5: Real, solid, permanent, proper, ripe, genuine.]

[Footnote 6: Anna = a penny.]

[Footnote 7: Strong, powerful chief.]

[Footnote 8: Grass-man.]

[Footnote 9: Carriage.]

[Footnote 10: Bullock-carts.]

[Footnote 11: A kind of starling.]

[Footnote 12: Water-carriers.]

[Footnote 13: Servant.]

[Footnote 14: Camel-man.]

[Footnote 15: Confined to barracks.]

[Footnote 16: A famous Hussar regiment.]

[Footnote 17: Teetotal.]

[Footnote 18: Cigarettes.]

[Footnote 19: When a non-commissioned officer does anything to risk losing his stripes he says
he "chances his arm".]

[Footnote 20: Permanent Military Police.]

[Footnote 21: Summons before the Commanding Officer in Orderly Room.]

[Footnote 22: Guard-room.]

[Footnote 23: Infantry Regiments.]

[Footnote 24: Cavalry Regiment.]

[Footnote 25: Silent.]

[Footnote 26: This actually happened some years ago at Bangalore.--AUTHOR.]

[Footnote 27: News, information.]

[Footnote 28: Camel.]

[Footnote 29: By means of its "Decies Horizontal Screw Stabilizer," which enabled it to "hover"
with only a very slight rise and fall.]

[Footnote 30: Native bed-frame.]

[Footnote 31: Baggage-camel.]

[Footnote 32: Hindustani--enough, finished, complete.]