Transcriber's note

Minor punctuation errors have been changed without notice. Printer errors have been changed
and are listed at the end. All other inconsistencies are as in the original.

ESSAYS:

SCIENTIFIC, POLITICAL, & SPECULATIVE.

BY

HERBERT SPENCER.

LIBRARY EDITION,

(OTHERWISE FIFTH THOUSAND)

Containing Seven Essays not before Republished, and various other additions.

VOL. I.

   WILLIAMS AND NORGATE,
   14, HENRIETTA STREET, COVENT GARDEN, LONDON:
   AND 20. SOUTH FREDERICK STREET. EDINBURGH.
   1891.

   LONDON:
   G. NORMAN AND SON, PRINTERS, HART STREET,
   COVENT GARDEN.

PREFACE

Excepting those which have appeared as articles in periodicals during the last eight years,
the essays here gathered together were originally re-published in separate volumes at long
intervals. The first volume appeared in December 1857; the second in November 1863; and the
third in February 1874. By the time the original editions of the first two had been sold, American
reprints, differently entitled and having the essays differently arranged, had been produced;
and, for economy's sake, I have since contented myself with importing successive supplies printed
from the American stereotype plates. Of the third volume, however, supplies have, as they were
required, been printed over here, from plates partly American and partly English. The completion
of this final edition of course puts an end to this make-shift arrangement.

The essays above referred to as having been written since 1882, are now incorporated with those
previously re-published. There are seven of them; namely--"Morals and Moral Sentiments," "The
Factors of Organic Evolution," "Professor Green's Explanations," "The Ethics of Kant," "Absolute
Political Ethics," "From Freedom to Bondage," and "The Americans." As well as these large additions
there are small additions, in the shape of postscripts to various essays--one to "The Constitution
of the Sun," one to "The Philosophy of Style," one to "Railway Morals," one to "Prison Ethics,"
and one to "The Origin and Function of Music:" which last is about equal in length to the original
essay. Changes have been made in many of the essays: in some cases by omitting passages and
in other cases by including new ones. Especially the essay on "The Nebular Hypothesis" may
be named as one which, though unchanged in essentials, has been much altered by additions and
subtractions, and by bringing its statements up to date; so that it has been in large measure
re-cast. Beyond these respects in which this final edition differs from preceding editions,
it differs in having undergone a verification of its references and quotations, as well as
a second verbal revision.

Naturally the fusion of three separate series of essays into one series, has made needful a
general re-arrangement. Whether to follow the order of time or the order of subjects was a
question which presented itself; and, as neither alternative promised satisfactory results,
I eventually decided to compromise--to follow partly the one order and partly the other. The
first volume is made up of essays in which the idea of evolution, general or special, is dominant.
In the second volume essays dealing with philosophical questions, with abstract and concrete
science, and with aesthetics, are brought together; but though all of them are tacitly evolutionary,
their evolutionism is an incidental rather than a necessary trait. The ethical, political,
and social essays composing the third volume, though mostly written from the evolution point
of view, have for their more immediate purposes the enunciation of doctrines which are directly
practical in their bearings. Meanwhile, within each volume the essays are arranged in order
of time: not indeed strictly, but so far as consists with the requirements of sub-classing.

Beyond the essays included in these three volumes, there remain several which I have not thought
it well to include--in some cases because of their personal character, in other cases because
of their relative unimportance, and in yet other cases because they would scarcely be understood
in the absence of the arguments to which they are replies. But for the convenience of any who
may wish to find them, I append their titles and places of publication. These are as follows:--"Retrogressive
Religion," in The Nineteenth Century for July 1884; "Last Words about Agnosticism and the Religion
of Humanity," in The Nineteenth Century for November 1884; a note to Prof. Cairns' Critique
on the Study of Sociology, in The Fortnightly Review, for February 1875; "A Short Rejoinder"
[to Mr. J. F. McLennan], Fortnightly Review, June 1877; "Prof. Goldwin Smith as a Critic,"
Contemporary Review, March 1882; "A Rejoinder to M. de Laveleye," Contemporary Review, April 1885.

LONDON, December, 1890.

CONTENTS OF VOL. I.

                                                                    PAGE

   THE DEVELOPMENT HYPOTHESIS                                          1

   PROGRESS: ITS LAW AND CAUSE                                         8

   TRANSCENDENTAL PHYSIOLOGY                                          63

   THE NEBULAR HYPOTHESIS                                            108

   ILLOGICAL GEOLOGY                                                 192

   BAIN ON THE EMOTIONS AND THE WILL                                 241

   THE SOCIAL ORGANISM                                               265

   THE ORIGIN OF ANIMAL WORSHIP                                      308

   MORALS AND MORAL SENTIMENTS                                       331

   THE COMPARATIVE PSYCHOLOGY OF MAN                                 351

   MR. MARTINEAU ON EVOLUTION                                        371

   THE FACTORS OF ORGANIC EVOLUTION                                  389

   (For Index, see Volume III.)

THE DEVELOPMENT HYPOTHESIS.

    [Originally published in The Leader, for March 20, 1852. Brief
    though it is, I place this essay before the rest, partly because
    with the exception of a similarly-brief essay on "Use and Beauty",
    it came first in order of time, but chiefly because it came first in
    order of thought, and struck the keynote of all that was to
    follow.]

In a debate upon the development hypothesis, lately narrated to me by a friend, one of the
disputants was described as arguing that as, in all our experience, we know no such phenomenon
as transmutation of species, it is unphilosophical to assume that transmutation of species
ever takes place. Had I been present I think that, passing over his assertion, which is open
to criticism, I should have replied that, as in all our experience we have never known a species
created, it was, by his own showing, unphilosophical to assume that any species ever had been
created.

Doubtless many will reply that they can more easily conceive ten millions of special creations
to have taken place, than they can conceive that ten millions of varieties have arisen by successive
modifications. All such, however, will find, on inquiry, that they are under an illusion. This
is one of the many cases in which men do not really believe, but rather believe they believe.
It is not that they can truly conceive ten millions of special creations to have taken place,
but that they think they can do so. Careful introspection will show them that they have never
yet realized to themselves the creation of even one species. If they have formed a definite
conception of the process, let them tell us how a new species is constructed, and how it makes
its appearance. Is it thrown down from the clouds? or must we hold to the notion that it struggles
up out of the ground? Do its limbs and viscera rush together from all the points of the compass?
or must we receive the old Hebrew idea, that God takes clay and moulds a new creature? If they
say that a new creature is produced in none of these modes, which are too absurd to be believed,
then they are required to describe the mode in which a new creature may be produced--a mode
which does not seem absurd; and such a mode they will find that they neither have conceived
nor can conceive.

Should the believers in special creations consider it unfair thus to call upon them to describe
how special creations take place, I reply that this is far less than they demand from the supporters
of the Development Hypothesis. They are merely asked to point out a conceivable mode. On the
other hand, they ask, not simply for a conceivable mode, but for the actual mode. They do not
say--Show us how this may take place; but they say--Show us how this does take place. So far
from its being unreasonable to put the above question, it would be reasonable to ask not only
for a possible mode of special creation, but for an ascertained mode; seeing that this is no
greater a demand than they make upon their opponents.

And here we may perceive how much more defensible the new doctrine is than the old one. Even
could the supporters of the Development Hypothesis merely show that the origination of species
by the process of modification is conceivable, they would be in a better position than their
opponents. But they can do much more than this. Though, from the impossibility of getting at
a sufficiency of facts, they are unable to trace the many phases through which any existing
species has passed in arriving at its present form, or to identify the influences which caused
the successive modifications; yet, they can show that any existing species--animal or vegetable--when
placed under conditions different from its previous ones, immediately begins to undergo certain
changes fitting it for the new conditions. They can show that in successive generations these
changes continue; until, ultimately, the new conditions become the natural ones. They can show
that it is a matter of dispute whether some of these modified forms are varieties or separate
species.

Which, then, is the most rational hypothesis?--that of special creations which has neither
a fact to support it nor is even definitely conceivable; or that of modification, which is
not only definitely conceivable, but is countenanced by the habitudes of every existing organism?

That by any series of changes a protozoon should ever become a mammal, seems to those who are
not familiar with zoology, and who have not seen how clear becomes the relationship between
the simplest and the most complex forms when intermediate forms are examined, a very grotesque
notion. Habitually looking at things rather in their statical aspect than in their dynamical
aspect, they never realize the fact that, by small increments of modification, any amount of
modification may in time be generated. That surprise which they feel on finding one whom they
last saw as a boy, grown into a man, becomes incredulity when the degree of change is greater.
Nevertheless, abundant instances are at hand of the mode in which we may pass to the most diverse
forms by insensible gradations. Arguing the matter some time since with a learned professor,
I illustrated my position thus:--You admit that there is no apparent relationship between a
circle and an hyperbola. The one is a finite curve; the other is an infinite one. All parts
of the one are alike; of the other no parts are alike [save parts on its opposite sides]. The
one incloses a space; the other will not inclose a space though produced for ever. Yet opposite
as are these curves in all their properties, they may be connected together by a series of
intermediate curves, no one of which differs from the adjacent ones in any appreciable degree.
Thus, if a cone be cut by a plane at right angles to its axis we get a circle. If, instead
of being perfectly at right angles, the plane subtends with the axis an angle of 89° 59´, we
have an ellipse which no human eye, even when aided by an accurate pair of compasses, can distinguish
from a circle. Decreasing the angle minute by minute, the ellipse becomes first perceptibly
eccentric, then manifestly so, and by and by acquires so immensely elongated a form, as to
bear no recognizable resemblance to a circle. By continuing this process, the ellipse passes
insensibly into a parabola; and, ultimately, by still further diminishing the angle, into an
hyperbola. Now here we have four different species of curve--circle, ellipse, parabola, and
hyperbola--each having its peculiar properties and its separate equation, and the first and
last of which are quite opposite in nature, connected together as members of one series, all
producible by a single process of insensible modification.

But the blindness of those who think it absurd to suppose that complex organic forms may have
arisen by successive modifications out of simple ones, becomes astonishing when we remember
that complex organic forms are daily being thus produced. A tree differs from a seed immeasurably
in every respect--in bulk, in structure, in colour, in form, in chemical composition: differs
so greatly that no visible resemblance of any kind can be pointed out between them. Yet is
the one changed in the course of a few years into the other: changed so gradually, that at
no moment can it be said--Now the seed ceases to be, and the tree exists. What can be more
widely contrasted than a newly-born child and the small, semi-transparent spherule constituting
the human ovum? The infant is so complex in structure that a cyclopædia is needed to describe
its constituent parts. The germinal vesicle is so simple that it may be defined in a line.
Nevertheless a few months suffice to develop the one out of the other; and that, too, by a
series of modifications so small, that were the embryo examined at successive minutes, even
a microscope would with difficulty disclose any sensible changes. That the uneducated and the
ill-educated should think the hypothesis that all races of beings, man inclusive, may in process
of time have been evolved from the simplest monad, a ludicrous one, is not to be wondered at.
But for the physiologist, who knows that every individual being is so evolved--who knows, further,
that in their earliest condition the germs of all plants and animals whatever are so similar,
"that there is no appreciable distinction amongst them, which would enable it to be determined
whether a particular molecule is the germ of a Conferva or of an Oak, of a Zoophyte or of a
Man;"[1]--for him to make a difficulty of the matter is inexcusable. Surely if a single cell
may, when subjected to certain influences, become a man in the space of twenty years; there
is nothing absurd in the hypothesis that under certain other influences, a cell may, in the
course of millions of years, give origin to the human race.

We have, indeed, in the part taken by many scientific men in this controversy of "Law versus
Miracle," a good illustration of the tenacious vitality of superstitions. Ask one of our leading
geologists or physiologists whether he believes in the Mosaic account of the creation, and
he will take the question as next to an insult. Either he rejects the narrative entirely, or
understands it in some vague nonnatural sense. Yet one part of it he unconsciously adopts;
and that, too, literally. For whence has he got this notion of "special creations," which he
thinks so reasonable, and fights for so vigorously? Evidently he can trace it back to no other
source than this myth which he repudiates. He has not a single fact in nature to cite in proof
of it; nor is he prepared with any chain of reasoning by which it may be established. Catechize
him, and he will be forced to confess that the notion was put into his mind in childhood as
part of a story which he now thinks absurd. And why, after rejecting all the rest of the story,
he should strenuously defend this last remnant of it, as though he had received it on valid
authority, he would be puzzled to say.

FOOTNOTE:

[Footnote 1: Carpenter, Principles of Comparative Physiology, p. 474.]

PROGRESS: ITS LAW AND CAUSE.

    [First published in The Westminster Review for April, 1857.
    Though the ideas and illustrations contained in this essay were
    eventually incorporated in First Principles, yet I think it well
    here to reproduce it as exhibiting the form under which the General
    Doctrine of Evolution made its first appearance.]

The current conception of progress is shifting and indefinite. Sometimes it comprehends little
more than simple growth--as of a nation in the number of its members and the extent of territory
over which it spreads. Sometimes it has reference to quantity of material products--as when
the advance of agriculture and manufactures is the topic. Sometimes the superior quality of
these products is contemplated; and sometimes the new or improved appliances by which they
are produced. When, again, we speak of moral or intellectual progress, we refer to states of
the individual or people exhibiting it; while, when the progress of Science, or Art, is commented
upon, we have in view certain abstract results of human thought and action. Not only, however,
is the current conception of progress more or less vague, but it is in great measure erroneous.
It takes in not so much the reality of progress as its accompaniments--not so much the substance
as the shadow. That progress in intelligence seen during the growth of the child into the man,
or the savage into the philosopher, is commonly regarded as consisting in the greater number
of facts known and laws understood; whereas the actual progress consists in those internal
modifications of which this larger knowledge is the expression. Social progress is supposed
to consist in the making of a greater quantity and variety of the articles required for satisfying
men's wants; in the increasing security of person and property; in widening freedom of action;
whereas, rightly understood, social progress consists in those changes of structure in the
social organism which have entailed these consequences. The current conception is a teleological
one. The phenomena are contemplated solely as bearing on human happiness. Only those changes
are held to constitute progress which directly or indirectly tend to heighten human happiness;
and they are thought to constitute progress simply because they tend to heighten human happiness.
But rightly to understand progress, we must learn the nature of these changes, considered apart
from our interests. Ceasing, for example, to regard the successive geological modifications
that have taken place in the Earth, as modifications that have gradually fitted it for the
habitation of Man, and as therefore constituting geological progress, we must ascertain the
character common to these modifications--the law to which they all conform. And similarly in
every other case. Leaving out of sight concomitants and beneficial consequences, let us ask
what progress is in itself.

In respect to that progress which individual organisms display in the course of their evolution,
this question has been answered by the Germans. The investigations of Wolff, Goethe, and von
Baer, have established the truth that the series of changes gone through during the development
of a seed into a tree, or an ovum into an animal, constitute an advance from homogeneity of
structure to heterogeneity of structure. In its primary stage, every germ consists of a substance
that is uniform throughout, both in texture and chemical composition. The first step is the
appearance of a difference between two parts of this substance; or, as the phenomenon is called
in physiological language, a differentiation. Each of these differentiated divisions presently
begins itself to exhibit some contrast of parts: and by and by these secondary differentiations
become as definite as the original one. This process is continuously repeated--is simultaneously
going on in all parts of the growing embryo; and by endless such differentiations there is
finally produced that complex combination of tissues and organs constituting the adult animal
or plant. This is the history of all organisms whatever. It is settled beyond dispute that
organic progress consists in a change from the homogeneous to the heterogeneous.

Now, we propose in the first place to show, that this law of organic progress is the law of
all progress. Whether it be in the development of the Earth, in the development of Life upon
its surface, in the development of Society, of Government, of Manufactures, of Commerce, of
Language, Literature, Science, Art, this same evolution of the simple into the complex, through
successive differentiations, holds throughout. From the earliest traceable cosmical changes
down to the latest results of civilization, we shall find that the transformation of the homogeneous
into the heterogeneous, is that in which progress essentially consists.

With the view of showing that if the Nebular Hypothesis be true, the genesis of the solar system
supplies one illustration of this law, let us assume that the matter of which the sun and planets
consist was once in a diffused form; and that from the gravitation of its atoms there resulted
a gradual concentration. By the hypothesis, the solar system in its nascent state existed as
an indefinitely extended and nearly homogeneous medium--a medium almost homogeneous in density,
in temperature, and in other physical attributes. The first change in the direction of increased
aggregation, brought a contrast in density and a contrast in temperature, between the interior
and the exterior of this mass. Simultaneously the drawing in of outer parts caused motions
ending in rotation round a centre with various angular velocities. These differentiations increased
in number and degree until there was evolved the organized group of sun, planets, and satellites,
which we now know--a group which presents numerous contrasts of structure and action among
its members. There are the immense contrasts between the sun and the planets, in bulk and in
weight; as well as the subordinate contrasts between one planet and another, and between the
planets and their satellites. There is the similarly-marked contrast between the sun as almost
stationary (relatively to the other members of the Solar System), and the planets as moving
round him with great velocity: while there are the secondary contrasts between the velocities
and periods of the several planets, and between their simple revolutions and the double ones
of their satellites, which have to move round their primaries while moving round the sun. There
is the yet further strong contrast between the sun and the planets in respect of temperature;
and there is good reason to suppose that the planets and satellites differ from each other
in their proper heats, as well as in the amounts of heat they receive from the sun. When we
bear in mind that, in addition to these various contrasts, the planets and satellites also
differ in respect to their distances from each other and their primary; in respect to the inclinations
of their orbits, the inclinations of their axes, their times of rotation on their axes, their
specific gravities, and their physical constitutions; we see what a high degree of heterogeneity
the solar system exhibits, when compared with the almost complete homogeneity of the nebulous
mass out of which it is supposed to have originated.

Passing from this hypothetical illustration, which must be taken for what it is worth, without
prejudice to the general argument, let us descend to a more certain order of evidence. It is
now generally agreed among geologists and physicists that the Earth was at one time a mass
of molten matter. If so, it was at that time relatively homogeneous in consistence, and, in
virtue of the circulation which takes place in heated fluids, must have been comparatively
homogeneous in temperature; and it must have been surrounded by an atmosphere consisting partly
of the elements of air and water, and partly of those various other elements which are among
the more ready to assume gaseous forms at high temperatures. That slow cooling by radiation
which is still going on at an inappreciable rate, and which, though originally far more rapid
than now, necessarily required an immense time to produce any decided change, must ultimately
have resulted in the solidification of the portion most able to part with its heat--namely,
the surface. In the thin crust thus formed we have the first marked differentiation. A still
further cooling, a consequent thickening of this crust, and an accompanying deposition of all
solidifiable elements contained in the atmosphere, must finally have been followed by the condensation
of the water previously existing as vapour. A second marked differentiation must thus have
arisen; and as the condensation must have taken place on the coolest parts of the surface--namely,
about the poles--there must thus have resulted the first geographical distinction of parts.
To these illustrations of growing heterogeneity, which, though deduced from known physical
laws, may be regarded as more or less hypothetical, Geology adds an extensive series that have
been inductively established. Investigations show that the Earth has been continually becoming
more heterogeneous in virtue of the multiplication of sedimentary strata which form its crust;
also, that it has been becoming more heterogeneous in respect of the composition of these strata,
the later of which, being made from the detritus of the earlier, are many of them rendered
highly complex by the mixture of materials they contain; and further, that this heterogeneity
has been vastly increased by the actions of the Earth's still molten nucleus upon its envelope,
whence have resulted not only many kinds of igneous rocks, but the tilting up of sedimentary
strata at all angles, the formation of faults and metallic veins, the production of endless
dislocations and irregularities. Yet again, geologists teach us that the Earth's surface has
been growing more varied in elevation--that the most ancient mountain systems are the smallest,
and the Andes and Himalayas the most modern; while in all probability there have been corresponding
changes in the bed of the ocean. As a consequence of these ceaseless differentiations, we now
find that no considerable portion of the Earth's exposed surface is like any other portion,
either in contour, in geologic structure, or in chemical composition; and that in most parts
it changes from mile to mile in all these characters. Moreover, there has been simultaneously
going on a differentiation of climates. As fast as the Earth cooled and its crust solidified,
there arose appreciable differences in temperature between those parts of its surface more
exposed to the sun and those less exposed. As the cooling progressed, these differences became
more pronounced; until there finally resulted those marked contrasts between regions of perpetual
ice and snow, regions where winter and summer alternately reign for periods varying according
to the latitude, and regions where summer follows summer with scarcely an appreciable variation.
At the same time the many and varied elevations and subsidences of portions of the Earth's
crust, bringing about the present irregular distribution of land and sea, have entailed modifications
of climate beyond those dependent on latitude; while a yet further series of such modifications
have been produced by increasing differences of elevation in the land, which have in sundry
places brought arctic, temperate, and tropical climates to within a few miles of one another.
And the general outcome of these changes is, that not only has every extensive region its own
meteorologic conditions, but that every locality in each region differs more or less from others
in those conditions; as in its structure, its contour, its soil. Thus, between our existing
Earth, the phenomena of whose crust neither geographers, geologists, mineralogists, nor meteorologists
have yet enumerated, and the molten globe out of which it was evolved, the contrast in heterogeneity
is extreme.

