"Mr. Wildman is said to have been in some degree aware of the worth of this colt, when a yearling,
and to have taken the following measures in order to make sure of him. When he arrived at the
place of sale, Mr. Wildman produced his watch, and insisted that the auction had commenced
before the hour announced in the advertisements, and that the lots sold should be put up again.
In order, however, to prevent a dispute, it was agreed by the auctioneer and company that Mr.
Wildman should have his choice of any particular lot; by which he secured Eclipse at the moderate
price of 70 or 75 guineas.

"Colonel O'Kelly prized this horse so highly, and treated him with so much kindness, that upon
his removal from Clay-hill to Cannons, he had a carriage built for conveying Eclipse to his
new abode, his feet being, at the close of his life, too tender for walking. The carriage was
something like a covered wagon, but not so wide, and was drawn by two horses. Eclipse stood
in the carriage with his head out of a window, made for that purpose, and in this situation
many of the inhabitants saw him pass through the town, from one of whom we received our information.
This celebrated racer died in February 1789, aged twenty-five years.

"When the races on Epsom Downs were first held periodically, we have not been able to trace
with accuracy; but we find that from the year 1730, they have been annually held in the months
of May or June, and about six weeks previously to which, the hunter's stakes are occasionally
run for on the Epsom race course, at one of which, in 1730, the famous horse, Madcap, won the
prize, and proved the best plate horse in England.

"The races were for a long period held twice in every year, Spring and Autumn; it was then
customary to commence the races at eleven o'clock in the forenoon, and after the first or second
heat, the company usually returned into the town to dinner. In the afternoon they again assembled
on the downs, and the races for the day were then finished.

"This arrangement has been long discontinued, and the races are now annually held on the downs,
adjoining the town, on the Wednesday, Thursday, and Friday immediately preceding Whitsuntide,
except when Easter Monday happens in March; in which case the races are held a fortnight later
than usual, in pursuance of certain regulations agreed upon for holding the principal races
in the kingdom.

"This has been the practice here since the celebrated Derby and Oaks Stakes were first established
at Epsom, the former in 1780, and the latter in 1779.[8]

    [8] A second meeting is held in the autumn.

"Several members of the royal family, and most of the nobility attend these races; and, if
the weather be fine, there are seldom less than 60,000 persons assembled here on the Thursday,
when the Derby stakes are contested. Of these the vicious and unprincipled form a tolerable
proportion; nor is it indeed surprising, where 60,000 persons are assembled to witness a horse
race, that these should obtrude themselves, either with the view of propagating vice, or robbing
the bystanders."

We ought to add that the volume is by an inhabitant of Epsom, and the profits of its sale have
been given to the Subscription School in the town. It is so inaccurately printed, as to make
us hope that more attention will be paid to the typography of the next edition; for assuredly
so interesting a volume, published with so laudable an object as that of aiding the cause of
charity, should extend to more than one edition.

By the way, there is a nice little anecdote connected with the sign of the Queen's Head at
Epsom,[9] which the editor of this volume would do well to insert in his next impression. The
above sign, (the original; for we fear the board has been repainted,) was executed by Harlow,
the artist of the celebrated picture of the Trial of Queen Katherine, or the Kemble Family.
The painter, it will be remembered, was a pupil of the late Sir Thomas Lawrence. He was a young
man of consummate vanity, and having unwarrantably claimed the merit of painting the Newfoundland
dog introduced in Lawrence's portrait of Mrs. Angerstein, the two artists quarrelled, and Harlow
took his resentment as follows:

"He repaired to the Queen's Head at Epsom; where his style of living having incurred a bill
which he could not discharge, he proposed, like Morland under similar circumstances, to paint
a sign-board in liquidation of his score. Such is the current story; but there must be some
error either in the facts or their date. Harlow was but a youth eighteen years old when he
left Lawrence, and too young therefore for a man's resentment; neither had his conduct, a mere
tricky slip, been such as to call forth fierce language in a person habitually so cautious
and guarded as Lawrence. On the other hand, had Harlow arrived at manhood when it happened,
he would not have allowed the words 'scoundrel' and 'perfidy' to pass with impunity. However
all this may have been; the pupil quarrelled with Lawrence, and resolving to be master of his
own movements in future, commenced working for himself."[10]

    [9] The Queen's Head is situated at the extremity of the town of
    Epsom, so that a few race-visiters from London may extend their
    journey to that point.

    [10] Lives of British Painters. By Allan Cunningham, vol. v.

       *       *       *       *       *

SPIRIT OF DISCOVERY.

       *       *       *       *       *

POTTERY.[11]

(Concluded from page 326.)

Wedgewood's Staffordshire Ware.

    [11] By Mr. A. Aikiu, in Trans. Soc. Arts.

Lastly is the manufacture of those species of glazed pottery known by the general name of Staffordshire
ware. The date of this ware is about sixty years ago, and it unquestionably originated with
the late Mr. Wedgewood. It not only originated with him, but was carried by his knowledge,
his skill, and his perseverance, to a degree of excellence which, in several points, has never
been surpassed, and in some has never been equalled.

He perceived that the defects of the delft ware, at that time the only species of pottery employed
for common domestic purposes, were the softness and looseness of texture of its body, which
obliged the potter to make it thick and clumsy and heavy, in order to ensure to it a moderate
durability; and that its porousness, as well as its dirty grey colour, required a thick coating
of white enamel, which added still farther to its bulk and weight, and which, consisting for
the most part of lead and arsenic, was hardly safe for culinary use.

He began, therefore, by inventing a body for earthenware, which at the same time should be
white, and capable of enduring a very high degree of heat without fusion, well knowing that
the hardness of the ware depended on the high firing to which it has been subjected. For this
purpose, rejecting the common clays of his neighbourhood, he sent as far as Dorsetshire and
Devonshire for the whiter and purer pipe-clays of those counties. For the siliceous ingredient
of his composition he made choice of chalk-flints, calcined and ground to powder.

