In one of his pet peculiarities, the selection of a name for his work, the author has surpassed
himself. It is a good thing to have an imposing name. In literature, as in society, a sounding
title makes its way with delicious freedom. But it is also well to see to it, that, in the
matter of title, some connection with the book to which it is applied shall be maintained.
We are accustomed to approach a title somewhat as we do a finger-post,--not hoping that it
will reveal the nature of the road we are to follow, the character of the scenery we are to
gaze upon, or the general disposition of the impending population, but anticipating that it
will at least enable us to start in the right direction. Now every reader of "Love me Little,
Love me Long" is apt to consider himself or herself justified in entertaining acrimonious sentiments
towards Mr. Reade for the non-fulfilment of his titular hint. If, in the process of binding,
the leaves of this story had accidentally found their way into covers bearing other and various
appellations, we imagine that very little injury would have been done to the author's meaning
or the purchaser's understanding. It is, indeed, interesting to look forward to the progress
of Mr. Reade's ideas on the subject of titles. We have already enjoyed a couple of pleasing
nursery platitudes; perhaps it would not be altogether out of order to expect in future a series
something like the following:--

  "Oh, Dear, What Can the Matter Be!!??!?!"
  "One, Two, Buckle My Shoe!"
  "Sing a Song of Sixpence, a Bag Full of Rye!"
  "Hiccory, Diccory, Dock!!!"
  etc., etc.

Let us not forget, in laughing at the author's weaknesses, to acknowledge his strength. He
shows in this work an inventive fancy equal to that of any writer of light fiction in the English
language, and hardly surpassed by those of the French,--from which latter, it is fair to suppose,
much of his inspiration is drawn, since his style is undisguisedly that of modern French romancers,
though often made the vehicle of thoughts far nobler than any they are wont to convey. His
portraits of character are capital, especially those of feminine character, which are peculiarly
vivid and spirituels. He represents infantile imagination with Pre-Raphaelitic accuracy. And
his descriptions are frequently of enormous power. A story of a sailor's perils on a whaling
voyage is told in a manner almost as forcible as that of the "frigate fight," by Walt. Whitman,
and in a manner strikingly similar, too. A night adventure in the English channel--a pleasure
excursion diverted by a storm from its original intention into a life-and-death struggle--is
related with unsurpassed effect. The whole work is as sprightly and agreeable a love-story
as any English writer has produced,--always amusing, often flashing with genuine wit, sometimes
inspiring in its eloquent energy. And this ought to be sufficient to secure the abundant success
of any book of its class, and to cause its successor to be awaited with interest.

The Choral Harmony. By B.F. BAKER and W.O. PERKINS. Boston: Phillips, Sampson, & Co. pp. 378.

The great number of music-books published, and the immense editions annually sold, are the
best proof of the demand for variety on the part of choirs and singing-societies. Nearly all
the popular collections will be found to have about the same proportions of the permanent and
the transient elements,--on the one hand, the old chorals and hymn-tunes consecrated by centuries
of solemn worship,--on the other, the compositions and "arrangements" of the editors. Here
and there a modern tune strikes the public taste or sinks deeper to the heart, and it takes
its place thenceforward with the "Old Hundredth," with "Martyrs," and "Mear"; but the greater
number of these compositions are as ephemeral as newspaper stories. Every conductor of a choir
knows, however, that, to maintain an interest among singers, it is necessary to give them new
music for practice, especially new pieces for the opening of public worship,--that they will
not improve while singing familiar tunes, any more than children will read with proper expression
lessons which have become wearisome by repetition. Masses and oratorios are beyond the capacity
of all but the most cultivated singers; and we suppose that the very prevalence of these collections
which aim to please an average order of taste may, after all, furnish to large numbers a pleasure
which the rigid classicists would deny them, without in any way filling the void.

This collection has a goodly number of the favorite old tunes, and they are given with the
harmonies to which the people are accustomed. The new tunes are of various degrees of excellence,
but most of them are constructed with a due regard to form, and those which we take to be Mr.
Baker's are exceedingly well harmonized. There is an unusual number of anthems, motets, etc.,--many
of them at once solid and attractive. The elementary portion contains a full and intelligible
exposition of the science. To those choirs who wish to increase their stock of music, and to
singing-societies who desire the opportunity of practising new and brilliant anthems and sentences,
the "Choral Harmony" may be commended, as equal, at least, to any work of the kind now before
the public.

Seacliff: or the Mystery of the Westervelts. By J.W. DE FOREST, Author of "Oriental Acquaintance,"
"European Acquaintance," etc., etc. Boston: Phillips, Sampson, & Co. pp. 466. 12mo.

This is a very readable novel, artful in plot, effective in characterization, and brilliant
in style. "The Mystery of the Westervelts" is a mystery which excites the reader's curiosity
at the outset, and holds his pleased attention to the end. The incidents are so contrived that
the secret is not anticipated until it is unveiled, and then the explanation is itself a surprise.
The characters are generally strongly conceived, skilfully discriminated, and happily combined.
The delineation of Mr. Westervelt, the father of the heroine, is especially excellent. Irresolute
in thought, impotent in will, and only occasionally fretted by circumstances into a feeble
activity, he is an almost painfully accurate representation of a class of men who drift through
life without any power of self-direction. Mrs. Westervelt has equal moral feebleness with less
brain, and her character is a study in practical psychology. Somerville, the villain of the
piece, who unites the disposition of Domitian to the manners of Chesterfield, is the pitiless
master of this female slave. The coquettish Mrs. Van Leer is a prominent personage of the story;
and her shallow malice and pretty deviltries are most effectively represented. She is not only
a flirt in outward actions, but a flirt in soul, and her perfection in impertinence almost
rises to genius. All these characters betray patient meditation, and the author's hold on them
is rarely relaxed. A novel evincing so much intellectual labor, written in a style of such
careful elaboration, and exhibiting so much skill in the development of the story, can scarcely
fail of a success commensurate with its merits.

To Cuba and Back. A Vacation Voyage. By R.H. DANA, JR., Author of "Two Years before the Mast."
Boston: Ticknor & Fields. 1859. pp. 288. 16mo.

It was, perhaps, a dangerous experiment for the author of a book of the worldwide and continued
popularity of "Two Years before the Mast" to dare, with that almost unparalleled success still
staring him in the face, to tempt Fortune by giving to the public another book. But long before
this time, the thousands of copies that have left the shelves of the publishers have attested
a success scarcely second to that of Mr. Dana's first venture. The elements of success, in
both cases, are to be found in every page of the books themselves. This "Vacation Voyage" has
not a dull page in it. Every reader reads it to the end. Every paragraph has its own charm;
every word is chosen with that quick instinct that seizes upon the right word to describe the
matter in hand which characterizes Mr. Dana's forensic efforts, and places him so high on the
list of natural-born advocates,--which gives him the power of eloquence at the bar, and a power
scarcely less with the slower medium of the pen. These Cuban sketches are real stereographs,
and Cuba stands before you as distinct and lifelike as words can make it. Single words, from
Mr. Dana's pen, are pregnant with great significance, and their meaning is brought out by taking
a little thought, as the leaves and sticks and stones and pigmy men and women in the shady
corners of the stereograph are developed into the seeming proportions of real life, when the
images in the focus of the lenses of the stereoscope. We know of no modern book of travels
which gives one so vivid and fresh a picture, in many various aspects, of the external nature,
the people, the customs, the laws and domestic institutions of a strange country, as does this
little volume, the off-hand product of a few days snatched from the engrossing cares of the
most active professional life. With a quick eye for the beauties of landscape, a keen and lively
perception of what is droll and amusing in human nature, a warm heart, sympathizing readily
where sympathy is required, the various culture of the scholar, and the training of the lawyer
and politician, all well mixed with manly, straightforward, Anglo-Saxon pluck, Mr. Dana has,
in an eminent degree, all the best qualities that should mark the traveller who undertakes
to tell his story to the world.

Some statistics, judiciously introduced, of the present government, and of the institution
of slavery and the slave-trade, with the author's comments upon them, give a practical value
to the book at this time for all thinking and patriotic citizens, and make it one not only
to be read for an hour's entertainment, but carefully studied for the important practical suggestions
of its pages. 1859. pp. 476.

The division of the United States into so many wellnigh independent republics, each with official
rewards in its gift great enough to excite and to satisfy a considerable ambition, makes fame
a palpably provincial thing in America. We say palpably, because the larger part of contemporary
fame is truly parochial everywhere; only we are apt to overlook the fact when we measure by
kingdoms or empires instead of counties, and to fancy a stature for Palmerston or Persigny
suitable to the size of the stage on which they act. It seems a much finer thing to be a Lord
Chancellor in England than a Chief Justice in Massachusetts; yet the same abilities which carried
the chance-transplanted Boston boy, Lyndhurst, to the woolsack, might, perhaps, had he remained
in the land of his birth, have found no higher goal than the bench of the Supreme Court. Mr.
Dickens laughed very fairly at the "remarkable men" of our small towns; but England is full
of just such little-greatness, with the difference that one is proclaimed in the "Bungtown
Tocsin" and the other in the "Times." We must get a new phrase, and say that Mr. Brown was
immortal at the latest dates, and Mr. Jones a great man when the steamer sailed. The small
man in Europe is reflected to his contemporaries from a magnifying mirror, while even the great
men in America can be imaged only in a diminishing one. If powers broaden with the breadth
of opportunity, if Occasion be the mother of greatness and not its tool, the centralizing system
of Europe should produce more eminent persons than our distributive one. Certain it is that
the character grows larger in proportion to the size of the affairs with which it is habitually
concerned, and that a mind of more than common stature acquires an habitual stoop, if forced
to deal lifelong with little men and little things.

Even that German-silver kind of fame, Notoriety, can scarcely be had here at a cheaper rate
than a murder done in broad daylight of a Sunday; and the only sure way of having one's name
known to the utmost corners of our empire is by achieving a continental disrepute. With a metropolis
planted in a crevice between Maryland and Virginia, and stunted because its roots vainly seek
healthy nourishment in a soil impoverished by slavery, a paulopost future capital, the centre
of nothing, without literature, art, or so much as commerce,--we have no recognized dispenser
of national reputations like London or Paris. In a country richer in humor, and among a people
keener in the sense of it than any other, we cannot produce a national satire or caricature,
because there is no butt visible to all parts of the country at once. How many men at this
moment know the names, much more the history or personal appearance, of our cabinet ministers?
But the joke of London or Paris tickles all the ribs of England or France, and the intellectual
rushlight of those cities becomes a beacon, set upon such bushels, and multiplied by the many-faced
provincial reflector behind it. Meanwhile New York and Boston wrangle about literary and social
preëminence like two schoolboys, each claiming to have something (he knows not exactly what)
vastly finer than the other at home. Let us hope that we shall by-and-by develop a rivalry
like that of the Italian cities, and that the difficulty of fame beyond our own village may
make us more content with doing than desirous of the name of it. For, after all, History herself
is for the most part but the Muse of Little Peddlington, and Athens raised the heaviest crop
of laurels yet recorded on a few acres of rock, without help from newspaper guano.

Theophilus Parsons was one of those men of whom surviving contemporaries always say that he
was the most gifted person they had ever known, while yet they are able to produce but little
tangible evidence of his superiority. It is, no doubt, true that Memory's geese are always
swans; but in the case of a man like Parsons, where the testimony is so various and concurrent,
we cannot help believing that there must have been a special force of character, a marked alertness
and grasp of mind, to justify the impression he left behind. With the exception of John Adams,
he was probably the most considerable man of his generation in Massachusetts; and it is not
merely the caruit quia vate sacro, but the narrowness of his sphere of action, still further
narrowed by the technical nature of a profession in itself provincial, as compared with many
other fields for the display of intellectual power, that has hindered him from receiving an
amount of fame at all commensurate with an ability so real and so various.

But the life of a strong man, lived no matter where, and perhaps all the more if it have been
isolated from the noisier events which make so large a part of history, contains the best material
of biography. Judge Parsons was fortunate in a son capable of doing that well, which, even
if ill done, would have been interesting. A practised writer, the author of two volumes of
eloquent and thoughtful essays, Professor Parsons has known how to select and arrange his matter
with a due feeling of effect and perspective. When he fails to do this, it is because here
and there the essayist has got the better of the biographer. We are not concerned here, for
example, to know Mr. Parsons's opinions about Slavery, and we are sure that the sharp insight
and decisive judgment of his father would never have allowed him to be frightened by the now
somewhat weather-beaten scarecrow of danger to the Union.

In the earlier part of the Memoir we get some glimpses of pre-Revolutionary life in New England,
which we hope yet to see illustrated more fully in its household aspects.[A] The father of
Parsons was precisely one of those country-clergymen who were "passing rich on forty pounds
a year." On a salary of two hundred and eighty dollars, he brought up a family of seven children,
three of whom he sent to college, and kept a hospitable house.

[Footnote A: Mr. Elliott, in his New England History, has wisely gathered many of those unconsidered
trifles which are so important in forming a just notion of the character of a population. We
cannot but wish that our town-historians, instead of giving so much space to idle and often
untrustworthy genealogies, and to descriptions of the "elegant mansions" of Messrs. This and
That, would do us the real service of rescuing from inevitable oblivion the fleeting phases
of household scenery that help us to that biography of a people so much more interesting than
their annals. We would much rather know whether a man wore homespun, a hundred years ago, than
whether he was a descendant of Rameses I.]

Of Parsons's college experiences we get less than we could desire; but as he advances in life,
we find his mind exercised by the great political and social problem whose solution was to
be the experiment of Democracy at housekeeping for herself,--we see him influencing State and
even National politics, but always as a man who preferred attaining the end to being known
as the means,--and finally, as Chief Justice, reforming the loose habits of the bar, intolerant
of gabble, and leaving the permanent impress of his energetic mind and impatient logic on the
Common Law of the country.

We know nothing more striking than the dying speech recorded in the concluding chapter. At
the end of a life so laborious and so useful, the Judge, himself withdrawing to be judged,
murmurs,--"Gentlemen of the Jury, the facts of the case are in your hands. You will retire
and consider of your verdict." In this volume, the son has submitted the facts of the case
to a jury of posterity. His case will not be injured by the modesty with which he has stated
it. He has claimed less for his father than one less near to him might have done. We think
the verdict must be, that this was a great man marooned by Destiny on an out-of-the-way corner
of the world, where, however he might exert great powers, there was no adequate field for that
display of them which is the necessary condition of fame.

Mr. Parsons has done a real service to our history and our letters in this volume. Accompanying
and illustrating his main topic, he has given us excellent sketches of some other persons less
eminent than his father, sometimes from tradition and sometimes from his own impressions. We
hope in the next edition he will give us a supplementary chapter of personal anecdotes, of
which there is a large number that deserve to be perpetuated in print, and which otherwise
will die with the memories in which they are now preserved. The strictly professional part
of the biography, illustrating the Chief Justice's more important decisions, might also be
advantageously enlarged.

RECENT AMERICAN PUBLICATIONS.

Songs of the Church; or Psalms and Hymns of the Protestant Episcopal Church, arranged consecutively
to Appropriate Melodies; together with a Full Set of Chants for each Season of the Christian
Year. New York. Delisser & Proctor. 12mo. pp. 453. $1.00.

Napoleonic Ideas. Des Idées Napoléoniennes, par Le Prince Napoléon Louis Bonaparte. Brussels,
1839. Translated by James A. Dorr. New York. D. Appleton & Co. 12mo. pp. 154. 50 cts.

