That great part of Scotland was at one time forest is universally admitted. The remains of
magnificent trees are to be constantly met with in the reclamation of land, many of the peat
bogs being the formation of decayed vegetation.

It is frequently asked by the inexperienced, how it is, that while great trees are found in
bogs, planted trees will not now grow except in a dwarfish degree, but the answer is obvious.
These peat bogs are themselves the product of vegetation as before noted, and it is an ascertained
fact that the tendency of these peat bogs and formations is to increase both by absorbing the
surrounding soil, and by exercising an upward pressure. Many theories and allegations have
been put forth as to the period or periods when the original forests of Caledonia were burnt.
It may be generally admitted in the absence of any authentic contemporaneous record, that three
particular periods are commonly pointed at, first in the time of the Roman occupation, second
in the reign of Edward the First, and third in the time of Mary, Queen of Scots.

The three principal native trees in the Highlands, as now understood, which grow to any size,
are the fir, oak, and ash; and it may be said roundly, that few standing trees exist in Scotland
of a greater age than 300 years. No doubt there may be exceptions, but the rise of the plantations
of beech, sycamore, plane, chestnut, &c., cannot be put further back than the accession of
James VI. to the English throne. That Scotland was, in the early part of the 17th century,
very bare may be inferred from the numerous Acts passed to encourage planting, and the penalties
imposed upon the cutters of green wood. A great part of the Highlands must ever lie entirely
waste, or be utilized by plantations. The expense of carriage to market was till lately in
the inland and midland districts so great, that no inducement was held out to proprietors to
plant systematically and continuously. The opening up of the Highlands by the Caledonian Canal
at first, and now more especially by railways, has, however, developed facilities for market
which should be largely taken advantage of. The market for soft woods, such as fir, larch,
and birch, is ever widening; and great as is the consumption now, it cannot be doubted it will
still greatly increase.

What greater inducement can there be to any exertion whatever, than that of pleasure combined
with profit? We undertake to show that on this point both co-exist. To an idle man it is pleasant
to saunter about and observe the growing of his plants, contrasting their progress from month
to month, and year after year. The child of tender years, the most ignorant peasant, have alike
their faculties of interest and observation aroused and excited by the contemplation of the
gradual rise and change in the progress of the plant. We have heard from those unable to speak
the English language, and in the poorest circumstances, poetic description and the liveliest
manifestation of admiration at a thriving growing wood. Again, to the man who is engrossed
with harassing mental occupations, what pleasure and satisfaction is this contemplation; and,
as in the case of our immortal novelist, not only giving immediate consolation and happiness,
but powerfully incentive to intellectual effort.

Let us turn, however, to the practical bearings of our subject; and we shall take the case,
say, of an estate of 20,000 acres. Let us suppose 500 acres to be arable, and 4,500 acres,
either from the nature of the soil or its altitude, to be unfit for any improvement whatever.
1000 acres would be probably required for ordinary pasture lands, and 10,000 acres for hill
pasture. It is far from our wish that any plantations should diminish the already scanty population,
or unduly press upon the pastoral agricultural occupants. We therefore have given roughly what
may be held as full soŭming for stocks upon such an estate. It must be always recollected it
is not acres alone that will sustain sheep or cattle, or maintain a first-class stock; on the
contrary, it is the quality of the ground, and whether enclosed and drained. The matter of
enclosure is one that has long been recognised as most essential in the case of sheep grounds,
but the cost until the introduction of wire-fencing, was so great, as to be almost prohibitory.
Hill pastures should be enclosed just as in the case of arable lands, and with efficient drainage
and judicious heather burning, it is not too much to say that at least one-third more in number
could be pastured on the same ground, and the stock would be of a higher class than on lands
unfenced and undrained.

We have now left 4000 acres or so for plantation. If the proprietor be in a position to do
so, and do not object to lay out some money unproductively, he will cause trees to be planted
along all the roads through the estate, putting clumps and beltings near the farm steadings.
This is a matter that is sometimes entirely neglected, rendering the buildings conspicuous,
bare and ugly, a blot on the landscape. In other cases, the plantations are too near the buildings,
making them uncomfortable and unhealthy. Two things, viz., shelter and beauty, are required,
which a judicious eye should easily combine. The proprietor, when there is appearance of a
natural growth should select such for enclosure, and on such an estate we place this at 500
acres. Only those who have practical knowledge and experience in the matter, can realise the
extraordinary vitality of the seeds of birch, fir, oak, and others, over a great part of the
Highlands. Nothing is required over thousands upon thousands of acres, but simple enclosure.
These natural trees are both beautiful and valuable, and therefore their encouragement does
not admit of question. No tree is more beautiful than the birch, which is found all over the
Highlands, makes great annual progress, and commands a steady price. Blank spaces, &c., may
be filled in with other woods for the purposes of adornment.

There now remains the plantation, properly so called, upon our estate of 3,500 acres. The selection
of this ground is a matter requiring careful consideration, because the land best adapted for
planting is generally the best pasture, and every proprietor will, of course, endeavour to
do his tenant as little injury as possible. At the same time, he will require to bear in mind
that the too common idea that any ground will do for planting is a serious error. It is not
often that the person who plants lives to reap the full benefit of his labours, and it would
therefore be doubly hard, if these labours were thrown away.

Forestry, however, is now so generally understood, that with reasonable precaution no mistake
ought to occur in the selection of the ground, or the tree best suited to the soil. Hard wood
is of course out of the question in a great Highland plantation. Time occupied in reaching
maturity, and carriage to market unconsidered, iron has entirely superseded this class of wood.
Therefore fir and larch form the staple for Highland plantations. On the other hand, for beltings,
roadsides, and in the vicinity of houses, hard wood should be planted. Two hundred years ago
people generally were wise in this respect, for they planted ash trees and the like, each of
which could stand by itself and bid defiance to the elements. These now form beautiful and
picturesque objects round old duchuses, where hardly one stone stands on another, and thus
alas! in many cases alone denoting where respectable families once had their homes; under whose
spreading branches stout lads and bonnie lasses interchanged love tokens, and went over that
old, old story, which will never die.

With the introduction of larch about the end of last century, which soon became, and deservedly,
a favourite in the Highlands, it unhappily was used as a single belting in exposed places near
farm houses and steadings. The consequence, as every one who travels through the Highlands
must be painfully conscious of, has been trees shapeless and crooked, giving no shelter, and
unpleasing in view. A ludicrous illustration of this may be seen from the Highland Railway
between Forres and Dunphail, the larches having grown up zig-zag, according as the several
winds happened to prevail. It is well known that no regular plantation can in beauty equal
a natural one. There is too much stiffness and form, but the man of taste will avoid straight
lines, and utilize the undulations of the land, blending the landscape as it were into one
harmonious whole.

Let us now in the last place look at the pecuniary results. The enclosure, drainage, and planting
will of course vary according to locality and the nearness to sources of supply and labour,
but it may be said that £3 sterling per acre is a very ample sum for all costs. If there were
one great block of plantation, it would not amount to one-half. Returns, again, must also vary,
depending on proximity to railway or sea-board, but we have heard it stated by those well qualified
to give an opinion, that from 30s to £2 per acre per annum will be an ultimate probable return.
When it is considered that the lands we have referred to, putting both pastoral and shooting
rents together, will not approach six shillings per acre per annum, the pecuniary advantages
are seen to be enormous.[A]

No life insurance policy is equal to a large and judicious plantation by a proprietor, as a
provision for his younger children. The premium in this case will not need to run longer than
twenty-five years, and he has not only beautified his estate and made it more valuable, but
also transmitted it to his heir without incumbrance.

No wonder then that in the county of Inverness large proprietors, such as the Earl of Seafield,
Mackintosh, Sir John Ramsden, and others, have taken this matter up on a great scale. To them
large plantations ought to be in the same category as minerals are in England; and, unlike
their English brethren, this source of wealth is not exhaustive but re-current.

To the public these plantations are not only objects of beauty and an amelioration of climate,
but the thereby greatly increased wealth of the country ensures diminished taxation.

These remarks are purposely made in the simplest language, because chiefly intended to attract
the intelligent attention of the commonality of the people resident in, or connected with,
the Highlands, and the subject will be again brought up.

                                                             C. F.-M.

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote A: According to present and approved modes of valuation, no great time need elapse
after planting before the wood becomes of admitted value. Ten years after, the valuation will,
if the wood be thriving, equal three times the original cost, including interest and rent.]

MONTROSE AT INVERLOCHY.

    [WE consider ourselves and our readers very fortunate indeed in
    having procured the following as the first of a series of contributions
    from Mr William Allan, Sunderland, whose recent publication—"Heather
    Bells, or Poems and Songs"—has been so favourably received by the
    Reviewers. A prior publication—"Hame-spun Lilts"—was also well
    received. Of the author, the Inverness Courier of 19th August,
    says—"You will fail, if you try, to find from first to last the
    slightest imitation of a single one of the many that, within the last
    hundred years, have so deftly handled the Doric lyre. Before
    the appearance of this volume, Mr Allan was already favourably
    known to us as the author of 'Hame-spun Lilts,' 'Rough
    Castings,' and by many lively lilts besides in the poets'
    column of the Glasgow Weekly Herald. There is about
    everything he has written a sturdy, honest, matter-of-fact
    ring, that convinces you that, whether you rank it high or low,
    his song—like the wild warblings of the song-thrush in early
    spring—is from the very heart. All he says and sings he really
    means; and it is something in these days of so many artificial,
    lack-a-daisical, 'spasmodic' utterances, to meet with anybody
    so manifestly honest and thoroughly in earnest as Mr William
    Allan." The Dundee Advertiser of August 17th concludes a long
    and very favourable review of "Heather Bells, &c."—"The 'Harp
    of the North,' so beautifully invoked by Sir Walter in his
    'Lady of the Lake,' has been long asleep—her mountains are
    silent—and what if our Laureate of Calydon—our Modern
    Ossian—were destined to hail from Bonnie Dundee?" The
    Scotsman of Oct. 1st, says—"There is true pathos in many of
    the poems. Such a piece as 'Jessie's Leavin'' must find its way
    to the hearts in many a cottage home. Indeed, 'Heather Bells,'
    both deserves, and bids fair to acquire, popularity."]

    Dark Winter's white shroud on the mountains was lying,
    And deep lay the drifts in each corrie and vale,
    Snow-clouds in their anger o'er heaven were flying,
    Far-flinging their wrath on the frost-breathing gale;—
    Undaunted by tempests in majesty roaring,
    Unawed by the gloom of each path-covered glen,
    As swift as the rush of a cataract pouring,
    The mighty Montrose led his brave Highlandmen:—
              Over each trackless waste,
              Trooping in glory's haste,
    Dark-rolling and silent as mist on the heath,
              Resting not night nor day,
              Fast on their snowy way
    They dauntlessly sped on the pinions of death.

    As loud as the wrath of the deep Corryvreckan,
    Far-booming o'er Scarba's lone wave-circled isle,
    As mountain rocks crash to the vale, thunder-stricken,
    Their slogan arose in Glen Spean's defile;—
    As clouds shake their locks to the whispers of Heaven;
    As quakes the hushed earth 'neath the ire of the blast;
    As quivers the heart of the craven, fear-riven,
    So trembled Argyle at the sound as it passed;—
              Over the startled snows,
              Swept the dread word "Montrose,"
    Deep-filling his soul with the gloom of dismay,
              Marked he the wave of men,
              Wild-rushing thro' the glen,
    Then sank his proud crest to the coward's vile sway.

    To Arms! rung afar on the winds of the morning,
    Yon dread pennon streams as a lurid bale-star:
    Hark! shrill from his trumpets an ominous warning
    Is blown with the breath of the demon of war;—
    Then bright flashed his steel as the eye of an eagle,
    Then spread he his wings to the terror-struck foe;
    Then on! with the swoop of a conqueror regal,
    He rushed, and his talons struck victory's blow:—
              Wild then their shouts arose,
              Fled then their shivered foes,
    And snowy Ben-Nevis re-echoed their wail;
              Far from the field of dread,
              Scattered, they singly fled,
    As hound-startled deer, to the depths of each vale.

