We gradually ascended the hills, passing one or two villages, imbedded in groves of olives.
In the little valleys, slanting down to the plains, the Arabs were still ploughing and sowing,
singing the while an old love-song, with its chorus of "ya, ghazalee! ya, ghazalee!" (oh, gazelle!
oh, gazelle!) The valley narrowed, the lowlands behind us spread out broader, and in half an
hour more we were threading a narrow pass, between stony hills, overgrown with ilex, myrtle,
and dwarf oak. The wild purple rose of Palestine blossomed on all sides, and a fragrant white
honeysuckle in some places hung from the rocks. The path was terribly rough, and barely wide
enough for two persons on horseback to pass each other. We met a few pilgrims returning from
Jerusalem, and a straggling company of armed Turks, who had such a piratical air, that without
the solemn asseveration of François that the road was quite safe, I should have felt uneasy
about our baggage. Most of the persons we passed were Mussulmen, few of whom gave the customary
"Peace be with you!" but once a Syrian Christian saluted me with, "God go with you, O Pilgrim!"
For two hours after entering the mountains, there was scarcely a sign of cultivation. The rock
was limestone, or marble, lying in horizontal strata, the broken edges of which rose like terraces
to the summits. These shelves were so covered with wild shrubs--in some places even with rows
of olive trees---that to me they had not the least appearance of that desolation so generally
ascribed to them.

In a little dell among the hills there is a small ruined mosque, or chapel (I could not decide
which), shaded by a group of magnificent terebinth trees. Several Arabs were resting in its
shade, and we hoped to find there the water we were looking for, in order to make breakfast.
But it was not to be found, and we climbed nearly to the summit of the first chain of hills,
where in a small olive orchard, there was a cistern, filled by the late rains. It belonged
to two ragged boys, who brought us an earthen vessel of the water, and then asked, "Shall we
bring you milk, O Pilgrims!" My companion, who had not recovered from his horror at finding
that the inhabitants of Ramleh washed themselves in the pool which supplied us and them, refused
to touch it. We made but a short rest, for it was now nearly noon, and there were yet many
rough miles between us and Jerusalem. We crossed the first chain of mountains, rode a short
distance over a stony upland, and then descended into a long cultivated valley, running to
the eastward. At the end nearest us appeared the village of Aboo 'l Ghosh (the Father of Lies),
which takes its name from a noted Bedouin shekh, who distinguished himself a few years ago
by levying contributions on travellers. He obtained a large sum of money in this way, but as
he added murder to robbery, and fell upon Turks as well as Christians, he was finally captured,
and is now expiating his offences in some mine on the coast of the Black Sea.

