Suddenly they were in the midst of a flock of great birds; birds that flapped their golden
wings to rise, then soared and circled like the gulls of the terrestrial oceans. And these
mechanical birds were fast. Carr and Mado watched in fascination as they strung out in V formation
and led the way in the direction of the setting sun. Six, seven hundred miles an hour the Nomad's
indicator showed, as they swung in behind these ships of Europa.

       *       *       *       *       *

They crossed a large body of water, a lake of fully five hundred miles in width. More country
then, hardly populated now and with but few of the gleaming roadways. The sun had set, but
there was scarcely any diminution of the light for the great ball that was Jupiter reflected
a brilliance of far greater intensity than that of the full Moon on a clear Terrestrial night.
A marvelous sight the gigantic body presented, with its alternate belts of gray-blue and red
and dazzling white. And it hung so low and huge in the heavens that it seemed one had but to
stretch forth a hand to touch its bright surface.

Another mountain range loomed close and was gone. On its far side there stretched the desolate
wastes of a desert, a barren plain that extended in all directions to the horizon. Wind-swept,
it was and menacing beneath them. Europa was not all as they had first seen it.

A glimmer of brightness appeared at the horizon. The fleet was reducing speed and soon they
saw that their journey was nearly over. At the far edge of the desert the bright spot resolved
itself into the outlines of a city, the city of golden domes. Cones they looked like, rather,
with rounded tops and fluted walls. The mental message had conveyed the most fitting description
possible without words or picture.

The landing was over so quickly that they had but confused impressions of their reception.
A great square in the heart of the city, crowded with people. Swooping maneuvers of hundreds
of the bird-like ships. An open space for their arrival. The platform where a committee awaited
them. The king, or at least he seemed to be king. The sea of upturned faces, staring eyes.

       *       *       *       *       *

Mado fidgeted and opened his mouth to voice a protest but Carr nudged him into silence. The
king had risen from his seat in the circle on the platform and was about to address them. There
was no repetition of the telepathic means of communication.

"Welcome, travelers from the inner planets," said the king. He spoke Cos perfectly! "Cardos,
emperor of the body you call Europa, salutes you. Our scientists have recorded your thoughts
with their psycho-ray apparatus and have learned that you have a message for us, a message
we fear is not pleasant. Am I correct?"

Carr stared at the soft-voiced monarch of this remarkable land. It was incredible that he spoke
in the universal language of the inner planets!

"Your Highness," he replied, "is correct. We have a message. But it amazes us that you are
familiar with our language."

"That we shall explain later. Meanwhile--the message!"

"The message," Carr said, "is not pleasant. A golden sphere out in space. Helpless in the clutches
of a nameless monster, a vast creature of jellylike substance but possessed of enormous destructive
energy. A mental message to our vessel warning us away and bidding us to come here; to tell
you of their fate. We escaped and here we are."

The face of Cardos paled. He reached for an egg-shaped crystal that reposed on the table; spoke
rapidly into its shimmering depths. Hidden amplifiers carried his voice throughout the square
in booming tones. It was a strange tongue he spoke, with many gutturals and sibilants. A groan
came up from the assembled multitude.

Cardos tossed the crystal to the table with a resigned gesture, then tottered and swayed. Instant
confusion reigned in the square and the emperor was assisted from the platform by two of his
retainers. They never saw him again.

       *       *       *       *       *

One of the counsellors, a middle-aged man with graying russet hair and large gray eyes set
in a perfectly smooth countenance, stepped from the platform and grasped the two adventurers
as the confusion in the square increased to an uproar.

"Come," he whispered, in excellent Cos; "I'll explain all to you in the quiet of my own apartments.
I am Detis, a scientist, and my home is close by."

Gently he clung to them as the larger men forced their way between the milling groups of excited
Europans. No one gave them much attention. All seemed to be overcome with grief. A terrible
disaster, this loss of the golden sphere must be!

They were out of the square and in one of the broad streets. The fluted sides of the unpointed
cones shone softly golden on all sides. Alike in every respect were these dwellings of the
people of Europa, and strangely attractive in the light of the mother planet.

Not a word was spoken when they reached the abode of their guide. They entered an elaborate
hall and were whisked upward in an automatic elevator. Detis ushered them into his apartment
when they alighted. He smiled gravely at their looks of wonder as they cast eyes on the maze
of apparatus before them. It was a laboratory rather than a living room in which they stood.

Detis led them to an adjoining room where he bid them be seated. They exchanged wondering glances
as their host paced the floor vigorously before speaking further.

"Friends," he finally blurted, "I hope you'll excuse my emotion but the news you brought is
a terrible blow to me as to all Europa. Carli, our prince, beloved son of Cardos, was commander
of the ship you reported lost. We deeply mourn his loss."

       *       *       *       *       *

Carr and Mado waited in respectful silence while their host made effort to control his feelings.

"Now," he said, after a moment, "I can talk. You have many questions to ask, I know. So have
I. But first I must tell you that Carli's was an expedition to your own worlds. A grave danger
hangs over them and he was sent to warn them. He has been lost. Our only space-ship capable
of making the journey also is lost. Six Martian years were required to build it, so I fear
the warning will never reach your people. Already the time draws near."

"A grave danger?" asked Mado. "What sort of a danger?"

"War! Utter destruction! Conquest by the most warlike and ambitious people in the solar system."

"Not the people of Europa?" asked Carr.

"Indeed not. There is another inhabited satellite of Jupiter, next farthest from the mother
planet. Ganymede, you call it. It is from there that these conquerors are to set forth."

"Many of them?" inquired Mado.

"Two million or so. They're prepared to send an army of more than a tenth of that number on
the first expedition."

"A mere handful!" Carr was contemptuous.

"True, but they are armed with the most terrible of weapons. Your people are utterly unprepared
and, unless warned, will be driven from their cities and left in the deserts to perish of hunger
and exposure. This is a real danger."

"Something in it, Carr, if what he says is true. We've no arms nor warriors. Haven't had for
two centuries. You know it as well as I do."

"Bah! Overnight we could have a million armed and ready to fight them off."

       *       *       *       *       *

Detis raised his hand. "You offend me," he said gravely. "I have told you this in good faith
and you reward me with disbelief and boastful talk. Your enemies are more powerful than you
think, and your own people utterly defenceless against them."

"I'm sorry," Carr apologized, "and I'll listen to all you have to say. Surely your prince has
not given his life in vain." He was ashamed before this scientist of Europa.

A tinkling feminine voice from the next room called something in the Europan tongue.

Detis raised his head proudly and his frown softened at the sound of dainty footsteps. His
voice was a caress as he replied.

A vision of feminine loveliness stood framed in the doorway and the visitors rose hastily from
their seats. Carr gazed into eyes of the deepest blue he had ever seen. Small in stature though
this girl of Europa was--not more than five feet tall--she had the form of a goddess and the
face of an angel. He was flushing to the roots of his hair. Could feel it spread. What an ass
he was anyway! Anyone'd think he'd never seen a woman in all his thirty-five years!

"My daughter, Ora, gentlemen," said Detis.

The girl's eyes had widened as she looked at the huge Martian with the funny black box on his
back. They dropped demurely when turned to those of the handsome Terrestrial.

"Oh," she said, in Cos, "I didn't know you had callers."

CHAPTER VI

Vlor-urdin

The time passed quickly in Pala-dar, city of the golden domes. Detis spent many hours in the
laboratory with his two visitors and the fair Ora was usually at his side. She was an efficient
helper to her father and a gracious hostess to the guests.

The amazement of the visitors grew apace as the wonders of Europan science were revealed to
them. They sat by the hour at the illuminated screen of the rulden, that remarkable astronomical
instrument which brought the surfaces of distant celestial bodies within a few feet of their
eyes, and the sounds of the streets and the jungles to their ears. It was no longer a mystery
how the language of Cos had become so familiar to these people.

They learned of the origin of the races that inhabited Europa and Ganymede. Ages before, it
was necessary for the peoples of the then thickly populated Jupiter to cast about for new homes
due to the cooling of the surface of that planet. Life was becoming unbearable. In those days
there were two dominant races on the mother body, a gentle and peaceful people of great scientific
accomplishment and a race of savage brutes who, while very clever with their hands, were of
lesser mental strength and of a quarrelsome and fighting disposition.

Toward the last the population of both main countries was reduced to but a few survivors, and
the intelligent race had discovered a means of traversing space and was prepared to leave the
planet for the more livable satellite--Europa. Learning of these plans, the others made a treaty
of perpetual peace as a price for their passage to another satellite--Ganymede. The migration
began and the two satellites were settled by the separate bands of pioneers and their new lives
begun.

       *       *       *       *       *

The perpetual treaty had not been broken since, but the energies of the warlike descendants
of those first settlers of Ganymede were expended in casting about for new fields to conquer.
Through the ages they cast increasingly covetous eyes on those inner planets, Mars, Terra and
Venus. Not having the advantage of the Rulden, they knew of these bodies only what could be
seen through their own crude optical instruments and what they had learned by word of mouth
from certain renegade Europans they were able to bribe.

While their neighbors of the smaller satellite were engaged in peaceful pursuits, tilling the
soil and making excellent homes for themselves, the dwellers on Ganymede were fashioning instruments
of warfare and building a fleet of space-ships to carry them to their intended victims. It
was a religion with them; they could think of nothing else. An unscrupulous scientist of Europa
sold himself to them several generations previously and it was this scientist who had made
the plans for their space-fliers and had contrived the deadly weapons with which they were
armed. He likewise taught them the language of Cos and it now was spoken universally throughout
Ganymede in anticipation of the glorious days of conquest.

"You honestly believe them able to do this?" asked Carr, still skeptical after two days of
discussion.

"I know it as a certainty," Detis replied solemnly. "It is only during the past generation
we have learned of the completeness and awfulness of their preparations. Your people can not
combat their sound-ray. With it they can remain outside the vision of those on the surface
and set the tall buildings of your cities in harmonic vibrations that will bring them down
in ruins about the ears of the populace."

       *       *       *       *       *

"There'll be nothing left for them to take if they destroy all our cities: nowhere for them
to live. I don't get it."

"Only a few will be destroyed completely, to terrify the rest of the inhabitants of your worlds.
Others will be depopulated by means of vibrations that will kill off the citizens without harming
the cities themselves--vibrations which are capable of blanketing a large area and raising
the body temperature of all living things therein to a point where death will ensue in a very
few minutes. Other vibrations will paralyze all electrical equipment on the planet and make
it impossible for your ships of the air to set out to give battle, even were they properly armed."

"Looks bad, Carr," said Mado glumly.

"It does that. We've got to go back and carry the warning."

"I fear it is too late," said Detis. "Much time will be needed in which to develop a defense
and surely it can not be done within the three isini before they set forth--about four of your
days."

"They leave that soon?" Carr was taken aback.

"Yes, with their one hundred and twenty vessels; forty to each of your three planets; seventeen
hundred men to a vessel."

Carr jumped to his feet. "By the heat devils of Mercury!" he roared, "well go to their lousy
little satellite and find a way to prevent it!"

       *       *       *       *       *

Ora gazed at his flushed face with unconcealed admiration.

"You're crazy!" exploded Mado. "What can we do with the Nomad?"

"Her D-ray can do plenty of damage."

"Yes, but they'd have us down before we could account for five of their vessels. It's no use,
I tell you."

But Carr was stubborn. "We'll pay them a call anyway. I'll bet we can dope out some way of
putting it over on them. Are you game?"

"Of course I'm game. I'll go anywhere you will. But it's a fool idea just the same."

"Maybe so. Maybe not. Anyway--let's go."

"Just a moment, gentlemen," Detis interposed. "How about me?"

Carr stared at him and saw that his eyes shone with excitement. "Why, I believe you'd like
to go with us!" he exclaimed admiringly.

"I would, indeed."

"Come on then. We're off." He was impatient to be gone.

Detis busied himself with a small apparatus that folded into a compact case, explaining that
it was one that might prove useful. Ora left the room but quickly returned. She too carried
a small case, and she had donned a snug fitting leather garment that covered her from neck
to knees.

"What's this?" demanded Carr. "Surely Miss Ora does not intend to come with us?"

"She never leaves my side," said Detis proudly.

"Nothing doing!" Carr stated emphatically. "There'll be plenty of danger on this trip. Well
have no woman along--least of all your charming daughter."

       *       *       *       *       *

Mado was leaving everything to his friend, but he grinned in anticipation when he saw the look
of anger on the girl's face.

She stamped her little foot and faced Carr valiantly. "See here, Mr. Carr Parker!" she stormed.
"I'm no weakling. I'm the daughter of my father and where he goes I go. You'll take me or I'll
never speak to you again."

Carr flushed. He was accustomed to his own way in most things and entirely unused to the ways
of the gentler sex. He could have shaken the little vixen! But now she was standing before
him and there was something in those great blue eyes besides anger; something that set his
heart pounding madly.

"All right!" he agreed desperately, "have your own way."

He turned on his heel and strode to the door. Giving in to this slip of a girl! What a fool
he was! But it would be great at that to have her along in the Nomad.

They found the public square deserted, the gilded dwellings hung with somber colors in mourning
for Carli. Ora and Detis were very quiet and preoccupied when they entered the Nomad. The five
isini of lamentation for the young prince had not yet passed.

The two Europans were delighted with the appointments and mechanisms of the little vessel from
Mars. They investigated every nook and cranny of its interior during the journey and were voluble
in their praise of its inventor and builder. Neither had ever set foot in a space-flier and
each was seized with a longing to explore space with these two strangers from the inner planets.
They would make a couple of good vagabonds along with Mado and himself, Carr thought as they
expressed their feelings. But there was more serious business at hand. They were nearing Ganymede.

"Where'll we land, Detis?" Mado called from the control cabin.

"Vlor-urdin. That is their chief city. I'll guide you to the location."

       *       *       *       *       *

They took up their places at the ports and scanned the surface of the satellite as Mado dropped
the ship into its atmosphere. A far different scene was presented than on Europa. The land
was seamed and scarred, the colors of the foliage somber. Grays and browns predominated and
the jungles seemed impenetrable. A river swung into view and its waters were black as the deepest
night, its flow sluggish. A rank mist hung over the surface.

"The river of Charis!" exclaimed Detis. "Follow it, Mado. No, the other direction. There! It
leads directly to Vlor-urdin."

By good chance they had entered the atmosphere at a point not far from their destination. In
less than an hour by the Nomad's chronometer the towers of Vlor-urdin were sighted.

It was a larger city than Pala-dar and of vastly different appearance. A hollow square of squat
buildings enclosed the vast workshops and storage space of the fleet of war vessels. Their
huge spherical bulks rose from their cradles in tier after tier that stretched as far as the
eye could reach when the Nomad had dropped to a level but slightly above the tips of the highest
spires. The spires were everywhere, decorative towers at the corners of the squat buildings.
Everything was black, the vessels of the fleet, the squat buildings and the spires of Vlor-urdin.
Death was in the air. Rank vapor drifted in through the opened ports. There was silence in
the city below them and silence in the Nomad.

Ora shuddered and drew closer to him. Carr was aware of her nearness and a lump rose in his
throat. A horrible fear assailed him. Fear for the safety of the dainty Europan at his side.
He found her hand; covered it protectingly with his own.

CHAPTER VII

Rapaju

Detis was setting up and adjusting the complicated mechanisms of his little black case. A dozen
vacuum tubes lighted, and a murmur of throbbing energy came from a helix of shining metallic
ribbon that topped the whole. Flexible cables led to a cap-like contrivance which Detis placed
on his head. He frowned in concentration.

"The psycho-ray apparatus." Ora explained. "He's sending a message to the city."

Evidently the influence of the ray was directive. They had no inkling of the thoughts transmitted
from the alert brain of the scientist but, from the look of satisfaction on his face, they
could see that he was obtaining the desired contact.

"Rapaju," he exclaimed, switching off the power of his instrument, "commander of the fleet
of the Llotta. I have advised him of our arrival. Told him that a Martian and a Terrestrial
wish to treat with him concerning the proposed invasion of their planets. His answering thought
first was of fiercest rage, then conciliatory in nature. He'll receive you and listen to your
arguments, though he promises nothing. Is that satisfactory?"

"Yes." Carr and Mado were agreed. At least it would give them a chance to look over the ground
and to make plans, should any occur to them.

The Nomad circled over the heart of the city and soon Mado saw a suitable landing space. They
settled gracefully in an open area close by the building indicated by Detis as that of the
administration officials of the city.

       *       *       *       *       *

A group of squat, sullen Llotta awaited them and, without speaking a word either of hatred
or welcome, led them into the forbidding entrance of the building. Close-set, beady eyes; unbelievably
flat features of chalky whiteness; chunky bowed legs, bare and hairy; long arms with huge dangling
paws--these were the outstanding characteristics of the Llotta. Mado stared straight before
him, refusing to display any great interest in the loathsome creatures, but Carr was frankly
curious and as frankly disapproving.

Rapaju leered maliciously when the four voyagers stood before him. He looked the incarnation
of all that was evil and vile, a monster among monsters. Sensing him to be the more aggressive
of the two visitors from doomed planets, he addressed his remarks to Carr.

"You come to plead with Rapaju," he sneered, his Cos tinged with an outlandish accent, "to
beg for the worthless lives of your compatriots; for the wealth of your cities?"

"We come to reason with you," replied Carr haughtily, "if you are capable of reasoning. What
is this incredible thing you are planning?"

Mado gasped at the effrontery of his friend. But Carr was oblivious of the warning looks cast
in his direction.

"Enough of that!" snapped Rapaju. "I'll do the talking--you the reasoning. I've a proposition
to make to you, and if you know what's best, you'll agree. Otherwise you'll be first of the
Terrestrials to die. Is that clear?"

"Clear enough, all right," growled Carr. "What do you mean--a proposition?"

"Ha! I thought you'd listen. My offer is the lives of you and your companion in exchange for
your assistance in guiding my fleet to the capital cities of your countries. Not that our plans
will be changed if you refuse, but that much time will be saved in this manner and quick victory
made certain without undue sacrifice of valuable property."

"You--you--!" Carr stammered in anger. But there was no use in raising a rumpus--now. They'd
only kill him. Something might be accomplished if he pretended to accede. "Go on with your
story," he finished lamely.

"In addition to sparing your lives I'll place you both in high position after we seize your
respective planets. Make you chief officers in the prison lands we intend to establish for
your countrymen. What do you say?"

"Will you give us time to talk it over and think about it?"

"Until the hour of departure, if you wish."

       *       *       *       *       *

Carr bowed, avoiding Mado's questioning eyes. He looked at Ora where she stood at the side
of Detis. She flashed him a guarded smile. He knew that she understood.

Rapaju relaxed. He was confident he could bribe these puerile foreigners to help him in the
great venture. And sadly he needed such help. The Llotta were not navigators. Their knowledge
of the heavens was sadly incomplete. They had no maps of the surfaces of the planets to be
visited. Their simultaneous blows would be far more effective and the campaign much shorter
if they could choose the most vital centers for the initial attacks.

"Now," he said, "that we understand one another, let us talk further of the plans. Then you
will be able to consider carefully before making your decision."

Rapaju could be diplomatic when he wished. Carr longed to sink his fingers in the hairy throat.
But he smiled hypocritically and found an opportunity to wink meaningly at Mado. This was going
to be good! And who knew?--perhaps they might find some way to outwit these mad savages. To
think of them in control of the inner planets was revolting.

They retired to a small room with Rapaju and four of his lieutenants, Detis and Ora accompanying
them. Ora sat close to Carr at the circular table in Rapaju's council. Carr thought grimly
of the board meetings in far away New York.

Rapaju talked. He told of the armament of his vessels, painting vivid pictures of the destruction
to be wrought in the cities of Terra, of Mars and Venus. His great hairy paws clutched at imaginary
riches when he spoke glowingly of the plundering to follow. He spoke of the women of the inner
planets and Carr half rose from his seat when he observed the lecherous glitter in his beady
eyes. Ora! Great God, was she safe here? He stole a glance at the girl and a recurrence of
the awful fear surged through him. In her leather garment, close fitting and severe, she looked
like a boy. Perhaps they would not know. Besides, there was the perpetual treaty with Europa.
It always had been observed, Detis said.

       *       *       *       *       *

As Rapaju expanded upon the glories to come he told perforce of many of the details of the
plans. One thing stood out in Carr's mind: the vessels of the Llotta were not equal to the
Nomad in many respects. They must carry their entire supply of fuel from the starting point
and this was calculated as but a small percentage in excess of that required to carry them
to their destinations. Their speed was not as great as the Nomad's by at least a third. If
the Nomad led the fleet from Ganymede they might be able to get them off their course; cause
them to get them off their course; cause them to run out of fuel out in the vacuum and absolute
zero of space. He kicked Mado under the table and arose to ask a few leading questions.

Ora was whispering to her father and he nodded his head as if in complete agreement with what
she was saying. These two were not deceived by his apparent traitorous talk, but Mado was aghast.
Carr wondered if Rapaju believed him as did his friend.

"We'll do it, Rapaju," he stated finally. "In our ship, the Nomad, we'll guide you across the
trackless wastes of the heavens. We'll take you to our capital cities; point out to you the
richest of the industrial centers. We have no love for our own worlds. Mado and I deserted
them for a life of vagabondage amongst the stars. We ask no reward other than that we be permitted
to leave once more on our travels, to roam space as we choose."

Mado attempted to voice an objection but Carr's hand was heavy on his shoulder. "Shut up, you
fool!" he hissed in his ear. "Can't you trust me?"

       *       *       *       *       *

Rapaju's eyes seemed to draw closer together as he returned Carr's unflinching stare. He walked
around the table and stood at the side of the tall Terrestrial. Suddenly he grasped Ora's jacket,
tore it open at the throat. He ran his hairy fingers over the bare shoulder of the shrinking
girl and gurgled his delight at the velvet smoothness of her skin.

With a roar like a wild animal Carr was upon him, bearing him to the floor. His fingers were
in that hairy throat, where they had itched to twine.

"Dirty, filthy beast!" he was snarling. "Lay your foul hands on Ora, will you? Say your prayers,
if you know any, you swine!"

Then his muscles went limp and he was jerked to his feet by a terrible force, a force that
sent him reeling and gasping against the wall. One of Rapaju's lieutenants stood before him
with a tiny weapon in his hand, the weapon which had released the paralyzing gas he breathed.
He was choking; suffocating. A black mist rose before him. He felt his knees give way. Dimly,
as in a dream, he saw that Ora was in Detis' arms. Rapaju was on his feet, fingering his neck
and laughing horribly.

"The treaty, Rapaju!" Detis was shouting.

Ora was sobbing. Mado was in the hands of two of the vile Llotta, struggling wildly to free
himself. The Martian's eyes accused him. He shut his own and groaned. Opened them again. But
it was no use. Everything in the room was whirling now, crazily. He fought to regain his senses,
crawled weakly toward the squat figure of Rapaju where it swayed and twisted and spun around.
Then all was darkness. The gas had taken its toll.

CHAPTER VIII

The Expedition

Carr awakened to a sense of wordless disgust. Fool that he was to spill the beans as he had!
All set to put one over on the leader of the Llotta, then to come a cropper like this! He knew
he had been spared for a purpose. The gas was not intended to kill, only to render him helpless
for a time. He opened his eyes to the light of a familiar room. He had awakened before in this
bed. It was his own cabin on board the Nomad. What had happened? Had he dreamed it all. Europa,
Ora, Rapaju--all of it? He sat up and felt of his aching head.

"Oh, are you awake?" a soft voice greeted him.

"Ora!" he exclaimed. It was indeed she, beautiful as ever.

"Sh-h," she warned, placing the tip of a finger to his lips. "They'll hear us."

"Who?" he whispered.

"Rapaju--his two guards. They're in the control cabin with father and Mado."

"What? They've taken the Nomad?"

"Yes. We're under way. They've forced Mado to guide them but do not trust him. Rapaju spared
you as he believes you more capable. He'll hold you to your word."

"Lord! But what are you doing here?"

Ora dropped her eyes. "He--Rapaju--" she said, "inferred from your action in assaulting him
that you were very fond of me. He holds me as a hostage for your good behavior. Father volunteered
to come along. He persuaded Rapaju to allow it. Swore allegiance to his cause. Of course he
wouldn't leave me."

       *       *       *       *       *

Carr gazed at her in admiration of her courage. She had been nursing him, too! What a girl she was!

"Ora," he said huskily, "Rapaju was right. I am fond of you. More than fond: I love you. I
never knew I could feel this way."

"Oh Carr, you mustn't!" She drew back as he scrambled to his feet. "They'll find us. We must
not show that we care. Rapaju is a beast. He wants me for himself and is delaying the time
only until you have brought the fleet safely to the inner planets and to their great cities. He--"

"The skunk! Wants you himself, does he? Why, why didn't I kill him? But Ora, you said--you
do care--"

"Ha! I thought so!" Rapaju stood in the doorway, grinning mockingly at the pair. "The impetuous
Terrestrial is up and about. Back at his old game!"

"Please, please, for my sake, Carr!" Ora pressed him back as he tensed his muscles for a spring.

"Sorry I was so slow," Carr grated, over her shoulder. "Another five seconds, Rapaju, and I'd
have had your windpipe out by the roots."

Rapaju scowled darkly and fingered his throat. "But, my dear Carr, you were too slow," he said,
"and I live--and shall live--while you shall die. Meanwhile you'll carry out your agreement.
Come, Ora."

The girl hesitated a moment, then with a pleading glance at Carr stepped from the room.

"All right now, Parker," snapped Rapaju. "Into your clothes and into the pilot's seat. You'll
stay there, too, till the journey's over. Get busy!"

One of his guards had appeared in the doorway. Carr knew that resistance was useless. Besides,
seated at those controls, he might think of something. Rapaju'd never get Ora if he could help it!

       *       *       *       *       *

Mado's shoulders drooped and his face was haggard and drawn, but he summoned a smile when he
saw Carr.

"Hello, Carr," he said. "You all right?"

"Sure. Rapaju says I've got to take the controls."

"Very well." Mado shrugged his broad shoulders and slipped from the pilot's seat. Two ugly
Llotta guards were watching, ray-pistols in hand. "The chart is corrected, Carr, and--"

"Never mind the conversation!" Rapaju snarled. "There'll be no talk between you at all. Beat
it to your cabin, Mado."

The Martian glowered and made as if to retort hotly.

"But Rapaju," Detis interposed, speaking from his position at one of the ports, "they'll have
to consult regarding the course of the vessel. Mado is more familiar than Carr with the navigation
of space."

"Shut up!" roared Rapaju. "I know what I am doing. And, what's more, you'll not converse with
them, either! I'm running this expedition, and I'm not taking any chances."

Detis subsided and followed Mado through the passage to the sleeping cabins.

       *       *       *       *       *

The ensuing silence was ominous. Carr could feel the eyes of the Llotta upon him as he examined
the adjustments of the controls and peeped through the telescope. A glance at the velocity
indicator showed him they were traveling at a rate of eight hundred miles a second. He studied
the chart and soon made out their position. Jupiter was a hundred million miles behind them
and they were heading almost due sunward. The automatic control mechanism was not functioning.
Evidently Mado had kept this a secret--and for a purpose. He wished he could talk with his
friend. They'd plan something.

"Like your job?" Rapaju was gloating over this Terrestrial who had dared to lay hands upon him.

"Yes, but not the company." Carr was disdainful.

"You'll like it less before I've finished with you. And get this straight. You think we're
dependent on you to guide us to the inner planets, and that we'll not harm any of you until
they are reached. Don't fool yourself! I've watched Mado and I've spent much time in the excellent
library of the Nomad. I've learned plenty about the navigation of space and can reach those
planets as quickly and directly as you. But it pleases me to see you work, so work you shall.
I'll check you carefully, and don't think you can deceive me. Don't try to depart from the
true course. The sun is my check as it is yours, and I'll keep constant tab on our position.
Get it?"

"A rather long speech, Rapaju." Carr grinned into the evil face of the commander.

"Still defiant, eh? Suits me, Carr Parker. We'll have some nice talks here, and then--when
it pleases me--you'll suffer. You shall live to see your home city crash in utter ruin; your
people slain, starved, beaten. And, above all, there's Ora--"

"Don't defile her name in your ugly mouth, you--!"

       *       *       *       *       *

Carr bit his tongue to keep back the torrent of invectives that sprang to his lips. This would
never do! He'd get himself bumped off before they were well started. And while there was life
there was hope. He'd stick to his guns and think; think and plan. If only he could have a few
words with Mado. They must get out of this mess. There must be a way! There must!

Rapaju was laughing in triumph. Thought he had cowed him, did he? Boastful savage! If he could
navigate the Nomad himself, why didn't he? Liar! He and Mado were godsends to him, and he knew
it! His speech at the council table had been the real truth.

Foreign thoughts entered his mind. Detis, good old Detis, was using his thought apparatus in
his own cabin! He paid no attention to the words of Rapaju when he left the control room. Detis
was on the job! Between them they'd outwit this devil of Ganymede.

"Keep your courage," came the message. "I've read the thoughts of Mado and he bids you examine
the chart carefully. He's made some notations in the ancient language of Mars. The automatic
control of the Nomad can be used when necessary. He has not advised Rapaju of its existence."

Carr was encouraged and he concentrated on a suitable reply. But, though he did not consciously
will it, his thoughts were of Ora.

Instantly there came the reassurance of her father. "Ora is not in immediate danger. Rapaju
is saving her for his revenge on you. And I'm watching her constantly. A ray-pistol is concealed
in my clothing, its charge ready for the foul creature in case he should lay hands on her.
But you must plan an escape, and salvation for your worlds. Examine the chart at once."

       *       *       *       *       *

He looked from the corner of his eye and saw that one of the Llotta guards was watching intently.
He peered into the eye-piece of the telescope; made an inconsequential change in one of the
adjustments. The guard stirred but did not arise. He looked at the chart with new interest,
scanned its markings carefully. What had Mado marked for his attention? There were hundreds
of notations, some in Cos and a few in the ancient Martian, all in Mado's painstaking chirography.

Ah, there it was! A tiny spot almost on their course, with Mado's minute notation. Sargasso
Sea! What did it mean? Did Mado intend to lead the fleet into the embrace of that dreadful
monster they had so fortunately escaped? An excellent idea to save the inner planets. But suicide
for them! He'd do it though, if it weren't for Ora. She was so sweet and innocent. She must
not die; must not suffer. Another way must be found. He groaned aloud as he realized that her
predicament was the result of his own bullheadedness. If only he hadn't insisted on the trip
to Ganymede. But then there was the problem of preserving the civilization of the inner planets.
It had to be met.

There was a commotion behind him; a feminine shriek from the after cabins; loud shoutings from
the beast called Rapaju. Carr's heart skipped a beat. He was paralyzed with fear. But only
for an instant. With a bellow of rage he whirled around and started for the door, charging
the two guards with head down and arms flailing.

CHAPTER IX

Nemesis

The Llotta did not use their ray-pistols. They were too busy attempting to elude the mad rushes
of the powerful Terrestrial. Besides, there were good reasons they should not kill him--yet.
Carr drove one of them halfway down the passageway with a well-planted punch. The other was
on his back, hairy legs twined around his waist, an arm under his chin, drawing his head back
with a steady and terrible pressure. He whirled around, trying to shake off his beastly antagonist.

But these powerful legs and arms held fast. He tore at the hairy ankles where they crossed
in the pit of his stomach; wrenched them free. Still the creature clung to him, twisting his
head until it seemed his neck must break. He found a waving foot with his right hand; wrenched
it mightily. There was a sharp snap and the foot dangled limp in his fingers. He had broken
the ankle. With a howl of pain his assailant let go and dropped to the floor to crawl away
like a whipped cur.

In a flash Carr saw that the brute was reaching for his ray-pistol where it had dropped during
the encounter. He kicked it from the reach of that hairy paw and sprang after it. With one
of those little weapons in his hands the odds would change! His fingers closed on its grip
just as Ora rushed into the room, closely followed by Rapaju, whose distorted features were
terrible to behold. The cabin was full of them now; the guard he had first knocked down; the
lust-crazed commander--the one with the broken ankle. All but Detis and Mado. Carr faced them
alone.

So close was Rapaju to the girl that he dared not use the pistol, and now the uninjured guard
was circling him, trying to get in a position where he could use his ray-pistol without endangering
his commander. Carr fumbled for the release of the weapon he held in his hand; found it. The
guard threw himself to the floor when he saw it raised; shouted a warning. But it was too late.
The deadly ray had sped on its mission of death; struck him full in the middle. The twisted
body lay still a moment and then collapsed like a punctured balloon, leaving his scant clothing
in a limp heap--empty. A worthy miniature of the D-ray, this little weapon!

       *       *       *       *       *

He turned to face Rapaju and saw that he was shielding himself with Ora's body. She had fainted
and now hung drooping in the arms of the beast. Where was Mado? Detis? Good God--he'd killed
them! Carr thought of that little spot on the chart. Must be very close now. They'd pass so
near there'd be no escape. But he could not reach the controls without taking his eyes from
Rapaju. That would have to wait.

Rapaju was backing toward the door, still holding the limp figure of the girl before him. The
injured guard lay moaning on the floor.

"Drop her, you devil!" Carr shouted desperately as he saw that Rapaju soon would reach the
passageway.

Then suddenly he reached for the controls and pushed the energy lever to full speed forward.
He braced himself for the shock of acceleration and saw Rapaju and Ora thrown backward into
the passageway, the girl's body cushioned by that of her captor as they were flung violently
to the floor. Madly he rushed to the narrow entrance and tore at the hairy arms that encircled
the slender waist of the girl. He jerked the snarling commander of the Llotta expedition to
his feet and slammed him against the metal wall.

"Now, you damn pig," he grunted, "I'll finish the job. Dirty scum of a rotten world!"

He dragged his victim into the control cabin and threw him to the floor. But Rapaju was like
an eel. He wriggled from under him and snatched from the heap of clothing the ray-pistol of
the disintegrated guard. With a yelp of triumph he rose to his knees and leveled the weapon.

A well placed kick sent it spinning and Carr was upon him. He snapped back the head with a
terrible punch; then lifted the dazed creature to his feet and stepped back.

"Stand up and take it like a man!" he roared.

       *       *       *       *       *

Rapaju shook his head to clear it and rushed in with a bellow of rage. Just what Carr wanted!
Starting almost from the floor, his right came up to meet the vicious jaw with a crack that
told of the terrific power behind it. Lifted from his feet and hurled half way across the room
by the impact, Rapaju lay motionless where he fell.

Carr was at the telescope. Their speed was close to fifteen hundred miles a second. The monstrous
mass of Mado's Sargasso Sea loomed close in his vision. Off their course by a hundred miles
or more. They'd miss it all right. He had the situation in hand now on board the Nomad. But
how about the fleet behind them? He thought fast and furiously. Another two minutes and they'd
pass the thing; the inexplicable horror which had accounted for the golden sphere of the Europans.
Could he use it? Suppose the fleet of the enemy--

The idea was full of possibilities.

He rushed to the stern compartment, and scanned the heavens for the massed body of spheres
he knew would be the fleet of the Llotta. At this speed they must have fallen far behind. Yes,
there they were. Not so far behind at that. The battle in the control room must have been a
shorter one than it had seemed. He returned quickly to the controls and reversed the energy,
to give the fleet a chance to catch up to him.

Closer came that mass of whitish jelly. And now it was much larger than before. The terrible
creature, for living matter it was, beyond doubt, was growing with the rapidity of a rising
flood. Great tentacles of its horrid translucent substance reached in all directions for possible
victims. He sickened at the sight. But what a fate for the fleet of the Llotta! If only he
could maneuver them into its influence.

       *       *       *       *       *

He changed his course slightly and headed directly for the monster, again increasing speed.
Perhaps--if he calculated the forces correctly--he could dive through it again with the D-ray
to clear a path. But no. It was a miracle they had escaped before, and now the vicious thing
was more than double its previous size. Once more he altered his course. He'd cross in front
of the thing; skim it as close as he dared and shoot from its influence on the far side. The
greater mass of the enemy vessels and their lack of a quick-acting repulsive force would prove
their undoing.

Full speed ahead. A rapid mental calculation--an educated guess, rather--and he set the automatic
control. Turning around to start for the stern compartment, he saw that Ora had recovered from
her swoon and now stood swaying weakly in the passageway.

"Ora!" he exclaimed delightedly. He rushed to her side and supported her in a tender embrace.

"Rapaju?" she questioned with horror in her eyes.

"Won't bother you for a while, dear. But your father--Mado?"

"He gassed them. They'll recover." The brave girl had regained her composure.

"Good! But, come! Time's short." He half carried her to the rear, berating himself the while
for his inability to pay her closer attention. With arms still around her he placed her at
one of the stern ports.

"What is it, Carr?" She sensed his excitement.

"The fleet--see! We'll destroy them."

The spherical vessels were close behind, huddled together in mass formation and following the
Nomad blindly.

"How, Carr?"

"Lead them into it. Wait tall you see! There's a--"

       *       *       *       *       *

The Nomad lurched, and changed direction. Cold fear clutched at his throat. That devil of a
guard! Why hadn't he killed him? He dashed through the passage, Ora at his heels.

Sure enough, the crippled guard had dragged himself to the controls; was manipulating the energy
director as he had seen Mado do. They were heading directly for the terrible monster of the
heavens!

No need now to peer through the telescope. The thing was visible to the naked eye. No power
could save them! Carr hurled himself at the guard and tore at the hairy paw which gripped the
lever. The throbbing of strange energies filled the air of the room, and Carr's brain pulsed
with the maddening rhythm. The red discharge appeared at the projections of the control panels.
He forgot the fleet of the Llotta, forgot the menace to his own world. Only Ora mattered now,
and he had not the power to save her!

As in a daze he knew he was wrenching mightily at the body of the powerful minion of Rapaju.
His fingers encountered heated metal--one of the ray-pistols. He felt the intense vibration
of the weapon as its charge was released. But he still lived. The beast who held it had missed!
Dimly he was conscious of the screams of Ora; of the yielding of the creature who fought him.
An animal cry registered on his consciousness and he shook the suddenly limp Llotta from him.
He knew somehow that his last enemy was gone.

A quick glance showed him that Ora was still on her feet, braced against the wall. The red
veil was before his eyes. He grasped the controls, and fought desperately to keep his strength
and senses. A streamer of horrid whiteness swung across his vision; slithered clammily over
the glass of one of the forward ports. They were into the thing! It was the end! He groaned
aloud as he fumbled with the mechanisms and strove to formulate a plan of escape.

       *       *       *       *       *

The fleet, he knew, was just behind. An enormous mass. The repulsive energy astern would be
terrific. He turned it full on. The whiteness obscured his vision. Then it was gone once more.
A single streamer waved before him and encompassed them. The movement of these members must
be inconceivably rapid, else they'd be invisible at the speed the Nomad was traveling. Full
speed ahead. The repulsion full on in the direction of the center of the mass as well as astern.
The framework of the Nomad creaked protestingly from the terrific forces that tore at her vitals.

Then suddenly they were released. The Nomad was shooting off into space. The resultant of those
combined forces had done the trick. Only the edge of that devil-fish of space, had they touched.
Free--they were free of the monster! The red veil lifted. He rushed to Ora's side. She was
kneeling at one of the floor ports, breathing heavily but unharmed.

Below them they saw the swiftly receding mass: the fleet of the Llotta diving headlong, drawn
inexorably into the rapacious embrace of the vile creature of the heavens. An instant the awful
whiteness of the thing closed in greedily about the many spheres of the fleet; swallowed them
from sight and contorted madly and with seeming glee over the triumph. Then, in a burst of
blinding incandescence, it was gone. The monster, the fleet--everything--blasted into nothingness.
The fuel storage compartments of the vessels of Ganymede had exploded! The heavens were rid
of the inexplicable growing menace; the inner planets were saved from a terrible invasion.
And the Nomad was safe. Ora, Detis, Mado--all were safe!

At his side Ora was trembling. Gently he raised her to her feet, and took her into his arms.

CHAPTER X

Vagabonds All

Together they cared for Detis and Mado; made them comfortable in their bunks until the time
when the effects of the gas would wear off. Lucky it was that Rapaju had used the gas pistol
rather than the ray. Perhaps it had been a mistake. Or perhaps he had needed the scientific
knowledge of Detis, the familiarity with the inner planets that was Mado's. At any rate, they
had no delusions regarding his designs on Ora or his hatred of Carr. By his own passions had
the commander of the fleet been led to the error that cost him his life and made possible the
destruction of his fleet.

Carr was torn by conflicting emotions. The delectable little Europan was most disturbing. He'd
never had much use for the other sex--on Earth. Too dominating, most of them. And always thrown
at his head by designing parents for his money. But Ora was different! Her very nearness set
his pulses racing. And he knew that she cared for him as he did for her. Those moments in the
control cabin after the explosion! But something had come over him since he cut loose from
the old life. Wanderlust--that was it. He'd never go back. Neither would he be content to settle
down to a domestic life in Pala-dar. Wanted to be up and going somewhere.

"Oh, Carr, Carr!" Ora's voice called to him. "Mado is awake. He wants you."

Good old Mado! Why couldn't they just continue on their way as they had started out? Roaming
the universe in search of other adventures! But the silvery tinkle of Ora's laughter reached
his ears. She was irresistible! He forgot his doubts as he hurried to his friend's cabin.

       *       *       *       *       *

Mado was staring at the Europan maiden with a ludicrous expression of astonishment--gawping,
Carr called it. And Ora was laughing at him.

"Your friend," she gurgled, "doesn't believe he's alive, or that I am, or you. Tell him we are."

Carr grinned. Mado did look funny at that. "Hello, old sock," he said, "had a bad dream?"

"Did I? Oh boy!" Mado rocked to and fro, his head in his hands. Then he displayed sudden intense
interest. "Rapaju?" he asked. "His guards--the fleet--what's happened?"

"Ah ha! Now you know you're alive!" Carr laughed. "But the others are dead and gone. The fleet's
gone to smash--and how!"

"But Carr. How did you do it? Tell me!"

Mado threw off his covers and clapped his friend on the back, a resounding thump that brought
a gasp from Ora.

"Your Sargasso Sea did it. And it's a thing of the past, too. Wait till I tell you about it!"

       *       *       *       *       *

Ora tripped from the room as Carr sat on the edge of the bunk to spin his yarn.

"But man alive!" Mado exclaimed when the story was finished. "Don't you know you've done a
miraculous thing? I'd never have had the nerve. That damn creature out there had more than
four times its former attracting energy. That's what made it impossible for the fleet to get
away. And you--you lucky devil--you just doped it out right. The fleet of the Llotta gave you
a tremendous push from astern when you used the repulsive energy. If they hadn't been there
with their enormous mass to react against we'd all have been mincemeat now along with the Llotta.
You Terrestrials sure can think fast! Me, now--Lord, if it had been me, I'd have thought of
it after my spirit had departed to its reward--or punishment. Glory be! It's the greatest thing
I ever heard of."

"Rats! You'd have done the same as I did. Probably would have missed it a mile instead of nearly
getting caught as I did. A good thing the fleet's gone, though. Mars and Terra--Venus, too--they'll
never know how close it was for them. Wouldn't have sense enough to appreciate it, anyway."

"They would if they ever got a taste of what the Llotta planned. But what's wrong with you
Carr? You act sore. Want to go home?"

"Me? Don't be like that. No--I'd like to carry on as we planned. There's Saturn, Uranus and
Neptune yet; Planet 9; a flock of satellites and asteroids. Oh, dammit!"

Mado looked his amazement. "Well, what's to prevent it?" he demanded. "The Nomad's still here,
and so are we. I'm just as anxious to keep going as you are. Why not?"

But Carr did not reply. Why not, indeed? He strode from the cabin and into the control room.
The Nomad was drifting in space, subject only to natural forces that swung it in a vast orbit
around the sun. He started the generators and drove the vessel from her temporary orbit with
rapid acceleration. Out--out into the jeweled blackness of the heavens. There was Jupiter out
there, a bright orb that came suddenly very near when he centered it on the cross-hairs of
the telescope.

The excited voices of Ora and Detis came to his ears. The booming speech of Mado. Why couldn't
he be sensible and companionable as they were? But a perverse demon kept him at the controls.
They'd think him a grouch. Well, maybe he was! But the vastness of the universe beckoned. New
worlds to explore; mysteries to be solved; a life of countless new experiences! Anyone'd think
he was the owner of the Nomad, the way he planned for the future.

       *       *       *       *       *

They were in the control cabin now--Mado and Detis and Ora. A moment he hesitated, eyes glued
to the telescope. Then, with a petulant gesture, he reached for the automatic control; locked
it. Shouldn't be this way. They'd think him an awful cad. And they'd be right! He whirled to
face them.

Detis was smiling. Mado gazed owlishly solemn. Ora clung to the arm of her father, and her
long lashes hid the blue eyes that had played such havoc with the emotions of the Terrestrial.

"Carr," said Detis, gently, "we must thank you. You saved our lives, you know."

"Aw, forget it. Saved my own, too, didn't I? By a lucky break."

"It wasn't luck, Carr." Detis was gripping his hand now. "It was sheer grit and brains. You
had them both. If you hadn't used them we'd all be corpses--or disintegrated--excepting Ora,
perhaps. And you know the fate that awaited her. Instead, we are alive and well. The fleet
is gone. Rapaju's body and that of his guard drift nameless in space where you disposed of
them through the air-lock of the Nomad. The inner planets need fear no future invasion, for
the resources of Ganymede have been expended in the one huge enterprise that has failed. All
through your quick wit and bravery. No, it wasn't luck."

"Nonsense, Detis." Carr returned the pressure of the scientist's hand, smiling sheepishly.
He pushed him away after a moment. He didn't want their gratitude or praise. Didn't know what
he wanted. Ora still avoided meeting his gaze. "Nonsense," he repeated. "And now, please leave
me. You, Detis. Mado, too. I'd like to be alone for a while--with Ora. Mind?"

Mado's owlish look broadened to a knowing grin as he backed into the passageway. Detis collided
with the huge Martian in his eagerness to be out of the room. They were alone and Carr was
on his feet. Nothing mattered now--excepting Ora. Suddenly she was in his arms, the fragrance
of her hair in his nostrils.

       *       *       *       *       *

Star gazing, the two of them. It was ridiculous! But the wonders of the universe held a new
beauty now for Carr. The distant suns had taken on added brilliance. Still they beckoned.

"Carr," the girl whispered, after a time, "where are we going?"

"To Europa. Your home."

"To--to stay?"

"No." Carr was suddenly confident; determined. "We'll stop there to break the news. Then we'll
be wedded, you and I, according to the custom of your people. Our honeymoon--years of it--will
be spent in the Nomad, roving the universe. Mado'll agree, I know. Wanderers of the heavens
we'll be, Ora. But we'll have each other; and when we've--you've--had enough of it, I'll be
ready to settle down. Anywhere you say. Are you game?"

"Oh, Carr! How did you guess? It's just as we'd planned. Father and Mado and I. Didn't think
I'd go, did you, you stupid old dear?"

"Why--why Ora." Carr was stammering now. He'd thought he was being masterful--making the plans
himself. But she'd beat him to it, the adorable little minx! "I was a bit afraid," he admitted;
"and I still can't believe that it's actually true. You're sure you want to?"

"Positive. Why Carr, I've always been a vagabond at heart. And now that I've found you we'll
just be vagabonds together. Father and Mado will leave us very much to each other. Their scientific
leanings, you know. And--oh--it'll just be wonderful!"

"It's you that'll make it wonderful, sweetheart."

Carr drew her close. The stars shone still more brightly and beckoned anew. Vagabonds, all
of them! Like the gypsies of old, but with vastly more territory to roam. The humdrum routine
of his old life seemed very far behind. He wondered what Courtney Davis would say if he could
see him now. Wordless happiness had come to him, and he let his thoughts wander out into the
limitless expanse of the heavens. Star gazing still--just he and Ora.

Reader's Corner

From a Science Fiction "Fiend"

     Dear Editor:

     I agree with you about the reprinting of old stories,
     because you would only force older Science Fiction readers
     to read the same stuff that they have read before. Any
     Science Fiction fiend like myself will surely have the
     reprinted story in his collection of magazines.

     The size of your magazine is perfect, but your paper is not
     very good. As for me, I don't care about your paper because
     your stories are so very good that the paper doesn't matter.

     My favorite story, and one of the best stories that I have
     ever read so far, is "Murder Madness." It has a very
     original idea and holds your interest from the very start.

     I am also for a more often publication of your magazine;
     about twice a month--Rupert Jones, New York, N. Y.

Valuable Suggestions

     Dear Editor:

     The July issue of Astounding Stories is one of the best
     issues you have so far published.

     Arthur J. Burks sure is a master at writing Science Fiction
     tales. The first installment of "Earth, the Marauder" was
     swell. Harl Vincent is another very good author. His
     novelette, "The Terror of Air-Level Six," was a close
     second. "The Forgotten Planet," by S. P. Wright, "Beyond the
     Heaviside Layer," by S. P. Meek and "From an Amber Block,"
     by Tom Curry were all good stories.

     The cover illustration was the best yet. I hope that the
     next dozen covers do not have blue backgrounds. Other colors
     you might have are green, red, pink, orange, yellow, black
     and light and dark purple.

     When will Edmond Hamilton's first story be published in
     Astounding Stories? Have you received any stories by Stanton
     Coblentz, A. Hyatt Verrill, Ed Earl Repp, John W. Campbell,
     Jr., Edward E. Chappelow and Edgar Rice Burroughs yet?

     Why not have a page devoted to the authors? You could print
     a picture and tell something about one author each month. I
     think that an illustration representing Science Fiction
     would look good on the contents page.

     I hope that Wesso will soon be illustrating every story in
     Astounding Stories, or that you will obtain another artist
     equally as good (if possible).

     Is it possible for you to use a better and thinner grade of
     paper?

     The only thing wrong with it, in my opinion, is that it is
     too small; the size should be at least 9x12. Also it should
     be a semi-monthly, or at least accompanied by a quarterly
     and annual.

     The stories in the July issue are wonderful, all except
     Murray Leinster's serial, which does not belong in your
     magazine.

     If you have any intention of putting an annual or a
     quarterly on the market, will you be so kind as to
     communicate with me as I am very much interested in your
     magazine.--Louis Wentzler, 1933 Woodbine St., Brooklyn, N.
     Y.

"Ever Since"

     Dear Editor:

     I want to tell you what I think of your new magazine. I
     think it's great.

     I stopped in a drug store and saw Astounding Stories on the
     newsstand. I bought it and have been buying it ever since. I
     am fourteen years old, but I am interested in science. Why
     not get a story by Edgar Rice Burroughs, and some more by
     Ray Cummings?

     Dear Editor:

     I agree with you that reprints should absolutely be kept out
     of your magazine. I admit that there are many stories of
     unusual merit among the reprints but I favor new and fresher
     stories.

     In your last issue (June) I consider "The Moon Master" as
     being the best story, closely followed by "Out of the
     Dreadful Depths." "The Cavern World" came next, followed by
     "Giants of the Ray," "Brigands of the Moon" and "Murder
     Madness."

     I have not found one poor story in your magazine yet, and
     never expect to.

     I, for one, favor a larger sized magazine with a five cent
     increase in price, or, at least, if the magazine must remain
     small, I would like to see a quarterly out on the third
     Thursday every three months.

     I am extremely pleased to see that an interplanetary story
     by R. F. Starzl will appear in your next issue. Please have
     more of his stories if possible.--Forrest James Ackerman,
     530 Staples Ave., San Francisco, Calif.

Likes Present Size

     Dear Editor:

     Best stories in the last two issues: C. D. Willard's "Out of
     the Dreadful Depths" (Excellent); Chas. W. Diffin's "The
     Moon Master" (Very Good); Sewell P. Wright's "Forgotten
     Planet" (Fairly Good).

     I am a new reader, but interested in these kinds of
     stories. I am pleased to see that your readers criticize
     freely. A story that will please one reader will not
     interest another, perhaps, and it may not be the fault of
     the author's ability so much as that he doesn't like that
     type of story.

     "Out of the Dreadful Depths," by C. Willard is the best
     story I've read for some time. I could not see a single way
     it could be improved. "The Moon Master," by Chas. Diffin was
     just as good but I didn't like the ending so well. I
     certainly hope Mr. Diffin will write more stories like it,
     especially using his same three leading characters. "The
     Forgotten Planet," by Mr. Wright, was well written and
     pretty good in spite of the fact that I don't like that type
     of story so well.

     "Murder Madness," by Murray Leinster was well written and
     the characters interesting and real but I didn't like his
     subject. I hope for more and different stories from him.
     "Earth, the Marauder," by Arthur J. Burks looks as though it
     was going to be a record winner for me--accomplish the
     impossible, and make a good story from a story of the
     future.

     I don't like horror stories, crazy stories and stories
     written far into the future, as "Brigands of the Moon."
     These stories make light of the vast distances of space and
     are too weird, droll and fail to give a single shiver down
     my old backbone. They are strange and inhabited by strange
     people. No story can give the faintest idea of the space
     between those mighty suns of the universe. Most of them have
     more imagination than scientific knowledge. "Earth, the
     Marauder," an exception.

     I would much rather hear stories of primeval days of the
     lost Atlantis before Earth was populated with scientific
     beings, when the cave man looked up at the unknown, then so
     near to him. At the moon, which was then so close, and
     uninhabited by superior beings. Tales of superstition and
     all mystery stories of the unknown. I like interplanetary
     stories, if not written too far into the future.

     I like the present size and shape of your magazine. Best
     wishes for the success of your magazine.--An Interested
     Reader, Goffstown, N. H.

Likes

     Dear Editor:

     I have just finished reading the July issue of Astounding
     Stories and I think every story is simply great, especially
     "The Terror of Air-Level Six." That sure is a story! "The
     Forgotten Planet" is a corker, too!

     While reading the letters in "The Readers' Corner" I noticed
     that almost everyone has a hankering for Edgar Rice
     Burroughs' stories. Believe it or not, I'm wild about his
     stories myself and I'm looking forward to reading his
     stories in Astounding Stories. It won't make any difference
     if they'll be originals or reprints, so long as they're
     Burroughs!

     Ray Cummings is another one of my favorites and I always
     read his stories first. His "Brigands of the Moon" hit me in
     the right spot. "The Moon Master" in the June issue was
     also a very fine story.

     Now about this argument about reprinted stories. I think
     that if, at least, one reprinted story appeared in each
     issue of Astounding Stories, it wouldn't hurt its
     reputation. Here are some reprints that hit the ceiling:
     "The War in the Air," by Wells; "Tarranto, the Conqueror,"
     by Cummings; "The Conquest of Mars," by Serviss. I'm sure
     the readers would enjoy reading them. But if you are
     persistent about avoiding reprints then we'll have to do
     without them.--Paul Nikolaieff, 4325 S. Seeley Ave.,
     Chicago, Illinois.

Wants Sequel

     Dear Editor:

     I have read every issue of Astounding Stories though I can
     barely afford it. I like it very much. The best novels were,
     in order: 1. "The Moon Master"; 2. "Phantoms of Reality"; 3.
     "Spawn of the Stars"; 4. "Terror of Air-Level Six."

     In the July issue you published a story, "Earth, the
     Marauder," which promises to be even better than the
     "Skylark of Space" that once came out in another magazine. I
     like Harl Vincent, Ray Cummings, Arthur Burks, and Martian
     stories best. Interplanetary stories always agree with me.
     Burroughs is an excellent author. I like his Martian books.
     "The Beetle Horde" in the first two issues was very good.
     But why not give a sequel about the other and more terrible
     creatures in the earth whom the madman spoke of? Fourth
     dimensionals are sometimes good. You should have reprints by
     Burroughs, Cummings and Merritt. I am eagerly waiting for
     the next issue. Do not enlarge the magazine because I cannot
     afford it. Don't publish stories like "From an Amber Block."
     They're rotten. Publish more future and interplanetary
     stories.--Joseph Edelman, 721 De Kalb Ave., Brooklyn, N. Y.

Stands Pat

     Dear Editor:

     I have read all the issues of A. S. since the date of
     publication and think that there is no other magazine like
     it on the market. I would like to offer a few suggestions
     contrary to most of your readers (i.e., Jack Darrow & Chas.
     Barret):

     1.--Keep magazine in present size and price.

     2.--Issue it only once a month. If it was issued
     semi-monthly the writers would soon run out of ideas; and
     the readers would get sick of it if they read it so often
     anyway.

     3.--Keep up the style of stories now running, i.e., keep the
     science a little in the background. Do not let it monopolize
     the story.

     I get other magazines that do not follow the last mentioned
     rule and the result is the stories are full of machines
     going 10,000 miles per hour, etc.; pink, black, purple and
     eleventeen other colored rays. As a result the stories are
     drier than the Sahara Desert.

     The illustrations are fine (O.K.) as they are.--Walter
     O'Brien, 6 Hageman Pl., North Bergen, N. J.

Trial by Readers

     Dear Editor:

     When Astounding Stories first appeared on the newsstands, a
     brand new Science Fiction magazine, I was prejudiced against
     it as a competitor to the existing magazines--one that might
     carry an inferior quality of Science Fiction so closely
     approaching the supernatural as to practically disregard
     science. In a few cases, as with very good writers like A.
     Merritt and H. P. Lovecraft, this is permissible, but,
     otherwise, not at all so. In the first issue, "The Stolen
     Mind" seemed to bear me out, but, then, there was "Tanks." I
     bought the next issue--much better! And then the third
     showed "The Soul Master," very well written, but not quite
     science, as related. Yet, "Cold Light" held me on, and
     "Brigands of the Moon." There is no danger of my dropping
     off now!

     In the current issue, "Murder Madness" and "The Power and
     the Glory" stand out as mile-posts in the history of Science
     Fiction. The rest are not far behind, though, as a matter of
     fact, "Beyond the Heaviside Layer" and "Earth, the Marauder"
     have more discernible flaws than the rest. Just for example,
     a layer of organic matter would raise Cain with astronomy,
     due to refraction. Air is bad enough. But the writing
     overwhelms the error. You have certainly assembled a group
     of excellent authors, new and old, and I am glad to see the
     promise of R. F. Starzl in the next issue. His "Madness of
     the Dust" is one of the most naturally written
     interplanetary stories I have read--logical and clear, just
     as it would happen to anybody.

     And now for the big question--that of reprints. You seem to
     have already decided the answer, and have defended your
     action well, but I wonder if it is well enough. By far your
     best argument is your last--"authors must eat"--with which I
     have no quarrel at all. Still, one classic serial a year, or
     at most two, might not prove too harmful. Following back, I
     reach a statement concerning "The Saturday Evening Post." In
     the past it has published hundreds of the world's best
     stories, and never reprinted. True. But why? Because these
     stories are all available in book form, in libraries and
     book stores, in original or new editions or in the Grosset
     and Dunlap list of perpetually printed best sellers. It is
     possible to read them for years after publication. But try
     to find the past masterpieces of Science Fiction. With the
     exception of Burroughs' books, most were never printed in
     book form. Even books by Wells and Verne, classics of their
     kind are gone, totally gone, even from the shelves of
     libraries. Many of Verne's best stories were never
     translated from the French. And the other classics of which
     readers write, classics familiar to most of us only by name
     and a few lucky tastes of others, newer works by the same
     authors, are absolutely gone--annihilated. Their best works
     are beyond the reach of the reader. Only by republication,
     in magazine or book, can they be revived in an age when they
     will be remembered and preserved--an age awake to science
     and Science Fiction. Other magazines are doing it, one or
     two to the year, and it may be that you need not reprint;
     but the reservoir of the past is large, and a few cannot
     drain it. This leads to your first argument, that better
     stories are being written to-day. They are--better than the
     average of the past--but not better than the classics. It
     would be folly to say that because the short story is a
     modern development, and because Galsworthy or Walpole or
     Reimarch are better than the average of yesterday, to our
     present tastes, that the classics of the past should be
     scrapped.

     The analogy, I feel, is good. The classics of general
     literature have their place in history. The classics of
     Science Fiction should have theirs. There are dozens better
     than the general run of present work, by A. Merritt, Homer
     Eon Flint, George Allan England, Austin Hall, John Taine,
     Garret P. Serviss, Ralph Milne Farley, Ray Cummings, and
     others that stood out in an age when Science Fiction was
     considered pure phantasy or imaginative "trash." In the
     present age, they would be still better, and this time they
     would not be lost to the world, for there are publishers and
     readers who would preserve them. You may adhere to your
     decision, but, to my mind, and, I think to far more than 1%
     of other minds, reprints of classics are essential, actually
     vitally necessary. Try to find out what a ballot would show.
     Again, from the author's point of view. Up to now, Burroughs
     has had all the breaks as to book publication. Now Ray
     Cummings and others are being published. "An author must
     eat." Give him a chance, by reviving his best efforts, and
     bringing them to public attention, so that a publisher will
     find them worthy of publication. Most of the masters of
     Science Fiction are alive--give them a chance to eat. Too, a
     great many of the best modern authors are modern readers:
     ask them if they would be willing to see one of the best
     stories of the past re-issued each year, stories unpublished
     in existing magazines for ten years or more. I certainly
     hope you will alter your decision.

     And now to reverse some other decisions of readers. The size
     is quite all right and very handy for binding purposes, Mr.
     Mack to the contrary. Incidentally, the staples are so
     placed as to make binding simple. Also contrary to Mr.
     Darrow, I prefer the artist Gould, to Wesso, for interior
     illustrations, though Wesso is best for mechanical
     illustrations. Incidentally, give us the name of the artist
     for each story, especially when the illustrations are
     unsigned, as in the April issue. Wesso's best cover for you
     has been that for April, illustrating "Monsters of Moyen."
     It shows his best style very well.

     As to my favorite type of Science Fiction, any kind, if well
     written, will do. As it happens, the king of authors, A.
     Merritt, has a type all his own, as Mr. Bryant notes, which
     is unbeatable, and my favorite. However, at times, a good
     writer may fall down in his fundamental assumptions. I don't
     care where or how far he goes, so long as he starts with
     something that present-day science does not deny. Here is
     where "The Soul Master" fell down, and, even more so, "The
     Soul Snatcher." Better leave souls and astrals and egos
     alone, except in very, very rare cases, when an author turns
     up who can make you believe in them as mechanical entities.

     As a Science Fiction fan, a student of chemistry, and a
     hopeful author, I will probably write to "The Readers'
     Corner" as often as I want to blow off steam regarding
     science or fiction or the way in which you are running the
     magazine. I hope I won't be considered an utter nuisance,
     and will be given a trial by jury--a jury of readers.--P.
     Schuyler Miller, 302 So. Ten Broeck St., Scotia, New York.

"Handy to Hold"

     Dear Editor:

     I wish to say that I have the seven numbers of Astounding
     Stories that have been issued thus far and I have read them
     through ever word. It is wonderful, and there is no word of
     fault to be uttered concerning any of them. I think "Murder
     Madness" is the best story you have printed so far, but they
     are all good in different ways.

     You received some letters that surprise me. How anyone can
     ask you to change the make-up to the blanket sheet form is
     more than I can see. It is so handy to hold and to read as
     it is now. I do hope you will not change it.

     No, there is so much that one wants to read these days that
     I do not advocate issuing twice a month. One issue each
     month is just right. But I do wish you would increase the
     number of pages to at least the number in Five Novels
     magazine. Of course, you would want 25c. for it then, and
     that is all right.

     Am glad that you refuse to give us reprints. We do not want
     them.

     Astounding Stories is a gem, and I hope to read it for the
     remainder of my life. Keep right on with the good
     work.--Will S. Cushing, 21 Cottage St., Abington,
     Massachusetts.

We Hope So, Too!

     Dear Editor:

     Your July issue of Astounding Stories was wonderful. Your
     magazine is improving greatly. "Murder Madness" is a great
     story, and "Earth, the Marauder," is one of the best stories
     I have ever read. I hope the other parts of it are just as
     interesting as the first part.--Mick Scotts, 115 W. 16th
     Ave., Gary, Indiana.

Another Sequel

     Dear Editor:

     Well, I have so much to say, or rather would like to say for
     your magazine. I like it in every detail but one, which is
     waiting a whole month for the rest of my stories.

     I wish you would give us the third sequel of "Out of the
     Ocean's Depths." Let the young scientist discover a way to
     perform matrimony between the girl of the ocean and the man,
     and then let their child live either in or out of water.
     There could be two more good stories or sequels of "Out of
     the Ocean's Depths." I like them all.

     I liked "Murder Madness," too. It seems as though it is
     really real, and not fiction. I wish you would get the book
     out twice a month.--Mrs. B. R. Woods, Cotte, Arkansas.

From Author to Author

     Dear Editor:

     Since Astounding Stories began you have published a goodly
     number of really remarkable stories, chief among which, in
     my estimation, are the following: "Spawn of the Stars," by
     C. W. Diffin; "Brigands of the Moon," by Ray Cummings;
     "Monsters of Moyen," by Arthur J. Burks; "The Atom Smasher,"
     by Victor Rousseau; and "The Moon Master," C. W. Diffin.

     But none of these can compare with Diffin's last short
     story, "The Power and the Glory," which appeared in the last
     (July) issue. For originality of theme, clever phraseology
     and excellent literary craftsmanship it stands alone--a
     little masterpiece. Its author should be congratulated.

     To the best of my knowledge, Mr. Diffin is a newcomer in
     Science Fiction. The first story of his that I read was
     "Spawn of the Stars." Keep his pen busy, Mr. Editor; he's
     valuable--an' I don't mean maybe!

     If I could write a story like "The Power and the Glory," I'd
     certainly congratulate myself!--L. A. Eshbach, 225 Chestnut
     St., Reading, Pa.

"Held Me Spellbound"

     Dear Editor:

     I happened to read one of your books the other
     day--Astounding Stories is the one--and I was very much
     taken up with it. I found that it was a very interesting
     book, indeed. I have no fear in saying that it held me
     spellbound from the start till the finish. The one that I
     happened to buy was the issue of May, 1930, and the story
     that gripped me most was "Brigands of the Moon." It was very
     thrilling, indeed, and I am very sorry I could not obtain
     the previous copies so as to start at the beginning. But,
     however, I am able to obtain a copy every month and am very
     pleased, as I would hate to miss a copy again.

     Well, I hope this letter will reach you safely. Remember me
     as a contented reader of your magazine.--Geo. Young, 447
     Canning St., Nth. Carlton N. 4, Melbourne, Australia.

We Are Printing It!

     Dear Editor:

     It seems that you have taken a wrong slant on my letter
     which you published recently. True, I did give you a long
     list of stories which I wanted to see, but I didn't mean
     that you should publish only reprints, no new stories. Far
     from it. Instead, I'd suggest that you give us a classic,
     say, every six months. This arrangement ought to be okay
     with everyone. That's that for reprints.

     About the stories and the authors, they're all right.
     There's one thing that I like about you that I don't find in
     the other Science Fiction magazines. With the very first
     issue you started off with the authors that are wanted by
     everyone who reads this type of literature. You began with
     Cummings, Rousseau, Meek and Leinster. Hm-m, let's see. And
     you're keeping up the good system by having added Vincent,
     Starzl, Burks, Curry, Miss Lorraine, Hamilton, etc. But you
     don't escape entirely unscathed, for the other magazines
     give us stories from authors which haven't as yet written a
     story which appeared in your columns. Let's see; besides the
     stars above, let's add to the galaxy Keller (three cheers),
     Breuer, Smith (his story, "The Skylark of Space," ought to
     have about six sequels), the late Mr. Serviss, Verrill, Poe,
     Wells, Verne, Flint (o-o-oh, for that "Blind Spot"), Hall,
     England, Hasta (one story by him is all I've read, but it
     only whetted my appetite), and Simmons. Oh, yes, the two
     Taines, the detective of Dr. Keller's and the author. But
     there's something missing. Hm-m--ah, A. Merritt! What a
     writer! How could I have forgotten him? Which reminds me of
     Burroughs who has been left out in the rain for quite a
     while. He belongs back in the fold.

     Mr. Editor, do you remember way back when you said we should
     write in to you to tell you of the stories we want and that
     you would get them for us? Of course, you do. Stories and
     authors cannot be parted, so get those authors I've listed
     above and forget about the stories, for they'll all be good.

     I do not kick about any particular author for the reason
     that if I tried to write on the same subject they picked out
     and are picking, my work would be pretty different from what
     they'd produce, and their works would be the ones that would
     be published. Please don't read that twice; I hope to be a
     contributor very soon.

     In my opinion you should enlarge the size of the magazine,
     but for heaven's sake don't increase the departments. Every
     day that we read a paper we learn of what science is doing.
     And, at the end of the month we read the same thing in a
     magazine which should give us a story instead. The price is
     just right. But, even if the magazine were enlarged and the
     price boosted to a quarter, do you really think that we get
     enough material to devour? No! Then what? Get out a
     Quarterly! And please don't wait about that for the next ten
     years.

     This is a pretty lengthy letter and I don't expect you to
     print it but I want you to get the views of at least one
     devoted reader--Isidore Mansen, 544 Myrtle Ave., Brooklyn,
     N. Y.

Every Single One

     Dear Editor:

     I certainly received a pleasant surprise when I glanced at
     the table of contents for the August issue. When one sees
     Victor Rousseau, R. F. Starzl, Murray Leinster, Harl
     Vincent, and Edmond Hamilton, one knows that the issue is
     bound to be a good one. I wish to congratulate you on the
     way you have been running Astounding Stories. If you intend
     to keep giving us the authors you are now, throughout your
     whole career, you are a law-breaker. What I mean by that is
     that no other magazine has kept a high grade of authors very
     long. The old magazines on the market have once had stories
     by the authors you are giving us now, but they never kept
     those authors long. If you keep the authors you have now you
     may well be assured of success.

     "Silver Dome" undoubtedly copped the prize for this issue.
     It could not have been better. "The Lord of Space" was a
     very good story. "The Planet of Dread" was another very good
     story. "The Second Satellite," by Hamilton, was excellent.
     For once in his life Hamilton has written a story that has
     not the same old plot all his other stories have! I wish to
     congratulate him on the best story he has ever written! "The
     Flying City" was the same thing all over again. The world in
     danger and suddenly our magnificent hero comes along, takes
     a hand, and presto the danger is all over. Of course, he has
     to meet the beautiful girl and fall in love with her, and at
     the end of the story marry her! Remember, history repeats
     itself. Have you ever heard of the world being saved by one
     man? No! Neither have I. The world will never be saved by
     one man. Therefore, all those stories are "the bunk."
     "Murder Madness" was wonderful. I expect to see it in the
     talkies before long. It could be filmed easily enough,
     couldn't it! I know it certainly would make a wonderful
     picture. I expect to see you publish "Murder Madness" and
     "Brigands of the Moon" in book form. If you do, I will try
     my darnedest to get a copy. Also in my list of good authors
     up there I forgot to mention Arthur J. Burks.

     Now I wish to broach the subject of a Quarterly to you. I
     think Astounding Stories should have one. Every other
     Science Fiction magazine has, so let us have one, too. Won't
     you? You can give us over twice as much as you do in the
     monthly and charge about 50c. a copy. Have one good book and
     several short stories in each issue; no serials. How about
     it?

     And now let's talk a little about Astounding Stories! Why
     not cut the paper smooth, the way you do in Five Novels
     Monthly? It would make the magazine look a lot better. It
     would also be a lot easier to find one's place when one has
     to lay the book down for a moment. The last reason may sound
     trivial, but it's really annoying to try to find one's place
     among those bulky pages. The paper you use now gives the
     magazine an inferior appearance when compared to others of
     its kind. It certainly would be a relief to see you use
     better paper. Won't you please consider the points I have
     brought out in my letter?--Gabriel Kirschner, Box 301,
     Temple, Texas.

"What Authors!"

     Dear Editor:

     Astounding Stories is improving with every issue. However,
     you would have to go far to beat the August issue. It can
     be called an "all star" number. What authors! Hamilton,
     Rousseau, Starzl, Burks, and others, all of whom are among
     my favorite authors. The stories were so good that it is
     almost impossible to pick out the best one. However, after
     some thought I have finally chosen Hamilton's "The Second
     Satellite." "Earth, the Marauder," is a close second. I hope
     you have many more stories by Edmond Hamilton.

     I see that the cover is the first one to be of a different
     color. Please have a new color each month.

     There are a few ways in which Astounding Stories may be
     improved. Enough of the readers have mentioned improving the
     quality of the paper so that I do not have to comment on
     this. An editorial each month would improve the magazine
     greatly.

     Here's hoping that Astounding Stories becomes a semi-monthly
     soon--very soon--Michael Fogaris, 157 Fourth St., Passiac,
     N. J.

Stands Pat

     Dear Editor:

     I have been a reader of your magazine for some time. I hope
     to continue reading it in the future.

     I notice in "The Readers' Corner" that some want reprints.
     Others want the size of the magazine changed. I say, give us
     "fresh" stories and leave the size of the magazine alone.

     In my opinion, the best stories in your July issue were
     "Beyond the Heaviside Layer" and "Earth, the Marauder." They
     were both fine. Keep up the good work--Carlson Abernathy, P.
     O. Box 584, Clearwater, Florida.

       *       *       *       *       *