They were jealous of him, and, of course, this did not make them any kinder to the young lad.
But Joseph remembered what his father had told him--that dreams were sometimes messages from
God; and he believed that his dream was a message, and that he would one day be greater than
all his brothers.  They also believed in dreams, and feared that what the boy had dreamt might
come true, so that they began to hate him all the more.

In those days people thought that the stars had a great deal to do with their lives; and certain
men said that they could tell what would happen to a new-born child when he grew up by looking
at the stars which were to be seen in the sky at the time of his birth.

Now Joseph looked often at the stars, and wondered who placed them there, and what they had
to do with him.  And one night as he lay asleep in his father's tent he had another dream,
and this time it was about the stars that could be seen through a slit in the tent, gleaming
and sparkling in the dark blue sky.  He dreamt that the sun and the moon and eleven of the
largest of the twinkling stars came and bowed down to him.

He told this dream also to his angry brothers, as well as to the old man his father, who gently
checked him for his vain thoughts.  He had, however, a soaring mind, and had more dreams still,
of which we are not told, so that his brothers gave him, partly in mockery, the name of "Joseph
the Dreamer."

Now at certain seasons grass was somewhat scarce in the Vale of Hebron, so at one time Jacob
sent his sons away with their sheep and cattle to seek food in other valleys where the grass
was longer green.  They went along the hills to the beautiful Vale of Shechem, fifty miles
away; and after some time had passed the old shepherd began to wonder if they were all well,
for he had not heard from them for some days.

It was his usual custom when his sons were away from home to send a messenger to them with
cheese, butter, and wine, and other nice things to eat; and this time he asked Joseph to go.
Now, a camel ride of fifty miles was not an easy undertaking, for there were robbers in these
parts, and the old man was much pleased when Joseph said he was not afraid to set out on the
journey.

Mounted on a strong camel, with side baskets filled with cakes of figs, dried raisins, parched
corn, and leather bottles of oil and wine, the young lad rode away.  He was dressed in his
favourite coat of many colours, protected by his long cloak, while a bright kerchief covered
his head, and a spear and club hung at his saddle.  And as his father watched him going along
the yellow track and over the hill towards the Bethlehem road, he sent up a prayer for his
safe return.

When Joseph came in due time to the Vale of Shechem, he wandered about asking the few people
he met for his brothers; and at last he was told by a certain man that he must ride to a place
called Dothan, where there were two wells, for his brothers were there feeding their flocks.
This he did, and in due time came to the spot where his brothers were resting.

"Who is this coming over the hill from Shechem?" said the brothers to each other, as they shaded
their eyes with their hands to watch Joseph coming down the track into the plain.

They expected more riders to follow him, but no more came, and they wondered who the lonely
traveller could be.  After a time the newcomer urged his camel into a trot across the plain,
and they soon saw that it was Joseph.

"Behold, this dreamer cometh!" cried one.  Now they had their father's favourite in their power.

"Let us slay him for his dreams, and throw him into some pit," said another; "and we will say
that some wild beast has eaten him up."

But Reuben, one of the ten, would not hear of hurting the lad, though he agreed to their putting
him into a pit; for he had made up his mind that when the night came he would help the lad
out again, and send him home to his father.

Shouting to his brothers in his joy at finding them, Joseph urged on his camel; but no answering
shout came back again, and his heart sank within him.  His camel knelt on the ground, and leaping
off its back, he turned to his nearest brother for the kiss of welcome; but a strong arm warded
him off.

He turned to another in surprise, only to meet with the same cold dislike.  He told them what
his father had sent, and took out the presents from the camel-bags, giving them the old shepherd's
kind messages.  But it was all of no use.  He could not make friends of these dark, bearded
men, whose flashing eyes spoke only of their bitter hatred towards the young lad their brother.

Seizing him roughly, they stripped him of his coat of many colours, and leading him to a deep
hole in the ground called a pit, they pushed him in.  What would become of his dreams now?

"Let him die there of thirst and hunger," they said, as they turned to feast upon the good
things the lad had brought to them with such a joyful heart.

Meanwhile Reuben had gone away, so as not to see his brother treated cruelly; and now the men
feasted together in sullen silence, for they were by no means happy.

While they sat eating they watched a string of camels come over the hills to the north, and
draw nearer and nearer across the plain; and before long they saw that the travellers were
a band of merchants taking slaves and spices to the distant land of Egypt.  Slaves!  That was
the very thing; and a flush came over the face of Judah as he said to his brothers,--

"What shall we gain if we kill our brother?  Let us sell him to these men.  Let us not harm
him, for, after all, he is our brother."

So they helped Joseph out of the pit and showed him to the merchants, who saw that he was a
handsome lad, such as would bring a good price in the slave-market in Egypt, where red-cheeked
boys were of greater value than black boys of the desert; and they bought him for twenty silver
pieces, which they counted out to Judah upon the ground.

Tied with a rope like a dog to his master's camel, Joseph was led away by the dusky merchants
on their slow march to Egypt.  They did not heed his cries and tears, for they bought and sold
boys and girls, as other men bought and sold sheep and cattle, almost every day of their lives.

When night drew near, and Reuben came quietly towards the edge of the pit and called his young
brother's name, he got no answer but the sighing of the wind in the grass.  Believing that
the lad was dead, Reuben tore his clothes in his grief, and ran quickly to his brothers' tents;
but they hid the truth from him, and having dipped Joseph's tunic in the blood of a goat which
they had killed, they brought it to his father.

"This have we found," they said.  "Tell us now whether it is your son's coat or not."

Then the old man knew it at once, and said, "It is my son's coat; an evil beast has devoured
him.  Joseph is without doubt rent in pieces." And in his bitter grief he tore his garments
after the manner of his people, while his sons and daughters tried in vain to comfort him.

"I will go down to the grave," he said, "mourning for my son."

THE STORY OF BENJAMIN.

I.

Joseph was bought from the merchants by an officer who had command over the soldiers of Pharaoh,
the ruler of Egypt; and after a time of trial he prospered so well that he became one of the
chief officers of the king, having among other tasks the care of the royal granaries or storehouses
of corn.

Now Joseph, who was very wise and thoughtful, caused great storehouses of brick to be set up
in all the cities, and he told the people to place in these granaries one-tenth of the yield
of each year's harvest. This he did to guard against any time of famine which might fall upon
the land.

For seven years of plenty this was done, and after that there came upon the land and upon all
the lands round about seven years of famine; and only in the land of Egypt was there corn for
the people.  And when the people cried to Pharaoh for bread he said, "Go unto Joseph; what
he saith to you, do."  Then Joseph opened all the storehouses, and sold corn to the Egyptians.
And from all the countries round about people came into Egypt to buy corn.

Far away in the Vale of Hebron the famine was sore, and the sons of Jacob did not know what
to do.  Then when things were at their worst news came to Jacob that there was corn in Egypt.
So he sent his ten sons away with their empty sacks and their asses to buy corn for their families.
They wished to take their young brother Benjamin with them, but their father would not allow
them.  He had lost Joseph, he said, and he would not risk Benjamin with them.

Having crossed many a weary mile of yellow sand and barren rock, they were stopped by a high
wall set with forts and gates guarded by soldiers; and they had to say what they wanted before
they were allowed to pass into Egypt.

For days they walked by the side of the great river Nile, along the road to Memphis, where
the king's stores were, and at length they saw the city upon an island in the river.  Stepping
into broad ferry-boats with their animals, they were taken over, and went up the long road,
lined on each side with the figures of winged lions in stone, towards the wide market-place
of the great city.  There they made known what they wanted, saying that they had come from
Hebron to buy corn; and their names and business were written down on a tablet, which was taken
to the keeper of the granaries.

Word soon came that they must go before the keeper; and they were warned to be careful what
they said, for he was one of the king's chief officers.  Taking off their sandals and cloaks
at the steps, the ten Hebrew shepherds went between the pillars at the door and stood waiting.

Within sat a young Egyptian, dressed in a robe of white linen, and wearing a great black wig
of horsehair with many small plaits.  His scribes sat at tables below him, writing down any
orders he might wish to give.

An Egyptian soldier told the sons of Jacob to go forward.  Then the ten men went in and knelt
down humbly before the young Egyptian; nor did they rise until he gave them leave.  He looked
at them and frowned, and they were afraid.

"Where do you come from?" the officer asked sharply.

"From the land of Canaan, to buy corn," was the humble answer.

"You are spies!" he cried in a passion.  "You have come to spy out the weakness of the land.
What is your calling?  Who are your friends?"

The ten Hebrews could scarcely speak for terror.  They had heard terrible stories of how these
fierce Egyptians never allowed spies to get out of their country alive.

"No, my lord; thy servants have come to buy food," said one.  "We are all one man's sons,"
cried another.  "We are honest men; thy servants are no spies," pleaded a third.

But the great Egyptian only listened with a frown to their whining voices.  "No," he replied
firmly; "you have come to spy out the weakness of Egypt.  Is your father alive?  Have you another
brother?"

Why was this man so angry with them? they wondered.

"We belong to one family of twelve brothers," Judah replied.  "We have a father, an old man,
and another brother, the child of his old age, and he alone is left of his mother's children,
and his father loves him much.  We are the sons of one man in Canaan, and truly the youngest
is now with our father, and one other is dead."

Was he still angry?  They lifted their dark eyes to the stern face of the young Egyptian.

"I see you are spies," was the harsh reply, but his voice was softer. "In this way I will prove
you.  By the king's life, you shall not go back unless your younger brother is brought here
to me.  Send one among you to bring him, and the rest of you shall be kept in prison until
he returns.  So shall I prove whether what you say is true.  If you will not do this, then
by the king's life you are spies indeed!"  He waved them away with his hand, and the Egyptian
soldiers pushed them out at the door, telling them that they must come away at once to prison.

As they sat on the earthen floor of the prison looking at each other in silence, they felt
amazed and full of sorrow, thinking that they would never see their tents and their little
ones again.  For they did not know that the king's officer was their own brother Joseph, and
that instead of being angry, he was really filled with joy at seeing them after twenty years
of separation.  As for his angry words, he was only trying them, and meant nothing but kindness,
as we shall see.

II.

Joseph's brothers were to be kept in prison until they settled who should ride back in haste
to Hebron to bring Benjamin down into Egypt; but Joseph's heart was tender, and after a while
he began to think that perhaps he had been too harsh with them.

One man, he told himself, could not carry enough corn to feed all the starving families in
Hebron, and it might be dangerous for him to ride back alone.  His old father, too, would be
anxious.  So he sent word to the prison that the brothers might all go home but Simeon, who
must stay in prison until the rest came back with their young brother.

He also gave orders that they were to have their corn-sacks filled, and that each man's money
was to be secretly tied up again in the mouth of his sack.

All the brothers were glad but Simeon, who begged them to come back as quickly as they could;
and riding on their high camels, with their well-laden asses tied to each other in a long line,
they left the Egyptian city, thankful to get away, and went back to their old father in Hebron.

Jacob was glad to see them again, but he would not believe their story about Simeon being left
behind; and he refused to let them have Benjamin, for he said that Joseph was once taken and
never came back, and that the same fate would befall the other son of his old age.

When they said that the Egyptian ruler had ordered them to bring their young brother down,
their old father only asked, with flashing eyes, why they told the Egyptian that they had another
brother.  They replied quite truly that he asked them the question.  Jacob did not believe
them, and this made him all the more determined not to trust Benjamin with them.

But the corn which they had brought was soon finished, and the old man urged his sons to go
back to Egypt for more.  They refused to do so unless they could take Benjamin with them; and
after holding out for a long time, at last their father yielded.  He bade them make up a little
present of honey and dates and simple country things for the terrible Egyptian, hoping that
the great man would not be unkind to his youngest son.  Then with hands upraised he asked God's
blessing upon his sons, and with a sorrowful heart saw them ride away.

Mounted on strong camels, and followed by a string of asses with the empty corn-sacks on their
backs, the ten brothers left the Vale of Hebron, and rode slowly across the hot desert to one
of the gates of the great Egyptian wall.  Again they came to the island, and were ferried over
to the city as before.

The camels knelt in the wide marketplace, where Joseph had been sold as a slave twenty years
before, to wait while one of the brothers went to tell the doorkeeper of Joseph's house that
the ten shepherds of Canaan had returned with their youngest brother.  After waiting for a
time they were told that the king's officer would see them.

Joseph was glad when he heard that his brothers had come back again, and that they had brought
his youngest brother with them.  Pulling his black wig down over his brow to hide his pleasure,
he ordered them to be brought in; and when they came and knelt before him, it was not on Judah
or Reuben, but on the young man Benjamin, that he fixed his searching eyes.

His brother had grown so much that he hardly knew him for the little boy who used to run about
the camp holding his hand as he took him to see the little lambs and the small black kids at play.

"Take these men to my house, for I shall dine with them to-day," was all Joseph said.  The
brothers were amazed when the meaning of the Egyptian words was made known to them.  And when
the gates of the courtyard closed behind them, they thought they were prisoners again, and
sat down on the stone pavement to sigh and mourn.

But at noon there came a loud knocking at the gate, and the red and green chariot of the great
Egyptian drove in, and soon they were summoned to stand before him.  With their simple presents
in their hands, they went through the garden and into his beautiful house, and kneeling, laid
the gifts at his feet.

"Is your father well?" the great man asked in a kindly voice.  "The old man of whom you spoke--is
he still alive?"

"Thy servant our father is alive and in good health," they answered humbly.

"Is this your younger brother, of whom you spoke?" he asked again, speaking as if he did not
know one from another.  Benjamin answered with a low bow; and Joseph said, "May God be gracious
to thee, my son!" Then Benjamin looked up at him, and Joseph felt the tears coming into his
eyes; and rising from his chair, to the surprise of the men, he left the hall.  They did not
know why he had done so.  But if they had seen him in his own room weeping like a child for
very joy, they would have been more astonished still.

The meal was served, and the ten brothers were surprised when the Egyptian ruler set them at
a table all in the order of their ages; but even yet they did not know who he was.  Joseph
sat at a table by himself, with a beautiful silver wine-cup before him, and he sent plates
of choice food to each of his brothers; but he sent to Benjamin five times as much as to any
of the rest.

Next morning they were sent home with their asses laden with well-filled corn-sacks.  They
were very glad to get away so quickly, and they wondered as they went why the great Egyptian
had been so kind to them.  But even yet the thought that he might be none other than Joseph
had not entered their minds.

III.

Now Joseph had told his overseer that as he filled the brothers' corn-sacks he was to put their
money into them again, and also to take his own beautiful silver cup and put it into the mouth
of Benjamin's sack.  This was done for a purpose, as we shall see.

Next day, when the brothers had set out on their journey, the overseer was sent for by his
young master, who ordered him to put horses into his chariot, to ride after the ten Hebrews,
and to ask them why they had stolen his master's silver cup.

Cracking his whip as he went, the Egyptian drove along the road, and soon overtook the returning
travellers.  Checking his horses, he stepped out of his red chariot and sternly asked why they
had returned evil for good by stealing his master's precious silver cup; and he smiled when
he saw the fear in the faces of the dusky Hebrews, and laughed when they all said that they
knew nothing of the cup.

He did not believe them, he said, and would search for the cup himself; and he laughed again
when they said he could search at once, and if he found it with any one of them, he could put
that man to death and make all the rest of them the slaves of his master.

Of course the silver cup was found in Benjamin's sack; and pointing his finger at him, the
Egyptian said that he would take him back to be his master's slave, but as for the rest of
the men, they could go on their journey to their homes.

The brothers wrung their hands at these words, and their hearts sank within them.  Judah had
promised his father that he would bring Benjamin back again safe and sound, and now the lad
was to become the slave of this terrible young ruler!  After all, the man's kindness of the
day before was only intended to make them feel the pain all the more when he seized their young
brother to be his slave.  They could not return to their old father without him.  They would
go back to the Egyptian city, they said, and all go to prison together rather than part with
Benjamin.

In those days, when Hebrews were overcome with grief they tore their clothes, that all might
see how sorrowful they were; and Judah was the first to seize his tunic and tear it down the
front from neck to hem, and the others did the same.  In a mournful procession they followed
the Egyptian's chariot back to the city; and the people gazed at them as they passed, and laughed.

When they reached Joseph's house and entered the courtyard, they sent in a very humble message,
begging that he would see them.  And when they came into his presence they knelt before him
with bowed heads, till their brows touched the coloured pavement.

"What is this that you have done?" he asked.  "Do you not know that such a man as I can find
out secret things?"

Joseph wished to frighten them, but in his heart he was glad that his brothers had not gone
away, leaving Benjamin behind in slavery.  They were kinder now than on that day so long ago
when they sold him to the dark merchantmen in the far-off Vale of Dothan.

In a pleading voice Judah told the terrible Egyptian that all of them were now his slaves.
But Joseph replied that he only wanted the man who stole his silver cup; the rest could return
to their father.

Then Judah had more to say.  Holding up his hands for mercy, he told the story of how they
had begged their old father to let Benjamin come; adding that if they returned without him,
the old man would die of grief.  And to Joseph's surprise, he begged that he would let him
stay behind and be his slave for ever in place of his young brother, and let Benjamin go home
to his father.

At times while Judah was speaking Joseph looked at Benjamin, and sometimes he turned away his
head lest they should see the tears in his eyes.  And when his older brother offered to be
his slave for ever, the young Egyptian suddenly ordered every one to leave the room but the
Hebrews; and he remained silent, with his head turned away, while his Egyptian friends and
servants went slowly out.

As soon as they were all gone he sprang to his feet, and held out his hands to his brothers,
calling to them in Hebrew,--

"I am Joseph!  Is my father indeed alive?"

The men gazed at him in amazement.  What would this terrible Egyptian do next?  Who was this
who knew about their brother whom they had sold into slavery?  They were dumb with wonder.

"Come nearer to me, I beg of you," he pleaded.  It was the voice of Joseph that rang in their
ears.  They came nearer, and gazed up at the great man.  These cheeks were too ruddy for an
Egyptian, and these brown eyes--were they not the eyes of Joseph!

"I am Joseph, your brother, whom you sold into Egypt!" he cried.  They could no longer doubt
that he spoke the truth to them; and as they came forward he clasped them in his arms one by
one, weeping for very joy. Then seeing in their eyes the deep sorrow for their past unkindness,
he added,--

"Be not grieved nor angry that you sold me into Egypt, for it was God who sent me hither to
save many lives in the years of famine.  I am lord of the king's palace and ruler of all Egypt."

