It may be as well to explain to the reader the weights which are used in the silk trade. The
weight of silk is estimated by deniers, an old Italian weight, of which twenty-four are equal
to an ounce, used only in the silk trade, in the same manner as the weight called a carat is
employed by those who deal in diamonds, and other precious stones. It is the custom to reel
off, upon an engine established in the silk trade, a measure of four hundred ells of tram or
organzine, (which are both double threads,) and the weight of this quantity establishes the
fineness or coarseness of the silk. Four hundred ells of the finest Italian tram will weigh
eighteen deniers; and although this silk will occasionally run so coarse as to weigh forty
deniers, the qualities mostly in use vary in weight from eighteen to thirty deniers. The China
and Bengal silk varies from thirty-five to eighty deniers in its weight. Turkey silk, the importation
of which has lately much increased, and which is worked up in the single thread on account
of the coarseness of the texture, varies from thirty to fifty deniers; which, as the others
are weighed in the tram or double thread, will be in the proportion of sixty to one hundred
deniers.

Silk is the staple manufacture of France, and has always received the fostering protection
of the government. The raw material is the produce of the country; and, as the growers of silk
are not permitted to export it, it is purchased by the manufacturers at a much cheaper rate
than it can be procured by us. The value of the raw silk yearly produced in France is estimated
at about three millions and a half sterling--the produce of manufacture at about two millions
and a half; so that the silk trade of France is to be valued, on the whole, at about six millions
sterling.

This is the estimate which is made by the acknowledgment of the French government; but there
is every reason to suppose that it is much more considerable. This is certain;--that it is
of the greatest value to that nation, and has received such protection, and, in consequence,
is in that flourishing condition, that, at present, no other country can compete with it.--Metropolitan.

       *       *       *       *       *

RECENT VISIT TO THE FALLS OF NIAGARA.

Mr. Fergusson in his notes made during a Visit to the United States and Canada in 1831, says:
after breakfast I took leave of my friend, and walked on for the Falls, leaving the stage,
in which I had secured a place, to follow. The day was delightful, and as I ascended the steep
hill from Queenston, I overtook a soldier of the 79th in charge of the baggage wagons, leaning
on his musket, and wrapt in admiration of the surrounding scenery, "It's mair like Scotland,
sir, than ony thing I've seen sin' I left it," was the poor fellow's remark, and truly it was
far from misapplied, making due allowance for difference of scale. The country from Queenston
to the Falls is well settled, and finely diversified by farms, orchards and open forest. The
soil is perhaps light, but in some places of a stronger description, and all apparently fertile,
desirable land. A very beautiful property, originally laid out by the ill-fated Duke of Richmond,
and subsequently possessed by Sir Peregrine Maitland, adjoins the Road. The house, which is
in the cottage style, of wood, seems large and commodious. This estate is in a very favourable
situation, and has been lately sold for 2,000l.; it contains about 450 acres of good, useful
land. The distance from Queenston to Niagara is about seven miles, and I sauntered on the whole
way, the coach not overtaking me. About four miles from the Falls, the sound came upon my ear
like the murmur of Old Ocean on a rugged strand. In certain states of the atmosphere and the
wind this is heard at a much greater distance.