[*] Under the title of Gold, or the Dream of a Savant, there is a
    play by Bayard and Bieville, which presents the misfortunes of the
    Claes. This was given at the Gymnase, November 11, 1837, by M.
    Bouffe and Madame E. Sauvage, both of whom are still alive.

WILLEMSENS (Marie-Augusta). (See Brandon,[*] Comtesse de.)

[*] Lady Brandon was the mother of Louis Gaston and Marie Gaston.

WIMPHEN (De), married a friend of Madame d'Aiglemont's childhood. [A Woman of Thirty.]

WIMPHEN (Madame Louisa de), childhood friend of Madame Julie d'Aiglemont in school at Ecouen.
In 1814, Madame d'Aiglemont wrote to the companion, who was then on the point of marrying,
of her own disillusionment, and confidentially advised her to remain single. This letter, however,
was not sent, for the Comtesse de Listomere-Landon, aunt of Julie d'Aiglemont by marriage,
having found out about it, discouraged such an impropriety on the part of her niece. Unlike
her friend, Madame de Wimphen married happily. She retained the confidence of Madame d'Aiglemont,
and was present, indeed, at the important interview between Julie and Lord Grenville. After
M. de Wimphen's arrival to accompany his wife home, these two lovers were left alone, until
the unexpected arrival of M. d'Aiglemont made it necessary for Lord Grenville to conceal himself.
The Englishman died shortly after this as a result of the night's exposure, when he was obliged
to stay in the cold on the outside of a window-sill. This happened also immediately after his
fingers were bruised by a rapidly closed door. [A Woman of Thirty.]

WIRTH, valet of the banker, J.-B. d'Aldrigger; remained in the service of Mesdames d'Aldrigger,
mother and daughters, after the death of the head of the family. He showed them the same devotion,
of which he had often given proof. Wirth was a kind of Alsatian Caleb or Gaspard, aged and
serious, but with much of the cunning mingled with his simple nature. Seeing in Godefroid de
Beaudenord a good husband for Isaure d'Aldrigger, he was able to entrap him easily, and thus
was partly responsible for their marriage. [The Firm of Nucingen.]

WISCH (Johann). Fictitious name given in a newspaper for Johann Fischer, when he had been accused
of peculation. [Cousin Betty.]

WISSEMBOURG (Prince de), one of the titles of Marechal Cottin, the Duc d'Orfano. [Cousin Betty.]

WITSCHNAU. (See Gaudin.)

                                  X

XIMEUSE, fief situated in Lorraine; original spelling of the name Simeuse, which came to to
be written with an S on account of its pronunciation. [The Gondreville Mystery.]

                                  Y

YSEMBOURG (Prince d'), marshal of France, the Conde of the Republic. Madame Nourrisson, his
confidential servant, looked upon him as a "simpleton," because he gave two thousand francs
to one of the most renowned countesses of the Imperial Court, who came to him one day, with
streaming eyes, begging him to give her the assistance upon which her children's life depended.
She soon spent the money for a robe, which she needed to wear so as to be dressed stylishly
at an embassy ball. This story was told by Madame Nourrisson, in 1845, to Leon de Lora, Bixiou,
and Gazonal. [The Unconscious Humorists.]

                                  Z

