     Little men in lofty places, who throw long shadows because
     our sun is setting; the men so little and the places so
     lofty that, casting my pebble, I only show where they stand.
     They would be less contented with themselves, if they had
     obtained their preferment honestly. Luck and dexterity
     always give more pleasure than intellect and knowledge;
     because they fill up what they fall on to the brim at once;
     and people run to them with acclamations at the splash.
     Wisdom is reserved and noiseless, contented with hard
     earnings, and daily letting go some early acquisition to
     make room for better specimens. But great is the exultation
     of a worthless man when he receives for the chips and
     raspings of his Bridewell logwood a richer reward than the
     best and wisest for extensive tracts of well-cleared truths!
     Even he who has sold his  country--

'Forbear, good Mr. Marvell,' says Bishop Parker; and one is inclined to sympathise with the
poor man drowned under this cascade of tropes. It is certainly imposing, but I should be glad
to know the meaning of the metaphor about 'luck and dexterity.' Passages occur, again, in which
we are tempted to think that Landor is falling into an imitation of an obsolete model. Take,
for example, the following:--

     A narrow mind cannot be enlarged, nor can a capacious one be
     contracted. Are we angry with a phial for not being a flask;
     or do we wonder that the skin of an elephant sits uneasily
     on a squirrel?

Or this, in reference to Wordsworth:--

     Pastiness and flatness are the qualities of a pancake, and
     thus far he attained his aim: but if he means it for me, let
     him place the accessories on the table, lest what is insipid
     and clammy ... grow into duller accretion and moister
     viscidity the more I masticate it.

Or a remark given to Newton:--

     Wherever there is vacuity of mind, there must either be
     flaccidity or craving; and this vacuity must necessarily be
     found in the greater part of princes, from the defects of
     their education, from the fear of offending them in its
     progress by interrogations and admonitions, from the habit
     of rendering all things valueless by the facility with which
     they are obtained, and transitory by the negligence with
     which they are received and holden.

Should we not remove the names of Porson and Newton from these sentences, and substitute Sam
Johnson? The last passage reads very like a quotation from the 'Rambler.' Johnson was, in my
opinion and in Landor's, a great writer in spite of his mannerism; but the mannerism is always
rather awkward, and in such places we seem to see--certainly not a squirrel--but, say, a thoroughbred
horse invested with the skin of an elephant.

These lapses into the inflated are of course exceptional with Landor. There can be no question
of the fineness of his perception in all matters of literary form. To say that his standard
of style is classical is to repeat a commonplace too obvious for repetition, except to add
a doubt whether he is not often too ostentatious and self-conscious in his classicism. He loves
and often exhibits a masculine simplicity, and speaks with enthusiasm of Locke and Swift in
their own departments. Locke is to be 'revered;' he is 'too simply grand for admiration;' and
no one, he thinks, ever had such a power as Swift of saying forcibly and completely whatever
he meant to say. But for his own purposes he generally prefers a different model. The qualities
which he specially claims seem to be summed up in the conversation upon Bacon's Essays between
Newton and Barrow. Cicero and Bacon, says Barrow, have more wisdom between them than all the
philosophers of antiquity. Newton's review of the Essays, he adds, 'hath brought back to my
recollection so much of shrewd judgment, so much of rich imagery, such a profusion of truths
so plain as (without his manner of exhibiting them) to appear almost unimportant, that in various
high qualities of the human mind I must acknowledge not only Cicero, but every prose writer
among the Greeks, to stand far below him. Cicero is least valued for his highest merits, his
fulness, and his perspicuity. Bad judges (and how few are not so!) desire in composition the
concise and obscure; not knowing that the one most frequently arises from paucity of materials,
and the other from inability to manage and dispose them.' Landor aims, like Bacon, at rich
imagery, at giving to thoughts which appear plain more value by fineness of expression, and
at compressing shrewd judgments into weighty aphorisms. He would equally rival Cicero in fulness
and perspicuity; whilst a severe rejection of everything slovenly or superfluous would save
him from ever deviating into the merely florid. So far as style can be really separated from
thought, we may admit unreservedly that he has succeeded in his aim, and has attained a rare
harmony of tone and colouring.

There may, indeed, be some doubt as to his perspicuity. Southey said that Landor was obscure,
whilst adding that he could not explain the cause of the obscurity. Causes enough may be suggested.
Besides his incoherency, his love of figures which sometimes become half detached from the
underlying thought, and an over-anxiety to avoid mere smartness which sometimes leads to real
vagueness, he expects too much from his readers, or perhaps despises them too much. He will
not condescend to explanation if you do not catch his drift at half a word. He is so desirous
to round off his transitions gracefully, that he obliterates the necessary indications of the
main divisions of the subject. When criticising Milton or Dante, he can hardly keep his hand
off the finest passages in his desire to pare away superfluities. Treating himself in the same
fashion, he leaves none of those little signs which, like the typographical hand prefixed to
a notice, are extremely convenient, though strictly superfluous. It is doubtless unpleasant
to have the hard framework of logical divisions showing too distinctly in an argument, or to
have a too elaborate statement of dates and places and external relations in a romance. But
such aids to the memory may be removed too freely. The building may be injured in taking away
the scaffolding. Faults of this kind, however, will not explain Landor's failure to get a real
hold upon a large body of readers. Writers of far greater obscurity and much more repellent
blemishes of style to set against much lower merits, have gained a far wider popularity. The
want of sympathy between so eminent a literary artist and his time must rest upon some deeper
divergence of sentiment. Landor's writings present the same kind of problem as his life. We
are told, and we can see for ourselves, that he was a man of many very high and many very amiable
qualities. He was full of chivalrous feeling; capable of the most flowing and delicate courtesy;
easily stirred to righteous indignation against every kind of tyranny and bigotry; capable,
too, of a tenderness pleasantly contrasted with his outbursts of passing wrath; passionately
fond of children, and a true lover of dogs. But with all this, he could never live long at
peace with anybody. He was the most impracticable of men, and every turning-point in his career
was decided by some vehement quarrel. He had to leave school in consequence of a quarrel, trifling
in itself, but aggravated by 'a fierce defiance of all authority and a refusal to ask forgiveness.'
He got into a preposterous scrape at Oxford, and forced the authorities to rusticate him. This
branched out into a quarrel with his father. When he set up as a country gentleman at Llanthony
Abbey, he managed to quarrel with his neighbours and his tenants, until the accumulating consequences
to his purse forced him to go to Italy. On the road thither he began the first of many quarrels
with his wife, which ultimately developed into a chronic quarrel and drove him back to England.
From England he was finally dislodged by another quarrel which drove him back to Italy. Intermediate
quarrels of minor importance are intercalated between those which provoked decisive crises.
The lightheartedness which provoked all these difficulties is not more remarkable than the
ease with which he threw them off his mind. Blown hither and thither by his own gusts of passion,
he always seems to fall on his feet, and forgets his trouble as a schoolboy forgets yesterday's
flogging. On the first transitory separation from his wife, he made himself quite happy by
writing Latin verses; and he always seems to have found sufficient consolation in such literary
occupation for vexations which would have driven some people out of their mind. He would not,
he writes, encounter the rudeness of a certain lawyer to save all his property; but he adds,
'I have chastised him in my Latin poetry now in the press.' Such a mode of chastisement seems
to have been as completely satisfactory to Landor as it doubtless was to the lawyer.

His quarrels do not alienate us, for it is evident that they did not proceed from any malignant
passion. If his temper was ungovernable, his passions were not odious, or, in any low sense,
selfish. In many, if not all, of his quarrels he seems to have had at least a very strong show
of right on his side, and to have put himself in the wrong by an excessive insistence upon
his own dignity. He was one of those ingenious people who always contrive to be punctilious
in the wrong place. It is amusing to observe how Scott generally bestows upon his heroes so
keen a sense of honour that he can hardly save them from running their heads against stone
walls; whilst to their followers he gives an abundance of shrewd sense which fully appreciates
Falstaff's theory of honour. Scott himself managed to combine the two qualities; but poor Landor
seems to have had Hotspur's readiness to quarrel on the tenth part of a hair without the redeeming
touch of common-sense. In a slightly different social sphere, he must, one would fancy, have
been the mark of a dozen bullets before he had grown up to manhood; it is not quite clear how,
even as it was, he avoided duels, unless because he regarded the practice as a Christian barbarism
to which the ancients had never condescended.

His position and surroundings tended to aggravate his incoherencies of statement. Like his
own Peterborough, he was a man of aristocratic feeling, with a hearty contempt for aristocrats.
The expectation that he would one day join the ranks of the country gentlemen unsettled him
as a scholar; and when he became a landed proprietor he despised his fellow 'barbarians' with
a true scholar's contempt. He was not forced into the ordinary professional groove, and yet
did not fully imbibe the prejudices of the class who can afford to be idle, and the natural
result is an odd mixture of conflicting prejudices. He is classical in taste and cosmopolitan
in life, and yet he always retains a certain John-Bull element. His preference of Shakespeare
to Racine is associated with, if not partly prompted by, a mere English antipathy to foreigners.
He never becomes Italianised so far as to lose his contempt for men whose ideas of sport rank
larks with the orthodox partridge. He abuses Castlereagh and poor George III. to his heart's
content, and so far flies in the face of British prejudice; but it is by no means as a sympathiser
with foreign innovations. His republicanism is strongly dashed with old-fashioned conservatism,
and he is proud of a doubtful descent from old worthies of the true English type. Through all
his would-be paganism we feel that at bottom he is after all a true-born and wrong-headed Englishman.
He never, like Shelley, pushed his quarrel with the old order to the extreme, but remained
in a solitary cave of Adullam. 'There can be no great genius,' says Penn to Peterborough, 'where
there is not profound and continued reasoning.' The remark is too good for Penn; and yet it
would be dangerous in Landor's own mouth; for certainly the defect which most strikes us, both
in his life and his writings, is just the inconsistency which leaves most people as the reasoning
powers develop. His work was marred by the unreasonableness of a nature so impetuous and so
absorbed by any momentary gust of passion that he could never bring his thoughts or his plans
to a focus, or conform them to a general scheme. His prejudices master him both in speculation
and practice. He cannot fairly rise above them, or govern them by reference to general principles
or the permanent interests of his life. In the vulgar phrase, he is always ready to cut off
his nose to spite his face. He quarrels with his schoolmaster or his wife. In an instant he
is all fire and fury, runs amuck at his best friends, and does irreparable mischief. Some men
might try to atone for such offences by remorse. Landor, unluckily for himself, could forget
the past as easily as he could ignore the future. He lives only in the present, and can throw
himself into a favourite author or compose Latin verses or an imaginary conversation as though
schoolmasters or wives, or duns or critics, had no existence. With such a temperament, reasoning,
which implies patient contemplation and painful liberation from prejudice, has no fair chance;
his principles are not the growth of thought, but the translation into dogmas of intense likes
and dislikes, which have grown up in his mind he scarcely knows how, and gathered strength
by sheer force of repetition instead of deliberate examination.

