"You, who call Frankenstein your friend, seem to have a knowledge of my crimes and his misfortunes.
But in the detail which he gave you of them he could not sum up the hours and months of misery
which I endured wasting in impotent passions. For while I destroyed his hopes, I did not satisfy
my own desires. They were forever ardent and craving; still I desired love and fellowship,
and I was still spurned.  Was there no injustice in this? Am I to be thought the only criminal,
when all humankind sinned against me? Why do you not hate Felix, who drove his friend from
his door with contumely? Why do you not execrate the rustic who sought to destroy the saviour
of his child? Nay, these are virtuous and immaculate beings! I, the miserable and the abandoned,
am an abortion, to be spurned at, and kicked, and trampled on. Even now my blood boils at the
recollection of this injustice.

"But it is true that I am a wretch.  I have murdered the lovely and the helpless; I have strangled
the innocent as they slept and grasped to death his throat who never injured me or any other
living thing.  I have devoted my creator, the select specimen of all that is worthy of love
and admiration among men, to misery; I have pursued him even to that irremediable ruin.

"There he lies, white and cold in death.  You hate me, but your abhorrence cannot equal that
with which I regard myself.  I look on the hands which executed the deed; I think on the heart
in which the imagination of it was conceived and long for the moment when these hands will
meet my eyes, when that imagination will haunt my thoughts no more.

"Fear not that I shall be the instrument of future mischief.  My work is nearly complete. 
Neither yours nor any man's death is needed to consummate the series of my being and accomplish
that which must be done, but it requires my own.  Do not think that I shall be slow to perform
this sacrifice.  I shall quit your vessel on the ice raft which brought me thither and shall
seek the most northern extremity of the globe; I shall collect my funeral pile and consume
to ashes this miserable frame, that its remains may afford no light to any curious and unhallowed
wretch who would create such another as I have been.  I shall die.  I shall no longer feel
the agonies which now consume me or be the prey of feelings unsatisfied, yet unquenched.  He
is dead who called me into being; and when I shall be no more, the very remembrance of us both
will speedily vanish.  I shall no longer see the sun or stars or feel the winds play on my cheeks.

"Light, feeling, and sense will pass away; and in this condition must I find my happiness.
Some years ago, when the images which this world affords first opened upon me, when I felt
the cheering warmth of summer and heard the rustling of the leaves and the warbling of the
birds, and these were all to me, I should have wept to die; now it is my only consolation.
Polluted by crimes and torn by the bitterest remorse, where can I find rest but in death?

"Farewell!  I leave you, and in you the last of humankind whom these eyes will ever behold.
Farewell, Frankenstein! If thou wert yet alive and yet cherished a desire of revenge against
me, it would be better satiated in my life than in my destruction. But it was not so; thou
didst seek my extinction, that I might not cause greater wretchedness; and if yet, in some
mode unknown to me, thou hadst not ceased to think and feel, thou wouldst not desire against
me a vengeance greater than that which I feel. Blasted as thou wert, my agony was still superior
to thine, for the bitter sting of remorse will not cease to rankle in my wounds until death
shall close them forever.

