DARWIN, AND AFTER DARWIN

AN EXPOSITION OF THE DARWINIAN THEORY AND A DISCUSSION OF POST-DARWINIAN QUESTIONS

BY

GEORGE JOHN ROMANES, M.A., LL.D., F.R.S. Honorary Fellow of Gonville and Caius College, Cambridge

I THE DARWINIAN THEORY

FOURTH EDITION

Chicago THE OPEN COURT PUBLISHING COMPANY 1910

The Illustrations of this book (with the exception of the Frontispiece and the colored plate
facing page 332) are copyrighted under the title "Darwinism Illustrated."

THE OPEN COURT PUBLISHING CO.

PRESS OF THE BLAKELY-OSWALD PRINTING CO. CHICAGO

PREFACE

Several years ago Lord Rosebery founded, in the University of Edinburgh, a lectureship on "The
Philosophy of Natural History," and I was invited by the Senatus to deliver the lectures. This
invitation I accepted, and subsequently constituted the material of my lectures the foundation
of another course, which was given in the Royal Institution, under the title "Before and after
Darwin." Here the course extended over three years--namely from 1888 to 1890. The lectures
for 1888 were devoted to the history of biology from the earliest recorded times till the publication
of the "Origin of Species" in 1859; the lectures for 1889 dealt with the theory of organic
evolution up to the date of Mr. Darwin's death, in 1882; while those of the third year discussed
the further developments of this theory from that date till the close of the course in 1890.

It is from these two courses--which resembled each other in comprising between thirty and forty
lectures, but differed largely in other respects--that the present treatise has grown. Seeing,
however, that it has grown much beyond the bulk of the original lectures, I have thought it
desirable to publish the whole in the form of three separate works. Of these the first--or
that which deals with the purely historical side of biological science--may be allowed to stand
over for an indefinite time. The second is the one which is now brought out and which, as its
sub-title signifies, is devoted to the general theory of organic evolution as this was left
by the stupendous labours of Darwin. As soon as the translations shall have been completed,
the third portion will follow (probably in the Autumn season), under the sub-title, "Post-Darwinian
Questions."

As the present volume is thus intended to be merely a systematic exposition of what may be
termed the Darwinism of Darwin, and as on this account it is likely to prove of more service
to general readers than to professed naturalists, I have been everywhere careful to avoid assuming
even the most elementary knowledge of natural science on the part of those to whom the exposition
is addressed. The case, however, will be different as regards the next volume, where I shall
have to deal with the important questions touching Heredity, Utility, Isolation, &c., which
have been raised since the death of Mr. Darwin, and which are now being debated with such salutary
vehemence by the best naturalists of our time.

My obligations to the Senatus of the University of Edinburgh, and to the Board of Management
of the Royal Institution, have already been virtually expressed; but I should like to take
this opportunity of also expressing my obligations to the students who attended the lectures
in the University of Edinburgh. For alike in respect of their large numbers, their keen intelligence,
and their generous sympathy, the members of that voluntary class yielded a degree of stimulating
encouragement, without which the labour of preparing the original lectures could not have been
attended with the interest and the satisfaction that I found in it. My thanks are also due
to Mr. R. E. Holding for the painstaking manner in which he has assisted me in executing most
of the original drawings with which this volume is illustrated; and likewise to Messrs. Macmillan
and Co. for kindly allowing me to reprint--without special acknowledgment in every case--certain
passages from an essay which they published for me many years ago, under the title "Scientific
Evidences of Organic Evolution." Lastly, I must mention that I am indebted to the same firm
for permission to reproduce an excellent portrait of Mr. Darwin, which constitutes the frontispiece.

G. J. R.

CHRIST CHURCH, OXFORD, April 19th, 1892.

CONTENTS

                                                           PAGE

CHAPTER I. INTRODUCTORY                                                  1

CHAPTER II. CLASSIFICATION                                               23

CHAPTER III. MORPHOLOGY                                                   50

CHAPTER IV. EMBRYOLOGY                                                   98

CHAPTER V. PALÆONTOLOGY                                                156

CHAPTER VI. GEOGRAPHICAL DISTRIBUTION                                   204

CHAPTER VII. THE THEORY OF NATURAL SELECTION                             251

CHAPTER VIII. EVIDENCES OF THE THEORY OF NATURAL SELECTION                285

CHAPTER IX. CRITICISMS OF THE THEORY OF NATURAL SELECTION               333

CHAPTER X. THE THEORY OF SEXUAL SELECTION, AND CONCLUDING REMARKS      379

       *       *       *       *       *

APPENDIX TO CHAPTER V.                                      421

NOTE A TO PAGE 257                                          443

NOTE B TO PAGE 295                                          445

NOTE C TO PAGE 394                                          448

INDEX                                                       451

LIST OF ILLUSTRATIONS

 FIG.                                                               PAGE

   1. Successive forms of Paludina, from the Tertiary deposits of
      Slavonia                                                        19

   2. Skeleton of Seal                                                52

   3. Skeleton of Greenland Whale                                     53

   4. Paddle of Whale compared with Hand of Man                       54

   5. Wing of Reptile, Mammal, and Bird                               56

   6. Skeleton of Dinornis gravis                                   61

   7. Hermit crabs compared with the cocoa-nut crab                   64

   8. Rudimentary or vestigial hind-limbs of Python                   67

   9. Apteryx Australis                                             69

  10. Illustrations of the nictitating membrane in various animals
      named                                                           75

  11. Rudimentary, or vestigial and useless, muscles of the human
      ear                                                             76

  12. Portrait of a young male gorilla                                78

  13. Portrait of a young male child                                  79

  14. An infant, three weeks old, supporting its own weight           81

  15. Sacrum of Gorilla compared with that of Man, showing the
      rudimentary tail-bones of each                                  82

  16. Diagrammatic outline of the human embryo when about seven
      weeks old                                                       83

  17. Front and back view of adult human sacrum                       84

  18. Appendix vermiformis in Orang and in Man                      85

  19. The same, showing variation in the Orang                        85

  20. Human ear                                                       86

  21. Foetus of an Orang                                              87

  22. Vestigial characters of human ears                              88

  23. Hair-tracts on the arms and hands of Man, as compared with
      those on the arms and hands of Chimpanzee                       90

  24. Molar teeth of lower jaw in Gorilla, Orang, and Man             93

  25. Perforation of the humerus (supra-condyloid foramen) in three
      species of Quadrumana where it normally occurs, and in Man,
      where it does not normally occur                                95

  26. Antlers of stag, showing successive addition of branches in
      successive years                                               100

  27. Fission of a Protozoön                                         107

  28. Hydra viridis, partly in section                             111

  29. Successive stages in the division of the ovum, or egg-cell,
      of a worm                                                      113

  30. Ovarian ovum of a Mammal                                       121

  31. Amoeboid movements of young egg-cells                          122

  32. Human ovum, mature and greatly magnified                       123

  33. Stages in the formation of the polar bodies in the ovum of a
      star-fish                                                      125

  34. Fertilization of the ovum of an echinoderm                     126

  35. Fertilization of the ovum of a star-fish                       127

  36. Karyokinesis of a typical tissue-cell (epithelium of
      Salamander)                                                    129

  37. Study of successive changes taking place in the nucleus of an
      epithelium-cell, preparatory to division of the cell           131

  38. Formation and conjugation of the pronuclei in Ascaris
      megalocephala                                            132, 133

  39. Segmentation of ovum                                           135

  40. The contents of an ovum in an advanced stage of segmentation,
      drawn in perspective                                           135

  41. Formation of the gastrula of Amphioxus                       137

  42. Gastrulation                                                   138

  43. Gastrula of a Chalk Sponge                                     139

  44. Prophysema primordiale, an extant gastræa-form               140

  45. Ideal primitive vertebrate, seen from the left side            143

  46. The same in transverse section through the ovaries             144

  47. Amphioxus lanceolatus                                        145

  48. Balanoglossus                                                148

  49. A large Sea-lamprey (Petromyzon marinus)                     148

  50. Adult Shark (Carcharias melanopterus)                        149

  51. Diagram of heart and gill-arches of a fish                     150

  52. One gill-arch, with branchial fringe attached                  150

  53. Diagram of heart and gill-arches in a lizard                   150

  54. Ideal diagram of primitive gill-or aortic-arches               151

  55. The same, modified for a bird                                  151

  56. The same, modified for a mammal                                151

  57. A series of embryos at three comparable and progressive
      stages of development, representing each of the classes of
      vertebrated animals below the Mammalia                         152

  58. Another series of embryos, also at three comparable and
      progressive stages of development, representing four different
      divisions of the class Mammalia                                153

  59. Diagram of geological succession of the classes of the Animal
      Kingdom                                                        165

  60. Skull of Oreodon Culbertsoni                                 167

  61,62. Horns of Cervus dicrocerus                                168

  63. Horns of C. matheronis                                       168

  64. Horns of C. pardinensis                                      168

  65. Horns of C. issiodorensis                                    168

  66. Horns of C. Sedgwickii                                       168

  67. Successive stages in the development of an existing Deer's
      Antlers                                                        169

  68. Homocercal tail                                                169

  69. Heterocercal tail                                              170

  70. Vertebrated but symmetrical fin (diphycercal)                  170

  71. Tail of Archæopteryx                                         171

  72. Tail of modern Bird                                            171

  73. Archæopteryx macura, restored                                172

  74. Skeleton of Polar Bear                                         174

  75. Skeleton of Lion                                               175

  76. Anterior limb of Man, Dog, Hog, Sheep, and Horse               176

  77. Posterior limb of Man, Monkey, Dog, Sheep, and Horse           177

  78. Posterior limb of Baptanodon discus, and anterior limb of
      Chelydra serpentina                                          179

  79. Paddle of a Whale                                              180

  80. Fossil skeleton of Phenacodus primævus                       184

  81. Bones of the foot of four different forms of the perissodactyl
      type                                                           186

  82. Bones of the foot of four different forms of the artiodactyl
      type                                                           187

  83. Feet and teeth In fossil pedigree of the Horse                 189

  84. Palæotherium. (Lower Tertiary of Paris Basin)                190

  85. Hipparion. (New World Pliocene)                              192

  86. Comparative series of Brains                                   194

  87. Ideal section through all the above stages                     195

  88. Skulls of Canadian Stag, Cervalces Americanus, and Elk       198

  89. Transmutations of Planorbis                                  200

  90. Transformation of Strombus                                   202

  91. Pigeons. Drawn from life                                       298

  92. Pigeons (continued). Drawn from life                         299

  93. Fowls. Drawn from life                                         300

  94. Fowls (continued). Drawn from life                           301

  95. Pair of Japanese Fowls, long-tailed breed                      302

  96. Canaries. Drawn from life                                      303

  97. Sebastopol, or Frizzled Goose                                  304

  98. The Dingo, or wild dog of Australia                            304

  99. Dogs. Drawn from life                                          305

 100. Dogs (continued). Drawn from life                            306

 101. The Hairless Dog of Japan                                      307

 102. The skull of a Bull-dog compared with that of a Deer-hound     307

 103. Rabbits. Drawn from life                                       308

 104. Horses. Drawn from life                                        309

 105. Sheep. Drawn from life                                         310

 106. Cattle. Drawn from life                                        311

 107. Wild Boar contrasted with a modern Domesticated Pig            312

 108. Seasonal changes of colour in Ptarmigan (Lagopus mutus)      317

 109. Oedicneus crepitans, showing the instinctive attitude of
      concealment                                                    320

 110. Imitative forms and colours in insects                         322

 111. The larva of Puss Moth (Cerura vinula)                       325

 112. The larva of Puss Moth in disturbed attitude                   326

 113. Three cases of mimicry                                         328

 114. Two further cases of mimicry; flies resembling a wasp in the
      one and a bee in the other                                     329

 115. A case of mimicry where a non-venomous species of snake
      resembles a venomous one                                       330

 116. A case of mimicry where a homopterous resembles a leaf-cutting
      ant                                                            332

 117. Feather-footed pigeon                                          359

 118. Raia radiata                                                 368

 119. Electric organ of the Skate                                    369

 120. Electric cells of Raia radiata                               370

 121. The Garden Bower-bird (Amblyornis inornata)                  382

 122. Courtship of Spiders                                           388

 123. Courtship of Spiders (continued)                             389

 124. The Bell-bird (Chasmorhynchus niveus)                        396

 125. C. tricarunculatus                                           397

SECTION I

EVOLUTION

CHAPTER I.

INTRODUCTORY.

Among the many and unprecedented changes that have been wrought by Mr. Darwin's work on the
Origin of Species, there is one which, although second in importance to no other, has not received
the attention which it deserves. I allude to the profound modification which that work has
produced on the ideas of naturalists with regard to method.

Having had occasion of late years somewhat closely to follow the history of biological science,
I have everywhere observed that progress is not so much marked by the march of discovery per
se, as by the altered views of method which the march has involved. If we except what Aristotle
called "the first start" in himself, I think one may fairly say that from the rejuvenescence
of biology in the sixteenth century to the stage of growth which it has now reached in the
nineteenth, there is a direct proportion to be found between the value of work done and the
degree in which the worker has thereby advanced the true conception of scientific working.
Of course, up to a certain point, it is notorious that the revolt against the purely "subjective
methods" in the sixteenth century revived the spirit of inductive research as this had been
left by the Greeks; but even with regard to this revolt there are two things which I should
like to observe.

In the first place, it seems to me, an altogether disproportionate value has been assigned
to Bacon's share in the movement. At most, I think, he deserves to be regarded but as a literary
exponent of the Zeitgeist of his century. Himself a philosopher, as distinguished from a man
of science, whatever influence his preaching may have had upon the general public, it seems
little short of absurd to suppose that it could have produced any considerable effect upon
men who were engaged in the practical work of research. And those who read the Novum Organon
with a first-hand knowledge of what is required for such research can scarcely fail to agree
with his great contemporary Harvey, that he wrote upon science like a Lord Chancellor.

The second thing I should like to observe is, that as the revolt against the purely subjective
methods grew in extent and influence it passed to the opposite extreme, which eventually became
only less deleterious to the interests of science than was the bondage of authority, and addiction
to a priori methods, from which the revolt had set her free. For, without here waiting to trace
the history of this matter in detail, I think it ought now to be manifest to everyone who studies
it, that up to the commencement of the present century the progress of science in general,
and of natural history in particular, was seriously retarded by what may be termed the Bugbear
of Speculation. Fully awakened to the dangers of web-spinning from the ever-fertile resources
of their own inner consciousness, naturalists became more and more abandoned to the idea that
their science ought to consist in a mere observation of facts, or tabulation of phenomena,
without attempt at theorizing upon their philosophical import. If the facts and phenomena presented
any such import, that was an affair for men of letters to deal with; but, as men of science,
it was their duty to avoid the seductive temptations of the world, the flesh, and the devil,
in the form of speculation, deduction, and generalization.

I do not allege that this ideal of natural history was either absolute or universal; but there
can be no question that it was both orthodox and general. Even Linnæus was express in his limitations
of true scientific work in natural history to the collecting and arranging of species of plants
and animals. In accordance with this view, the status of a botanist or a zoologist was estimated
by the number of specific names, natural habitats, &c., which he could retain in his memory,
rather than by any evidences which he might give of intellectual powers in the way of constructive
thought. At the most these powers might legitimately exercise themselves only in the direction
of taxonomic work; and if a Hales, a Haller, or a Hunter obtained any brilliant results in
the way of observation and experiment, their merit was taken to consist in the discovery of
facts per se: not in any endeavours they might make in the way of combining their facts under
general principles. Even as late in the day as Cuvier this ideal was upheld as the strictly
legitimate one for a naturalist to follow; and although Cuvier himself was far from being always
loyal to it, he leaves no doubt regarding the estimate in which he held the still greater deviations
of his colleagues, St. Hilaire and Lamarck.

Now, these traditional notions touching the severance between the facts of natural history
and the philosophy of it, continued more or less to dominate the minds of naturalists until
the publication of the Origin of Species, in 1859. Then it was that an epoch was marked in
this respect, as in so many other respects where natural history is concerned. For, looking
to the enormous results which followed from a deliberate disregard of such traditional canons
by Darwin, it has long since become impossible for naturalists, even of the strictest sect,
not to perceive that their previous bondage to the law of a mere ritual has been for ever superseded
by what verily deserves to be regarded as a new dispensation. Yet it cannot be said, or even
so much as suspected, that Darwin's method in any way resembled that of pre-scientific days,
the revolt against which led to the straight-laced--and for a long time most salutary--conceptions
of method that we have just been noticing. Where, then, is the difference? To me it seems that
the difference is as follows; and, if so, that not the least of our many obligations to Darwin
as the great organizer of biological science arises from his having clearly displayed the true
principle which ought to govern biological research.

To begin with, he nowhere loses sight of the primary distinction between fact and theory; so
that, thus far, he loyally follows the spirit of revolt against subjective methods. But, while
always holding this distinction clearly in view, his idea of the scientific use of facts is
plainly that of furnishing legitimate material for the construction of theories. Natural history
is not to him an affair of the herbarium or the cabinet. The collectors and the species-framers
are, as it were, his diggers of clay and makers of bricks: even the skilled observers and the
trained experimentalists are his mechanics. Valuable as the work of all these men is in itself,
its principal value, as he has finally demonstrated, is that which it acquires in rendering
possible the work of the architect. Therefore, although he has toiled in all the trades with
his own hands, and in each has accomplished some of the best work that has ever been done,
the great difference between him and most of his predecessors consists in this,--that while
to them the discovery or accumulation of facts was an end, to him it is the means. In their
eyes it was enough that the facts should be discovered and recorded. In his eyes the value
of facts is due to their power of guiding the mind to a further discovery of principles. And
the extraordinary success which attended his work in this respect of generalization immediately
brought natural history into line with the other inductive sciences, behind which, in this
most important of all respects, she has so seriously fallen. For it was the Origin of Species
which first clearly revealed to naturalists as a class, that it was the duty of their science
to take as its motto, what is really the motto of natural science in general,

  Felix qui potuit rerum cognoscere causas.

Not facts, then, or phenomena, but causes or principles, are the ultimate objects of scientific
quest. It remains to ask, How ought this quest to be prosecuted?

Well, in the second place, Darwin has shown that next only to the importance of clearly distinguishing
between facts and theories on the one hand, and of clearly recognising the relation between
them on the other, is the importance of not being scared by the Bugbear of Speculation. The
spirit of speculation is the same as the spirit of science, namely, as we have just seen, a
desire to know the causes of things. The hypotheses non fingo of Newton, if taken to mean what
it is often understood as meaning, would express precisely the opposite spirit from that in
which all scientific research must necessarily take its origin. For if it be causes or principles,
as distinguished from facts or phenomena, that constitute the final aim of scientific research,
obviously the advancement of such research can be attained only by the framing of hypotheses.
And to frame hypotheses is to speculate.

Therefore, the difference between science and speculation is not a difference of spirit; nor,
thus far, is it a difference of method. The only difference between them is in the subsequent
process of verifying hypotheses. For while speculation, in its purest form, is satisfied to
test her explanations only by the degree in which they accord with our subjective ideas of
probability--or with the "Illative Sense" of Cardinal Newman,--science is not satisfied to
rest in any explanation as final until it shall have been fully verified by an appeal to objective
proof. This distinction is now so well and so generally appreciated that I need not dwell upon
it. Nor need I wait to go into any details with regard to the so-called canons of verification.
My only object is to make perfectly clear, first, that in order to have any question to put
to the test of objective verification, science must already have so far employed the method
of speculation as to have framed a question to be tested; and, secondly, that the point where
science parts company with speculation is the point where this testing process begins.

Now, if these things are so, there can be no doubt that Darwin was following the truest method
of inductive research in allowing any amount of latitude to his speculative thought in the
direction of scientific theorizing. For it follows from the above distinctions that the danger
of speculation does not reside in the width of its range, or even in the impetuosity of its
vehemence. Indeed, the wider its reach, and the greater its energy, the better will it be for
the interests of science. The only danger of speculation consists in its momentum being apt
to carry away the mind from the more laborious work of adequate verification; and therefore
a true scientific judgment consists in giving a free rein to speculation on the one hand, while
holding ready the break of verification with the other. Now, it is just because Darwin did
both these things with so admirable a judgment, that he gave the world of natural history so
good a lesson as to the most effectual way of driving the chariot of science.

This lesson we have now all more or less learnt to profit by. Yet no other naturalist has proved
himself so proficient in holding the balance true. For the most part, indeed, they have now
all ceased to confound the process of speculation per se with the danger of inadequate verification;
and therefore the old ideal of natural history as concerned merely with collecting species,
classifying affinities, and, in general, tabulating facts, has been well-nigh universally superseded.
But this great gain has been attended by some measure of loss. For while not a few naturalists
have since erred on the side of insufficiently distinguishing between fully verified principles
of evolution and merely speculative deductions therefrom, a still larger number have formed
for themselves a Darwinian creed, and regard any further theorizing on the subject of evolution
as ipso facto unorthodox.

Having occupied the best years of my life in closely studying the literature of Darwinism,
I shall endeavour throughout the following pages to avoid both these extremes. No one in this
generation is able to imitate Darwin, either as an observer or a generalizer. But this does
not hinder that we should all so far endeavour to follow his method, as always to draw a clear
distinction, not merely between observation and deduction, but also between degrees of verification.
At all events, my own aim will everywhere be to avoid dogmatism on the one hand, and undue
timidity as regards general reasoning on the other. For everything that is said justification
will be given; and, as far as prolonged deliberation has enabled me to do so, the exact value
of such justification will be rendered by a statement of at least the main grounds on which
it rests. The somewhat extensive range of the present treatise, however, will not admit of
my rendering more than a small percentage of the facts which in each case go to corroborate
the conclusion. But although a great deal must thus be necessarily lost on the one side, I
am disposed to think that more will be gained on the other, by presenting, in a terser form
than would otherwise be possible, the whole theory of organic evolution as I believe that it
will eventually stand. My endeavour, therefore, will be to exhibit the general structure of
this theory in what I take to be its strictly logical form, rather than to encumber any of
its parts by a lengthy citation of facts. Following this method, I shall in each case give
only what I consider the main facts for and against the positions which have to be argued;
and in most cases I shall arrange the facts in two divisions, namely, first those of largest
generality, and next a few of the most special character that can be found.

As explained in the Preface, the present instalment of the treatise is concerned with the theory
of evolution, from the appearance of the Origin of Species in 1859, to the death of its author
in 1882; while the second part will be devoted to the sundry post-Darwinian questions which
have arisen in the subsequent decade. To the possible criticism that a disproportionate amount
of space will thus be allotted to a consideration of these post-Darwinian questions, I may
furnish in advance the following reply.

In the first place, besides the works of Darwin himself, there are a number of others which
have already and very admirably expounded the evidences, both of organic evolution as a fact,
and of natural selection as a cause. Therefore, in the present treatise it seemed needless
to go beyond the ground which was covered by my original lectures, namely, a condensed and
connected, while at the same time a critical statement of the main evidences, and the main
objections, which have thus far been published with reference to the distinctively Darwinian
theory. Indeed while re-casting this portion of my lectures for the present publication, I
have felt that criticism might be more justly urged from the side of impatience at a reiteration
of facts and arguments already so well known. But while endeavouring, as much as possible,
to avoid overlapping the previous expositions, I have not carried this attempt to the extent
of damaging my own, by omitting any of the more important heads of evidence; and I have sought
to invest the latter with some measure of novelty by making good what appears to me a deficiency
which has hitherto obtained in the matter of pictorial illustration. In particular, there will
be found a tolerably extensive series of woodcuts, serving to represent the more important
products of artificial selection. These, like all the other original illustrations, have been
drawn either direct from nature or from a comparative study of the best authorities. Nevertheless,
I desire it to be understood that the first part of this treatise is intended to retain its
original character, as a merely educational exposition of Darwinian teaching--an exposition,
therefore, which, in its present form, may be regarded as a compendium, or hand-book, adapted
to the requirements of a general reader, or biological student as distinguished from those
of a professed naturalist.

The case, however, is different with the second instalment, which will be published at no very
distant date. Here I have not followed with nearly so much closeness the material of my original
lectures. On the contrary, I have had in view a special class of readers; and, although I have
tried not altogether to sacrifice the more general class, I shall desire it to be understood
that I am there appealing to naturalists who are specialists in Darwinism. One must say advisedly,
naturalists who are specialists in Darwinism, because, while the literature of Darwinism has
become a department of science in itself, there are nowadays many naturalists who, without
having paid any close attention to the subject, deem themselves entitled to hold authoritative
opinions with regard to it. These men may have done admirable work in other departments of
natural history, and yet their opinions on such matters as we shall hereafter have to consider
may be destitute of value. As there is no necessary relation between erudition in one department
of science and soundness of judgment in another, the mere fact that a man is distinguished
as a botanist or zoologist does not in itself qualify him as a critic where specially Darwinian
questions are concerned. Thus it happens now, as it happened thirty years ago, that highly
distinguished botanists and zoologists prove themselves incapable as judges of general reasoning.
It was Darwin's complaint that for many years nearly all his scientific critics either could
not, or would not, understand what he had written--and this even as regarded the fundamental
principles of his theory, which with the utmost clearness he had over and over again repeated.
Now the only difference between such naturalists and their successors of the present day is,
that the latter have grown up in a Darwinian environment, and so, as already remarked, have
more or less thoughtlessly adopted some form of Darwinian creed. But this scientific creed
is not a whit less dogmatic and intolerant than was the more theological one which it has supplanted;
and while it usually incorporates the main elements of Darwin's teaching, it still more usually
comprises gross perversions of their consequences. All this I shall have occasion more fully
to show in subsequent parts of the present work; and allusion is made to the matter here merely
for the sake of observing that in future I shall not pay attention to unsupported expressions
of opinion from any quarter: I shall consider only such as are accompanied with some statement
of the grounds upon which the opinion is held. And, even as thus limited, I do not think it
will be found that the following exposition devotes any disproportional amount of attention
to the contemporary movements of Darwinian thought, seeing, as we shall see, how active scientific
speculation has been in the field of Darwinism since the death of Mr. Darwin.

       *       *       *       *       *

Leaving, then, these post-Darwinian questions to be dealt with subsequently, I shall now begin
a systematic résumé of the evidences in favour of the Darwinian theory, as this was left to
the world by Darwin himself.

There is a great distinction to be drawn between the fact of evolution and the manner of it,
or between the evidence of evolution as having taken place somehow, and the evidence of the
causes which have been concerned in the process. This most important distinction is frequently
disregarded by popular writers on Darwinism; and, therefore, in order to mark it as strongly
as possible, I will effect a complete separation between the evidence which we have of evolution
as a fact, and the evidence which we have as to its method. In other words, not until I shall
have fully considered the evidence of organic evolution as a process which somehow or another
has taken place, will I proceed to consider how it has taken place, or the causes which Darwin
and others have suggested as having probably been concerned in this process.

Confining, then, our attention in the first instance to a proof of evolution considered as
a fact, without any reference at all to its method, let us begin by considering the antecedent
standing of the matter.

       *       *       *       *       *

First of all we must clearly recognise that there are only two hypotheses in the field whereby
it is possible so much as to suggest an explanation of the origin of species. Either all the
species of plants and animals must have been supernaturally created, or else they must have
been naturally evolved. There is no third hypothesis possible; for no one can rationally suggest
that species have been eternal.

Next, be it observed, that the theory of a continuous transmutation of species is not logically
bound to furnish a full explanation of all the natural causes which it may suppose to have
been at work. The radical distinction between the two theories consists in the one assuming
an immediate action of some supernatural or inscrutable cause, while the other assumes the
immediate action of natural--and therefore of possibly discoverable--causes. But in order to
sustain this latter assumption, the theory of descent is under no logical necessity to furnish
a full proof of all the natural causes which may have been concerned in working out the observed
results. We do not know the natural causes of many diseases; but yet no one nowadays thinks
of reverting to any hypothesis of a supernatural cause, in order to explain the occurrence
of any disease the natural causation of which is obscure. The science of medicine being in
so many cases able to explain the occurrence of disease by its hypothesis of natural causes,
medical men now feel that they are entitled to assume, on the basis of a wide analogy, and
therefore on the basis of a strong antecedent presumption, that all diseases are due to natural
causes, whether or not in particular cases such causes happen to have been discovered. And
from this position it follows that medical men are not logically bound to entertain any supernatural
theory of an obscure disease, merely because as yet they have failed to find a natural theory.
And so it is with biologists and their theory of descent. Even if it be fully proved to them
that the causes which they have hitherto discovered, or suggested, are inadequate to account
for all the facts of organic nature, this would in no wise logically compel them to vacate
their theory of evolution, in favour of the theory of creation. All that it would so compel
them to do would be to search with yet greater diligence for the natural causes still undiscovered,
but in the existence of which they are, by their independent evidence in favour of the theory,
bound to believe.

In short, the issue is not between the theory of a supernatural cause and the theory of any
one particular natural cause, or set of causes--such as natural selection, use, disuse, and
so forth. The issue thus far--or where only the fact of evolution is concerned--is between
the theory of a supernatural cause as operating immediately in numberless acts of special creation,
and the theory of natural causes as a whole, whether these happen, or do not happen, to have
been hitherto discovered.

This much by way of preliminaries being understood, we have next to notice that whichever of
the two rival theories we choose to entertain, we are not here concerned with any question
touching the origin of life. We are concerned only with the origin of particular forms of life--that
is to say, with the origin of species. The theory of descent starts from life as a datum already
granted. How life itself came to be, the theory of descent, as such, is not concerned to show.
Therefore, in the present discussion, I will take the existence of life as a fact which does
not fall within the range of our present discussion. No doubt the question as to the origin
of life is in itself a deeply interesting question, and although in the opinion of most biologists
it is a question which we may well hope will some day fall within the range of science to answer,
at present, it must be confessed, science is not in a position to furnish so much as any suggestion
upon the subject; and therefore our wisdom as men of science is frankly to acknowledge that
such is the case.

       *       *       *       *       *

We are now in a position to observe that the theory of organic evolution is strongly recommended
to our acceptance on merely antecedent grounds, by the fact that it is in full accordance with
what is known as the principle of continuity. By the principle of continuity is meant the uniformity
of nature, in virtue of which the many and varied processes going on in nature are due to the
same kind of method, i. e. the method of natural causation. This conception of the uniformity
of nature is one that has only been arrived at step by step through a long and arduous course
of human experience in the explanation of natural phenomena. The explanations of such phenomena
which are first given are always of the supernatural kind; it is not until investigation has
revealed the natural causes which are concerned that the hypotheses of superstition give way
to those of science. Thus it follows that the hypotheses of superstition which are the latest
in yielding to the explanations of science, are those which refer to the more recondite cases
of natural causation; for here it is that methodical investigation is longest in discovering
the natural causes. Thus it is only by degrees that fetishism is superseded by what now appears
a common-sense interpretation of physical phenomena; that exorcism gives place to medicine;
alchemy to chemistry; astrology to astronomy; and so forth. Everywhere the miraculous is progressively
banished from the field of explanation by the advance of scientific discovery; and the places
where it is left longest in occupation are those where the natural causes are most intricate
or obscure, and thus present the greatest difficulty to the advancing explanations of science.
Now, in our own day there are but very few of these strongholds of the miraculous left. Nearly
the whole field of explanation is occupied by naturalism, so that no one ever thinks of resorting
to supernaturalism except in the comparatively few cases where science has not yet been able
to explore the most obscure regions of causation. One of these cases is the origin of life;
and, until quite recently, another of these cases was the origin of species. But now that a
very reasonable explanation of the origin of species has been offered by science, it is but
in accordance with all previous historical analogies that many minds should prove themselves
unable all at once to adjust themselves to the new ideas, and thus still linger about the more
venerable ideas of supernaturalism. But we are now in possession of so many of these historical
analogies, that all minds with any instincts of science in their composition have grown to
distrust, on merely antecedent grounds, any explanation which embodies a miraculous element.
Such minds have grown to regard all these explanations as mere expressions of our own ignorance
of natural causation; or, in other words, they have come to regard it as an a priori truth
that nature is everywhere uniform in respect of method or causation; that the reign of law
universal; the principle of continuity ubiquitous.

Now, it must be obvious to any mind which has adopted this attitude of thought, that the scientific
theory of natural descent is recommended by an overwhelming weight of antecedent presumption,
as against the dogmatic theory of supernatural design.

To begin with, we must remember that the fact of evolution--or, which is the same thing, the
fact of continuity in natural causation--has now been unquestionably proved in so many other
and analogous departments of nature, that to suppose any interruption of this method as between
species and species becomes, on grounds of such analogy alone, well-nigh incredible. For example,
it is now a matter of demonstrated fact that throughout the range of inorganic nature the principles
of evolution have obtained. It is no longer possible for any one to believe with our forefathers
that the earth's surface has always existed as it now exists. For the science of geology has
proved to demonstration that seas and lands are perpetually undergoing gradual changes of relative
positions--continents and oceans supplanting each other in the course of ages, mountain-chains
being slowly uplifted, again as slowly denuded, and so forth. Moreover, and as a closer analogy,
within the limits of animate nature we know it is the universal law that every individual life
undergoes a process of gradual development; and that breeds, races, or strains, may be brought
into existence by the intentional use of natural processes--the results bearing an unmistakeable
resemblance to what we know as natural species. Again, even in the case of natural species
themselves, there are two considerations which present enormous force from an antecedent point
of view. The first is that organic forms are only then recognised as species when intermediate
forms are absent. If the intermediate forms are actually living, or admit of being found in
the fossil state, naturalists forthwith regard the whole series as varieties, and name all
the members of it as belonging to the same species. Consequently it becomes obvious that naturalists,
in their work of naming species, may only have been marking out the cases where intermediate
or connecting forms have been lost to observation. For example, here we have a diagram representing
a very unusually complete series of fossil shells, which within the last few years has been
unearthed from the Tertiary lake basins of Slavonia. Before the series was completed, some
six or eight of the then disconnected forms were described as distinct species; but as soon
as the connecting forms were found--showing a progressive modification from the older to the
newer beds,--the whole were included as varieties of one species.

Of course, other cases of the same kind might be adduced, and therefore, as just remarked,
in their work of naming species naturalists may only have been marking out the cases where
intermediate forms have been lost to observation. And this possibility becomes little less
than a certainty when we note the next consideration which I have to adduce, namely, that in
all their systematic divisions of plants and animals in groups higher than species--such as
genera, families, orders, and the rest--naturalists have at all times recognised the fact that
the one shades off into the other by such imperceptible gradations, that it is impossible to
regard such divisions as other than conventional. It is important to remember that this fact
was fully recognised before the days of Darwin. In those days the scientifically orthodox doctrine
was, that although species were to be regarded as fixed units, bearing the stamp of a special
creation, all the higher taxonomic divisions were to be considered as what may be termed the
artificial creation of naturalists themselves. In other words, it was believed, and in many
cases known, that if we could go far enough back in the history of the earth, we should everywhere
find a tendency to mutual approximation between allied groups of species; so that, for instance,
birds and reptiles would be found to be drawing nearer and nearer together, until eventually
they would seem to become fused in a single type; that the existing distinctions between herbivorous
and carnivorous mammals would be found to do likewise; and so on with all the larger group-distinctions,
at any rate within the limits of the same sub-kingdoms. But although naturalists recognised
this even in the pre-Darwinian days, they stoutly believed that a great exception was to be
made in the case of species. These, the lowest or initial members of their taxonomic series,
they supposed to be permanent--the miraculously created units of organic nature. Now, all that
I have at present to remark is, that this pre-Darwinian exception which was made in favour
of species to the otherwise recognised principle of gradual change, was an exception which
can at no time have been recommended by any antecedent considerations. At all times it stood
out of analogy with the principle of continuity; and, as we shall fully find in subsequent
chapters, it is now directly contradicted by all the facts of biological science.

There remains one other fact of high generality to which prominent attention should be drawn
from the present, or merely antecedent, point of view. On the theory of special creation no
reason can be assigned why distinct specific types should present any correlation, either in
time or in space, with their nearest allies; for there is evidently no conceivable reason why
any given species, A, should have been specially created on the same area and at about the
same time as its nearest representative, B,--still less, of course, that such should be a general
rule throughout all the thousands and millions of species which have ever inhabited the earth.
But, equally of course, on the theory of a natural evolution this is so necessary a consequence,
that if no correlation of such a two-fold kind were observable, the theory would be negatived.
Thus the question whether there be any indication of such a two-fold correlation may be regarded
as a test-question as between the two theories; for although the vast majority of extinct species
have been lost to science, there are a countless number of existing species which furnish ample
material for answering the question. As it appears to me that the significance of these words
cannot be increased by any comment upon them, I will here bring this introductory chapter to
a close.

CHAPTER II.

CLASSIFICATION.

The first line of direct evidence in favour of organic evolution which I shall open is that
which may be termed the argument from Classification.

It is a matter of observable fact that different forms of plants and animals present among
themselves more or less pronounced resemblances. From the earliest times, therefore, it has
been the aim of philosophical naturalists to classify plants and animals in accordance with
these resemblances. Of course the earliest attempts at such classification were extremely crude.
The oldest of these attempts with which we are acquainted--namely, that which is presented
in the books of Genesis and Leviticus--arranges the whole vegetable kingdom in three simple
divisions of Grass, Herbs, and Trees; while the animal kingdom is arranged with almost equal
simplicity with reference, first to habitats in water, earth, or air, and next as to modes
of progression. These, of course, were what may be termed common-sense classifications, having
reference merely to external appearances and habits of life. But when Aristotle laboriously
investigated the comparative anatomy of animals, he could not fail to perceive that their entire
structures had to be taken into account in order to classify them scientifically; and, also,
that for this purpose the internal parts were of quite as much importance as the external.
Indeed, he perceived that they were of greatly more importance in this respect, inasmuch as
they presented so many more points for comparison; and, in the result, he furnished an astonishingly
comprehensive, as well as an astonishingly accurate classification of the larger groups of
the animal kingdom. On the other hand, classification of the vegetable kingdom continued pretty
much as it had been left by the book of Genesis--all plants being divided into three groups,
Herbs, Shrubs, and Trees. Nor was this primitive state of matters improved upon till the sixteenth
century, when Gesner (1516-1565), and still more Cæsalpino (1519-1603), laid the foundations
of systematic botany.

But the more that naturalists prosecuted their studies on the anatomy of plants and animals,
the more enormously complex did they find the problem of classification become. Therefore they
began by forming what are called artificial systems, in contradistinction to natural systems.
An artificial system of classification is a system based on the more or less arbitrary selection
of some one part, or set of parts; while a natural classification is one that is based upon
a complete knowledge of all the structures of all the organisms which are classified.

Thus, the object of classification has been that of arranging organisms in accordance with
their natural affinities, by comparing organism with organism, for the purpose of ascertaining
which of the constituent organs are of the most invariable occurrence, and therefore of the
most typical signification. Now, looking to these two features alone, should we say that a
porpoise ought to be classed as a fish or as a mammal? This, of course, is chosen as a very
simple illustration. Were all cases as obvious, there would be but little distinction between
natural and artificial systems of classification. But it is because the lines of natural affinity
are, as it were, so interwoven throughout the organic world, and because there is, in consequence,
so much difficulty in following them, that artificial systems have to be made in the first
instance as feelers towards eventual discovery of the natural system. In other words, while
forming their artificial systems of classification, it has always been the aim of naturalists--whether
consciously or unconsciously--to admit as the bases of their systems those characters which,
in the then state of their knowledge, seemed most calculated to play an important part in the
eventual construction of the natural system. If we were dealing with the history of classification,
it would here be interesting to note how the course of it has been marked by gradual change
in the principles which naturalists adopted as guides to the selection of characters on which
to found their attempts at a natural classification. Some of these changes, indeed, I shall
have to mention later on; but at present what has to be specially noted is, that through all
these changes of theory or principle, and through all the ever-advancing construction of their
taxonomic science, naturalists themselves were unable to give any intelligible reason for the
faith that was in them--or the faith that over and above the artificial classifications which
were made for the mere purpose of cataloguing the living library of organic nature, there was
deeply hidden in nature itself a truly natural classification, for the eventual discovery of
which artificial systems might prove to be of more or less assistance.

Linnæus, for example, expressly says--"You ask me for the characters of the natural orders;
I confess that I cannot give them." Yet he maintains that, although he cannot define the characters,
he knows, by a sort of naturalist's instinct, what in a general way will subsequently be found
to be the organs of most importance in the eventual grouping of plants under a natural system.
"I will not give my reasons for the distribution of the natural orders which I have published,"
he said: "you, or some other person, after twenty or after fifty years, will discover them,
and see that I was right."

Thus we perceive that in forming their provisional or artificial classifications, naturalists
have been guided by an instinctive belief in some general principle of natural affinity, the
character of which they have not been able to define; and that the structures which they selected
as the bases of their classifications when these were consciously artificial, were selected
because it seemed that they were the structures most likely to prove of use in subsequent attempts
at working out the natural system.

This general principle of natural affinity, of which all naturalists have seen more or less
well-marked evidence in organic nature, and after which they have all been feeling, has sometimes
been regarded as natural, but more often as supernatural. Those who regarded it as supernatural
took it to consist in a divine ideal of creation according to types, so that the structural
affinities of organisms were to them expressions of an archetypal plan, which might be revealed
in its entirety when all organisms on the face of the earth should have been examined. Those,
on the other hand, who regarded the general principle of affinity as depending on some natural
causes, for the most part concluded that these must have been utilitarian causes; or, in other
words, that the fundamental affinities of structure must have depended upon fundamental requirements
of function. According to this view, the natural classification would eventually be found to
stand upon a basis of physiology. Therefore all the systems of classification up to the earlier
part of the present century went upon the apparent axiom, that characters which are of most
importance to the organisms presenting them must be characters most indicative of natural affinities.
But the truth of the matter was eventually found to be otherwise. For it was eventually found
that there is absolutely no correlation between these two things; that, therefore, it is a
mere chance whether or not organs which are of importance to organisms are likewise of importance
as guides to classification; and, in point of fact, that the general tendency in this matter
is towards an inverse instead of a direct proportion. More often than not, the greater the
value of a structure for the purpose of indicating natural affinities, the less is its value
to the creatures presenting it.

Enough has now been said to show three things. First, that long before the theory of descent
was entertained by naturalists, naturalists perceived the fact of natural affinities, and did
their best to construct a natural system of classification for the purpose of expressing such
affinities. Second, that naturalists had a kind of instinctive belief in some one principle
running through the whole organic world, which thus served to bind together organisms in groups
subordinate to groups--that is, into species, genera, orders, families, classes, sub-kingdoms,
and kingdoms. Third, that they were not able to give any very intelligible reason for this
faith that was in them; sometimes supposing the principle in question to be that of a supernatural
plan of organization, sometimes regarding it as dependent on conditions of physiology, and
sometimes not attempting to account for it at all.

Of course it is obvious that the theory of descent furnishes the explanation which is required.
For it is now evident to evolutionists, that although these older naturalists did not know
what they were doing when they were tracing these lines of natural affinity, and thus helping
to construct a natural classification--I say it is now evident to evolutionists that these
naturalists were simply tracing the lines of genetic relationship. The great principle pervading
organic nature, which was seen so mysteriously to bind the whole creation together as in a
nexus of organic affinity, is now easily understood as nothing more or less than the principle
of Heredity. Let us, therefore, look a little more closely at the character of this network,
in order to see how far it lends itself to this new interpretation.

The first thing that we have to observe about the nexus is, that it is a nexus--not a single
line, or even a series of parallel lines. In other words, some time before the theory of descent
was seriously entertained, naturalists for the most part had fully recognised that it was impossible
to arrange either plants or animals, with respect to their mutual affinities, in a ladder-like
series (as was supposed to be the type of classification by the earlier systematists), or even
in map-like groups (as was supposed to be the type by Linnæus). And similarly, also, with respect
to grades of organization. In the case of the larger groups, indeed, it is usually possible
to say that the members of this group as a whole are more highly organized than the members
of that group as a whole; so that, for instance, we have no hesitation in regarding the Vertebrata
as more highly organized than the Invertebrata, Birds than Reptiles, and so on. But when we
proceed to smaller subdivisions, such as genera and species, it is usually impossible to say
that the one type is more highly organized than another type. A horse, for instance, cannot
be said to be more highly organized than a zebra or an ass; although the entire horse-genus
is clearly a more highly organized type than any genus of animal which is not a mammal.

In view of these facts, therefore, the system of classification which was eventually arrived
at before the days of Darwin, was the system which naturalists likened to a tree; and this
is the system which all naturalists now agreed upon as the true one. Sometimes leaves growing
on the same branch are growing at a different level--especially, of course, if the branch be
a large one, corresponding to a class or sub-kingdom. And sometimes leaves growing on different
branches are growing at the same level: that is to say, although they represent species belonging
to widely divergent families, orders, or even classes, it cannot be said that the one species
is more highly organized than the other.

Now, this tree-like arrangement of species in nature is an arrangement for which Darwin is
not responsible. For, as we have seen, the detecting of it has been due to the progressive
work of naturalists for centuries past; and even when it was detected, at about the commencement
of the present century, naturalists were confessedly unable to explain the reason of it, or
what was the underlying principle that they were engaged in tracing when they proceeded ever
more and more accurately to define these ramifications of natural affinity. But now, as just
remarked, we can clearly perceive that this underlying principle was none other than Heredity
as expressed in family likeness,--likeness, therefore, growing progressively more unlike with
remoteness of ancestral relationship. For thus only can we obtain any explanation of the sundry
puzzles and apparent paradoxes, which a working out of their natural classifications revealed
to botanists and zoologists during the first half of the present century. It will now be my
endeavour to show how these puzzles and paradoxes are all explained by the theory that natural
affinities are merely the expression of genetic affinities.

First of all, and from the most general point of view, it is obvious that the tree-like system
of classification, which Darwin found already and empirically worked out by the labours of
his predecessors, is as suggestive as anything could well be of the fact of genetic relationship.
For this is the form that every tabulation of family pedigree must assume; and therefore the
mere fact that a scientific tabulation of natural affinities was eventually found to take the
form of a tree, is in itself highly suggestive of the inference that such a tabulation represents
a family tree. If all species were separately created, there can be no assignable reason why
the ideas of earlier naturalists touching the form which a natural classification would eventually
assume should not have represented the truth--why, for example, it should not have assumed
the form of a ladder (as was anticipated in the seventeenth century), or of a map (as was anticipated
in the eighteenth), or, again, of a number of wholly unrelated lines, circles, &c. (as certain
speculative writers of the present century have imagined). But, on the other hand, if all species
were separately and independently created, it becomes virtually incredible that we should everywhere
observe this progressive arborescence of characters common to larger groups into more and more
numerous, and more and more delicate, ramifications of characters distinctive only of smaller
and smaller groups. A man would be deemed insane if he were to attribute the origin of every
branch and every twig of a real tree to a separate act of special creation; and although we
have not been able to witness the growth of what we may term in a new sense the Tree of Life,
the structural relations which are now apparent between its innumerable ramifications bear
quite as strong a testimony to the fact of their having been due to an organic growth, as is
the testimony furnished by the branches of an actual tree.

Or, to take another illustration.

But, quitting now this most general point of view--or the suggestive fact that what we have
before us is a tree--let us next approach this tree for the purpose of examining its structure
more in detail. When we do this, the fact of next greatest generality which we find is as follows.

In cases where a very old form of life has continued to exist unmodified, so that by investigation
of its anatomy we are brought back to a more primitive type of structure than that of the newer
forms growing higher up upon the same branch, two things are observable. In the first place,
the old form is less differentiated than the newer ones; and, in the next place, it is seen
much more closely to resemble types of structure belonging to some of the other and larger
branches of the tree. The organization of the older form is not only simpler; but it is, as
naturalists say, more generalized. It comprises within itself characters belonging to its own
branch, and also characters belonging to neighbouring branches, or to the trunk from which
allied branches spring. Hence it becomes a general rule of classification, that it is by the
lowest, or by the oldest, forms of any two natural groups that the affinities between the two
groups admit of being best detected. And it is obvious that this is just what ought to be the
case on the theory of descent with divergent modification; while, upon the alternative theory
of special creation, no reason can be assigned why the lowest or the oldest types should thus
combine the characters which afterwards become severally distinctive of higher or newer types.

Again, I have already alluded to the remarkable fact that there is no correlation between the
value of structures to the organisms which present them, and their value to the naturalist
for the purpose of tracing natural affinity; and I have remarked that up to the close of the
last century it was regarded as an axiom of taxonomic science, that structures which are of
most importance to the animals or plants possessing them must likewise prove of most importance
in any natural system of classification. On this account, all attempts to discover the natural
classification went upon the supposition that such a direct proportion must obtain--with the
result that organs of most physiological importance were chosen as the bases of systematic
work. And when, in the earlier part of the present century, De Candolle found that instead
of a direct there was usually an inverse proportion between the functional and the taxonomic
value of a structure, he was unable to suggest any reason for this apparently paradoxical fact.
For, upon the theory of special creation, no reason can be assigned why organs of least importance
to organisms should prove of most importance as marks of natural affinity. But on the theory
of descent with progressive modification the apparent paradox is at once explained. For it
is evident that organs of functional importance are, other things equal, the organs which are
most likely to undergo different modifications in different lines of family descent, and therefore
in time to have their genetic relationships in these different lines obscured. On the other
hand, organs or structures which are of no functional importance are never called upon to change
in response to any change of habit, or to any change in the conditions of life. They may, therefore,
continue to be inherited through many different lines of family descent, and thus afford evidence
of genetic relationship where such evidence fails to be given by any of the structures of vital
importance, which in the course of many generations have been required to change in many ways
according to the varied experiences of different branches of the same family. Here, then, we
have an empirically discovered rule in the science of classification, the raison d'être of
which we are at once able to appreciate upon the theory of evolution, whereas no possible explanation
of why it should ever have become a rule could be furnished upon the theory of special creation.

Here, again, is another empirically determined rule. The larger the number, as distinguished
from the importance, of structures which are found common to different groups, the greater
becomes their value as guides to the determination of natural affinity.

    [1] Origin of Species, p. 367.

Now it is evident, without comment, of how much value aggregates of characters ought to be
in classification, if the ultimate meaning of classification be that of tracing lines of pedigree;
whereas, if this ultimate meaning were that of tracing divine ideals manifested in special
creation, we can see no reason why single characters are not such sure tokens of a natural
arrangement as are aggregates of characters, even though the latter be in every other respect
unimportant. For, on the special creation theory, we cannot explain why an assemblage, say
of four or five trifling characters, should have been chosen to mark some unity of plan, rather
than some one character of functional importance, which would have served at least equally
well any such hypothetical purpose.

    [2] Origin of Species, p. 372.

It is true that even a single character, if found common to a large number of forms, while
uniformly absent from others, is also regarded by naturalists as of importance for purposes
of classification, although they recognise it as of a value subordinate to that of aggregates
of characters. But this also is what we should expect on the theory of descent. If even any
one structure be found to run through a number of animals presenting different habits of life,
the readiest explanation of the fact is to be found in the theory of descent; but this does
not hinder that if several such characters always occur together, the inference of genetic
relationship is correspondingly confirmed. And the fact that before this inference was ever
drawn, naturalists recognised the value of single characters in proportion to their constancy,
and the yet higher value of aggregates of characters in proportion to their number--this fact
shows that in their work of classification naturalists empirically observed the effects of
a cause which we have now discovered, to wit, hereditary transmission of characters through
ever-widening groups of changing species.

There is another argument which appears to tell strongly in favour of the theory of descent.
We have just seen that non-adaptive structures, not being required to change in response to
change of habits or conditions of life, are allowed to persist unchanged through many generations,
and thus furnish exceptionally good guides in the science of classification--or, according
to our theory, in the work of tracing lines of pedigree. But now, the converse of this statement
holds equally true. For it often happens that adaptive structures are required to change in
different lines of descent in analogous ways, in order to meet analogous needs; and, when such
is the case, the structures concerned have to assume more or less close resemblances to one
another, even though they have severally descended from quite different ancestors. The paddles
of a whale, for instance, most strikingly resemble the fins of a fish as to their outward form
and movements; yet, on the theory of descent, they must be held to have had a widely different
parentage. Now, in all such cases where there is thus what is called an analogous (or adaptive)
resemblance, as distinguished from what is called an homologous (or anatomical) resemblance--in
all such cases it is observable that the similarities do not extend further into the structure
of the parts than it is necessary that they should extend, in order that the structures should
both perform the same functions. The whole anatomy of the paddles of a whale is quite unlike
that of the fins of a fish--being, in fact, that of the fore-limb of a mammal. The change,
therefore, which the fore-limb has here undergone to suit it to the aquatic habits of this
mammal, is no greater than was required for that purpose: the change has not extended to any
one feature of anatomical significance. This, of course, is what we should expect on the theory
of descent with modification of ancestral characters; but on the theory of special creation
it is not intelligible why there should always be so marked a distinction between resemblances
as analogical or adaptive, and resemblances as homological or of meaning in reference to a
natural classification. To take another and more detailed instance, the Tasmanian wolf is an
animal separated from true wolves in a natural system of classification. Yet its jaws and teeth
bear a strong general resemblance to those of all the dog tribe, although there are differences
of anatomical detail. In particular, while the dogs all have on each side of the upper jaw
four pre-molars and two molars, the Tasmanian wolf has three pre-molars and four molars. Now
there is no reason, so far as their common function of dealing with flesh is concerned, why
the teeth of the Tasmanian wolf should not have resembled homologically as well as analogically
the teeth of a true wolf; and therefore we cannot assign any intelligible reason why, if all
the species of the dog genus were separately created with one pattern of teeth, the unallied
Tasmanian wolf should have been furnished with what is practically the same pattern from a
functional point of view, while differing from a structural point of view. But, of course,
on the theory of descent with modification, we can well understand why similarities of habit
should have led to similarities of structural appearance of an adaptive kind in different lines
of descent, without there being any trace of such real or anatomical similarities as could
possibly point to genetic relationship.

Lastly, to adduce the only remaining argument from classification which I regard as of any
considerable weight, naturalists have found it necessary, while constructing their natural
classifications, to set great store on what Mr. Darwin calls "chains of affinities." Now it
is evident that this progressive modification of specific types--where it cannot be said that
the continuity of resemblance is anywhere broken, and yet terminates in modification so great
that but for the connecting links no one could divine a natural relationship between the extreme
members of the series,--it is evident that such chains of affinity speak most strongly in favour
of a transmutation of the species concerned, while it is impossible to suggest any explanation
of the fact in terms of the rival theory. For if all the links of such a chain were separately
forged by as many acts of special creation, we can see no reason why B should resemble A, C
resemble B, and so on, but with ever slight though accumulating differences, until there is
no resemblance at all between A and Z.

    [3] Origin of Species, pp. 368-9.

       *       *       *       *       *

I hope enough has now been said to show that all the general principles and particular facts
appertaining to the natural classification of plants and animals, are precisely what they ought
to be according to the theory of genetic descent; while no one of them is such as might be--and,
indeed, used to be--expected upon the theory of special creation. Therefore, the only possible
way in which all this uniform body of direct evidence can be met by a supporter of the latter
theory, is by falling back upon the argument from ignorance. We do not know, it may be said,
what hidden reasons there may have been for following all these general principles in the separate
creation of specific types. Now, it is evident that this is a form of argument which admits
of being brought against all the actual--and even all the possible--lines of evidence in favour
of evolution. Therefore I deem it desirable thus early in our proceedings to place this argument
from ignorance on its proper logical footing.

If there were any independent evidence in favour of special creation as a fact, then indeed
the argument from ignorance might be fairly used against any sceptical cavils regarding the
method. In this way, for example, Bishop Butler made a legitimate use of the argument from
ignorance when he urged that it is no reasonable objection against a revelation, otherwise
accredited, to show that it has been rendered in a form, or after a method, which we should
not have antecedently expected. But he could not have legitimately employed this argument,
except on the supposition that he had some independent evidence in favour of the revelation;
for, in the absence of any such independent evidence, appeal to the argument from ignorance
would have become a mere begging of the question, by simply assuming that a revelation had
been made. And thus it is in the present case. A man, of course, may quite legitimately say,
Assuming that the theory of special creation is true, it is not for us to anticipate the form
or method of the process. But where the question is as to whether or not the theory is true,
it becomes a mere begging of this question to take refuge in the argument from ignorance, or
to represent in effect that there is no question to be discussed. And if, when the form or
method is investigated, it be found everywhere charged with evidence in favour of the theory
of descent, the case becomes the same as that of a supposed revelation, which has been discredited
by finding that all available evidence points to a natural growth. In short, the argument from
ignorance is in any case available only as a negative foil against destructive criticism: in
no case has it any positive value, or value of a constructive kind. Therefore, if a theory
on any subject is destitute of positive evidence, while some alternative theory is in possession
of such evidence, the argument from ignorance can be of no logical use to the former, even
though it maybe of such use to the latter. For it is only the possession of positive evidence
which can furnish a logical justification of the argument from ignorance: in the absence of
such evidence, even the negative value of the argument disappears, and it then implies nothing
more than the gratuitous assumption of a theory.

       *       *       *       *       *

I will now sum up the various considerations which have occupied us during the present chapter.

First of all we must take note that the classification of plants and animals in groups subordinate
to groups is not merely arbitrary, or undertaken only for a matter of convenience and nomenclature--such,
for instance, as the classification of stars in constellations. On the contrary, the classification
of a naturalist differs from that of an astronomer, in that the objects which he has to classify
present structural resemblances and structural differences in numberless degrees; and it is
the object of his classification to present a tabular statement of these facts. Now, long before
the theory of evolution was entertained, naturalists became fully aware that these facts of
structural resemblances running through groups subordinate to groups were really facts of nature,
and not merely poetic imaginations of the mind. No one could dissect a number of fishes without
perceiving that they were all constructed on one anatomical pattern, which differed considerably
from the equally uniform pattern on which all mammals were constructed, even although some
mammals bore an extraordinary resemblance to fish in external form and habits of life. And
similarly with all the smaller divisions of the animal and vegetable kingdoms. Everywhere investigation
revealed the bonds of close structural resemblances between species of the same genus, resemblance
less close between genera of the same family, resemblance still less close between families
of the same order, resemblance yet more remote between orders of the same class, and resemblance
only in fundamental features between classes of the same sub-kingdom, beyond which limit all
anatomical resemblance was found to disappear--the different sub-kingdoms being formed on wholly
different patterns. Furthermore, in tracing all these grades of structural relationship, naturalists
were slowly led to recognise that the form which a natural classification must eventually assume
would be that of a tree, wherein the constituent branches would display a progressive advance
of organization from below upwards.

Now we have seen that although this tree-like arrangement of natural groups was as suggestive
as anything could well be of all the forms o£ life being bound together by the ties of genetic
relationship, such was not the inference which was drawn from it. Dominated by the theory of
special creation, naturalists either regarded the resemblance of type subordinate to type as
expressive of divine ideals manifested in such creation, or else contented themselves with
investigating the facts without venturing to speculate upon their philosophical import. But
even those naturalists who abstained from committing themselves to any theory of archetypal
plans, did not doubt that facts so innumerable and so universal must have been due to some
one co-ordinating principle--that, even though they were not able to suggest what it was, there
must have been some hidden bond of connexion running through the whole of organic nature. Now,
as we have seen, it is manifest to evolutionists that this hidden bond can be nothing else
than heredity; and, therefore, that these earlier naturalists, although they did not know what
they were doing, were really tracing the lines of genetic descent as revealed by degrees of
structural resemblance,--that the arborescent grouping of organic forms which their labours
led them to begin, and in large measure to execute, was in fact a family tree of life.

Here, then, is the substance of the argument from classification. The mere fact that all organic
nature thus incontestably lends itself to a natural arrangement of group subordinate to group,
when due regard is paid to degrees of anatomical resemblance--this mere fact of itself tells
so weightily in favour of descent with progressive modification in different lines, that even
if it stood alone it would be entitled to rank as one of our strongest pieces of evidence.
But, as we have seen, it does not stand alone. When we look beyond this large and general fact
of all the innumerable forms of life being thus united in a tree-like system by an unquestionable
relationship of some kind, to those smaller details in the science of classification which
have been found most useful as guides for this kind of research, then we find that all these
details, or empirically discovered rules, are exactly what we should have expected them to
be, supposing the real meaning of classification to have been that of tracing lines of pedigree.

In particular, we have seen that the most archaic types are both simpler in their organization
and more generalized in their characters than are the more recent types--a fact of which no
explanation can be given on the theory of special creation. But, upon the theory of natural
evolution, we can without difficulty understand why the earlier forms should have been the
simpler forms, and also why they should have been the most generalized. For it is out of the
older forms that the newer must have grown; and, as they multiplied, they must have become
more and more differentiated.

Again, we have seen that there is no correlation between the importance of any structure from
a classificatory point of view, and the importance of that structure to the organism which
presents it. On the contrary, it is a general rule that "the less any part of the organization
is concerned with special habits, the more important it becomes for classification." Now, from
the point of view of special creation it is unintelligible why unity of ideal should be most
manifested by least important structures, whereas from the point of view of evolution it is
to be expected that these life-serving structures should have been most liable to divergent
modification in divergent lines of descent, or in adaptation to different conditions of life,
while the trivial or less important characters should have been allowed to remain unmodified.
Thus we can now understand why all primitive classifications were wrong in principle when they
went upon the assumption that divine ideals were best exhibited by resemblances between life-serving
(and therefore adaptive) structures, with the result that whales were classed with fishes,
birds with bats, and so on. Nevertheless, these primitive naturalists were quite logical; for,
from the premises furnished by the theory of special creation, it is much more reasonable to
expect that unity of ideal should be shown in plainly adaptive characters than in trivial and
more or less hidden anatomical characters. Moreover, long after biological science had ceased
consciously to follow any theological theory, the apparent axiom continued to be entertained,
that structures of most importance to organisms must also be structures of most importance
to systematists. And when at last, in the present century, this was found not to be the case,
no reason could be suggested why it was not the case. But now we are able fully to explain
this apparent anomaly.

Once more, we have seen that aggregates of characters presenting resemblances to one another
have always been found to be of special importance as guides to classification. This, of course,
is what we should have expected, if the real meaning of classification be that of tracing lines
of pedigree; but on the theory of special creation no reason can be assigned why single characters
are not such sure tokens of a natural arrangement as are aggregates of characters, however
trivial the latter may be. For it is obvious that unity of ideal might have been even better
displayed by everywhere maintaining the pattern of some one important structure, than by doing
so in the case of several unimportant structures. Take an analogous instance from human contrivances.
Unity of ideal in the case of gun-making would be shown by the same principles of mechanism
running through all the different sizes and shapes of gun-locks, rather than by the ornamental
patterns engraved upon the outside. Yet it must be supposed that in the mechanisms assumed
to have been constructed by special creation, it was the trivial details rather than the fundamental
principles of these mechanisms which were chosen by the Divinity to display his ideals.

And this leads us to the next consideration--namely, that when in two different lines of descent
animals happen to adopt similar habits of life, the modifications which they undergo in order
to fit them for these habits often induces striking resemblances of structure between the two
animals, as in the case of whales and fish. But in all such instances it is invariably found
that the resemblance is only superficial and apparent: not anatomical or real. In other words,
the resemblance does not extend further than it is necessary that it should, if both sets of
organs are to be adapted to perform the same functions. Now this, again, is just what one would
expect to find as the universal rule on the theory of descent, with modification of ancestral
characters. But, on the opposite theory of special creation, I know not how it is to be explained
that among so many instances of close superficial resemblance between creatures belonging to
different branches of the tree of life, there are no instances of any real or anatomical resemblance.
So far as their structures are adapted to perform a common function, there is in all such cases
what may be termed a deceptive appearance of some unity of ideal; but, when carefully examined,
it is always found that two apparently identical structures occurring on different branches
of the classificatory tree are in fact fundamentally different in respect of their structural plan.

Lastly, we have seen that one of the guiding principles of classification has been empirically
found to consist in setting a high value on "chains of affinities." That is to say, naturalists
not unfrequently meet with a long series of progressive modifications of type, which, although
it cannot be said that the continuity is anywhere broken, at last leads to so much divergence
of character that, but for the intermediate links, the members at each end of the chain could
not be suspected of being in any way related. Well, such cases of chains of affinity obviously
tell most strongly in favour of descent with continuous modification; while it is impossible
to suggest why, if all the links were separately forged by as many acts of special creation,
there should have been this gradual transmutation of characters carried to the point where
the original creative ideal has been so completely transformed that, but for the accident of
the chain being still complete, no one of nature's interpreters could possibly have discovered
the connexion. For, as we have seen, this is not a case in which any appeal can be logically
made to the argument from ignorance of divine method, unless some independent evidence could
be adduced in favour of special creation. And that no such independent evidence exists, it
will be the object of future chapters to show.

CHAPTER III.

MORPHOLOGY. Now the change in the conditions of their life thus brought about would have rendered
desirable great modifications of structure. Everywhere we find the distinction between homology
and analogy which was explained in the last chapter--the distinction, that is, between correspondence
of structure and correspondence of function. On the one hand, we meet with structures which
are perfectly homologous and yet in no way analogous: the structural elements remain, but are
profoundly modified so as to perform wholly different functions. On the other hand, we meet
with structures which are perfectly analogous, and yet in no way homologous: totally different
structures are modified to perform the same functions. How, then, are we to explain these things?
Unfortunately for the objection, however, Darwin clearly showed in his reply that in no one
anatomical or homologous feature do the two structures resemble one another; so that, in point
of fact, the two organs do not resemble one another in any particular further than it is necessary
that they should, if both are to be analogous, or to serve the same function as organs of sight.
However, adopting for the sake of argument this great assumption, let us suppose that God did
lay down these arbitrary rules for his own guidance in creation, and then let us see to what
the assumption leads. Yet we repeatedly find that this is not the case.

    [4] It is, however, probable that all species of the genus retained
    a tiny rudiment of wings in greatly dwindled scapulo-coracoid bones.
    And Mr. H. O. Forbes has detected, in a recently exhumed specimen of
    the latter, an indication of the glenoid cavity, for the
    articulation of an extremely aborted humerus. (See Nature, Jan.
    14th, 1892.)

As an illustration both of this and of other points which have been mentioned, I may draw attention
to what seems to me a particularly suggestive case. So-called soldier-or hermit-crabs, are
crabs which have adopted the habit of appropriating the empty shells of mollusks. In association
with this peculiar habit, the structure of these animals differs very greatly from that of
all other crabs. In particular, the hinder part of the body, which occupies the mollusk-shell,
and which therefore has ceased to require any hard covering of its own, has been suffered to
lose its calcareous integument, and presents a soft fleshy character, quite unlike that of
the more exposed parts of the animal. Moreover, this soft fleshy part of the creature is specially
adapted to the particular requirements of the creature by having its lateral appendages--i.
e. appendages which in other crustacea perform the function of legs--modified so as to act
as claspers to the inside of the mollusk-shell; while the tail-end of the part in question
is twisted into the form of a spiral, which fits into the spiral of the mollusk-shell. Now,
in Keeling Island there is a large kind of crab called Birgus latro, which lives upon land
and there feeds upon cocoa-nuts. The whole structure of this crab, it seems to me, unmistakeably
resembles the structure of a hermit-crab (see drawings on the next page, Fig. 7). Yet this
crab neither lives in the shell of a mollusk, nor is the hinder part of its body in the soft
and fleshy condition just described: on the contrary, it is covered with a hard integument
like all the other parts of the animal. Consequently, I think we may infer that the ancestors
of Birgus were hermit-crabs living in mollusk-shells; but that their descendants gradually
relinquished this habit as they gradually became more and more terrestrial, while, concurrently
with these changes in habit, the originally soft posterior parts acquired a hard protective
covering to take the place of that which was formerly supplied by the mollusk-shell. So that,
if so, we now have, within the limits of a single organism, evidence of a whole series of morphological
changes in the past history of its species. First, there must have been the great change from
an ordinary crab to a hermit-crab in all the respects previously pointed out. Next, there must
have been the change back again from a hermit-crab to an ordinary crab, so far as living without
the necessity of a mollusk-shell is concerned. From an evolutionary point of view, therefore,
we appear to have in the existing structure of Birgus a morphological record of all these changes,
and one which gives us a reasonable explanation of why the animal presents the extraordinary
appearance which it does. But, on the theory of special creation, it is inexplicable why this
land-crab should have been formed on the pattern of a hermit-crab, when it never has need to
enter the shell of a mollusk. In other words, its peculiar structure is not specially in keeping
with its present habits, although so curiously allied to the similar structure of certain other
crabs of totally different habits, in relation to which the peculiarities are of plain and
obvious significance. The whole anatomy of its internal ear, for example, has reference to
hearing in air--or, as Hunter long ago remarked, "is constructed upon the same principle as
in the quadruped"; yet, as Owen says, "the outer opening and passage leading therefrom to the
tympanum can rarely be affected by sonorous vibrations of the atmosphere, and indeed they are
reduced, or have degenerated, to a degree which makes it difficult to conceive how such vibrations
can be propagated to the ear-drum during the brief moments in which the opening may be raised
above the water."

Now, rudimentary organs of this kind are of such frequent occurrence, that almost every species
presents one or more of them--usually, indeed, a considerable number. Thus, for example, to
return to the case of wings, we have already seen that in an extinct genus of bird, dinornis,
these organs were reduced to such an extent as to leave it still doubtful whether so much as
the tiny rudiment hypothetically supplied to fig. 6 (p. 61) was present in all the species.
And here is another well-known case of another genus of still existing bird, which, as was
the case with dinornis, occurs only in new zealand. (Fig. 9.) Upon this island there are no
four-footed enemies--either existing or extinct--to escape from which the wings of birds would
be of any service. Consequently we can understand why on this island we should meet with such
a remarkable dwindling away of wings. But here the interesting fact is that the young birds
are able to fly perfectly well. Now, in accordance with a general law to be considered in a
future chapter, the life-history of an individual organism is a kind of condensed recapitulation
of the life-history of its species. Consequently, we can understand why the little chickens
of the logger-headed duck are able to fly like all other ducks, while their parents are only
able to flap along the surface of the water.

Facts analogous to this reduction of wings in birds which have no further use for them, are
to be met with also in insects under similar circumstances. Thus, there are on the island of
Madeira somewhere between 500 and 600 species of beetles, which are in large part peculiar
to that island, though related to other--and therefore presumably parent--species on the neighbouring
continent. Now, no less than 200 species--or nearly half the whole number--are so far deficient
in wings that they cannot fly. And, if we disregard the species which are not peculiar to the
island--that is to say, all the species which likewise occur on the neighbouring continent,
and therefore, as evolutionists conclude, have but recently migrated to the island,--we find
this very remarkable proportion. There are altogether 29 peculiar genera, and out of these
no less than 23 have all their species in this condition.

Similar facts have been recently observed by the Rev. A. E. Eaton with respect to insects inhabiting
Kerguelen Island.

Here is another and perhaps an even more suggestive class of facts.

It is now many years ago since the editors of Silliman's Journal requested the late Professor
Agassiz to give them his opinion on the following question. In a certain dark subterranean
cave, called the Mammoth cave, there are found some peculiar species of blind fishes. Now the
editors of Silliman's Journal wished to know whether Prof. Agassiz would hold that these fish
had been specially created in these caves, and purposely devoided of eyes which could never
be of any use to them; or whether he would allow that these fish had probably descended from
other species, but, having got into the dark cave, gradually lost their eyes through disuse.
Prof. Agassiz, who was a believer in special creation, allowed that this ought to constitute
a crucial test as between the two theories of special design and hereditary descent. "If physical
circumstances," he said, "ever modified organized beings, it should be easily ascertained here."
And eventually he gave it as his opinion, that these fish "were created under the circumstances
in which they now live, within the limits over which they now range, and with the structural
peculiarities which now characterise them."

Since then a great deal of attention has been paid to the fauna of this Mammoth cave, and also
to the faunas of other dark caverns, not only in the New, but also in the Old World. In the
result, the following general facts have been fully established.

(1) Not only fish, but many representatives of other classes, have been found in dark caves.

(2) Wherever the caves are totally dark, all the animals are blind.

(3) If the animals live near enough to the entrance to receive some degree of light, they may
have large and lustrous eyes.

(4) In all cases the species of blind animals are closely allied to species inhabiting the
district where the caves occur; so that the blind species inhabiting American caves are closely
allied to American species, while those inhabiting European caves are closely allied to European
species.

(5) In nearly all cases structural remnants of eyes admit of being detected, in various degrees
of obsolescence. In the case of some of the crustaceans of the Mammoth cave the foot-stalks
of the eyes are present, although the eyes themselves are entirely absent.

Now, it is evident that all these general facts are in full agreement with the theory of evolution,
while they offer serious difficulties to the theory of special creation. As Darwin remarks,
it is hard to imagine conditions of life more similar than those furnished by deep limestone
caverns under nearly the same climate in the two continents of America and Europe; so that,
in accordance with the theory of special creation, very close similarity in the organizations
of the two sets of faunas might have been expected. But, instead of this, the affinities of
these two sets of faunas are with those of their respective continents--as of course they ought
to be on the theory of evolution. Again, what would have been the sense of creating useless
foot-stalks for the imaginary support of absent eyes, not to mention all the other various
grades of degeneration in other cases? So that, upon the whole, if we agree with the late Prof.
Agassiz in regarding these cave animals as furnishing a crucial test between the rival theories
of creation and evolution, we must further conclude that the whole body of evidence which they
now furnish is weighing on the side of evolution.

So much, then, for a few special instances of what Darwin called rudimentary structures, but
what may be more descriptively designated--in accordance with the theory of descent--obsolescent
or vestigial structures. It is, however, of great importance to add that these structures are
of such general occurrence throughout both the vegetable and animal kingdoms, that, as Darwin
has observed, it is almost impossible to point to a single species which does not present one
or more of them. In other words, it is almost impossible to find a single species which does
not in this way bear some record of its own descent from other species; and the more closely
the structure of any species is examined anatomically, the more numerous are such records found
to be. Thus, for example, of all organisms that of man has been most minutely investigated
by anatomists; and therefore I think it will be instructive to conclude this chapter by giving
a list of the more noteworthy vestigial structures which are known to occur in the human body.
I will take only those which are found in adult man, reserving for the next chapter those which
occur in a transitory manner during earlier periods of his life. But, even as thus restricted,
the number of obsolescent structures which we all present in our own persons is so remarkable,
that their combined testimony to our descent from a quadrumanous ancestry appears to me in
itself conclusive. I mean, that even if these structures stood alone, or apart from any more
general evidences of our family relationships, they would be sufficient to prove our parentage.
Nevertheless, it is desirable to remark that of course these special evidences which I am about
to detail do not stand alone. Not only is there the general analogy furnished by the general
proof of evolution elsewhere, but there is likewise the more special correspondence between
the whole of our anatomy and that of our nearest zoological allies. Now the force of this latter
consideration is so enormous, that no one who has not studied human anatomy can be in a position
to appreciate it. For without special study it is impossible to form any adequate idea of the
intricacy of structure which is presented by the human form. Yet it is found that this enormously
intricate organization is repeated in all its details in the bodies of the higher apes. There
is no bone, muscle, nerve, or vessel of any importance in the one which is not answered to
by the other. Hence there are hundreds of thousands of instances of the most detailed correspondence,
without there being any instances to the contrary, if we pay due regard to vestigial characters.
The entire corporeal structure of man is an exact anatomical copy of that which we find in the ape.

My object, then, here is to limit attention to those features of our corporeal structure which,
having become useless on account of our change in attitude and habits, are in process of becoming
obsolete, and therefore occur as mere vestigial records of a former state of things. For example,
throughout the vertebrated series, from fish to mammals, there occurs in the inner corner of
the eye a semi-transparent eye-lid, which is called the nictitating membrane. The object of
this structure is to sweep rapidly, every now and then, over the external surface of the eye,
apparently in order to keep the surface clean. But although the membrane occurs in all classes
of the sub-kingdom, it is more prevalent in some than in others--e.g. in birds than in mammals.
Even, however, where it does not occur of a size and mobility to be of any use, it is usually
represented, in animals above fishes, by a functionless rudiment, as here depicted in the case
of man. (Fig. 10.)

Now the organization of man presents so many vestigial structures thus referring to various
stages of his long ancestral history, that it would be tedious so much as to enumerate them.
Therefore I will yet further limit the list of vestigial structures to be given as examples,
by not only restricting these to cases which occur in our own organization; but of them I shall
mention only such as refer us to the very last stage of our ancestral history--viz. structures
which have become obsolescent since the time when our distinctively human branch of the family
tree diverged from that of our immediate forefathers, the Quadrumana.

(1) Muscles of the external ear.--These, which are of large size and functional use in quadrupeds,
we retain in a dwindled and useless condition (Fig. 11). This is likewise the case in anthropoid
apes; but in not a few other Quadrumana (e.g. baboons, macacus, magots, &c.) degeneration has
not proceeded so far, and the ears are voluntarily moveable.

(2) Panniculus carnosis.--A large number of the mammalia are able to move their skin by means
of sub-cutaneous muscle--as we see, for instance, in a horse, when thus protecting himself
against the sucking of flies. We, in common with the Quadrumana, possess an active remnant
of such a muscle in the skin of the forehead, whereby we draw up the eyebrows; but we are no
longer able to use other considerable remnants of it, in the scalp and elsewhere,--or, more
correctly, it is rarely that we meet with persons who can. But most of the Quadrumana (including
the anthropoids) are still able to do so. There are also many other vestigial muscles, which
occur only in a small percentage of human beings, but which, when they do occur, present unmistakeable
homologies with normal muscles in some of the Quadrumana and still lower animals[5].

    [5] See especially Mr. John Wood's papers, Proc. R. S., xiii to
    xvi, and xviii; also Journ. Anat., i and iii. In this connexion
    Darwin refers to M. Richard, Annls. d. Sc. Nat. Zoolg., tom.
    xviii, p. 13, 1852.

(3) Feet.--It is observable that in the infant the feet have a strong deflection inwards, so
that the soles in considerable measure face one another. This peculiarity, which is even more
marked in the embryo than in the infant (see p. 153), and which becomes gradually less and
less conspicuous even before the child begins to walk, appears to me a highly suggestive peculiarity.
For it plainly refers to the condition of things in the Quadrumana, seeing that in all these
animals the feet are similarly curved inwards, to facilitate the grasping of branches. And
even when walking on the ground apes and monkeys employ to a great extent the outside edges
of their feet, as does also a child when learning to walk. The feet of a young child are also
extraordinarily mobile in all directions, as are those of apes. In order to show these points,
I here introduce comparative drawings of a young ape and the portrait of a young male child.
These drawings, moreover, serve at the same time to illustrate two other vestigial characters,
which have often been previously noticed with regard to the infant's foot. I allude to the
incurved form of the legs, and the lateral extension of the great toe, whereby it approaches
the thumb-like character of this organ in the Quadrumana. As in the case of the incurved position
of the legs and feet, so in this case of the lateral extensibility of the great toe, the peculiarity
is even more marked in embryonic than in infant life. So that this organ, which, according
to Owen, "is perhaps the most characteristic peculiarity in the human structure," when traced
back to the early stages of its development, is found to present a notably less degree of peculiarity.

    [6] Proc. Nat. Hist. Soc., Boston, 1863.

(4) Hands.--Dr. Louis Robinson has recently observed that the grasping power of the whole human
hand is so surprisingly great at birth, and during the first few weeks of infancy, as to be
far in excess of present requirements on the part of a young child. Hence he concludes that
it refers us to our quadrumanous ancestry--the young of anthropoid apes being endowed with
similar powers of grasping, in order to hold on to the hair of the mother when she is using
her arms for the purposes of locomotion. This inference appears to me justifiable, inasmuch
as no other explanation can be given of the comparatively inordinate muscular force of an infant's
grip. For experiments showed that very young babies are able to support their own weight, by
holding on to a horizontal bar, for a period varying from one half to more than two minutes[7].
With his kind permission I here reproduce one of Dr. Robinson's instantaneous, and hitherto
unpublished, photographs of a very young infant. This photograph was taken after the above
paragraph (3) was written, and I introduce it here because it serves to show incidentally--and
perhaps even better than the preceding figure--the points there mentioned with regard to the
feet and great toes. Again, as Dr. Robinson observes, the attitude, and the disproportionately
large development of the arms as compared with the legs, give all the photographs a striking
resemblance to a picture of the chimpanzee "Sally" at the Zoological Gardens. For "invariably
the thighs are bent nearly at right angles to the body, and in no case did the lower limbs
hang down and take the attitude of the erect position." He adds, "In many cases no sign of
distress is evinced, and no cry uttered, until the grasp begins to give way."

    [7] Nineteenth Century, November, 1891.

(5) Tail.--The absence of a tail in man is popularly supposed to constitute a difficulty against
the doctrine of his quadrumanous descent. As a matter of fact, however, the absence of an external
tail in man is precisely what this doctrine would expect, seeing that the nearest allies of
man in the quadrumanous series are likewise destitute of an external tail. Far, then, from
this deficiency in man constituting any difficulty to be accounted for, if the case were not
so--i. e. if man did possess an external tail,--the difficulty would be to understand how he
had managed to retain an organ which had been renounced by his most recent ancestors. Nevertheless,
as the anthropoid apes continue to present the rudimentary vestiges of a tail in a few caudal
vertebræ below the integuments, we might well expect to find a similar state of matters in
the case of man. And this is just what we do find, as a glance at these two comparative illustrations
will show. (Fig. 15.) Moreover, during embryonic life, both of the anthropoid apes and of man,
the tail much more closely resembles that of the lower kinds of quadrumanous animals from which
these higher representatives of the group have descended. For at a certain stage of embryonic
life the tail, both of apes and of human beings, is actually longer than the legs (see Fig.
16). And at this stage of development, also, the tail admits of being moved by muscles which
later on dwindle away. Occasionally, however, these muscles persist, and are then described
by anatomists as abnormalities. The following illustrations serve to show the muscles in question,
when thus found in adult man.

(6) Vermiform Appendix of the Cæcum.--This is of large size and functional use in the process
of digestion among many herbivorous animals; while in man it is not only too small to serve
any such purpose, but is even a source of danger to life--many persons dying every year from
inflammation set up by the lodgement in this blind tube of fruit-stones, &c.

In the orang it is longer than in man (Fig. 18), as it is also in the human foetus proportionally
compared with the adult. (Fig. 19.) In some of the lower herbivorous animals it is longer than
the entire body.

Like vestigial structures in general, however, this one is highly variable. Thus the above
cut (Fig. 19) serves to show that it may sometimes be almost as short in the orang as it normally
is in man--both the human subjects of this illustration having been normal.

    [8] Descent of Man, 2nd ed., pp. 15-16.

The following woodcut serves still further to show vestigial resemblances between the human
ear and that of apes. The last two figures illustrate the general resemblance between the normal
ear of foetal man and the ear of an adult orang-outang. The other two figures on the lower
line are intended to exhibit occasional modifications of the adult human ear, which approximate
simian characters somewhat more closely than does the normal type. It will be observed that
in their comparatively small lobes these ears resemble those of all the apes; and that while
the outer margin of one is not unlike that of the Barbary ape, the outer margin of the other
follows those of the chimpanzee and orang. Of course it would be easy to select individual
human ears which present either of these characters in a more pronounced degree; but these
ears have been chosen as models because they present both characters in conjunction. The upper
row of figures likewise shows the close similarity of hair-tracts, and the direction of growth
on the part of the hair itself, in cases where the human ear happens to be of an abnormally
hirsute character. But this particular instance (which I do not think has been previously noticed)
introduces us to the subject of hair, and hair-growth, in general.

(8) Hair.--Adult man presents rudimentary hair over most parts of the body. Wallace has sought
to draw a refined distinction between this vestigial coating and the useful coating of quadrumanous
animals, in the absence of the former from the human back. But even this refined distinction
does not hold. On the one hand, the comparatively hairless chimpanzee which died last year
in the Zoological Gardens (T. calvus) was remarkably denuded over the back; and, on the other
hand, men who present a considerable development of hair over the rest of their bodies present
it also on their backs and shoulders. Again, in all men the rudimentary hair on the upper and
lower arm is directed towards the elbow--a peculiarity which occurs nowhere else in the animal
kingdom, with the exception of the anthropoid apes and a few American monkeys, where it presumably
has to do with arboreal habits. For, when sitting in trees, the orang, as observed by Mr. Wallace,
places its hands above its head with its elbows pointing downwards: the disposition of hair
on the arms and fore-arms then has the effect of thatch in turning the rain. Again, I find
that in all species of apes, monkeys, and baboons which I have examined (and they have been
numerous), the hair on the backs of the hands and feet is continued as far as the first row
of phalanges; but becomes scanty, or disappears altogether, on the second row; while it is
invariably absent on the terminal row. I also find that the same peculiarity occurs in man.
We all have rudimentary hair on the first row of phalanges, both of hands and feet: when present
at all, it is more scanty on the second row; and in no case have I been able to find any on
the terminal row. In all cases these peculiarities are congenital, and the total absence or
partial presence of hair on the second phalanges is constant in different species of Quadrumana.
For instance, it is entirely absent in all the chimpanzees, which I have examined, while scantily
present in all the orangs. As in man, it occurs in a patch midway between the joints.

Besides showing these two features with regard to the disposition of hair on the human arm
and hand, the above woodcut illustrates a third. By looking closely at the arm of the very
hairy man from whom the drawing was taken, it could be seen that there was a strong tendency
towards a whorled arrangement of the hairs on the backs of the wrists. This is likewise, as
a general rule, a marked feature in the arrangement of hair on the same places in the gorilla,
orang, and chimpanzee. In the specimen of the latter, however, from which the drawing was taken,
this characteristic was not well marked. The downward direction of the hair on the backs of
the hands is exactly the same in man as it is in all the anthropoid apes. Again, with regard
to hair, Darwin notices that occasionally there appears in man a few hairs in the eyebrows
much longer than the others; and that they seem to be representative of similarly long and
scattered hairs which occur in the chimpanzee, macacus, and baboons.

Lastly, it may be here more conveniently observed than in the next chapter on Embryology, that
at about the sixth month the human foetus is often thickly coated with somewhat long dark hair
over the entire body, except the soles of the feet and palms of the hands, which are likewise
bare in all quadrumanous animals. This covering, which is called the lanugo, and sometimes
extends even to the whole forehead, ears, and face, is shed before birth. So that it appears
to be useless for any purpose other than that of emphatically declaring man a child of the monkey.

Now, in addition to these there are other respects in which the dwindling condition of wisdom-teeth
is manifested--particularly with regard to the pattern of their crowns. Indeed, in this respect
it would seem that even in the anthropoid apes there is the beginning of a tendency to degeneration
of the molar teeth from behind forwards. For if we compare the three molars in the lower jaw
of the gorilla, orang, and chimpanzee, we find that the gorilla has five well-marked cusps
on all three of them; but that in the orang the cusps are not so pronounced, while in the chimpanzee
there are only four of them on the third molar. Now in man it is only the first of these three
teeth which normally presents five cusps, both the others presenting only four. So that, comparing
all these genera together, it appears that the number of cusps is being reduced from behind
forwards; the chimpanzee having lost one of them from the third molar, while man has not only
lost this, but also one from the second molar,--and, it may be added, likewise partially (or
even totally) from the first molar, as a frequent variation among civilized races. But, on
the other hand, variations are often met with in the opposite direction, where the second or
the third molar of man presents five cusps--in the one case following the chimpanzee, in the
other the gorilla. These latter variations, therefore, may fairly be regarded as reversionary.
For these facts I am indebted to the kindness of Mr. C. S. Tomes.

(10) Perforations of the humerus.--The peculiarities which we have to notice under this heading
are two in number. First, the supra condyloid foramen is a normal feature in some of the lower
Quadrumana (Fig. 25), where it gives passage to the great nerve of the fore-arm, and often
also to the great artery. In man, however, it is not a normal feature. Yet it occurs in a small
percentage of cases--viz., according to Sir W. Turner, in about one per cent., and therefore
is regarded by Darwin as a vestigial character. Secondly, there is inter-condyloid foramen,
which is also situated near the lower end of the humerus, but more in the middle of the bone.
This occurs, but not constantly, in apes, and also in the human species. From the fact that
it does so much more frequently in the bones of ancient--and also of some savage--races of
mankind (viz. in 20 to 30 per cent. of cases), Darwin is disposed to regard it also as a vestigial
feature. On the other hand, Prof. Flower tells me that in his opinion it is but an expression
of impoverished nutrition during the growth of the bone.

(11) Flattening of tibia.--In some very ancient human skeletons, there has also been found
a lateral flattening of the tibia, which rarely occurs in any existing human beings, but which
appears to have been usual among the earliest races of mankind hitherto discovered. According
to Broca, the measurements of these fossil human tibiæ resemble those of apes. Moreover, the
bone is bent and strongly convex forwards, while its angles are so rounded as to present the
nearly oval section seen in apes. It is in association with these ape-like human tibiæ that
perforated humeri of man are found in greatest abundance.

On the other hand, however, there is reason to doubt whether this form of tibia in man is really
a survival from his quadrumanous ancestry. For, as Boyd-Dawkins and Hartmann have pointed out,
the degree of flattening presented by some of these ancient human bones is greater than that
which occurs in any existing species of anthropoid ape. Of course the possibility remains that
the unknown species of ape from which man descended may have had its tibia more flattened than
is now observable in any of the existing species. Nevertheless, as some doubt attaches to this
particular case, I do not press it--and, indeed, only mention it at all in order that the doubt
may be expressed.

Similarly, I will conclude by remarking that several other instances of the survival of vestigial
structures in man have been alleged, which are of a still more doubtful character. Of such,
for example, are the supposed absence of the genial tubercle in the case of a very ancient
jaw-bone of man, and the disposition of valves in human veins. From the former it was argued
that the possessor of this very ancient jaw-bone was probably speechless, inasmuch as the tubercle
in existing man gives attachment to muscles of the tongue. From the latter it has been argued
that all the valves in the veins of the human body have reference, in their disposition, to
the incidence of blood-pressure when the attitude of the body is horizontal, or quadrupedal.
Now, the former case has already broken down, and I find that the latter does not hold. But
we can well afford to lose such doubtful and spurious cases, in view of all the foregoing unquestionable
and genuine cases of vestigial structures which are to be met with even within the limits of
our own organization--and even when these limits are still further limited by selecting only
those instances which refer to the very latest chapter of our long ancestral history.

CHAPTER IV.

EMBRYOLOGY.

We will next consider what of late years has become the most important of the lines of evidence,
not only in favour of the general fact of evolution, but also of its history: I mean the evidence
which has been yielded by the newest of the sciences, the science of Embryology. But here,
as in the analogous case of adult morphology, in order to do justice to the mass of evidence
which has now been accumulated, a whole volume would be necessary. As in that previous case,
therefore, I must restrict myself to giving an outline sketch of the main facts.

First I will display what in the language of Paley we may call "the state of the argument."

It is an observable fact that there is often a close correspondence between developmental changes
as revealed by any chronological series of fossils which may happen to have been preserved,
and developmental changes which may be observed during the life-history of now existing individuals
belonging to the same group of animals. For instance, the successive development of prongs
in the horns of deer-like animals, which is so clearly shown in the geological history of this
tribe, is closely reproduced in the life-history of existing deer. Or, in other words, the
antlers of an existing deer furnish in their development a kind of résumé, or recapitulation,
of the successive phases whereby the primitive horn was gradually superseded by horns presenting
a greater and greater number of prongs in successive species of extinct deer (Fig. 26). Now
it must be obvious that such a recapitulation in the life-history of an existing animal of
developmental changes successively distinctive of sundry allied, though now extinct species,
speaks strongly in favour of evolution. For as it is of the essence of this theory that new
forms arise from older forms by way of hereditary descent, we should antecedently expect, if
the theory is true, that the phases of development presented by the individual organism would
follow, in their main outlines, those phases of development through which their long line of
ancestors had passed. The only alternative view is that as species of deer, for instance, were
separately created, additional prongs were successively added to their antlers; and yet that,
in order to be so added to successive species every individual deer belonging to later species
was required to repeat in his own lifetime the process of successive additions which had previously
taken place in a remote series of extinct species. Now I do not deny that this view is a possible
view; but I do deny that it is a probable one. According to the evolutionary interpretation
of such facts, we can see a very good reason why the life-history of the individual is thus
a condensed résumé of the life-history of its ancestral species. But according to the opposite
view no reason can be assigned why such should be the case. In a previous chapter--the chapter
on Classification--we have seen that if each species were created separately, no reason can
be assigned why they should all have been turned out upon structural patterns so strongly suggestive
of hereditary descent with gradual modifications, or slow divergence--the result being group
subordinated to group, with the most generalized (or least developed) forms at the bottom,
and the highest products of organization at the top. And now we see--or shall immediately see--that
this consideration admits of being greatly fortified by a study of the developmental history
of every individual organism. If it would be an unaccountable fact that every separately created
species should have been created with close structural resemblances to a certain limited number
of other species, less close resemblances to certain further species, and so backwards; assuredly
it would be a still more unaccountable fact that every individual of every species should exhibit
in its own person a history of developmental change, every term of which corresponds with the
structural peculiarities of its now extinct predecessors--and this in the exact historical
order of their succession in geological time. The more that we think about this antithesis
between the naturalistic and the non-naturalistic interpretations, the greater must we feel
the contrast in respect of rationality to become; and, therefore, I need not spend time by
saying anything further upon the antecedent standing of the two theories in this respect. The
evidence, then, which I am about to adduce from the study of development in the life-histories
of individual organisms, will be regarded by me as so much unquestionable evidence in favour
of similar processes of development in the life-histories of their respective species--in so
far, I mean, as the two sets of changes admit of being proved parallel.

In the only illustration hitherto adduced--viz. that of deers' horns--the series of changes
from a one-pronged horn to a fully developed arborescent antler, is a series which takes place
during the adult life of the animal; for it is only when the breeding age has been attained
that horns are required to appear. But seeing that every animal passes through most of the
phases of its development, not only before the breeding age has been attained, but even before
the time of its own birth, clearly the largest field for the study of individual development
is furnished by embryology. For instance, there is a salamander which differs from most other
salamanders in being exclusively terrestrial in its habits. Now, the young of this salamander
before their birth are found to be furnished with gills, which, however, they are never destined
to use. Yet these gills are so perfectly formed, that if the young salamanders be removed from
the body of their mother shortly before birth, and be then immediately placed in water, the
little animals show themselves quite capable of aquatic respiration, and will merrily swim
about in a medium which would quickly drown their own parent. Here, then, we have both morphological
and physiological evidence pointing to the possession of gills by the ancestors of the land
salamander.

It would be easy to devote the whole of the present chapter to an enumeration of special instances
of the kinds thus chosen for purposes of illustration; but as it is desirable to take a deeper,
and therefore a more general view of the whole subject, I will begin at the foundation, and
gradually work up from the earliest stages of development to the latest. Before starting, however,
I ask the reader to bear in mind one consideration, which must reasonably prevent our anticipating
that in every case the life-history of an individual organism should present a full recapitulation
of the life-history of its ancestral line of species. Supposing the theory of evolution to
be true, it must follow that in many cases it would have been more or less disadvantageous
to a developing type that it should have been obliged to reproduce in its individual representatives
all the phases of development previously undergone by its ancestry--even within the limits
of the same family. We can easily understand, for example, that the waste of material required
for building up the useless gills of the embryonic salamanders is a waste which, sooner or
later, is likely to be done away with; so that the fact of its occurring at all is in itself
enough to show that the change from aquatic to terrestrial habits on the part of this species
must have been one of comparatively recent occurrence. Now, in as far as it is detrimental
to a developing type that it should pass through any particular ancestral phases of development,
we may be sure that natural selection--or whatever other adjustive causes we may suppose to
have been at work in the adaptation of organisms to their surroundings--will constantly seek
to get rid of this necessity, with the result, when successful, of dropping out the detrimental
phases. Thus the foreshortening of developmental history which takes place in the individual
lifetime may be expected often to take place, not only in the way of condensation, but also
in the way of excision. Many pages of ancestral history may be recapitulated in the paragraphs
of embryonic development, while others may not be so much as mentioned. And that this is the
true explanation of what embryologists term "direct" development--or of a more or less sudden
leap from one phase to another, without any appearance of intermediate phases--is proved by
the fact that in some cases both direct and indirect development occur within the same group
of organisms, some genera or families having dropped out the intermediate phases which other
genera or families retain.

       *       *       *       *       *

The argument from embryology must be taken to begin with the first beginning of individual
life in the ovum. And, in order to understand the bearings of the argument in this its first
stage, we must consider the phenomena of reproduction in the simplest form which these phenomena
are known to present.

The whole of the animal kingdom is divided into two great groups, which are called the Protozoa
and the Metazoa. Similarly, the whole of the vegetable kingdom is divided into the Protophyta
and the Metaphyta. The characteristic feature of all the Protozoa and Protophyta is that the
organism consists of a single physiological cell, while the characteristic of all the Metazoa
and Metaphyta is that the organism consists of a plurality of physiological cells, variously
modified to subserve different functions in the economy of the animal or plant, as the case
may be. For the sake of brevity, I shall hereafter deal only with the case of animals (Protozoa
and Metazoa); but it may throughout be understood that everything which is said applies also
to the case of plants (Protophyta and Metaphyta).

A Protozoön (like a Protophyton) is a solitary cell, or a "unicellular organism," while a Metazoön
(like a Metaphyton) is a society of cells, or a "multicellular organism." Now, it is only in
the multicellular organisms that there is any observable distinction of sex. In all the unicellular
organisms the phenomena of reproduction appear to be more or less identical with those of growth.
Nevertheless, as these phenomena are here in some cases suggestively peculiar, I will consider
them more in detail.

A Protozoön is a single corpuscle of protoplasm which in different species of Protozoa varies
in size from more than one inch to less than 1/1000 of an inch in diameter. In some species
there is an enveloping cortical substance; in other species no such substance can be detected.
Again, in most species there is a nucleus, while in other species no such differentiation of
structure has hitherto been observed. Nevertheless, from the fact that the nucleus occurs in
the majority of Protozoa, coupled with the fact that the demonstration of this body is often
a matter of extreme difficulty, not only in some of the Protozoa where it has been but recently
detected, but also in the case of certain physiological cells elsewhere,--from these facts
it is not unreasonable to suppose that all the Protozoa possess a nucleus, whether or not it
admits of being rendered visible by histological methods thus far at our disposal. If this
is the case, we should be justified in saying, as I have said, that a Protozoön is an isolated
physiological cell, and, like cells in general, multiplies by means of what Spencer and Häckel
have aptly called a process of discontinuous growth. That is to say, when a cell reaches maturity,
further growth takes place in the direction of a severance of its substance--the separated
portion thus starting anew as a distinct physiological unit. But, notwithstanding the complex
changes which have been more recently observed to take place in the nucleus of some Protozoa
prior to their division, the process of multiplication by division may still be regarded as
a process of growth, which differs from the previous growth of the individual cell in being
attended by a severance of continuity. If we take a suspended drop of gum, and gradually add
to its size by allowing more and more gum to flow into it, a point will eventually be reached
at which the force of gravity will overcome that of cohesion, and a portion of the drop will
fall away from the remainder. Here we have a rough physical simile, although of course no true
analogy. In virtue of a continuous assimilation of nutriment, the protoplasm of a cell increases
in mass, until it reaches the size at which the forces of disruption overcome those of cohesion--or,
in other words, the point at which increase of size is no longer compatible with continuity
of substance. Nevertheless, it must not be supposed that the process is thus merely a physical
one. The phenomena which occur even in the simplest--or so-called "direct"--cell-division,
are of themselves enough to prove that the process is vital, or physiological; and this in
a high degree of specialization. But so, likewise, are all processes of growth in organic structures;
and therefore the simile of the drop of gum is not to be regarded as a true analogy: it serves
only to indicate the fact that when cell-growth proceeds beyond a certain point cell-division
ensues. The size to which cells may grow before they thus divide is very variable in different
kinds of cells; for while some may normally attain a length of ten or twelve inches, others
divide before they measure 1/1000 of an inch. This, however, is a matter of detail, and does
not affect the general physiological principles on which we are at present engaged.

Now, as we have seen, a Protozoön is a single cell; for even although in some of the higher
forms of protozoal life a colony of cells may be bound together in organic connexion, each
of these cells is in itself an "individual," capable of self-nourishment, reproduction, and,
generally, of independent existence. Consequently, when the growth of a Protozoön ends in a
division of its substance, the two parts wander away from each other as separate organisms.
(Fig. 27.)

The next point we have to observe is, that in all cases where a cell or a Protozoön multiplies
by way of fissiparous division, the process begins in the nucleus. If the nucleus divides into
two parts, the whole cell will eventually divide into two parts, each of which retains a portion
of the original nucleus, as represented in the above figure. If the nucleus divides into three,
four, or even, as happens in the development of some embryonic tissues, into as many as six
parts, the cell will subdivide into a corresponding number, each retaining a portion of the
nucleus. Therefore, in all cases of fissiparous division, the seat or origin of the process
is the nucleus.

Thus far, then, the phenomena of multiplication are identical in all the lowest or unicellular
organisms, and in the constituent cells of all the higher or multicellular. And this is the
first point which I desire to make apparent. For where the object is to prove a continuity
between the phenomena of growth and reproduction, it is of primary importance to show--1st,
that there is such a continuity in the case of all the unicellular organisms, and, 2nd, that
there are all the above points of resemblance between the multiplication of cells in the unicellular
and in the multicellular organisms.

It remains to consider the points of difference, and, if possible, to show that these do not
go to disprove the doctrine of continuity which the points of resemblance so forcibly indicate.

The first point of difference obviously is, that in the case of all the multicellular organisms
the two or more "daughter-cells," which are produced by division of the "mother-cell," do not
wander away from one another; but, as a rule, they continue to be held in more or less close
apposition by means of other cells and binding membranes,--with the result of giving rise to
those various "tissues," which in turn go to constitute the material of "organs." I cannot
suppose, however, that any advocate of discontinuity will care to take his stand at this point.
But, if any one were so foolish as to do so, it would be easy to dislodge him by describing
the state of matters in some of the Protozoa where a number of unicellular "individuals" are
organically united so as to form a "colony." These cases serve to bridge this distinction between
Protozoa and Metazoa, of which therefore we may now take leave.

In the second place, there is the no less obvious distinction that the result of cell-division
in the Metazoa is not merely to multiply cells all of the same kind: on the contrary, the process
here gives rise to as many different kinds of cells as there are different kinds of tissue
composing the adult organism. But no one, I should think, is likely to oppose the doctrine
of continuity on the ground of this distinction. For the distinction is clearly one which must
necessarily arise, if the doctrine of continuity between unicellular and multicellular organisms
be true. In other words, it is a distinction which the theory of evolution itself must necessarily
pre-suppose, and therefore it is no objection to the theory that its pre-supposition is realized.
Moreover, as we shall see better presently, there is no difficulty in understanding why this
distinction should have arisen, so soon as it became necessary (or desirable) that individual
cells, when composing a "colony," should conform to the economic principle of the division
of labour--a principle, indeed, which is already foreshadowed in the constituent parts of a
single cell, since the nucleus has one set of functions and its surrounding protoplasm another.

But now, in the third place, we arrive at a more important distinction, and one which lies
at the root of the others still remaining to be considered. I refer to sexual propagation.
For it is a peculiarity of the multicellular organisms that, although many of them may likewise
propagate themselves by other means (Fig. 28), they all propagate themselves by means of sexual
congress. Now, in its essence, sexual congress consists in the fusion of two specialized cells
(or, as now seems almost certain, of the nuclei thereof), so that it is out of such a combination
that the new individual arises by means of successive cell-divisions, which, beginning in the
fertilized ovum, eventually build up all the tissues and organs of the body.

This process clearly indicates very high specialization on the part of germ-cells. For we see
by it that although these cells when young resemble all other cells in being capable of self-multiplication
by binary division (thus reproducing cells exactly like themselves), when older they lose this
power; but, at the same time, they acquire an entirely new and very remarkable power of giving
rise to a vast succession of many different kinds of cells, all of which are mutually correlated
as to their several functions, so as to constitute a hierarchy of cells--or, to speak literally,
a multicellular co-organization. Here it is that we touch the really important distinction
between the Protozoa and the Metazoa; for although I have said that some of the higher Protozoa
foreshadow this state of matters in forming cell-colonies, it must now be noted that the cells
composing such colonies are all of the same kind; and, therefore, that the principle of producing
different kinds of cells which, by mutual co-adaptation of functions, shall be capable of constructing
a multicellular Metazoön,--this great principle of co-organization is but dimly nascent in
the cell-colonies of Protozoa. And its marvellous development in the Metazoa appears ultimately
to depend upon the highly specialized character of germ-cells. Even in cases where multicellular
organisms are capable of reproducing their kind without the need of any preceding process of
fertilization (parthenogenesis), and even in the still more numerous cases where complete organisms
are budded forth from any part of their parent organism (gemmation, Fig. 28), there is now
very good reason to conclude that these powers of a-sexual reproduction on the part of multicellular
organisms are all ultimately due to the specialized character of their germ-cells. For in all
these cases the tissues of the parent, from which the budding takes place, were ultimately
derived from germ-cells--no matter how many generations of budded organisms may have intervened.
And that propagation by budding, &c, in multicellular organisms is thus ultimately due to their
propagation by sexual methods, seems to be further shown by certain facts which will have to
be discussed at some length in my next volume. Here, therefore, I will mention only one of
them--and this because it furnishes what appears to be another important distinction between
the Protozoa and the Metazoa.

In nearly all cases where a Protozoön multiplies itself by fission, the process begins by a
simple division of the nucleus. But when a Metazoön is developed from a germ-cell, although
the process likewise begins by a division of the nucleus, this division is not a simple or
direct one; on the contrary, it is inaugurated by a series of processes going on within the
nucleus, which are so enormously complex, and withal so beautifully ordered, that to my mind
they constitute the most wonderful--if not also the most suggestive--which have ever been revealed
by microscopical research. It is needless to say that I refer to the phenomena of karyokinesis.
A few pages further on they will be described more fully. For our present purposes it is sufficient
to give merely a pictorial illustration of their successive phases; for a glance at such a
representation serves to reveal the only point to which attention has now to be drawn--namely,
the immense complexity of the processes in question, and therefore the contrast which they
furnish to the simple (or "direct") division of the nucleus preparatory to cell-division in
the unicellular organisms. Here, then (Fig. 29), we see the complex processes of karyokinesis
in the first two stages of egg-cell division. But similar processes continue to repeat themselves
in subsequent stages; and this, there is now good reason to believe, throughout all the stages
of cell-division, whereby the original egg-cell eventually constructs an entire organism. In
other words, all the cells composing all the tissues of a multicellular organism, at all stages
of its development, are probably originated by these complex processes, which differ so much
from the simple process of direct division in the unicellular organisms[9]. In this important
respect, therefore, it does at first sight appear that we have a distinction between the Protozoa
and the Metazoa of so pronounced a character, as fairly to raise the question whether cell-division
is fundamentally identical in unicellular and in multicellular organisms.

    [9] I say "probably," because analogy points in this direction. As a
    matter of fact, in many cases of tissue-formation karyokinesis has
    not hitherto been detected. But even if in such cases it does not
    occur--i. e. if failure to detect its occurrence be not due merely
    to still remaining imperfections of our histological methods,--the
    large number of cases in which it has been seen to occur in the
    formation of sundry tissues are of themselves sufficient to indicate
    some important difference between cells derived from ova (metazoal),
    and cells which have not been so derived (protozoal). Which is the
    point now under discussion.

Lastly, the only other distinction of a physiologically significant kind between a single cell
when it occurs as a Protozoön and when it does so as the unfertilized ovum of a Metazoön is,
that in the latter case the nucleus discharges from its own substance two minute protoplasmic
masses ("polar bodies"), which are then eliminated from the cell altogether. This process,
which will be more fully described later on, appears to be of invariable occurrence in the
case of all egg-cells, while nothing resembling it has ever been observed in any of the Protozoa.

We must now consider these several points of difference seriatim.

First, with regard to sexual propagation, we have already seen that this is by no means the
only method of propagation among the multicellular organisms; and it now remains to add that,
on the other hand, there is, to say the least, a suggestive foreshadowing of sexual propagation
among the unicellular organisms. For although simple binary fission is here the more usual
mode of multiplication, very frequently two (rarely three or more) Protozoa of the same species
come together, fuse into a single mass, and thus become very literally "one flesh." This process
of "conjugation" is usually (though by no means invariably) followed by a period of quiescent
"encystation"; after which the contents of the cyst escape in the form of a number of minute
particles, or "spores," and these severally develope into the parent type. Obviously this process
of conjugation, when it is thus a preliminary to multiplication, appears to be in its essence
the same as fertilization. And if it be objected that encystation and spore-formation in the
Protozoa are not always preceded by conjugation, the answer would be that neither is oviparous
propagation in the Metazoa invariably preceded by fertilization.

Nevertheless, that there are great distinctions between true sexual propagation and this foreshadowing
of it in conjugation I do not deny. The question, however, is whether they be so great as to
justify any argument against an historical continuity between them. What, then, are these remaining
distinctions? Briefly, as we have seen, they are the extrusion from egg-cells of polar bodies,
and the occurrence, both in egg-cells and their products (tissue-cells), of the process of
karyokinesis. But, as regards the polar bodies, it is surely not difficult to suppose that,
whatever their significance may be, it is probably in some way or another connected with the
high specialization of the functions which an egg-cell has to discharge. Nor is there any difficulty
in further supposing that, whatever purpose is served by getting rid of polar bodies, the process
whereby they are got rid of was originally one of utilitarian development--i. e. a process
which at its commencement did not betoken any difference of kind, or breach of continuity,
between egg-cells and cells of simpler constitution.

Lastly, with respect to karyokinesis, although it is true that the microscope has in comparatively
recent years displayed this apparently important distinction between unicellular and multicellular
organisms, two considerations have here to be supplied. The first is, that in some of the Protozoa
processes very much resembling those of karyokinesis have already been observed taking place
in the nucleus preparatory to its division. And although such processes do not present quite
the same appearances as are to be met with in egg-cells, neither do the karyokinetic processes
in tissue-cells, which in their sundry kinds exhibit great variations in this respect. Moreover,
even if such were not the case, the bare fact that nuclear division is not invariably of the
simple or direct character in the case of all Protozoa, is sufficient to show that the distinction
now before us--like the one last dealt with--is by no means absolute. As in the case of sexual
propagation, so in that of karyokinesis, processes which are common to all the Metazoa are
not wholly without their foreshadowings in the Protozoa. And seeing how greatly exalted is
the office of egg-cells--and even of tissue-cells--as compared with that of their supposed
ancestry in protozoal cells, it seems to me scarcely to be wondered at if their specializations
of function should be associated with corresponding peculiarities of structure--a general fact
which would in no way militate against the doctrine of evolution. Could we know the whole truth,
we should probably find that in order to endow the most primitive of egg-cells with its powers
of marshalling its products into a living army of cell-battalions, such an egg-cell must have
been passed through a course of developmental specialization of so elaborate a kind, that even
the complex processes of karyokinesis are but a very inadequate expression thereof.

Probably I have now said enough to show that, remarkable and altogether exceptional as the
properties of germ-cells of the multicellular organisms unquestionably show themselves to be,
yet when these properties are traced back to their simplest beginnings in the unicellular organisms,
they may fairly be regarded as fundamentally identical with the properties of living cells
in general. Thus viewed, no line of real demarcation can be drawn between growth and reproduction,
even of the sexual kind. The one process is, so to speak, physiologically continuous with the
other; and hence, so far as the pre-embryonic stage of life-history is concerned, the facts
cannot fairly be regarded as out of keeping with the theory of evolution.

I will now pass on to consider the embryogeny of the Metazoa, beginning at its earliest stage
in the fertilization of the ovum. And here it is that the constructive argument in favour of
evolution which is derived from embryology may be said properly to commence. For it is surely
in itself a most suggestive fact that all the Metazoa begin their life in the same way, or
under the same form and conditions. Omne vivum ex ovo. This is a formula which has now been
found to apply throughout the whole range of the multicellular organisms. And seeing, as we
have just seen, that the ovum is everywhere a single cell, the formula amounts to saying that,
physiologically speaking, every Metazoön begins its life as a Protozoön, and every Metaphyton
as a Protophyton[10].

    [10] Even when propagated by budding, a multicellular organism has
    been ultimately derived from a germ-cell.

Now, if the theory of evolution is true, what should we expect to happen when these germ-cells
are fertilized, and so enter upon their severally distinct processes of development? Assuredly
we should expect to find that the higher organisms pass through the same phases of development
as the lower organisms, up to the time when their higher characters begin to become apparent.
If in the life-history of species these higher characters were gained by gradual improvement
upon lower characters, and if the development of the higher individual is now a general recapitulation
of that of its ancestral species, in studying this recapitulation we should expect to find
the higher organism successively unfolding its higher characters from the lower ones through
which its ancestral species had previously passed. And this is just what we do find. Take,
for example, the case of the highest organism, Man. Like that of all other organisms, unicellular
or multicellular, his development starts from the nucleus of a single cell. Again, like that
of all the Metazoa and Metaphyta, his development starts from the specially elaborated nucleus
of an egg-cell, or a nucleus which has been formed by the fusion of a male with a female element[11].
When his animality becomes established, he exhibits the fundamental anatomical qualities which
characterize such lowly animals as polyps and jelly-fish.

    [11] It has already been stated that both parthenogenesis and
    gemmation are ultimately derived from sexual reproduction. It may
    now be added, on the other hand, that the earlier stages of
    parthenogenesis have been observed to occur sporadically in all
    sub-kingdoms of the Metaxoa, including the Vertebrata, and even the
    highest class, Mammalia. These earlier stages consist in
    spontaneous segmentations of the ovum; so that even if a virgin
    has ever conceived and borne a son, and even if such a fact in the
    human species has been unique, still it would not betoken any breach
    of physiological continuity. Indeed, according to Weismann's not
    improbable hypothesis touching the physiological meaning of polar
    bodies, such a fact need betoken nothing more than a slight
    disturbance of the complex machinery of ovulation, on account of
    which the ovum failed to eliminate from its substance an almost
    inconceivably minute portion of its nucleus.

Here, however, we must guard against an error which is frequently met with in popular expositions
of this subject. It is not true that the embryonic phases in the development of a higher form
always resemble so many adult stages of lower forms. This may or may not be the case; but what
always is the case is, that the embryonic phases of the higher form resemble the corresponding
phases of the lower forms. Thus, for example, it would be wrong to suppose that at any stage
of his development a man resembles a jelly-fish. What he does resemble at an early stage of
his development is the essential or groundplan of the jelly-fish, which that animal presents
in its embryonic condition, or before it begins to assume its more specialized characters fitting
it for its own particular sphere of life. The similarities, therefore, which it is the function
of comparative embryology to reveal are the similarities of type or morphological plan: not
similarities of specific detail. Specific details may have been added to this, that, and the
other species for their own special requirements, after they had severally branched off from
the common ancestral stem; and so could not be expected to recur in the life-history of an
independent specific branch. The comparison therefore must be a comparison of embryo with embryo;
not of embryos with adult forms.

       *       *       *       *       *

In order to give a general idea of the results thus far yielded by a study of comparative embryology
in the present connexion, I will devote the rest of this chapter to giving an outline sketch
of the most important and best established of these results.

Histologically the ovum, or egg-cell, is nearly identical in all animals, whether vertebrate
or invertebrate. Considered as a cell it is of large size, but actually it is not more than
1/100, and may be less than 1/200 of an inch in diameter. In man, as in most mammals, it is
about 1/120. It is a more or less spherical body, presenting a thin transparent envelope, called
the zona pellucida, which contains--first, the protoplasmic cell-substance or "yolk," within
which lies, second, the nucleus or germinal vesicle, within which again lies, third, the nucleolus
or germinal spot. This description is true of the egg-cells of all animals, if we add that
in the case of the lowest animals--such as sponges, &c.--there is no enveloping membrane: the
egg-cell is here a naked cell, and its constituent protoplasm, being thus unconfined, is free
to perform protoplasmic movements, which it does after the manner, and with all the activity,
of an amoeba. But even with respect to this matter of an enveloping membrane, there is no essential
difference between an ovum of the lowest and an ovum of the highest animals. For in their early
stages of development within the ovary the ova of the highest animals are likewise in the condition
of naked cells, exhibiting amoebiform movements; the enveloping membrane of an ovum being the
product of a later development. Moreover this membrane, when present, is usually provided with
one or more minute apertures, through which the spermatozoön passes when fertilizing the ovum.
It is remarkable that the spermatozoa know, so to speak, of the existence of these gate-ways,--their
snake-like movements being directed towards them, presumably by a stimulus due to some emanation
therefrom[12]. In the mammalian ovum, however, these apertures are exceedingly minute, and
distributed all round the circumference of the pellucid envelope, as represented in this illustration
(Fig. 32).

    [12] The spermatozooids of certain plants can be strongly attracted
    towards a pipette which is filled with malic acid--crowding around
    and into it with avidity.

In thus saying that the ova of all animals are, so far as microscopes can reveal, substantially
similar, I am of course speaking of the egg-cell proper, and not of what is popularly known
as the egg. The egg of a bird, for example, is the egg-cell, plus an enormous aggregation of
nutritive material, an egg-shell, and sundry other structures suited to the subsequent development
of the egg-cell when separated from the parent's body. But all these accessories are, from
our present point of view, accidental or adventitious. What we have now to understand by the
ovum, the egg, or the egg-cell, is the microscopical germ which I have just described. So far
then as this germ is concerned, we find that all multicellular organisms begin their existence
in the same kind of structure, and that this structure is anatomically indistinguishable from
that of the permanent form presented by the lowest, or unicellular organisms. But although
anatomically indistinguishable, physiologically they present the sundry peculiarities already
mentioned.

Now I have endeavoured to show that none of these peculiarities are such as to exclude--or
even so much as to invalidate--the supposition of developmental continuity between the lowest
egg-cells and the highest protozoal cells. It remains to show in this place, and on the other
hand, that there is no breach of continuity between the lowest and the highest egg-cells; but,
on the contrary, that the remarkable uniformity of the complex processes whereby their peculiar
characters are exhibited to the histologist, is such as of itself to sustain the doctrine of
continuity in a singularly forcible manner. On this account, therefore, and also because the
facts will again have to be considered in another connexion when we come to deal with Weismann's
theory of heredity, I will here briefly describe the processes in question.

We have already seen that the young egg-cell multiplies itself by simple binary division, after
the manner of unicellular organisms in general--thereby indicating, as also by its amoebiform
movements, its fundamental identity with such organisms in kind. But, as we have likewise seen,
when the ovum ceases to resemble these organisms, by taking on its higher degree of functional
capacity, it is no longer able to multiply itself in this manner. On the contrary, its cell-divisions
are now of an endogenous character, and result in the formation of many different kinds of
cells, in the order required for constructing the multicellular organism to which the whole
series of processes eventually give rise. We have now to consider these processes seriatim.

First of all the nucleus discharges its polar bodies, as previously mentioned, and in the manner
here depicted on the previous page. (Fig. 33.) It will be observed that the nucleus of the
ovum, or the germinal vesicle as it is called, gets rid first of one and afterwards of the
other polar body by an "indirect," or karyokinetic, process of division. (Fig. 33.) Extrusion
of these bodies from the ovum (or it may be only from the nucleus) having been accomplished,
what remains of the nucleus retires from the circumference of the ovum, and is called the female
pronucleus. (Fig. 33. f. pn.) The ovum is now ready for fertilization. A similar emission of
nuclear substance is said by some good observers to take place also from the male germ-cell,
or spermatozoön, at or about the close of its development. The theories to which these facts
have given rise will be considered in future chapters on Heredity.

Turning now to the mechanism of fertilization, the diagrams (Figs. 34, 35) represent what happens
in the case of star-fish.

The sperm-cell, or spermatozoön, is seen in the act of penetrating the ovum. In the first figure
it has already pierced the mucilaginous coat of the ovum, the limit of which is represented
by a line through which the tail of the spermatozoön is passing: the head of the spermatozoön
is just entering the ovum proper. It may be noted that, in the case of many animals, the general
protoplasm of the ovum becomes aware, so to speak, of the approach of a spermatozoön, and sends
up a process to meet it. (Fig. 35, A, B, C.) Several--or even many--spermatozoa may thus enter
the coat of the ovum; but normally only one proceeds further, or right into the substance of
the ovum, for the purpose of effecting fertilization. This spermatozoön, as soon as it enters
the periphery of the yolk, or cell-substance proper, sets up a series of remarkable phenomena.
First, its own head rapidly increases in size, and takes on the appearance of a cell-nucleus:
this is called the male pronucleus. At the same time its tail begins to disappear, and the
enlarged head proceeds to make its way directly towards the nucleus of the ovum which, as before
stated, is now called the female pronucleus. The latter in its turn moves towards the former,
and when the two meet they fuse into one mass, forming a new nucleus. Before the two actually
meet, the spermatozoön has lost its tail altogether; and it is noteworthy that during its passage
through the protoplasmic cell-contents of the ovum, it appears to exercise upon this protoplasm
an attractive influence; for the granules of the latter in its vicinity dispose themselves
around it in radiating lines. All these various phenomena are depicted in the above wood-cuts.
(Figs. 34, 35.)

Fertilization having been thus effected by fusion of the male and female pronuclei into a single
(or new) nucleus, this latter body proceeds to exhibit complicated processes of karyokinesis,
which, as before shown, are preliminary to nuclear division in the case of egg-cells. Indeed
the karyokinetic process may begin in both the pronuclei before their junction is effected;
and, even when their junction is effected, it does not appear that complete fusion of the so-called
chromatin elements of the two pronuclei takes place. For the purpose of explaining what this
means, and still more for the purpose of giving a general idea of the karyokinetic processes
as a whole, I will quote the following description of them, because, for terseness combined
with lucidity, it is unsurpassable.

     Researches, chiefly due to Flemming, have shown that the nucleus in
     very many tissues of higher plants and animals consists of a
     capsule containing a plasma of "achromatin," not deeply stained by
     re-agents, ramifying in which is a reticulum of "chromatin"
     consisting of fibres which readily take a deep stain. (Fig. 36, A).
     Further it is demonstrated that, when the cell is about to divide
     into two, definite and very remarkable movements take place in the
     nucleus, resulting in the disappearance of the capsule and in the
     arrangement of its fibres first in the form of a wreath (D), and
     subsequently (by the breaking of the loops formed by the fibres) in
     the form of a star (E). A further movement within the nucleus leads
     to an arrangement of the broken loops in two groups (F), the
     position of the open ends of the broken loops being reversed as
     compared with what previously obtained. Now the two groups diverge,
     and in many cases a striated appearance of the achromatin substance
     between the two groups of chromatin loops is observable (H). In
     some cases (especially egg-cells) this striated arrangement of the
     achromatin is then termed a "nucleus-spindle," and the group of
     chromatin loops (G, a) is known as "the equatorial plate." At
     each end of the nucleus-spindle in these cases there is often seen
     a star consisting of granules belonging to the general protoplasm
     of the cell (G, c). These are known as "polar stars." After the
     separation of the two sets of loops (H) the protoplasm of the
     general substance of the cell becomes constricted, and division
     occurs, so as to include a group of chromatin loops in each of the
     two fission products. Each of these then rearranges itself together
     with the associated chromatin into a nucleus such as was present in
     the mother cell to commence with (I)[13].

    [13] Ray Lankester, Encyclop. Brit., 9th ed., Vol. XIX, pp. 832-3.

Since the above was published, however, further progress has been made. In particular it has
been found that the chromatin fibres pass from phase D to phase F by a process of longitudinal
splitting (Fig. 37 g, h; Fig. 38, VI, VII)--which is a point of great importance for Weismann's
theory of heredity,--and that the protoplasm outside the nucleus seems to take as important
a part in the karyokinetic process as does the nuclear substance. For the so-called "attraction-spheres"
(Fig. 38 II a, III, III a, VIII to XII), which were at first supposed to be of subordinate
importance in the process as a whole, are now known to take an exceedingly active part in it
(see especially IX to XI). Lastly, it may be added that there is a growing consensus of authoritative
opinion, that the chromatin fibres are the seats of the material of heredity, or, in other
words, that they contain those essential elements of the cell which endow the daughter-cells
with their distinctive characters. Therefore, where the parent-cell is an ovum, it follows
from this view that all hereditary qualities of the future organism are potentially present
in the ultra-microscopical structure of the chromatin fibres.

    .

As I shall have more to say about these processes in the next volume, when we shall see the
important part which they bear in Weismann's theory of heredity, it is with a double purpose
that I here introduce these yet further illustrations of them upon a somewhat larger scale.
The present purpose is merely that of showing, more clearly than hitherto, the great complexity
of these processes on the one hand, and, on the other, the general similarity which they display
in egg-cells and in tissue-cells. But as in relation to this purpose the illustrations speak
for themselves, I may now pass on at once to the history of embryonic development, which follows
fertilization of the ovum.

       *       *       *       *       *

We have seen that when the new nucleus of the fertilized ovum (which is formed by a coalescence
of the male pronucleus with the female) has completed its karyokinetic processes, it is divided
into two equal parts; that these are disposed at opposite poles of the ovum; and that the whole
contents of the ovum are thereupon likewise divided into two equal parts, with the result that
there are now two nucleated cells within the spherical wall of the ovum where before there
had only been one. Moreover, we have also seen that a precisely similar series of events repeat
themselves in each of these two cells, thus giving rise to four cells (see Fig. 29). It must
now be added that such duplication is continued time after time, as shown in the accompanying
illustrations (Figs. 39, 40).

All this, it will be noticed, is a case of cell-multiplication, which differs from that which
takes place in the unicellular organisms only in its being invariably preceded (as far as we
know) by karyokinesis, and in the resulting cells being all confined within a common envelope,
and so in not being free to separate. Nevertheless, from what has already been said, it will
also be noticed that this feature makes all the difference between a Metazoön and a Protozoön;
so that already the ovum presents the distinguishing character of a Metazoön.

I have dealt thus at considerable length upon the processes whereby the originally unicellular
ovum and spermatozoön become converted into the multicellular germ, because I do not know of
any other exposition of the argument from Embryology where this, the first stage of the argument,
has been adequately treated. Yet it is evident that the fact of all the processes above described
being so similar in the case of sexual (or metazoal) reproduction among the innumerable organisms
where it occurs, constitutes in itself a strong argument in favour of evolution. For the mechanism
of fertilization, and all the processes which even thus far we have seen to follow therefrom,
are hereby shown to be not only highly complex, but likewise highly specialized. Therefore,
the remarkable similarity which they present throughout the whole animal kingdom--not to speak
of the vegetable--is expressive of organic continuity, rather than of absolute discontinuity
in every case, as the theory of special creation must necessarily suppose. And it is evident
that this argument is strong in proportion to the uniformity, the specialization, and the complexity
of the processes in question.

Having occupied so much space with supplying what appear to me the deficiencies in previous
expositions of the argument from Embryology, I can now afford to take only a very general view
of the more important features of this argument as they are successively furnished by all the
later stages of individual development. But this is of little consequence, seeing that from
the point at which we have now arrived previous expositions of the argument are both good and
numerous. The following then is to be regarded as a mere sketch of the evidences of phyletic
(or ancestral) evolution, which are so abundantly furnished by all the subsequent phases of
ontogenetic (or individual) evolution.

The multicellular body which is formed by the series of segmentations above described is at
first a sphere of cells (Fig. 40). Soon, however, a watery fluid gathers in the centre, and
progressively pushes the cells towards the circumference, until they there constitute a single
layer. The ovum, therefore, is now in the form of a hollow sphere containing fluid, confined
within a continuous wall of cells (Fig. 41 A). The next thing that happens is a pitting in
of one portion of the sphere (B). The pit becomes deeper and deeper, until there is a complete
invagination of this part of the sphere--the cells which constitute it being progressively
pushed inwards until they come into contact with those at the opposite pole of the ovum. Consequently,
instead of a hollow sphere of cells, the ovum now becomes an open sac, the walls of which are
composed of a double layer of cells (C). The ovum is now what has been called a gastrula; and
it is of importance to observe that probably all the Metazoa pass through this stage. At any
rate it has been found to occur in all the main divisions of the animal kingdom, as a glance
at the accompanying figures will serve to show (Fig. 42)[14]. Moreover many of the lower kinds
of Metazoa never pass beyond it; but are all their lives nothing else than gastrulæ, wherein
the orifice becomes the mouth of the animal, the internal or invaginated layer of cells the
stomach, and the outer layer the skin. So that if we take a child's india-rubber ball, of the
hollow kind with a hole in it, and push in one side with our fingers till internal contact
is established all round, by then holding the indented side downwards we should get a very
fair anatomical model of a gastræa form, such as is presented by the adult condition of many
of the most primitive Metazoa--especially the lower Coelenterata. The preceding figures represent
two other such forms in nature, the first locomotive and transitory, the second fixed and permanent
(Figs. 43, 44).

    [14] In most vertebrated animals this process of gastrulation has
    been more or less superseded by another, which is called
    delamination; but it scarcely seems necessary for our present
    purposes to describe the latter. For not only does it eventually
    lead to the same result as gastrulation--i. e. the converting of the
    ovum into a double-walled sac,--but there is good evidence among the
    lower Vertebrata of its being preceded by gastrulation; so that,
    even as to the higher Vertebrata, embryologists are pretty well
    agreed that delamination has been but a later development of, or
    possibly improvement upon, gastrulation.

Here, then, we leave the lower forms of Metazoa in their condition of permanent gastrulæ. They
differ from the transitory stage of other Metazoa only in being enormously larger (owing to
greatly further growth, without any further development as to matters of fundamental importance),
and in having sundry tentacles and other organs added later on to meet their special requirements.
The point to remember is, that in all cases a gastrula is an open sac composed of two layers
of cells--the outer layer being called the ectoderm, and the inner the endoderm. They have
also been called the animal layer and the vegetative layer, because it is the outer layer (ectoderm)
that gives rise to all the organs of sensation and movement--viz. the skin, the nervous system,
and the muscular system; while it is the inner layer (endoderm) that gives rise to all the
organs of nutrition and reproduction. It is desirable only further to explain that gastrulation
does not take place in all the Metazoa after exactly the same plan. In different lines of descent
various and often considerable modifications of the original and most simple plan have been
introduced; but I will not burden the present exposition by describing these modifications[15].
It is enough for us that they always end in the formation of the two primary layers of ectoderm
and endoderm.

    [15] The most extreme of them is that which is mentioned in the last
    foot-note.

The next stage of differentiation is common to all the Metazoa, except those lowest forms which,
as we have just seen, remain permanently as large gastrulæ, with sundry specialized additions
in the way of tentacles, &c. This stage of differentiation consists in the formation of either
a pouch or an additional layer between the ectoderm and the endoderm, which is called the mesoderm.
It is probably in most cases derived from the endoderm, but the exact mode of its derivation
is still somewhat obscure. Sometimes it has the appearance of itself constituting two layers;
but it is needless to go into these details; for in any case the ultimate result is the same--viz.
that of converting the Metazoön into the form of a tube, the walls of which are composed of
concentric layers of cells. The outermost layer afterwards gives rise to the epidermis with
its various appendages, and also to the central nervous system with its organs of special sense.
The median layer gives rise to the voluntary muscles, bones, cartilages, &c., the nutritive
systems of the blood, the chyle, the lymph, and the muscular tube of the intestine. Lastly,
the innermost layer developes into the epithelium lining of the intestine, with its various
appendages of liver, lungs, intestinal glands, &c.

I have just said that this three or four layered stage is shared by all the Metazoa, except
those very lowest forms--such as sponges and jelly-fish--which do not pass on to it. But from
this point the developmental histories of all the main branches of the Metazoa diverge--the
Vermes, the Echinodermata, the Mollusca, the Articulata, and the Vertebrata, each taking a
different road in their subsequent evolution. I will therefore confine attention to only one
of these several roads or methods, namely, that which is followed by the Vertebrata--observing
merely that, if space permitted, the same principles of progressive though diverging histories
of evolution would equally well admit of being traced in all the other sub-kingdoms which have
just been named.

In order to trace these principles in the case of the Vertebrata, it is desirable first of
all to obtain an idea of the anatomical features which most essentially distinguish the sub-kingdom
as a whole. The following, then, is what may be termed the ideal plan of vertebrate organization,
as given by Prof. Häckel. First, occupying the major axis of body we perceive the primitive
vertebral column. The parts lying above this axis are those which have been developed from
the ectoderm and mesoderm--viz. voluntary muscles, central nervous system, and organs of special
sense. The parts lying below this axis are for the most part those which have been developed
from the endoderm--namely, the digestive tract with its glandular appendages, the circulating
system and the respiratory system. In transverse section, therefore, the ideal vertebrate consists
of a solid axis, with a small tube occupied by the nervous system above, and a large tube,
or body-cavity, below. This body-cavity contains the viscera, breathing organs, and heart,
with its prolongations into the main blood-vessels of the organism. Lastly, on either side
of the central axis are to be found large masses of muscle--two on the dorsal and two on the
ventral. As yet, however, there are no limbs, nor even any bony skeleton, for the primitive
vertebral column is hitherto unossified cartilage. This ideal animal, therefore, is to all
appearance as much like a worm as a fish, and swims by means of a lateral undulation of its
whole body, assisted, perhaps, by a dorsal fin formed out of skin.

Now I should not have presented this ideal representation of a primitive vertebrate--for I
have very little faith in the "scientific use of the imagination" where it aspires to discharge
the functions of a Creator in the manufacture of archetypal forms--I say I should not have
presented this ideal representative of a primitive vertebrate, were it not that the ideal is
actually realized in a still existing animal. For there still survives what must be an immensely
archaic form of vertebrate, whose anatomy is almost identical with that of the imaginary type
which has just been described. I allude, of course, to Amphioxus, which is by far the most
primitive or generalized type of vertebrated animal hitherto discovered. Indeed, we may say
that this remarkable creature is almost as nearly allied to a worm as it is to a fish. For
it has no specialized head, and therefore no skull, brain, or jaws: it is destitute alike of
limbs, of a centralized heart, of developed liver, kidneys, and, in short, of most of the organs
which belong to the other Vertebrata. It presents, however, a rudimentary backbone, in the
form of what is called a notochord. Now a primitive dorsal axis of this kind occurs at a very
early period of embryonic life in all vertebrated animals; but, with the exception of Amphioxus,
in all other existing Vertebrata this structure is not itself destined to become the permanent
or bony vertebral column. On the contrary, it gives way to, or is replaced by, this permanent
bony structure at a later stage of development. Consequently, it is very suggestive that so
distinctively embryonic a structure as this temporary cartilaginous axis of all the other known
Vertebrata should be found actually persisting to the present day as the permanent axis of
Amphioxus. In many other respects, likewise, the early embryonic history of other Vertebrata
refers us to the permanent condition of Amphioxus. In particular, we must notice that the wall
of the neck is always perforated by what in Amphioxus are the gill-openings, and that the blood-vessels
as they proceed from the heart are always distributed in the form of what are called gill-arches,
adapted to convey the blood round or through the gills for the purpose of aeration. In all
existing fish and other gill-breathing Vertebrata, this arrangement is permanent. It is likewise
met with in a peculiar kind of worm, called Balanoglossus--a creature so peculiar, indeed,
that it has been constituted by Gegenbaur a class all by itself. We can see by the wood-cuts
that it presents a series of gill-slits, like the homologous parts of the fishes with which
it is compared--i. e. fishes of a comparatively low type of organization, which dates from
a time before the development of external gills. (Figs. 48, 49, 50.) Now, as I have already
said, these gill-slits are supported internally by the gill-arches, or the blood-vessels which
convey the blood to be oxygenized in the branchial apparatus (see below, Figs. 51, 52, 53);
and the whole arrangement is developed from the anterior part of the intestine--as is likewise
the respiratory mechanism of all the gill-breathing Vertebrata. That so close a parallel to
this peculiar mechanism should be met with in a worm, is a strong additional piece of evidence
pointing to the derivation of the Vertebrata from the Vermes.

Well, I have just said that in all the gill-breathing Vertebrata, this mechanism of gill-slits
and vascular gill-arches in the front part of the intestinal tract is permanent. But in the
air-breathing Vertebrata such an arrangement would obviously be of no use. Consequently, the
gill-slits in the sides of the neck (see Figs. 16 and 57, 58), and the gill-arches of the large
blood-vessels (Figs. 54, 55, 56), are here exhibited only as transitory phases of development.
But as such they occur in all air-breathing Vertebrata. And, as if to make the homologies as
striking as possible, at the time when the gill-slits and the gill-arches are developed in
the embryonic young of air-breathing Vertebrata, the heart is constructed upon the fish-like
type. That is to say, it is placed far forwards, and, from having been a simple tube as in
Worms, is now divided into two chambers, as in Fish. Later on it becomes progressively pushed
further back between the developing lungs, while it progressively acquires the three cavities
distinctive of Amphibia, and finally the four cavities belonging only to the complete double
circulation of Birds and Mammals. Moreover, it has now been satisfactorily shown that the lungs
of air-breathing Vertebrata, which are thus destined to supersede the function of gills, are
themselves the modified swim-bladder or float, which belongs to Fish. Consequently, all these
progressive modifications in the important organs of circulation and respiration in the air-breathing
Vertebrata, together make up as complete a history of their aquatic pedigree as it would be
possible for the most exacting critic to require.

If space permitted, it would be easy to present abundance of additional evidence to the same
effect from the development of the skeleton, the skull, the brain, the sense-organs, and, in
short, of every constituent part of the vertebrate organization. Even without any anatomical
dissection, the similarity of all vertebrated embryos at comparable stages of development admits
of being strikingly shown, if we merely place the embryos one beside the other. Here, for instance,
are the embryos of a fish, a salamander, a tortoise, a bird, and four different mammals. In
each case three comparable stages of development are represented. Now, if we read the series
horizontally, we can see that there is very little difference between the eight animals at
the earliest of the three stages represented--all having fish-like tails, gill-slits, and so
on. In the next stage further differentiation has taken place, but it will be observed that
the limbs are still so rudimentary that even in the case of Man they are considerably shorter
than the tail. But in the third stage the distinctive characters are well marked.

       *       *       *       *       *

So much then for an outline sketch of the main features in the embryonic history of the Vertebrata.
But it must be remembered that the science of comparative embryology extends to each of the
other three great branches of the tree of life, where these take their origin, through the
worms, from the still lower, or gastræa, forms. And in each of these three great branches--namely,
the Echinodermata, the Mollusca, and the Arthropoda--we have a repetition of just the same
kind of evidence in favour of continuous descent, with adaptive modification in sundry lines,
as that which I have thus briefly sketched in the case of the Vertebrata. The roads are different,
but the method of travelling is the same. Moreover, when the embryology of the Worms is closely
studied, the origin of these different roads admits of being clearly traced. So that when all
this mass of evidence is taken together, we cannot wonder that evolutionists should now regard
the science of comparative embryology as the principal witness to their theory.

CHAPTER V.

PALÆONTOLOGY.

The present Chapter will be devoted to a consideration of the evidence of organic evolution
which has been furnished by the researches of geologists. On account of its direct or historical
nature, this branch of evidence is popularly regarded as the most important--so much so, indeed,
that in the opinion of most educated persons the whole doctrine of organic evolution must stand
or fall according to the so-called "testimony of the rocks." Now, without at all denying the
peculiar importance of this line of evidence, I must begin by remarking that it does not present
the denominating importance which popular judgment assigns to it. For although popular judgment
is right in regarding the testimony of the rocks as of the nature of a history, this judgment,
as a rule, is very inadequately acquainted with the great imperfections of that history. Knowing
in a general way what magnificent advances the science of geology has made during the present
century, the public mind is more or less imbued with the notion, that because we now possess
a tolerably complete record of the chronological succession of geological formations, we must
therefore possess a correspondingly complete record of the chronological succession of the
forms of life which from time to time have peopled the globe. Now in one sense this notion
is partly true, but in another sense it is profoundly false. It is partly true if we have regard
only to those larger divisions of the vegetable or animal kingdoms which naturalists designate
by the terms classes and orders. But the notion becomes progressively more untrue when it is
applied to families and genera, while it is most of all untrue when applied to species. That
this must be so may be rendered apparent by two considerations.

In the first place, it does not follow that because we have a tolerably complete record of
the succession of geological formations, we have therefore any correspondingly complete record
of their fossiliferous contents. The work of determining the relative ages of the rocks does
not require that every cubic mile of the earth's surface should be separately examined, in
order to find all the different fossils which it may contain. Were this the case, we should
hitherto have made but very small progress in our reading of the testimony of the rocks. The
relative ages of the rocks are determined by broad comparative surveys over extensive areas;
and although the identification of widely separated deposits is often greatly assisted by a
study of their fossiliferous contents, the mere pricking of a continent here and there is all
that is required for this purpose. Hence, the accuracy of our information touching the relative
ages of geological strata does not depend upon--and, therefore, does not betoken--any equivalent
accuracy of knowledge touching the fossiliferous material which these strata may at the present
time actually contain. And, as we well know, the opportunities which the geologist has of discovering
fossils are extremely limited, if we consider these opportunities in relation to the area of
geological formations. The larger portion of the earth's surface is buried beneath the sea;
and much the larger portion of the fossiliferous deposits on shore are no less hopelessly buried
beneath the land. Therefore it is only upon the fractional portion of the earth's surface which
at the present time happens to be actually exposed to his view that the geologist is able to
prosecute his search for fossils. But even here how miserably inadequate this search has hitherto
been! With the exception of a scratch or two in the continents of Asia and America, together
with a somewhat larger number of similar scratches over the continent of Europe, even that
comparatively small portion of the earth's surface which is available for the purpose has been
hitherto quite unexplored by the palæontologist. How enormously rich a store of material remains
to be unearthed by the future scratchings of this surface, we may dimly surmise from the astonishing
world of bygone life which is now being revealed in the newly discovered fossiliferous deposits
on the continent of America.

But, besides all this, we must remember, in the second place, that all the fossiliferous deposits
in the world, even if they could be thoroughly explored, would still prove highly imperfect,
considered as a history of extinct forms of life. In order that many of these forms should
have been preserved as fossils, it is necessary that they should have died upon a surface neither
too hard nor too soft to admit of their leaving an impression; that this surface should afterwards
have hardened sufficiently to retain the impression; that it should then have been protected
from the erosion of water, as well as from the disintegrating influence of the air; and yet
that it should not have sunk far enough beneath the surface to have come within the no less
disintegrating influence of subterranean heat. Remembering thus, as a general rule, how many
conditions require to have met before a fossil can have been both formed and preserved, we
must conclude that the geological record is probably as imperfect in itself as are our opportunities
of reading even the little that has been recorded. If we speak of it as a history of the succession
of life upon the planet, we must allow, on the one hand, that it is a history which merits
the name of a "chapter of accidents"; and, on the other hand, that during the whole course
of its compilation pages were being destroyed as fast as others were being formed, while even
of those that remain it is only a word, a line, or at most a short paragraph here and there,
that we are permitted to see. With so fragmentary a record as this to study, I do not think
it is too much to say that no conclusions can be fairly based upon it, merely from the absence
of testimony. Only if the testimony were positively opposed to the theory of descent, could
any argument be fairly raised against that theory on the grounds of this testimony. In other
words, if any of the fossils hitherto discovered prove the order of succession to have been
incompatible with the theory of genetic descent, then the record may fairly be adduced in argument,
because we should then be in possession of definite information of a positive kind, instead
of a mere absence of information of any kind. But if the adverse argument reaches only to the
extent of maintaining that the geological record does not furnish us with so complete a series
of "connecting links" as we might have expected, then, I think, the argument is futile. Even
in the case of human histories, written with the intentional purpose of conveying information,
it is an unsafe thing to infer the non-occurrence of an event from a mere silence of the historian--and
this especially in matters of comparatively small detail, such as would correspond (in the
present analogy) to the occurrence of species and genera as connecting links. And, of course,
if the history had only come down to us in fragments, no one would attach any importance at
all to what might have been only the apparent silence of the historian.

In view, then, of the unfortunate imperfection of the geological record per se, as well as
of the no less unfortunate limitation of our means of reading even so much of the record as
has come down to us, I conclude that this record can only be fairly used in two ways. It may
fairly be examined for positive testimony against the theory of descent, or for proof of the
presence of organic remains of a high order of development in a low level of strata. And it
may be fairly examined for negative testimony, or for the absence of connecting links, if the
search be confined to the larger taxonomic divisions of the fauna and flora of the world. The
more minute these divisions, the more restricted must have been the areas of their origin,
and hence the less likelihood of their having been preserved in the fossil state, or of our
finding them even if they have been. Therefore, if the theory of evolution is true, we ought
not to expect from the geological record a full history of specific changes in any but at most
a comparatively small number of instances, where local circumstances happen to have been favourable
for the writing and preservation of such a history. But we might reasonably expect to find
a general concurrence of geological testimony to the larger fact--namely, of there having been
throughout all geological time a uniform progression as regards the larger taxonomic divisions.
And, as I will next proceed to show, this is, in a general way, what we do find, although not
altogether without some important exceptions, with which I shall deal in an Appendix.

There is no positive proof against the theory of descent to be drawn from a study of palæontology,
or proof of the presence of any kind of fossils in strata where the fact of their presence
is incompatible with the theory of evolution. On the other hand, there is an enormous body
of uniform evidence to prove two general facts of the highest importance in the present connexion.
The first of these general facts is, that an increase in the diversity of types both of plants
and animals has been constant and progressive from the earliest to the latest times, as we
should anticipate that it must have been on the theory of descent in ever-ramifying lines of
pedigree.

Now, the importance of these large and general facts in the present connexion must be at once
apparent; but it may perhaps be rendered more so if we try to imagine how the case would have
stood supposing geological investigation to have yielded in this matter an opposite result,
or even so much as an equivocal result. If it had yielded an opposite result, if the lower
geological formations were found to contain as many, as diverse, and as highly organized types
as the later geological formations, clearly there would have been no room at all for any theory
of progressive evolution. And, by parity of reasoning, in whatever degree such a state of matters
were found to prevail, in that degree would the theory in question have been discredited. But
seeing that these opposite principles do not prevail in any (relatively speaking) considerable
degree[16], we have so far positive testimony of the largest and most massive character in
favour of this theory. For while all these large and general facts are very much what they
ought to be according to this theory, they cannot be held to lend any support at all to the
rival theory. In other words, it is clearly no essential part of the theory of special creation
that species should everywhere exhibit this gradual multiplication as to number, coupled with
a gradual diversification and general elevation of types, in all the growing branches of the
tree of life. No one could adopt seriously the jocular lines of Burns, to the effect that the
Creator required to practise his prentice hand on lower types before advancing to the formation
of higher. Yet, without some such assumption, it would be impossible to explain, on the theory
of independent creations, why there should have been this gradual advance from the few to the
many, from the general to the special, from the low to the high.

    [16] For objections which may be brought against this and similar
    statements, see the Appendix.

 +---+--------------------------+---------------------------------------
 |   |Epochs and Formations.  |Faunal Characters.
 |C  |                          |
 |a  |--------------------------+---------------------------------------
 |i  |POST-PLIOCENE.            |Man. Mammalia principally of living
 |n  |  Glacial Period.         |  species. Mollusca exclusively recent.
 |o  |                          +---------------------------------------
 |z  |PLIOCENE, 3,000 feet.     |Mammalia principally of recent genera
 |o  |                          |  --living species rare. Mollusca very
 |i  |                          |  modern.
 |c  |                          +---------------------------------------
 |   |MIOCENE, 4,000 ft.        |Mammalia principally of living
 |o  |                          |  families; extinct genera numerous;
 |r  |                          |  species all extinct. Mollusca largely
 |   |OLIGOCENE, 8,000 ft.      |  of recent species.
 |T  |                          +---------------------------------------
 |e  |EOCENE, 10,000 ft.        |Mammalia with numerous extinct families
 |r  |                          |  and orders; all the species and
 |i  |                          |  most of the genera extinct. Modern
 |a  |                          |  type Shell-Fish.
 |r  |                          |
 |y  |                          |
 +---|--------------------------+---------------------------------------
 |   |LARAMIE, 4,000 ft.        |Passage beds.
 |   |--------------------------+---------------------------------------
 |M  |CRETACEOUS, 12,000 ft.    |Dinosaurian (bird-like) Reptiles;
 |e  |  Chalk.                  |  Pterodactyls (flying Reptiles);
 |s  |                          |  toothed Birds; earliest Snake; bony
 |o  |                          |  Fishes; Crocodiles; Turtles;
 |z  |                          |  Ammonites.
 |o  |                          +---------------------------------------
 |i  |JURASSIC, 6,000 ft.       |Earliest Birds; giant Reptiles
 |c  |  Oolite.                 |  (Ichthyosaurs, Dinosaurs,
 |   |  Lias.                   |  Pterodactyls); Ammonites; Clam- and
 |o  |                          |  Snail-Shells very abundant; decline
 |r  |                          |  of Brachiopods; Butterfly.
 |   |                          +---------------------------------------
 |S  |TRIAS, 5,000 ft.          |First Mammalian (Marsupial); 2-gilled
 |e  |  New Red Sandstone.      |  Cephalopods (Cuttle-Fishes,
 |c  |                          |  Belemnites); reptilian Foot-Prints.
 |o  |                          |
 |n  |                          |
 |d  |                          |
 |a  |                          |
 |r  |                          |
 |y  |                          |
 |---|--------------------------+---------------------------------------
 |P  |PERMIAN, 5,000 ft.        |Earliest true Reptiles.
 |a  |                          +---------------------------------------
 |l  |CARBONIFEROUS, 26,000 ft. |Earliest Amphibian (Labyrinthodont);
 |e  |                          |  extinction of Trilobites; first
 |o  |  Coal.                   |  Cray-fish; Beetles; Cockroaches;
 |z  |                          |  Centipedes; Spiders.
 |o  |                          +---------------------------------------
 |i  |DEVONIAN, 18,000 ft.      |Cartilaginous and Ganoid Fishes;
 |c  |  Old Red Sandstone.      |  earliest and (snail) and freshwater
 |   |                          |  Shells; Shell-Fish abundant; decline
 |o  |                          |  of Trilobites; May-flies; Crab.
 |r  |                          +---------------------------------------
 |   |SILURIAN, 33,000 ft.      |Earliest Fish; the first Air-Breathers
 |P  |                          |  (Insect, Scorpion); Brachiopods and
 |r  |                          |  4-gilled Cephalopods very abundant;
 |i  |                          |  Trilobites; Corals; Graptolites.
 |m  |                          +---------------------------------------
 |a  |CAMBRIAN, 24,000 ft.      |Trilobites; Brachiopod Mollusks.
 |r  |                          |
 |y  |                          |
 |---|--------------------------+---------------------------------------
 |A  |ARCHÆEAN, 30,000 ft.      |
 |z  |  Huronian.               |Eozoön, (probably not a fossil).
 |o  |  Laurentian.             |
 |i  |--------------------------+---------------------------------------
 |c  |PRIMEVAL.                 |Non-sedimentary.
 +------------------------------+--------------------------------------+

I submit, then, that so far as the largest and most general principles in the matter of palæontology
are concerned, we have about as strong and massive a body of evidence as we could reasonably
expect this branch of science to yield; for it is at once enormous in amount and positive in
character. Therefore, if I do not further enlarge upon the evidence which we here have, as
it were en masse, it is only because I do not feel that any words could add to its obvious
significance. It may best be allowed to speak for itself in the millions of facts which are
condensed in this tabular statement of the order of succession of all the known forms of animal
life, as presented by the eminent palæontologist, Professor Cope[17].

    [17] For difficulties and objections, see Appendix.

Or, taking a still more general survey, this tabular statement may be still further condensed,
and presented in a diagrammatic form, as it has been by another eminent American palæontologist,
Prof. Le Conte, in his excellent little treatise on Evolution and its Relations to Religious
Thought. The following is his diagrammatic representation, with his remarks thereon.

     When each ruling class declined in importance, it did not perish,
     but continued in a subordinate position. Thus, the whole organic
     kingdom became not only higher and higher in its highest forms, but
     also more and more complex in its structure and in the interaction
     of its correlated parts. The whole process and its result is
     roughly represented in the accompanying diagram, in which A B
     represents the course of geological time, and the curve, the rise,
     culmination, and decline of successive dominate classes.

I will here leave the evidence which is thus yielded by the most general principles that have
been established by the science of palæontology; and I will devote the rest of this chapter
to a detailed consideration of a few highly special lines of evidence. By thus suddenly passing
from one extreme to the other, I hope to convey the best idea that can be conveyed within a
brief compass of the minuteness, as well as the extent, of the testimony which is furnished
by the rocks.

       *       *       *       *       *

When Darwin first published his Origin of Species, adverse critics fastened upon the "missing-link"
argument as the strongest that they could bring against the theory of descent. Although Darwin
had himself strongly insisted on the imperfection of the geological record, and the consequent
precariousness of any negative conclusions raised upon it, these critics maintained that he
was making too great a demand upon the argument from ignorance--that, even allowing for the
imperfection of the record, they would certainly have expected at least a few cases of testimony
to specific transmutation. For, they urged in effect, looking to the enormous profusion of
the extinct species on the one hand, and to the immense number of known fossils on the other,
it was incredible that no satisfactory instances of specific transmutation should ever have
been brought to light, if such transmutation had ever occurred in the universal manner which
the theory was bound to suppose. But since Darwin first published his great work palæontologists
have been very active in discovering and exploring fossiliferous beds in sundry parts of the
world; and the result of their labours has been to supply so many of the previously missing
links that the voice of competent criticism in this matter has now been well-nigh silenced.
Indeed, the material thus furnished to an advocate of evolution at the present time is so abundant
that his principal difficulty is to select his samples. I think, however, that the most satisfactory
result will be gained if I restrict my exposition to a minute account of some few series of
connecting links, rather than if I were to take a more general survey of a larger number. I
will, therefore, confine the survey to the animal kingdom, and there mention only some of the
cases which have yielded well-detailed proof of continuous differentiation.

It is obvious that the parts of animals most likely to have been preserved in such a continuous
series of fossils as the present line of evidence requires, would have been the hard parts.
These are horns, bones, teeth, and shells. Therefore I will consider each of these four classes
of structures separately.

       *       *       *       *       *

Horns wherever they occur, are found to be of high importance for purposes of classification.
They are restricted to the Ruminants, and appear under three different forms or types--namely
solid, as in antelopes; hollow, as in sheep; and deciduous, as in deer. Now, in each of these
divisions we have a tolerably complete palæontological history of the evolution of horns. The
early ruminants were altogether hornless (Fig. 60). Then, in the middle Miocene, the first
antelopes appeared with tiny horns, which progressively increased in size among the ever-multiplying
species of antelopes until the present day. But it is in the deer tribe that we meet with even
better evidence touching the progressive evolution of horns; because here not only size, but
shape, is concerned. For deer's horns, or antlers, are arborescent; and hence in their case
we have an opportunity of reading the history, not only of a progressive growth in size, but
also of an increasing development of form. Among the older members of the tribe, in the lower
Miocene, there are no horns at all. In the mid-Miocene we meet with two-pronged horns (Cervus
dicrocerus, Figs. 61, 62, 1/5 nat. size). Next, in the upper Miocene (C. matheronis, Fig. 63,
1/8 nat. size), and extending into the Pliocene (C. pardinensis, Fig. 64, 1/18 nat. size),
we meet with three-pronged horns. Then, in the Pliocene we find also four-pronged horns (C.
issiodorensis, Fig. 65, 1/16 nat. size), leading us to five-pronged (C. tetraceros). Lastly,
in the Forest-bed of Norfolk we meet with arborescent horns (C. Sedgwickii, Fig. 66, 1/35 nat.
size). The life-history of existing stags furnishes a parallel development (Fig. 67), beginning
with a single horn (which has not yet been found palæontologically), going on to two prongs,
three prongs, four prongs, and afterwards branching.

       *       *       *       *       *

Coming now to bones, we have a singularly complete record of transition from one type or pattern
of structure to another in the phylogenetic history of tails. This has been so clearly and
so tersely conveyed by Prof. Le Conte, that I cannot do better than quote his statement.

     It has long been noticed that there are among fishes two styles of
     tail-fins. These are the even-lobed, or homocercal (Fig. 68), and
     the uneven-lobed, or heterocercal (Fig. 69). The one is
     characteristic of ordinary fishes (teleosts), the other of sharks
     and some other orders. In structure the difference is even more
     fundamental than in form. In the former style the backbone stops
     abruptly in a series of short, enlarged joints, and thence sends
     off rays to form the tail-fin (Fig. 68); in the latter the
     backbone runs through the fin to its very point, growing slenderer
     by degrees, and giving off rays above and below from each joint,
     but the rays on the lower side are much longer (Fig. 69). This type
     of fin is, therefore, vertebrated, the other non-vertebrated.
     Figs. 68 and 69 show these two types in form and structure. But
     there is still another type found only in the lowest and most
     generalized forms of fishes. In these the tail-fin is vertebrated
     and yet symmetrical. This type is shown in Fig. 70.

     Now, in the development of a teleost fish (Fig. 68), as has been
     shown by Alexander Agassiz, the tail-fin is first like Fig. 70;
     then becomes heterocercal, like Fig. 69; and, finally, becomes
     homocercal like Fig. 68. Why so? Not because there is any special
     advantage in this succession of forms; for the changes take place
     either in the egg or else in very early embryonic states. The
     answer is found in the fact that this is the order of change in
     the phylogenetic series. The earliest fish-tails were either like
     Fig. 69 or Fig. 70; never like Fig. 68. The earliest of all were
     almost certainly like Fig. 70; then they became like Fig. 69; and,
     finally, only much later in geological history (Jurassic or
     Cretaceous), they became like Fig. 68. This order of change is
     still retained in the embryonic development of the last introduced
     and most specialized order of existing fishes. The family history
     is repeated in the individual history.

     Similar changes have taken place in the form and structure of
     birds' tails. The earliest bird known--the Jurassic
     Archæopteryx--had a long reptilian tail of twenty-one joints,
     each joint bearing a feather on each side, right and left (Fig.
     71): [see also Fig. 73]. In the typical modern bird, on the
     contrary, the tail-joints are diminished in number, shortened up,
     and enlarged, and give out long feathers, fan-like, to form the
     so-called tail (Fig. 72). The Archæopteryx' tail is
     vertebrated, the typical bird's non-vertebrated. This
     shortening up of the tail did not take place at once, but
     gradually. The Cretaceous birds, intermediate in time, had tails
     intermediate in structure. The Hesperornis of Marsh had twelve
     joints. At first--in Jurassic strata--the tail is fully a half of
     the whole vertebral column. It then gradually shortens up until it
     becomes the aborted organ of typical modern birds. Now, in
     embryonic development, the tail of the modern typical bird passes
     through all these stages. At first the tail is nearly one half the
     whole vertebral column; then, as development goes on, while the
     rest of the body grows, the growth of the tail stops, and thus
     finally becomes the aborted organ we now find. The ontogeny still
     passes through the stages of the phylogeny. The same is true of all
     tailless animals.

The extinct Archæopteryx above alluded to presents throughout its whole organization a most
interesting assemblage of "generalized characters." For example, its teeth, and its still unreduced
digits of the wings (which, like those of the feet, are covered with scales), refer us, with
almost as much force as does the vertebrated tail, to the Sauropsidian type--or the trunk from
which birds and reptiles have diverged.

We will next consider the palæontological evidence which we now possess of the evolution of
mammalian limbs, with special reference to the hoofed animals, where this line of evidence
happens to be most complete.

I may best begin by describing the bones as these occur in the sundry branches of the mammalian
type now living. As we shall presently see, the modifications which the limbs have undergone
in these sundry branches chiefly consist in the suppression of some parts and the exaggerated
development of others. But, by comparing all mammalian limbs together, it is easy to obtain
a generalized type of mammalian limb, which in actual life is perhaps most nearly conformed
to in the case of bears. I will therefore choose the bear for the purpose of briefly expounding
the bones of mammalian limbs in general--merely asking it to be understood, that although in
the case of many other mammalia some of these bones may be dwindled or altogether absent, while
others may be greatly exaggerated as to relative size, in no case do any additional bones appear.

On looking, then, at the skeleton of a bear (Fig. 74), the first thing to observe is that there
is a perfect serial homology between the bones of the hind legs and of the fore legs. The thigh-bone,
or femur, corresponds to the shoulder-bone, or humerus; the two shank bones (tibia and fibula)
correspond to the two arm-bones (radius and ulna); the many little ankle-bones (tarsals) correspond
to the many little wrist-bones (carpals); the foot-bones (meta-tarsals) correspond to the hand-bones
(meta-carpals); and, lastly, the bones of each of the toes correspond to those of each of the
fingers.

The next thing to observe is, that the disposition of bones in the case of the bear is such
that the animal walks in the way that has been called plantigrade. That is to say, all the
bones of the fingers, as well as those of the toes, feet, and ankles, rest upon the ground,
or help to constitute the "soles." Our own feet are constructed on a closely similar pattern.
But in the majority of living mammalian forms this is not the case. For the majority of mammals
are what has been called digitigrade. That is to say, the bones of the limb are so disposed
that both the foot and hand bones, and therefore also the ankle and wrist, are removed from
the ground altogether, so that the animal walks exclusively upon its toes and fingers--as in
the case of this skeleton (Fig. 75), which is the skeleton of a lion. The next figures display
a series of limbs, showing the progressive passage of a completely plantigrade into a highly
digitigrade type--the curved lines of connexion serving to indicate the homologous bones (Figs.
76, 77).

I will now proceed to detail the history of mammalian limbs, as this has been recorded for
us in fossil remains.

The most generalized or primitive types of limb hitherto discovered in any vertebrated animal
above the class of fishes, are those which are met with in some of the extinct aquatic reptiles.
Here, for instance, is a diagram of the left hind limb of Baptanodon discus (Fig. 78). It has
six rows of little symmetrical bones springing from a leg-like origin. But the whole structure
resembles the fin of a fish about as nearly as it does the leg of a mammal. For not only are
there six rows of bones, instead of five, suggestive of the numerous rays which characterise
the fin of a fish; but the structure as a whole, having been covered over with blubber and
skin, was throughout flexible and unjointed--thus in function, even more than in structure,
resembling a fin. In this respect, also, it must have resembled the paddle of a whale (see
Fig. 79); but of course the great difference will be noted, that the paddle of a whale reveals
the dwindled though still clearly typical bones of a true mammalian limb; so that although
in outward form and function these two paddles are alike, their inward structure clearly shows
that while the one testifies to the absence of evolution, the other testifies to the presence
of degeneration. If the paddle of Baptanodon had occurred in a whale, or the paddle of a whale
had occurred in Baptanodon, either fact would in itself have been well-nigh destructive of
the whole theory of evolution.

Such, then, is the most generalized as it is the most ancient type of vertebrate limb above
the class of fishes. Obviously it is a type suited only to aquatic life. Consequently, when
aquatic Vertebrata began to become terrestrial, the type would have needed modification in
order to serve for terrestrial locomotion. In particular, it would have needed to gain in consolidation
and in firmness, which means that it would have needed also to become jointed. Accordingly,
we find that this archaic type gave place in land-reptiles to the exigencies of these requirements.
Here for example is a diagram, copied from Gegenbaur, of the right fore-foot of Chelydra serpentina
(Fig. 78). As compared with the homologous limb of its purely aquatic predecessor, there is
to be noticed the disappearance of one of the six rows of small bones, a confluence of some
of the remainder in the other five rows, a duplication of the arm-bone into a radius and ulna,
in order to admit of jointed rotation of the hand, and a general disposition of the small bones
below these arm-bones, which clearly foreshadows the joint of the wrist. Indeed, in this fore-foot
of Chelydra, a child could trace all the principal homologies of the mammalian counterpart,
growing, like the next stage in a dissolving view, out of the primitive paddle of Baptanodon--namely,
first the radius and ulna, next the carpals, then the meta-carpals, and, lastly, the three
phalanges in each of the five digits.

Such a type of foot no doubt admirably meets the requirements of slow reptilian locomotion
over swampy ground. But for anything like rapid locomotion over hard and uneven ground, greater
modifications would be needed. Such modifications, however, need not be other in kind: it is
enough that they should continue in the same line of advance, so as to reach a higher degree
of firmness, combined with better joints. Accordingly we find that this took place, not indeed
among reptiles, whose habits of cold-blooded life have not changed, but among their warm-blooded
descendants, the mammals. Moreover, when we examine the whole mammalian series, we find that
the required modifications must have taken place in slightly different ways in three lines
of descent simultaneously. We have first the plantigrade and digitigrade modifications already
mentioned (pp. 178, 179) Of these the plantigrade walking entailed least change, because most
resembling the ancestral or lizard-like mode of progression. All that was here needed was a
general improvement as to relative lengths of bones, with greater consolidation and greater
flexibility of joints. Therefore I need not say anything more about the plantigrade division.
But the digitigrade modification necessitated a change of structural plan, to the extent of
raising the wrist and ankle joints off the ground, so as to make the quadruped walk on its
fingers and toes. We meet with an interesting case of this transition in the existing hare,
which while at rest supports itself on the whole hind foot after the manner of a plantigrade
animal, but when running does so upon the ends of its toes, after the manner of a digitigrade
animal.

It is of importance for us to note that this transition from the original plantigrade to the
more recent digitigrade type, has been carried out on two slightly different plans in two different
lines of mammalian descent. The hoofed mammals--which are all digitigrade--are sub-classified
as artiodactyls and perissodactyls, i. e. even-toed and odd-toed. Now, whether an animal has
an even or an odd number of toes may seem a curiously artificial distinction on which to found
so important a classification of the mammalian group. But if we look at the matter from a less
empirical and more intelligent point of view, we shall see that the alternative of having an
even or an odd number of toes carries with it alternative consequences of a practically important
kind to any animal of the digitigrade type. For suppose an aboriginal five-toed animal, walking
on the ends of its five toes, to be called upon to resign some of his toes. If he is left with
an even number, it must be two or four; and in either case the animal would gain the firmest
support by so disposing his toes as to admit of the axis of his foot passing between an equal
number of them--whether it be one or two toes on each side. On the other hand, if our early
mammal were called upon to retain an odd number of toes, he would gain best support by adjusting
matters so that the axis of his foot should be coincident with his middle toe, whether this
were his only toe, or whether he had one on either side of it. This consideration shows that
the classification into even-toed and odd-toed is not so artificial as it no doubt at first
sight appears. Let us, then, consider the stages in the evolution of both these types of feet.

Going back to the reptile Chelydra, it will be observed that the axis of the foot passes down
the middle toe, which is therefore supported by two toes on either side (Fig. 78). It may also
be noticed that the wrist or ankle bones do not interlock, either with one another or with
the bones of the hand or foot below them. This, of course, would give a weak foot, suited to
slow progression over marshy ground--which, as we have seen, was no doubt the origin of the
mammalian plantigrade foot. Here, for instance, to all intents and purposes, is a similar type
of foot, which belonged to a very early mammal, antecedent to the elephant series, the horse
series, the rhinoceros, the hog, and, in short, all the known hoofed mammalia (Fig. 80). It
was presumably an inhabitant of swampy ground, slow in its movements, and low in its intelligence.

But now, as we have seen, for more rapid progression on hard uneven ground, a stronger and
better jointed foot would be needed. Therefore we find the bones of the wrist and ankle beginning
to interlock, both among themselves and also with those of the foot and hand immediately below
them. Such a stage of evolution is still apparent in the now existing elephant. (See Fig. 81.)

Next, however, a still stronger foot was made by the still further interlocking of the wrist
and ankle bones, so that both the first and second rows of them were thus fitted into each
other, as well as into the bones of the hand and foot beneath. This further modification is
clearly traceable in some of the earlier perissodactyls, and occurs in the majority at the
present time. Compare, for example, the greater interlocking and consolidation of these small
bones in the Rhinoceros as contrasted with the Elephant (Fig. 81). Moreover, simultaneously
with these consolidating improvements in the mechanism of the wrist and ankle joints, or possibly
at a somewhat later period, a reduction in the number of digits began to take place. This was
a continuation of the policy of consolidating the foot, analogous to the dropping out of the
sixth row of small bones in the paddle of Baptanodon. (Fig. 78.) In the pentadactyl plantigrade
foot of the early mammals, the first digit, being the shortest, was the first to leave the
ground, to dwindle, and finally to disappear. More work being thus thrown on the remaining
four, they were strengthened by interlocking with the wrist (or ankle) bones above them, as
just mentioned; and also by being brought closer together.

The changes which followed I will render in the words of Professor Marsh.

     Two kinds of reduction began. One leading to the existing
     perissodactyl foot, and the other, apparently later, resulting in
     the artiodactyl type. In the former the axis of the foot remained
     in the middle of the third digit, as in the pentadactyl foot. [See
     Fig. 81.] In the latter, it shifted to the outer side of this
     digit, or between the third and fourth toe. [See Fig. 82.]

     In the further reduction of the perissodactyl foot, the fifth
     digit, being shorter than the remaining three, next left the
     ground, and gradually disappeared. [Fig. 81 B.] Of the three
     remaining toes, the middle or axial one was the longest, and
     retaining its supremacy as greater strength and speed were
     required, finally assumed the chief support of the foot [Fig. 81
     C], while the outer digits left the ground, ceased to be of use,
     and were lost, except as splint-bones [Fig. 81 D]. The feet of the
     existing horse shows the best example of this reduction in the
     Perissodactyls, as it is the most specialized known in the
     Ungulates [Fig. 81 D].

     In the artiodactyl foot, the reduction resulted in the gradual
     diminution of the two outer of the four remaining toes, the third
     and fourth doing all the work, and thus increasing in size and
     power. The fifth digit, for the same reasons as in the
     perissodactyl foot, first left the ground and became smaller. Next,
     the second soon followed, and these two gradually ceased to be
     functional, [and eventually disappeared altogether, as shown in the
     accompanying drawing of the feet of still existing animals, Fig. 82
     B, C, D].

     The limb of the modern race-horse is a nearly perfect piece of
     machinery, especially adapted to great speed on dry, level ground.
     The limb of an antelope, or deer, is likewise well fitted for
     rapid motion on a plain, but the foot itself is adapted to rough
     mountain work as well, and it is to this advantage, in part, that
     the Artiodactyls owe their present supremacy. The plantigrade
     pentadactyl foot of the primitive Ungulate--and even the
     perissodactyl foot that succeeded it--both belong to the past humid
     period of the world's history. As the surface of the earth slowly
     dried up, in the gradual desiccation still in progress, new types
     of feet became a necessity, and the horse, antelope, and camel were
     gradually developed, to meet the altered conditions.

The best instance of such progressive modifications in the case of perissodactyl feet is furnished
by the fossil pedigree of the existing horse, because here, within the limits of the same continuous
family line, we have presented the entire series of modifications.

There are now known over thirty species of horse-like creatures, beginning from the size of
a fox, then progressively increasing in bulk, and all standing in linear series in structure
as in time. Confining attention to the teeth and feet, it will be seen from the wood-cut on
page 189 that the former grow progressively longer in their sockets, and also more complex
in the patterns of their crowns. On the other hand, the latter exhibit a gradual diminution
of their lateral toes, together with a gradual strengthening of the middle one. (See Fig. 83.)
So that in the particular case of the horse-ancestry we have a practically complete chain of
what only a few years ago were "missing links." And this now practically completed chain shows
us the entire history of what happens to be the most peculiar, or highly specialized, limb
in the whole mammalian class--namely, that of the existing horse. Of the other two wood-cuts,
the former (Fig. 84) shows the skeleton of a very early and highly generalized ancestor, while
the other is a partial restoration of a much more recent and specialized one. (Fig. 85.)

On the other hand, progressive modifications of the artiodactyl feet may be traced geologically
up to the different stages presented by living ruminants, in some of which it has proceeded
further than in others. For instance, if we compare the pig, the deer, and the camel (Fig.
82), we immediately perceive that the dwindling of the two rudimentary digits has proceeded
much further in the case of the deer than in that of the pig, and yet not so far as in that
of the camel, seeing that here they have wholly disappeared. Moreover, complementary differences
are to be observed in the degree of consolidation presented by the two useful digits. For while
in the pig the two foot-bones are still clearly distinguishable throughout their entire length,
in the deer, and still more in the camel, their union is more complete, so that they go to
constitute a single bone, whose double or compound character is indicated externally only by
a slight bifurcation at the base. Nevertheless, if we examine the state of matters in the unborn
young of these animals, we find that the two bones in question are still separated throughout
their length, and thus precisely resemble what used to be their permanent condition in some
of the now fossil species of hoofed mammalia.

Turning next from bones of the limb to other parts of the mammalian skeleton, let us briefly
consider the evidence of evolution that is here likewise presented by the vertebral column,
the skull, and the teeth.

As regards the vertebral column, if we examine this structure in any of the existing hoofed
animals, we find that the bony processes called zygapophyses, which belong to each of the constituent
vertebræ, are so arranged that the anterior pair belonging to each vertebra interlocks with
the posterior pair belonging to the next vertebra. In this way the whole series of vertebræ
are connected together in the form of a chain, which, while admitting of considerable movement
laterally, is everywhere guarded against dislocation. But if we examine the skeletons of any
ungulates from the lower Eocene deposits, we find that in no case is there any such arrangement
to secure interlocking. In all the hoofed mammals of this period the zygapophyses are flat.
Now, from this flat condition to the present condition of full interlocking we obtain a complete
series of connecting links. In the middle Miocene period we find a group of hoofed animals
in which the articulation begins by a slight rounding of the previously flat surfaces: later
on this rounding progressively increases, until eventually we get the complete interlocking
of the present time.

As regards teeth, and still confining attention to the hoofed mammals, we find that low down
in the geological series the teeth present on their grinding surfaces only three simple tubercles.
Later on a fourth tubercle is added, and later still there is developed that complicated system
of ridges and furrows which is characteristic of these teeth at the present time, and which
was produced by manifold and various involutions of the three or four simple tubercles of Eocene
and lower Miocene times. In other words, the principle of gradual improvement in the construction
of teeth, which has already been depicted as regards the particular case of the Horse-family
(Fig. 83), is no less apparent in the pedigree of all the other mammalia, wherever the palæontological
history is sufficiently intact to serve as a record at all.

Lastly, as regards the skull, casts of the interior show that all the earlier mammals had small
brains with comparatively smooth or unconvoluted surfaces; and that as time went on the mammalian
brain gradually advanced in size and complexity. Indeed so small were the cerebral hemispheres
of the primitive mammals that they did not overlap the cerebellum, while their smoothness must
have been such as in this respect to have resembled the brain of a bird or reptile. This, of
course, is just as it ought to be, if the brain, which the skull has to accommodate, has been
gradually evolved into larger and larger proportions in respect of its cerebral hemispheres,
or the upper masses of it which constitute the seat of intelligence. Thus, if we look at the
above series of wood-cuts, which represents the comparative structure of the brain in the existing
classes of the Vertebrata, we can immediately understand why the fossil skulls of Mammalia
should present a gradual increase in size and furrowing, so as to accommodate the general increase
of the brain in both these respects between the level marked "maml" and that marked "man,"
in the last of the diagrams. (Fig. 87.)

    )

The tabular statement on the following diagram, which I borrow from Prof. Cope, will serve
at a glance to reveal the combined significance of so many lines of evidence, united within
the limits of the same group of animals.

To give only one special illustration of the principle of evolution as regards the skull, here
is one of the most recent instances that has occurred of the discovery of a missing link, or
connecting form (see Fig. 88). The fossil (B), which was found in New Jersey, stands in an
intermediate position between the stag and the elk. In the stag (A) the skull is high, showing
but little of that anterior attenuation which is such a distinctive feature of the skull of
the elk (C). The nasal bones (N) of the former, again, are remarkably long when compared with
the similar bones of the latter, and the premaxillaries (PMX), instead of being projected forward
along the horizontal plane of the base of the skull, are deflected sharply downward. In all
these points, it will be seen, the newly discovered form (Cervalces) holds an intermediate
position (B). "The skull exhibits a partial attenuation anteriorly, the premaxillaries are
directed about equally downward and forward, and the nasal bones are measurably contracted
in size. The horns likewise furnish characters which further serve to establish this dual relationship[18]."

    [18] Heilprin, Geological Evidences of Evolution, pp. 73-4 (1888).

  Formation.
      |No. of toes
      |    |Feet
      |    |    |Astragalus.
      |    |    |    |Carpus and tarsus.
      |    |    |    |    |Ulno-radius.
      |    |    |    |    |    |Superior molars.
      |    |    |    |    |    |    |Zygapophyses.
      |    |    |    |    |    |    |    |Brain.
      |    |    |    |    |    |    |    |
  Pliocene.
      |1-1, 2-2
      |    |Digitigrade. (Plantigrade.)
      |    |    |Grooved. (Flat.)
      |    |    |    |Interlocking. (Opposite.)
      |    |    |    |    |Faceted.
      |    |    |    |    |    |4-tubercles, crested and cemented.
      |    |    |    |    |    |    |Doubly involute. Singly involute.
      |    |    |    |    |    |    |    |Hemispheres larger, convoluted.
      |    |    |    |    |    |    |    |
  Upper Miocene. (Loup Fork.)
      |3-3, 4-4, (5-5)
      |    |
      |    |    |
      |    |    |    |
      |    |    |    |    |
      |    |    |    |    |    |
      |    |    |    |    |    |    |
      |    |    |    |    |    |    |    |
      |    |    |    |    |    |    |    |
  Middle. (John Day.)
      |2-2, 3-3, 4-4
      |    |Digitigrade.
      |    |    |Grooved.
      |    |    |    |Interlocking.
      |    |    |    |    |Faceted. Smooth
      |    |    |    |    |    |4-tubercles, and crested
      |    |    |    |    |    |    |Singly involute. Double involute.
      |    |    |    |    |    |    |    |Hemispheres larger, convoluted.
      |    |    |    |    |    |    |    |
  Lower (White River.)
      |3-3, 4-3
      |    |Digitigrade. Plantigrade.
      |    |    |Grooved.
      |    |    |    |Interlocking.
      |    |    |    |    |Smooth. Faceted.
      |    |    |    |    |    |4-tubercles, and crested
      |    |    |    |    |    |    |? Singly involute.
      |    |    |    |    |    |    |    |Hemispheres small, and largeer.
      |    |    |    |    |    |    |    |
  Eocene. Upper (Bridger.)
      |3-3, 4-3, 4-5
      |    |(Digitigrade.) Plantigrade.
      |    |    |Grooved. (Flat.)
      |    |    |    |Opposite. Interlocking.
      |    |    |    |    |Smooth.
      |    |    |    |    |    |4-tubercles. 3-tubercles, and crested.
      |    |    |    |    |    |    |Singly involute. Plane
      |    |    |    |    |    |    |    |Hemispheres small.
      |    |    |    |    |    |    |    |
  Middle. (Wasatch.)
      |4-3, 4-5, 5-5
      |    |Plantigrade. (Digitigrade.)
      |    |    |Flat.
      |    |    |    |    |    |    |Plane. Singly involute.
      |    |    |    |    |    |    |    |Hemispheres small;
      |    |    |    |    |    |    |    |mesencephalon sometimes exposed
      |    |    |    |    |    |    |    |
  Lower (Puerco.)
      |5-5
      |    |Plantigrade.
      |    |    |Flat.
      |    |    |    |Opposite.
      |    |    |    |    |Smooth.
      |    |    |    |    |    |3-tubercles. (4-tubercles), none crested.
      |    |    |    |    |    |    |Plane.
      |    |    |    |    |    |    |    |Mesencephalon exposed;
      |    |    |    |    |    |    |    |hemisphere small and smoother.
      |    |    |    |    |    |    |    |

The evidence, then, which is furnished by all parts of the vertebral skeleton--whether we have
regard to Fishes, Reptiles, Birds, or Mammals--is cumulative and consistent. Nowhere do we
meet with any deviation or ambiguity, while everywhere we encounter similar proofs of continuous
transformation--proofs which vary only with the varying amount of material which happens to
be at our disposal, being most numerous and detailed in those cases where the greatest number
of fossil forms has been preserved by the geological record. Here, therefore, we may leave
the vertebral skeleton; and, having presented a sample of the evidence as yielded by horns
and bones, I will conclude by glancing with similar brevity at the case of shells--which, as
before remarked, constitute the only other sufficiently hard or permanent material to yield
unbroken evidence touching the fossil ancestry of animals.

Of course it will be understood that I am everywhere giving merely samples of the now superabundant
evidence which is yielded by palæontology; and, as this chapter is already a long one, I must
content myself with citing only the case of mollusk-shells, although shells of other classes
might be made to yield highly important additions to the testimony. Moreover, even as regards
the one division of mollusk-shells, I can afford to quote only a very few cases. These, however,
are in my opinion the strongest single pieces of evidence in favour of transmutation which
have thus far been brought to light.

Near the village of Steinheim, in Würtemberg, there is an ancient lake-basin, dating from Tertiary
times. The lake has long ago dried up; but its aqueous deposits are extraordinarily rich in
fossil shells, especially of different species of the genus Planorbis. The following is an
authoritative résumé of the facts.

     As the deposits seem to have been continuous for ages, and the
     fossil shells very abundant, this seemed to be an excellent
     opportunity to test the theory of derivation. With this end in
     view, they have been made the subject of exhaustive study by
     Hilgendorf in 1866, and by Hyatt in 1880. In passing from the
     lowest to the highest strata the species change greatly and many
     times, the extreme forms being so different that, were it not for
     the intermediate forms, they would be called not only different
     species, but different genera. And yet the gradations are so
     insensible that the whole series is nothing less than a
     demonstration, in this case at least, of origin of species by
     derivation with modifications. The accompanying plate of successive
     forms (Fig. 89), which we take from Prof. Hyatt's admirable memoir,
     will show this better than any mere verbal explanation. It will be
     observed that, commencing with four slight varieties--probably
     sexually isolated varieties--of one species, each series shows a
     gradual transformation as we go upward in the strata--i. e. onward
     in time. Series I branches into three sub-series, in two of which
     the change of form is extreme. Series IV is remarkable for great
     increase in size as well as change in form. In the plate we give
     only selected stages, but in the fuller plates of the memoir, and
     still more in the shells themselves, the subtilest gradations are
     found[19].

    [19] Le Conte, loc. cit., pp. 236-7.

Here is another and more recently observed case of transmutation in the case of mollusks.

The recent species, Strombus accipitrinus, still inhabits the coasts of Florida. Its extinct
prototype, S. Leidy, was discovered a few years ago by Prof. Heilprin in the Pliocene formations
of the interior of Florida. The peculiar shape of the wing, and tuberculation of the whorl,
are thus proved to have grown but of a previously more conical form of shell.

Lastly, attention may here again be directed to the very instructive series of shells which
has already been shown in a previous chapter, and which serves to illustrate the successive
geological forms of Paludina from the Tertiary beds of Slavonia, as depicted by Prof. Neumayr
of Vienna. For instance, the large continental islands of Australia and New Zealand are widely
disconnected from all other lands of the world, and deep sea soundings show that they have
probably been thus disconnected, either since the time of their origin, or, at the least, through
immense geological epochs. The theory of evolution, therefore, would expect to find two general
facts with regard to the inhabitants of these islands. First, that the inhabitants should form,
as it were, little worlds of their own, more or less unlike the inhabitants of any other parts
of the globe. And next, that some of these inhabitants should present us with independent information
touching archaic forms of life. For it is manifestly most improbable that the course of evolutionary
history should have run exactly parallel in the case of these isolated oceanic continents and
in continents elsewhere. Australia and New Zealand, therefore, ought to present a very large
number, not only of peculiar species and genera, but even of families, and possibly of orders.
Now this is just what Australia and New Zealand do present. The case of the dog being doubtful,
there is an absence of all mammalian life, except that of one of the oldest and least highly
developed orders, the Marsupials. There even occurs a unique order, still lower in the scale
of organization--so low, in fact, that it deserves to be regarded as but nascent mammalian:
I mean, of course, the Monotremata. As regards Birds, we have the peculiar wingless forms alluded
to in a previous chapter (viz. that on Morphology); and, without waiting to go into details,
it is notorious that the faunas of Australia and New Zealand are not only highly peculiar,
but also suggestively archaic. Therefore, in both the respects above mentioned, the anticipations
of our theory are fully borne out. But as it would take too long to consider, even cursorily,
the faunas and floras of these immense islands, I here allude to them only for the sake of
illustration. In order to present the argument from geographical distribution within reasonable
limits, I think it is best to restrict our examination to smaller areas; for these will better
admit of brief and yet adequate consideration. But of course it will be understood that the
less isolated the region, and the shorter the time that it has been isolated, the smaller amount
of peculiarity should we expect to meet with on the part of its present inhabitants. Or, conversely
stated, the longer and the greater the isolation, the more peculiarity of species would our
theory expect to find. The object of the present chapter will be to show that these, and other
cognate expectations, are fully realized by facts; but, before proceeding to do this, I must
say a few words on the antecedent standing of the argument.

Where the question is, as at present, between the rival theories of special creation and gradual
transmutation, it may at first sight well appear that no test can be at once so crucial and
so easily applied as this of comparing the species of one geographical area with those of another,
in order to see whether there is any constant correlation between differences of type and degrees
of separation. But a little further thought is enough to show that the test is not quite so
simple or so absolute--that it is a test to be applied in a large and general way over the
surface of the whole earth, rather than one to be relied upon as exclusively rigid in every
special case.

In the first place, there is the obvious consideration that lands or seas which are discontinuous
now may not always have been so, or not for long enough to admit of the effects of separation
having been exerted to any considerable extent upon their inhabitants. Next, there is the scarcely
less important consideration, that although land areas may long have been separated from one
another by extensive tracts of ocean, birds and insects may more or less easily have been able
to fly from one to the other; while even non-flying animals and plants may often have been
transported by floating ice or timber, wind or water currents, and sundry other means of dispersal.
Again, there is the important influence of climate to be taken into account. We know from geological
evidence that in the course of geological time the self-same continents have been submitted
to enormous changes of temperature--varying in fact from polar cold to almost tropical heat;
and as it is manifestly impossible that forms of life suited to one of these climates could
have survived during the other, we can here perceive a further and most potent cause interfering
with the test of geographical distribution as indiscriminately applied in all cases. When the
elephant and hippopotamus were flourishing in England amid the luxuriant vegetation which these
large animals require, it is evident that scarcely any one species of either the fauna or the
flora of this country can have been the same as it was when its African climate gave place
to that of Greenland. Therefore, as Mr. Wallace observes, "If glacial epochs in temperate lands
and mild climates near the poles have, as now believed by men of eminence, occurred several
times over in the past history of the earth, the effects of such great and repeated changes
both on migration, modification, and extinction of species, must have been of overwhelming
importance--of more importance perhaps than even the geological changes of sea and land."

But although for these, and certain other less important reasons which I need not wait to detail,
we must conclude that the evidence from geographical distribution is not to be regarded as
a crucial test between the rival theories of creation and evolution in all cases indiscriminately,
I must next remark that it is undoubtedly one of the strongest lines of evidence which we possess.
When we once remember that, according to the general theory of evolution itself, the present
geographical distribution of plants and animals is "the visible outcome or residual product
of the whole past history of the earth," and, therefore, that of the conditions determining
the characters of life inhabiting this and that particular area continuity or discontinuity
with other areas is but one,--when we remember this, we find that no further reservation has
to be made: all the facts of geographical distribution speak with one consent in favour of
the naturalistic theory.

       *       *       *       *       *

The first of these facts which I shall adduce is, that although the geographical range of any
given species is, as a rule, continuous, such is far from being always the case. Very many
species have more or less discontinuous ranges--the mountain-hare, for instance, extending
from the Arctic regions over the greater portion of Europe to the Ural Mountains and the Caucasus,
and yet over all this enormous tract appearing only in isolated or discontinuous patches, where
there happen to be either mountain ranges or climates cold enough to suit its nature. Now,
in all such cases of discontinuity in the range of a species the theory of evolution has a
simple explanation to offer--namely, either that some representatives of the species have at
some former period been able to migrate from one region to the other, or else that at one time
the species occupied the whole of the range in question, but afterwards became broken up as
geographical, climatic, or other changes rendered parts of the area unfit for the species to
inhabit. Thus, for instance, it is easy to understand that during the last cold epoch the mountain-hare
would have had a continuous range; but that as the Arctic climate gradually receded to polar
regions, the species would be able to survive in southern latitudes only on mountain ranges,
and thus would become broken up into many discontinuous patches, corresponding with these ranges.
In the same way we can explain the occurrence of Arctic vegetation on the Alps and Pyrenees--namely,
as left behind by the retreat of the Arctic climate at the close of the glacial period.

But now, on the other hand, the theory of special creation cannot so well afford to render
this obvious explanation of discontinuity. In the case of the Arctic flora of the Alps, for
instance, although it is true that much of this vegetation is of an Arctic type, it is not
true that the species are all identical with those which occur in the Arctic regions. Therefore
the theory of special creation would here have to assume that, although the now common species
were left behind on the Alps by the retreat of glaciation northwards, the peculiar Alpine species
were afterwards created separately upon the Alps, and yet created with such close affinities
to the pre-existing species as to be included with them under the same genera. Looking to the
absurdity of this supposition, as well as of others which I need not wait to mention, certain
advocates of special creation have sought to take refuge in another hypothesis--namely, that
species which present a markedly discontinuous range may have had a corresponding number of
different centres of creation, the same specific type having been turned down, so to speak,
on widely separated areas. But to me it seems that this explanation presents even greater difficulty
than the other. If it is difficult to say why the Divinity should have chosen to create new
species of plants on the Alps on so precisely the same pattern as the old, much more would
it be difficult to say why, in addition to these new species, he should also have created again
the old species which he had already placed in the Arctic regions.

       *       *       *       *       *

So much, then, for discontinuity of distribution. The next general fact to be adduced is, that
there is no constant correlation between habitats and animals or plants suited to live upon
them. Of course all the animals and plants living upon any given area are well suited to live
upon that area; for otherwise they could not be there. But the point now is, that besides the
area on which they do live, there are usually many other areas in different parts of the globe
where they might have lived equally well--as is proved by the fact that when transported by
man they thrive as well, or even better, than in their native country. Therefore, upon the
supposition that all species were separately created in the countries where they are respectively
found, we must conclude that they were created in only some of the places where they might
equally well have lived. Probably there is at most but a small percentage either of plants
or animals which would not thrive in some place, or places, on the earth's surface other than
that in which they occur; and hence we must say that one of the objects of special creation--if
this be the true theory--was that of depositing species in only some among the several parts
of the earth's surface equally well suited to support them.

Now, I do not contend that this fact in itself raises any difficulty against the theory of
special creation. But I do think that a very serious difficulty is raised when to this fact
we add another--namely, that on every biological region we encounter species related to other
species in genera, and usually also genera related to other genera in families. For if each
of all the constituent species of a genus, and even of a family, were separately created, we
must hence conclude that in depositing them there was an unaccountable design manifested to
make areas of distribution correspond to the natural affinities of their inhabitants. For example,
the humming-birds are geographically restricted to America, and number 120 genera, comprising
over 400 species. Hence, if this betokens 400 separate acts of creation, it cannot possibly
have been due to chance that they were all performed on the same continent: it must have been
design which led to every species of this large family of birds having been deposited in one
geographical area. Or, to take a case where only the species of a single genus are concerned.
The rats and mice proper constitute a genus which comprises altogether more than 100 species,
and they are all exclusively restricted to the Old World. In the New World they are represented
by another genus comprising about 70 species, which resemble their Old World cousins in form
and habits; but differ from them in dentition and other such minor points. Now, the question
is,--Why should all the 100 species have been separately created on one side of the Atlantic
with one pattern of dentition, and all the 70 species on the other side with another pattern?
What has the Atlantic Ocean got to do with any "archetypal plan" of rats' teeth?

Or again, to recur to Australia, why should all the mammalian forms of life be restricted to
the one group of Marsupials, when we know that not only the Rodents, such as the rabbit, but
all other orders of mammals, would thrive there equally well. And similarly, of course, in
countless other instances. Everywhere we meet with this same correlation between areas of distribution
and affinities of classification.

Now, it is at once manifest how completely this general fact harmonizes with the theory of
evolution. If the 400 species of humming-birds, for instance, are all modified descendants
of common ancestors, and if none of their constituent individuals have ever been large enough
to make their way across the oceans which practically isolate their territory from all other
tropical and sub-tropical regions of the globe, then we can understand why it is that all the
400 species occupy the same continent. But on the special-creation theory we can see no reason
why the 400 species should all have been deposited in America. And, as already observed, we
must remember that this correlation between a geographically restricted habitat and the zoological
or botanical affinities of its inhabitants, is repeated over and over and over again in the
faunas and floras of the world, so that merely to enumerate the instances would require a separate
chapter.

Furthermore, the general argument thus presented in favour of descent with continuous modification
admits of being enormously strengthened by three different classes of additional facts.

The first is, that the correlation in question--namely, that between a geographically restricted
habitat and the zoological or botanical affinities of its inhabitants--is not limited to the
now existing species, but extends also to the extinct. That is to say, the dead species are
allied to the living species, as we should expect that they must be, if the latter are modified
descendants of the former. On the alternative theory, however, we have to suppose that the
policy of maintaining a correlation between geographical restriction and natural affinity extends
very much further back than even the existing species of plants and animals; indeed we must
suppose that a practically infinite number of additional acts of separate creation were governed
by the same policy, in the case of long lines of species long since extinct.

Thus far, then, the only answer which an advocate of special creation can adduce is, that for
some reason unknown to us such a policy may have been more wise than it appears: it may have
served some inscrutable purpose that allied products of distinct acts of creation should all
be kept together on the same areas. Well, in answer to this unjustifiable appeal to the argument
from ignorance, I will adduce the second of the three considerations. This is, that in cases
where the geographical areas are not restricted the policy in question fails. In other words,
where the inhabitants of an area are free to migrate to other areas, the policy of correlating
affinity with distribution is most significantly forgotten. In this case species wander away
from their native homes, and the course of their wanderings is marked by the origination of
new species springing up en route. Now, is it reasonable to suppose that the mere circumstance
of some members of a species being able to leave their native home should furnish any occasion
for creating new and allied species upon the tracts over which they travel, or the territories
to which they go? When the 400 existing species of humming-birds have all been created on the
same continent for some reason supposed to be unknown, why should this reason give way before
the accident of any means of migration being furnished to humming-birds, so that they should
be able to visit, say the continents of Africa and Asia, there gain a footing beside the sun-birds,
and henceforth determine a new centre for the separate creation of additional species of humming-birds
peculiar to the Old World--as has happened in the case of the majority of species which, unlike
the humming-birds, have been at any time free to migrate from their original homes?

Lastly, my third consideration is, that the supposed policy in question does not extend to
affinities which are wider than those between species and genera--more rarely to families,
scarcely ever to orders, and never to classes. In other words, nature shows a double correlation
in her geographical distribution of organic types:--first, that which we have already considered
between geographical restriction and natural affinity among inhabitants of the same areas;
second, another of a more detailed character between degrees of geographical restriction and
degrees of natural affinity. The more distant the affinity, the more general is the extension.
This, of course, is what we should expect on the theory of descent with modification, because
the more distant the affinity, and therefore, ex hypothesi, the larger and the older the original
group of organisms, the greater must be the chance of dispersal. The 400 species of humming-birds
may well be unable to migrate from their native continent; but it would indeed have been an
unaccountable fact if no other species of all the class of birds had ever been able to have
crossed the Atlantic Ocean. Thus, on the theory of evolution, we can well understand the second
correlation now before us--namely, between remoteness of affinity and generality of dispersal,--so
that there is no considerable portion of the habitable globe without representatives of all
the classes of animals, few portions without representatives of all the orders, but many portions
without many of the families, innumerable portions without innumerable genera, and, of course,
all portions without the great majority of species. Now, while this general correlation thus
obviously supports the theory of natural descent with progressive modification, it makes directly
against the opposite theory of special creation. For we have recently seen that when we restrict
our view to the case of species and genera, the theory of special creation is obliged to suppose
that for some inscrutable reason the Deity had regard to systematic affinity while determining
on what large areas to create his species[20]. But now we see that he must be held to have
neglected this inscrutable reason (whatever it was) when he passed beyond the range of genera--and
this always in proportion to the remoteness of systematic affinity on the part of the species
concerned.

    [20] I say "large areas" for the sake of argument; but the same
    correlation between distribution and affinity extends likewise to
    small areas where only small differences of affinity are
    concerned. Thus, for instance, speaking of smaller areas, Moritz
    Wagner says:--"The broader and more rapid the river, the higher and
    more regular the mountain-chain, the calmer and more extensive the
    sea, the more considerable, as a general rule, will be the taxonomic
    separation between the populations"; and he shows that, in
    correlation with such differences in the degrees of separation,
    are the degrees of diversification--i. e., the numbers of
    species, and even of varieties, which these topographical barriers
    determine.

I cannot well conceive a reductio ad absurdum more complete than this. But, having now presented
these most general facts of geographical distribution in their relation to the issue before
us, we may next proceed to consider a few illustrations of them in detail, for in this way
I think that their overwhelming weight may become yet more abundantly apparent.

       *       *       *       *       *

It will assist us in dealing with these detailed illustrations if we begin by considering the
means of dispersal of organisms from one place to another. Of course the most ordinary means
is that of continuous wandering, or emigration; but where geographical barriers of any kind
have to be surmounted, organisms may only be able to pass them by more exceptional and accidental
means. The principal barriers of a geographical kind are oceans, rivers, mountain-chains, and
desert-tracts, in the case of terrestrial organisms; and, in the case of aquatic organisms,
the presence of land. But it is to be observed that, as regards marine organisms, any considerable
difference in the temperature of the water may constitute a barrier as effectual as the presence
of land; and also that, in the case of all shallow-water faunas, a tract of deep ocean constitutes
almost as complete a barrier as it does to terrestrial faunas.

Now, the means whereby barriers admit of being accidentally or occasionally surmounted are,
of course, various; and they differ in the case of different organisms. Birds, bats, and insects,
on account of their powers of flight, are particularly apt to be blown out great distances
to sea, and hence of all animals are most likely to become the involuntary colonists of distant
shores. Floating timber serves to convey seeds and eggs of small animals over great distances;
and Darwin has shown that many kinds of seeds are able of themselves to float for more than
a month in sea-water without losing their powers of germination. As a result of all his experiments
he concludes, that the seeds of at least ten per cent. of the species of plants of any country
might be floated by sea-currents during 28 days, without losing their powers of germination;
and this, at the average rate of flow of several Atlantic currents, would serve to transport
the seeds to a distance of at least 900 miles. Again, he proved that even seeds which are quickly
destroyed by contact with sea-water admit of being successfully transported during 30 days,
if they be contained within the crop of a dead bird. He also proved that living birds are most
active agents in the work of dissemination, and this not only by taking seeds into their crops
(where, so long as they remain, the seeds are uninjured), but likewise by carrying seeds (and
even young mollusks) attached to their feet and feathers. In the course of these experiments
he found that a small cup-full of mud, which he gathered from the edges of three ponds in February,
was so charged with seeds that when sown in the ground these few ounces of mud yielded no less
than 537 plants, belonging to many different species. It is therefore evident what opportunities
are thus afforded for the transportation of seeds on the feet and bills of wading-birds. Lastly,
floating ice is well known to act as a carrier of any kind of life which may prove able to
survive this mode of transit.

Such being the nature of geographical barriers, and the means that organisms of various kinds
may occasionally have of overcoming them, I will now give a few detailed illustrations of the
argument from geographical distribution, as previously presented in its general form.

To begin with aquatic animals. As Darwin remarks, "the marine inhabitants of the Eastern and
Western shores of South America are very distinct; with extremely few shells, crustacea, or
echinodermata in common." Obviously, therefore, it is impossible to suggest that this correlation
is accidental. Altogether many thousands of species are involved, and within this comparatively
limited area they are sharply marked off into three groups as to their natural affinities,
and into three groups as to their several basins. Hence, if all these species were separately
created, there is no escape from the conclusion that for some reason or another the act of
creation was governed by the presence of these barriers, so that species deposited on the Eastern
shores of South America were formed with one set of natural affinities, while species deposited
on the Western shore were formed with another set; and similarly with regard to the third set
of species in the third basin, which, extending over a whole hemisphere to the coast of Africa
without any further barrier, nowhere presents, over this vast area, any other case of a distinct
marine fauna. But what conceivable reason can there have been thus to consult these geographical
barriers in the original creation of specific types? Even if such a case stood alone, it would
be strongly suggestive of error on the part of the special creation theory. But let us take
another case, this time from fresh-water faunas.

    [21] The only exception is in the case of the fish on each side of
    the isthmus of panama, where about 30 per cent, of the species are
    identical. But it is possible enough that at some previous time this
    narrow isthmus may have been even narrower than at present, if not
    actually open. At all events, the fact that this partial exception
    occurs just where the land-barrier is so narrow, is more suggestive
    of migration than of independent creation.

Although the geographical distribution of fresh-water fish and fresh-water shells is often
surprisingly extensive and apparently capricious, this may be explained by the means of dispersal
being here so varied--not only aquatic birds, floods, and whirlwinds, but also geographical
changes of water-shed having all assisted in the process. Moreover, in some cases it is possible
that the habits of more widely distributed fresh-water fish may have originally been wholly
or partly marine--which, of course, would explain the existing discontinuity of their existing
fresh-water distribution. But, be this as it may (and it is not a question that affects the
issue between special creation and gradual evolution, since it is only a question as to how
a given species has been dispersed from its original home, whether or not in that home it was
specially created), the point I desire to bring forward is, that where we find a barrier to
the emigration of fresh-water forms which is more formidable than a thousand miles of ocean--a
barrier over which neither water-fowl nor whirlwinds are likely to pass, and which is above
the reach of any geological changes of water-shed,--where we find such a barrier, we always
find a marked difference in the fresh-water faunas on either side of it. The kind of barrier
to which I allude is a high mountain-chain. It may be only a few miles wide; yet it exercises
a greater influence on the diversification of specific types, where fresh-water faunas are
concerned, than almost any other. But why should this be the case on any intelligible theory
of special creation? Why, in the depositing of species of newly created fresh-water fish, should
the presence of an impassable mountain-chain have determined so uniformly a difference of specific
affinity on either side of it? The question, so far as I can see, does not admit of an answer
from any reasonable opponent.

       *       *       *       *       *

Turning now from aquatic organisms to terrestrial, the body of facts from which to draw is
so large, that I think the space at my disposal may be best utilized by confining attention
to a single division of them--that, namely, which is furnished by the zoological study of oceanic
islands.

In the comparatively limited--but in itself extensive--class of facts thus presented, we have
a particularly fair and cogent test as between the alternative theories of evolution and creation.
For where we meet with a volcanic island, hundreds of miles from any other land, and rising
abruptly from an ocean of enormous depth, we may be quite sure that such an island can never
have formed part of a now submerged continent. In other words, we may be quite sure that it
always has been what it now is--an oceanic peak, separated from all other land by hundreds
of miles of sea, and therefore an area supplied by nature for the purpose, as it were, of testing
the rival theories of creation and evolution. For, let us ask, upon these tiny insular specks
of land what kind of life should we expect to find? To this question the theories of special
creation and of gradual evolution would agree in giving the same answer up to a certain point.
For both theories would agree in supposing that these islands would, at all events in large
part, derive their inhabitants from accidental or occasional arrivals of wind-blown or water-floated
organisms from other countries--especially, of course, from the countries least remote. But,
after agreeing upon this point, the two theories must part company in their anticipations.
The special-creation theory can have no reason to suppose that a small volcanic island in the
midst of a great ocean should be chosen as the theatre of any extraordinary creative activity,
or for any particularly rich manufacture of peculiar species to be found nowhere else in the
world. On the other hand, the evolution theory would expect to find that such habitats are
stocked with more or less peculiar species. For it would expect that when any organisms chanced
to reach a wholly isolated refuge of this kind, their descendants should forthwith have started
upon an independent course of evolutionary history. Protected from intercrossing with any members
of their parent species elsewhere, and exposed to considerable changes in their conditions
of life, it would indeed be fatal to the general theory of evolution if these descendants,
during the course of many generations, were not to undergo appreciable change. It has happened
on two or three occasions that European rats have been accidentally imported by ships upon
some of these islands, and even already it is observed that their descendants have undergone
a slight change of appearance, so as to constitute them what naturalists call local varieties.
The change, of course, is but slight, because the time allowed for it has been so short. But
the longer the time that a colony of a species is thus completely isolated under changed conditions
of life the greater, according to the evolution theory, should we expect the change to become.
Therefore, in all cases where we happen to know, from independent evidence of a geological
kind, that an oceanic island is of very ancient formation, the evolution theory would expect
to encounter a great wealth of peculiar species. On the other hand, as I have just observed,
the special-creation theory can have no reason to suppose that there should be any correlation
between the age of an oceanic island and the number of peculiar species which it may be found
to contain.

Therefore, having considered the principles of geographical distribution from the widest or
most general point of view, we shall pass to the opposite extreme, and consider exhaustively,
or in the utmost possible detail, the facts of such distribution where the conditions are best
suited to this purpose--that is, as I have already said, upon oceanic islands, which may be
metaphorically regarded as having been formed by nature for the particular purpose of supplying
naturalists with a crucial test between the theories of creation and evolution. The material
upon which my analysis is to be based will be derived from the most recent works upon geographical
distribution--especially from the magnificent contributions to this department of science which
we owe to the labours of Mr. Wallace. Indeed, all that follows may be regarded as a condensed
filtrate of the facts which he has collected. Even as thus restricted, however, our subject-matter
would be too extensive to be dealt with on the present occasion, were we to attempt an exhaustive
analysis of the floras and faunas of all oceanic islands upon the face of the globe. Therefore,
what I propose to do is to select for such exhaustive analysis a few of what may be termed
the most oceanic of oceanic islands--that is to say, those oceanic islands which are most widely
separated from mainlands, and which, therefore, furnish the most unquestionable of test cases
as between the theories of special creation and genetic descent.

       *       *       *       *       *

Azores.--A group of volcanic islands, nine in number, about 900 miles from the coast of Portugal,
and surrounded by ocean depths of 1,800 to 2,500 fathoms. There is geological evidence that
the origin of the group dates back at least as far as Miocene times. There is a total absence
of all terrestrial Vertebrata, other than those which are known to have been introduced by
man. Flying animals, on the other hand, are abundant; namely, 53 species of birds, one species
of bat, a few species of butterflies, moths, and hymenoptera, with 74 species of indigenous
beetles. All these animals are unmodified European species, with the exception of one bird
and many of the beetles. Of the 74 indigenous species of the latter, 36 are not found in Europe;
but 19 are natives of Madeira or the Canaries, and 3 are American, doubtless transplanted by
drift-wood. The remaining 14 species occur nowhere else in the world, though for the most part
they are allied to other European species. There are 69 known species of land-shells, of which
37 are European, and 32 peculiar, though all allied to European forms. Lastly, there are 480
known species of plants, of which 40 are peculiar, though allied to European species.

Bermudas.--A small volcanic group of islands, 700 miles from North Carolina. Although there
are about 100 islands in the group, their total area does not exceed 50 square miles. The group
is surrounded by water varying in depth from 2,500 to 3,800 fathoms. The only terrestrial Vertebrate
(unless the rats and mice are indigenous) is a lizard allied to an American form, but specifically
distinct from it, and therefore a solitary species which does not occur anywhere else in the
world. None of the birds or bats are peculiar, any more than in the case of the Azores; but,
as in that case, a large percentage of the land-shells are so--namely, at least one quarter
of the whole. Neither the botany nor the entomology of this group has been worked out; but
I have said enough to show how remarkably parallel are the cases of these two volcanic groups
of islands situated in different hemispheres, but at about the same distance from large continents.
In both there is an extraordinary paucity of terrestrial vertebrata, and of any peculiar species
of bird or beast. On the other hand, there is in both a marvellous wealth of peculiar species
of insects and land-shells. Now these correlations are all abundantly intelligible. It is a
difficult matter for any terrestrial animal to cross 900, or even 700, miles of ocean: therefore
only one lizard has succeeded in doing so in one of the two parallel cases; and, living cut
off from intercrossing with its parent form, the descendants of that lizard have become modified
so as to constitute a peculiar species. But it is more easy for large flying animals to cross
those distances of ocean: consequently, there is only one instance of a peculiar species of
bird or bat--namely, a bull-finch in the Azores, which, being a small land-bird, is not likely
ever to have had any other visitors from its original parent species coming over from Europe
to keep up the original breed. Lastly, it is very much more easy for insects and land-mollusca
to be conveyed to such islands by wind and floating timber than it is for terrestrial mammals,
or even than it is for small birds and bats; but yet such means of transit are not sufficiently
sure to admit of much recruiting from the mainland for the purpose of keeping up the specific
types. Consequently, the insects and the land-shells present a much greater proportion of peculiar
species--namely, one half and one fourth of the land-shells in the one case, and one eighth
of the beetles in the other. All these correlations, I say, are abundantly intelligible on
the theory of evolution; but who shall explain, on the opposite theory, why orders of beetles
and land-mollusca should have been chosen from among all other animals for such superabundant
creation on oceanic islands, so that in the Azores alone we find no less than 32 of the one
and 14 of the other? And, in this connexion, I may again allude to the peculiar species of
beetles in the island of Madeira. Here there are an enormous number of peculiar species, though
they are nearly all related to, or included under the same genera as, beetles on the neighbouring
continent. Now, as we have previously seen, no less than 200 of these species have lost the
use of their wings. Evolutionists explain this remarkable fact by their general laws of degeneration
under disuse, and the operation of natural selection, as will be shown later on; but it is
not so easy for special creationists to explain why this enormous number of peculiar species
of beetles should have been deposited on Madeira, all allied to beetles on the nearest continent,
and nearly all deprived of the use of their wings. And similarly, of course, with all the peculiar
species of the Bermudas and the Azores. For who will explain, on the theory of independent
creation, why all the peculiar species, both of animals and plants, which occur on the Bermudas
should so unmistakably present American affinities, while those which occur on the Azores no
less unmistakably present European affinities? But to proceed to other, and still more remarkable,
cases.

The Galapagos Islands.--This archipelago is of volcanic origin, situated under the equator
between 500 and 600 miles from the West Coast of South America. The depth of the ocean around
them varies from 2,000 to 3,000 fathoms or more. This group is of particular interest, from
the fact that it was the study of its fauna which first suggested to Darwin's mind the theory
of evolution. I will, therefore, begin by quoting a short passage from his writings upon the
zoological relations of this particular fauna.

    [22] origin of species, pp. 353-4.

The following is a synopsis of the fauna and flora of this archipelago, so far as at present
known. The only terrestrial vertebrates are two peculiar species of land-tortoise, and one
extinct species; five species of lizards, all peculiar--two of them so much so as to constitute
a peculiar genus;--and two species of snakes, both closely allied to South American forms.
Of birds there are 57 species, of which no less than 38 are peculiar; and all the non-peculiar
species, except one, belong to aquatic tribes. The true land birds are represented by 31 species,
of which all, except one, are peculiar; while more than half of them go to constitute peculiar
genera. Moreover, while they are all unquestionably allied to South American forms, they present
a beautiful series of gradations, "from perfect identity with the continental species, to genera
so distinct that it is difficult to determine with what forms they are most nearly allied;
and it is interesting to note that this diversity bears a distinct relation to the probabilities
of, and facilities for, migration to the islands. The excessively abundant rice-bird, which
breeds in Canada, and swarms over the whole United States, migrating to the West Indies and
South America, visiting the distant Bermudas almost every year, and extending its range as
far as Paraquay, is the only species of land-bird which remains completely unchanged in the
Galapagos; and we may therefore conclude that some stragglers of the migrating host reach the
islands sufficiently often to keep up the purity of the breed[23]." Again, of the thirty peculiar
land-birds, it is observable that the more they differ from any other species or genera on
the South American continent, the more certainly are they found to have their nearest relations
among those South American forms which have the more restricted range, and are therefore the
least likely to have found their way to the islands with any frequency.

    [23] Wallace, Island Life, pp. 271-2.

The insect fauna of the Galapagos islands is scanty, and chiefly composed of beetles. These
number 35 species, which are nearly all peculiar, and in some cases go to constitute peculiar
genera. The same remarks apply to the twenty species of land-shells. Lastly, of the total number
of flowering plants (332 species) more than one half (174 species) are peculiar. It is observable
in the case of these peculiar species of plants--as also of the peculiar species of birds--that
many of them are restricted to single islands. It is also observable that, with regard both
to the fauna and flora, the Galapagos Islands as a whole are very much richer in peculiar species
than either the Azores or Bermudas, notwithstanding that both the latter are considerably more
remote from their nearest continents. This difference, which at first sight appears to make
against the evolutionary interpretation, really tends to confirm it. For the Galapagos Islands
are situated in a calm region of the globe, unvisited by those periodic storms and hurricanes
which sweep over the North Atlantic, and which every year convey some straggling birds, insects,
seeds, &c., to the Azores and Bermudas. Notwithstanding their somewhat greater isolation geographically,
therefore, the Azores and Bermudas are really less isolated biologically than are the Galapagos
Islands; and hence the less degree of peculiarity on the part of their endemic species. But,
on the theory of special creation, it is impossible to understand why there should be any such
correlation between the prevalence of gales and a comparative inertness of creative activity.
And, as we have seen, it is equally impossible on this theory to understand why there should
be a further correlation between the degree of peculiarity on the part of the isolated species,
and the degree in which their nearest allies on the mainland are there confined to narrow ranges,
and therefore less likely to keep up any biological communication with the islands.

St. Helena.--A small volcanic island, ten miles long by eight wide, situated in mid-ocean,
1100 miles from Africa, and 1800 from South America. It is very mountainous and rugged, bounded
for the most part by precipices, rising from ocean depths of 17,000 feet, to a height above
the sea-level of nearly 3,000. When first discovered it was richly clothed with forests; but
these were all destroyed by human agency during the 16th, 17th and 18th centuries. The records
of civilization present no more lamentable instance of this kind of destruction. From a merely
pecuniary point of view the abolition of these primeval forests has proved an irreparable loss;
but from a scientific point of view the loss is incalculable. These forests served to harbour
countless forms of life, which extended at least from the Miocene age, and which, having found
there an ocean refuge, survived as the last remnants of a remote geological epoch. In those
days, as Mr. Wallace observes, St. Helena must have formed a kind of natural museum or vivarium
of archaic species of all classes, the interest of which we can now only surmise from the few
remnants of those remnants, which are still left among the more inaccessible portions of the
mountain peaks and crater edges. These remnants of remnants are as follows.

There is a total absence of all indigenous mammals, reptiles, fresh-water fish, and true land-birds.
There is, however, a species of plover, allied to one in South Africa; but it is specifically
distinct, and therefore peculiar to the island. The insect life, on the other hand, is abundant.
Of beetles no less than 129 species are believed to be aboriginal, and, with one single exception,
the whole number are peculiar to the island. "But in addition to this large amount of specific
peculiarity (perhaps unequalled anywhere else in the world), the beetles of this island are
remarkable for their generic isolation, and for the altogether exceptional proportion in which
the great divisions of the order are represented. The species belong to 39 genera, of which
no less than 25 are peculiar to the island; and many of these are such isolated forms that
it is impossible to find their allies in any particular country[24]." More than two-thirds
of all the species belong to the group of weevils--a circumstance which serves to explain the
great wealth of beetle-population, the weevils being beetles which live in wood, and St. Helena
having been originally a densely wooded island. This circumstance is also in accordance with
the view that the peculiar insect fauna has been in large part evolved from ancestors which
reached the island by means of floating timber; for, of course, no explanation can be suggested
why special creation of this highly peculiar insect fauna should have run so disproportionately
into the production of weevils. About two-thirds of the whole number of beetles, or over 80
species, show no close affinity with any existing insects, while the remaining third have some
relations, though often very remote, with European and African forms. That this high degree
of peculiarity is due to high antiquity is further indicated, according to our theory, by the
large number of species which some of the types comprise. Thus, the 54 species of Cossonidæ
may be referred to three types; the 11 species of Bembidium form a group by themselves; and
the Heteromera form two groups. "Now, each of these types may well be descended from a single
species, which originally reached the island from some other land; and the great variety of
generic and specific forms into which some of them have diverged is an indication, and to some
extent a measure, of the remoteness of their origin[25]." But, on the counter-supposition that
all these 128 peculiar species were separately created to occupy this particular island, it
is surely unaccountable that they should thus present such an arborescence of natural affinities
amongst themselves.

    [24] Wallace, Island Life, p. 287.

    [25] Wallace, Island Life, p. 287.

Passing over the rest of the insect fauna, which has not yet been sufficiently worked out,
we next find that there are only 20 species of indigenous land-shells--which is not surprising
when we remember by what enormous reaches of ocean the island is surrounded. Of these 20 species
no less than 13 have become extinct, three are allied to European species, while the rest are
so highly peculiar as to have no near allies in any other part of the globe. So that the land-shells
tell exactly the same story as the insects.

Lastly, the plants likewise tell the same story. The truly indigenous flowering plants are
about 50 in number, besides 26 ferns. Forty of the former and ten of the latter are peculiar
to the island, and, as Sir Joseph Hooker tells us, "cannot be regarded as very close specific
allies of any other plants at all" Seventeen of them belong to peculiar genera, and the others
all differ so markedly as species from their congeners, that not one comes under the category
of being an insular form of a continental species. So that with respect to its plants no less
than with respect to its animals, we find that the island of St. Helena constitutes a little
world of unique species, allied among themselves, but diverging so much from all other known
forms that in many cases they constitute unique genera.

Sandwich Islands.--These are an extensive group of islands, larger than any we have hitherto
considered--the largest of the group being about the size of Devonshire. The entire archipelago
is volcanic, with mountains rising to a height of nearly 14,000 feet. The group is situated
in the middle of the North Pacific, at a distance of considerably over 2,000 miles from any
other land, and surrounded by enormous ocean depths. The only terrestrial vertebrata are two
lizards, one of which constitutes a peculiar genus. There are 24 aquatic birds, five of which
are peculiar; four birds of prey, two of which are peculiar; and 16 land-birds, all of which
are peculiar. Moreover, these 16 land-birds constitute no less than 10 peculiar genera, and
even one peculiar family of five genera. This is an amount of peculiarity far exceeding that
of any other islands, and, of course, corresponds with the great isolation of this archipelago.
The only other animals which have here been carefully studied are the land-shells, and these
tell the same story as the birds. For there are no less than 400 species which are all, without
any exception, peculiar; while about three-quarters of them go to constitute peculiar genera.
Again, of the plants, 620 species are believed to be endemic; and of these 377 are peculiar,
yielding no less than 39 peculiar genera.

       *       *       *       *       *

Prejudice apart, I think we must all now agree that it is needless to continue further this
line of proof. I have chosen the smallest and most isolated islands for the purposes of our
present argument, first because these furnish the most crucial kind of test, and next because
they best admit of being dealt with in a short space. But, if necessary, a vast amount of additional
material could be furnished, not only from other small oceanic islands, but still more from
the largest islands of the world, such as Australia and New Zealand. However, after the detailed
inventories which have now been given in the case of some of the smaller islands most remote
from mainlands, we may well be prepared to accept it as a general law, that wherever there
is evidence of land-areas having been for a long time separated from other land-areas, there
we meet with a more or less extraordinary profusion of unique species, often running up into
unique genera. And, in point of fact, so far as naturalists have hitherto been able to ascertain,
there is no exception to this general law in any region of the globe. Moreover, there is everywhere
a constant correlation between the degree of this peculiarity on the part of the fauna and
flora, and the time during which they have been isolated. Thus, for instance, among the islands
which I have called into evidence, those that are at once the most isolated and give independent
proofs of the highest antiquity, are the Galapagos Islands, the Sandwich Islands, and St. Helena.
Now, if we apply the method of tabular analysis to these three cases, we obtain the following
most astonishing results. For the sake of simplicity I will omit the enumeration of peculiar
genera, and confine attention to peculiar species. Moreover, I will consider only terrestrial
animals; for, as we have already seen, aquatic animals are so much more likely to reach oceanic
islands that they do not furnish nearly so fair a test of the evolutionary hypothesis.

  PECULIAR SPECIES.

  +------------+---------+----------+-----------+----------+----------+
  |            | Shells. | Insects. | Reptiles. |  Birds.  | Mammals. |
  |            +---------+----------+-----------+----------+----------+
  | Sandwich.  |   400   |     ?    |     2     |    16    |    0     |
  | Galapagos  |    15   |    35    |    10     |    30    |    0     |
  | St. Helena |    20   |   128    |     0     |     1    |    0     |
  +------------+---------+----------+-----------+----------+----------+
  |  Totals.  |     0   |     ?    |     0     |     0    |    0     |
  | Galapagos  |     ?   |     ?    |     0     |     1    |    0     |
  | St. Helena |     0   |     ?    |     0     |     0    |    0     |
  +------------+---------+----------+-----------+----------+----------+
  |  Totals.   |     0   |     ?    |     0     |     1    |    0     |
  +------------+---------+----------+-----------+----------+----------+

From this synopsis we perceive that out of a total of 658 species of terrestrial animals known
to inhabit these three oceanic territories, all are peculiar, with the exception of a single
land-bird which is found in the Galapagos Islands. This is the rice-bird, so very abundant
on the American continent that its representatives must not unfrequently become the involuntary
colonists of the Archipelago. There are, however, a few species of non-peculiar insects inhabiting
the Sandwich and Galapagos Islands, the exact number of which is doubtful, and on this account
are not here quoted. But at most they would be represented by units, and therefore do not affect
the general result. Lastly, the remarkable fact will be noted, that there is no single representative
of the mammalian class in any of these islands.

If we turn next to consider the case of plants, we obtain the following result:--

  +-----------+-----------+--------------+
  |           |Peculiar  |Non-peculiar |
  |           | Species. | Species.    |
  +-----------|-----------|--------------+
  |Sandwich   |    377    |     243      |
  |Galapagos  |    174    |     158      |
  |St. Helena |     50    |      26      |
  |           |   ----    |    ----      |
  |  Totals   |    601    |     427      |
  +-----------+-----------+--------------+

So that by adding together peculiar species both of land-animals and plants, we find that on
these three limited areas alone there are 1258 forms of life which occur nowhere else upon
the globe--not to speak of the peculiar aquatic species, nor of the presumably large number
of peculiar species of all kinds not hitherto discovered in these imperfectly explored regions.

Now let us compare these facts with those which are presented by the faunas and floras of islands
less remote from continents, and known from independent geological evidence to be of comparatively
recent origin--that is, to have been separated from their adjacent mainlands in comparatively
recent times, and therefore as islands to be comparatively young. The British Isles furnish
as good an instance as could be chosen, for they together comprise over 1000 islands of various
sizes, which are nowhere separated from one another by deep seas, and in the opinion of geologists
were all continuous with the European continent since the glacial period.

  BRITISH ISLES.

  NON-PECULIAR SPECIES.

  +---------+---------+----------+-----------+---------+---------+
  |         |  Land   |          | Reptiles  |  Land   |  Land   |
  | Plants. | Shells. | Insects. |   and     |  Birds. | Mammals.|
  |         |         |          | Amphibia. |         |         |
  +---------+---------+----------+-----------+---------+---------+
  |    46   |    4    |   149    |     0     |    1    |    0    |
  +---------+---------+----------+-----------+---------+---------+

       Total Peculiar Plants               46
       Total Peculiar Animals             154
                                         ----
       Grand Total                        200

I have drawn up this table in the most liberal manner possible, including as peculiar species
forms which many naturalists regard as merely local varieties. But, even as thus interpreted,
how wonderful is the contrast between the 1000 islands of Great Britain and the single volcanic
rock of St. Helena, where almost all the animals and about half the plants are peculiar, instead
of about 1/80 of the animals, and 1/30 of the plants. Of course, if no peculiar species of
any kind had occurred in the British Isles, advocates of special creation might have argued
that it was, so to speak, needless for the Divinity to have added any new species to those
European forms which fully populated the islands at the time when they were separated from
the continent. But, as the matter stands, advocates of special creation must face the fact
that a certain small number of new and peculiar species have been formed on the British Isles;
and, therefore, that creative activity has not been wholly suspended in their case. Why, then,
has it been so meagre in this case of a thousand islands, when it has proved so profuse in
the case of all single islands more remote from mainlands, and presenting a higher antiquity?
Or why should the Divinity have thus appeared so uniformly to consult these merely accidental
circumstances of space and time in the depositing of his unique specific types? Do not such
facts rather speak with irresistible force in favour of the view, that while all ancient and
solitary islands have had time enough, and separation enough, to admit of distinct histories
of evolution having been written in their living inhabitants, no one of the thousand islands
of Great Britain has had either time enough, or separation enough, to have admitted of more
than some of the first pages of such a history having been commenced?

But this allusion to Great Britain introduces us to another point. It will have been observed
that, unlike oceanic islands remote from mainlands, Great Britain is well furnished both with
reptiles (including amphibia) and mammals. For there is no instance of any oceanic island situated
at more than 300 miles from a continent where any single species of the whole class of mammals
is to be found, excepting species of the only order which is able to fly--namely, the bats.
And the same has to be said of frogs, toads, and newts, whose spawn is quickly killed by contact
with sea-water, and therefore could never have reached remote islands in a living state. Hence,
on evolutionary principles; it is quite intelligible why oceanic islands should not present
any species of mammals or batrachians--peculiar or otherwise,--save such species of mammals
as are able to fly. But on the theory of special creation we can assign no reason why, notwithstanding
the extraordinary profusion of unique types of other kinds which we have seen to occur on oceanic
islands, the Deity should have made this curious exception to the detriment of all frogs, toads,
newts, and mammals, save only such as are able to fly. Or, if any one should go so far to save
a desperate hypothesis as to maintain that there must have been some hidden reason why batrachians
and quadrupeds were not specially created on oceanic islands, I may mention another small--but
in this relation a most significant--fact. This is that on some of these islands there occur
certain peculiar species of plants, the seeds of which are provided with numerous tiny hooks,
obviously and beautifully adapted--like those on the seeds of allied plants elsewhere--to catch
the wool or hair of moving quadrupeds, and so to further their own dissemination. Such one-sided
attempts at adaptation surely resolve the thesis of special creation to a reductio ad absurdum;
and hence the only reasonable interpretation of them is, that while the seeds of allied or
ancestral plants were able to float to the islands, no quadrupeds were ever able over so great
a distance to swim.

       *       *       *       *       *

Although much more evidence might still be given under the head of geographical distribution,
I must now close with a brief summary of the main points that have been adduced.

After certain preliminary considerations, I began by noticing that the theory of evolution
has a much more intelligible account to give than has its rival of the facts of discontinuous
distribution--the Alpine flora, for instance, being allied to the Arctic, not because the same
species were separately created in both places, but because during the glacial period these
species extended all over Europe, and were left behind on the Alps as the Arctic flora receded
northwards--which was sufficiently long ago to explain why some of the Alpine species are unique,
though closely allied to Arctic forms.

Next we saw that, although living things are always adapted to the climates under which they
live (since otherwise they could not live there at all), it is equally true that, as a rule,
besides the area on which they do live, there are many other areas in different parts of the
globe where they might have lived equally well. Consequently we must conclude that, if all
species were separately created, many species were severally created on only one among a number
of areas where they might equally well have thrived. Now, although this conclusion in itself
may not seem opposed to the theory of special creation, a most serious difficulty is raised
when it is taken in connexion with another fact of an equally general kind. This is, that on
every biological region we encounter chains of allied species constituting allied genera, families,
and so on; while we scarcely ever meet with allied species in different biological regions,
notwithstanding that their climates may be similar, and, consequently, just as well suited
to maintain some of the allied species. Hence we must further conclude, if all species were
separately created, that in the work of creation some unaccountable regard was paid to making
areas of distribution correspond to degrees of structural affinity. A great many species of
the rat genus were created in the Old World, and a great many species of another, though allied,
genus were created in the New World: yet no reason can be assigned why no one species of the
Old World series should not just as well have been deposited in the New World, and vice versa.
A general law which, while in itself most strongly suggestive of evolution, is surely impossible
to reconcile with any reasonable theory of special creation. Furthermore, this law extends
backwards through all geological time, with the result that the extinct species which now occur
only as fossils on any given geological area, resemble the species still living upon that area,
as we should expect that they must, if the former were the natural progenitors of the latter.
On the other hand, if they were not the natural progenitors, but all the species, both living
and extinct, were the supernatural and therefore independent creations which the rival theory
would suppose, then no reason can be given why the extinct species should thus resemble the
living--any more than why the living species should resemble one another. For, as we have seen,
there are almost always many other habitats on other parts of the globe, where any members
of any given group of species might equally well have been deposited; and this, of course,
applies to geological no less than to historical time. Yet throughout all time we meet with
this most suggestive correlation between continuity of a geographical area and structural affinity
between the forms of life which have lived, or are still living, upon that area.

Similarly, we find the further, and no less suggestive, correlation between the birth of new
species and the immediate pre-existence of closely allied species on the same area--or, at
most, on closely contiguous areas.

Where a continuous area has long been circumscribed by barriers of any kind, which prevent
the animals from wandering beyond it, then we find that all the species, both extinct and living,
constitute more or less a world of their own; while, on the other hand, where the animals are
free to migrate from one area to another, the course of their migrations is marked by the origination
of new species springing up en route, and serving to connect the older, or metropolitan, forms
with the younger, or colonising, forms in the way of a graduated series. This principle, however,
admits of being traced only in certain cases of species belonging to the same genus, of genera
belonging to the same family, or, at most, of families belonging to the same order. In other
words, the more general the structural affinity, the more general is the geographical extension--as
we should expect to be the case on the theory of descent with branching modifications, seeing
that the larger, the older, and the more diverse the group of organisms compared, the greater
must be their chances of dispersal.

These general considerations led us to contemplate more in detail the correlation between structural
affinity and barriers to free migration. Such barriers, of course, differ in the cases of different
organisms. Marine organisms are stopped by land, unsuitable temperature, or unsuitable depths;
fresh-water organisms by sea and by mountain-chains; terrestrial organisms chiefly by water.
Now it is a matter of fact which admits of no dispute, that in each of these cases we meet
with a direct correlation between the kind of barrier and the kind of organisms whose structural
affinities are affected thereby. Where we have to do with marine organisms, barriers such as
the Isthmus of Panama and the varying depth of the Western Pacific determine three very distinct
faunas, ranging north and south in closely parallel lines, and under corresponding climates.
Where we have to do with fresh-water organisms, we find that a mountain-chain only a few miles
wide has more influence in determining differences of organic type on either side of it than
is exercised by even thousands of miles of a continuous land-area, if this be uninterrupted
by any mountains high enough to prevent water-fowl, whirlwinds, &c., from dispersing the ova.
Again, where we have to do with terrestrial organisms, the most effectual barriers are wide
reaches of ocean; and, accordingly, we find that these exercise an enormous influence on the
modification of terrestrial types. Moreover, we find that the more terrestrial an organism,
or the greater the difficulty it has in traversing a wide reach of ocean, the greater is the
modifying influence of such a barrier upon that type. In oceanic islands, for example, many
of the plants and aquatic birds usually belong to the same species as those which occur on
the nearest mainlands, and where there are any specific differences, these but rarely run up
to generic differences. But the land-birds, insects, and reptiles which are found on such islands
are nearly always specifically, and very often generically, distinct from those on the nearest
mainland--although invariably allied with sufficient closeness to leave no manner of doubt
as to their affinities with the fauna of that mainland. Lastly, no amphibians and no mammals
(except bats) are ever found on any oceanic islands. Yet, as we have seen, on the theory of
special creation, these islands must all be taken to have been the theatres of the most extraordinary
creative activity, so that on only three of them we found no less than 1258 unique species,
whereof 657 were unique species of land animals, to be set against one single species known
to occur elsewhere. Nevertheless, notwithstanding this prodigious expenditure of creative energy
in the case of land-birds, land-shells, insects, and reptiles, no single new amphibian, or
no single new mammal, has been created on any single oceanic island, if we except the only
kind of mammal that is able to fly, and the ancestors of which, like those of the land-birds
and insects, might therefore have reached the islands ages ago. Moreover, with regard to mammals,
even in cases where allied forms occur on either side of a sea-channel, it is found to be a
general rule that if the channel is shallow, the species on either side of it are much more
closely related than if it be deep--and this irrespective of its width.

       *       *       *       *       *

Looking to all these general principles of geographical distribution, and remembering the sundry
points of smaller detail relating to oceanic islands which I will not wait to recapitulate,
to my mind it seems that there is no escape from the following conclusion, with which I will
bring my brief epitome of the evidence to a close. The conclusion to which, I submit, all the
evidence leads is, that if the doctrine of special creation is taken to be true, then it must
be further taken that the one and only principle which has been consistently followed in the
geographical deposition of species, is that of so depositing them as to make it everywhere
appear that they were not thus deposited at all, but came into existence where they now occur
by way of genetic descent with perpetual migration and correlative modification. We are familiar
with the doctrine that God is a God who hideth himself; here, however, it seems to me, we should
have but a thinly-veiled insinuation, not merely that in his works he is hidden, but that in
these works he is untrue. Than which I cannot conceive a stronger condemnation of the theory
which it has been my object fairly to represent and dispassionately to criticise.

SECTION II

SELECTION

CHAPTER VII.

THE THEORY OF NATURAL SELECTION.

Thus far we have been considering the main evidences of organic evolution considered as a fact.
We now enter a new field, namely, the evidences which thus far have been brought to light touching
the causes of organic evolution considered as a process.

As was pointed out in the opening chapter, this is obviously the methodical course to follow:
we must have some reasonable assurance that a fact is a fact before we endeavour to explain
it. Nevertheless, it is not necessary that we should actually demonstrate a fact to be a fact
before we endeavour to explain it. Even if we have but a reasonable presumption as to its probability,
we may find it well worth while to consider its explanation; for by so doing we may obtain
additional evidence of the fact itself. And this because, if it really is a fact, and if we
hit upon the right explanation of it, by proving the explanation probable, we may thereby greatly
increase our evidence of the fact. In the very case before us, for example, the evidence of
evolution as a fact has from the first been largely derived from testing Darwin's theory concerning
its method. It was this theoretical explanation of its method which first set him seriously
to enquire into the evidences of evolution as a fact; and ever since he published his results,
the evidences which he adduced in favour of natural selection as a method have constituted
some of the strongest reasons which scientific men have felt for accepting evolution as a fact.
Of course the evidence in favour of this fact has gone on steadily growing, quite independently
of the assistance which was thus so largely lent to it by the distinctively Darwinian theory
of its method; and, indeed, so much has this been the case, that in the present treatise we
have been able to consider such direct evidence of the fact itself, without any reference at
all to the indirect or accessory evidence which is derived from that of natural selection as
a method. From which it follows that in most of what I am about to say in subsequent chapters
on the evidences of natural selection as a method, there will be furnished a large addition
to the evidences which have already been detailed of evolution as a fact. But, as a matter
of systematic treatment, I have thought it desirable to keep these two branches of our subject
separate. Which means that I have made the evidences of evolution as a fact to stand independently
on their own feet--feet which in my opinion are amply strong enough to bear any weight of adverse
criticism that can be placed upon them.

Our position, then, is this. On the foundation of the previous chapters, I will henceforth
assume that we all accept organic evolution as a fact, without requiring any of the accessory
evidence which is gained by independent proof of natural selection as a method. But in making
this assumption--namely, that we are all now firmly persuaded of the fact of evolution--I do
not imagine that such is really the case. I make the assumption for the purposes of systematic
exposition, and in order that different parts of the subject may be kept distinct. I confess
it does appear to me remarkable that there should still be a doubt in any educated mind touching
the general fact of evolution; while it becomes to me unaccountable that such should be the
case with a few still living men of science, who cannot be accused of being ignorant of the
evidences which have now been accumulated. But in whatever measure we may severally have been
convinced--or remained unconvinced--on this matter, for the purposes of exposition I must hereafter
assume that we are all agreed to the extent of regarding the process of evolution as, at least,
sufficiently probable to justify enquiry touching its causes on supposition of its truth.

Now, the causes of evolution have been set forth in a variety of different hypotheses, only
the chief of which need be mentioned here. Historically speaking the first of these was that
which was put forward by Erasmus Darwin, Lamarck, and Herbert Spencer. It consists in putting
together the following facts and inferences.

We know that, in the lifetime of the individual, increased use of structures leads to an increase
of their functional efficiency; while, on the other hand, disuse leads to atrophy. The arms
of a blacksmith, and the legs of a mountaineer, are familiar illustrations of the first principle:
our hospital wards are full of illustrations of the second. Again, we know that the characters
of parents are transmitted to their progeny by means of heredity. Now the hypothesis in question
consists in supposing that if any particular organs in a species are habitually used for performing
any particular action, they must undergo a structural improvement which would more and more
adapt them to the performance of that action; for in each generation constant use would better
and better adapt the structures to the discharge of their functions, and they would then be
bequeathed to the next generation in this their improved form by heredity. So that, for instance,
if there had been a thousand generations of blacksmiths, we might expect the sons of the last
of them to inherit unusually strong arms, even if these young men had themselves taken to some
other trade not requiring any special use of their arms. Similarly, if there had been a thousand
generations of men who used their arms but slightly, we should expect their descendants to
show but a puny development of the upper extremities. Now let us apply all this to the animal
kingdom in general. The giraffe, for instance, is a ruminant whose entire frame has been adapted
to support an enormously long neck, which is of use to the animal in reaching the foliage of
trees. The ancestors of the giraffe, having had ordinary necks, were supposed by Lamarck to
have gradually increased the length of them, through many successive generations, by constantly
stretching to reach high foliage; and he further supposed that, when the neck became so long
as to require for its support special changes in the general form of the animal as a whole,
these special changes would have brought about the dwindling of other parts from which so much
activity was no longer required--the general result being that the whole organization of the
animal became more and more adapted to browsing on high foliage. And so in the cases of other
animals, Lamarck believed that the adaptation of their forms to their habits could be explained
by this simple hypothesis that the habits created the forms, through the effects of use and
disuse, coupled with heredity.

Such is what is ordinarily known as Lamarck's theory of evolution. We may as well remember,
however, that it really constitutes only one part of his theory; for besides this hypothesis
of the cumulative inheritance of functionally-produced modifications--to which we may add the
inherited effects of any direct action exercised by surrounding conditions of life,--Lamarck
believed in some transcendental principle tending to produce gradual improvement in pre-determined
lines of advance. Therefore it would really be more correct to designate the former hypothesis
by the name either of Erasmus Darwin, or, still better, of Herbert Spencer. Nevertheless, in
order to avoid confusion, I will follow established custom, and subsequently speak of this
hypothesis as the Lamarckian hypothesis--understanding, however, that in employing this designation
I am not referring to any part or factor of Lamarck's general theory of evolution other than
the one which has just been described--namely, the hypothesis of the cumulative transmission
of functionally-produced, or otherwise "acquired," modifications.

This, then, was the earliest hypothesis touching the causes of organic evolution. But we may
at once perceive that it is insufficient to explain all that stands to be explained. In the
first place, it refers in chief part only to the higher animals, which are actuated to effort
by intelligence. Its explanatory power in the case of most invertebrata--as well as in that
of all plants--is extremely limited, inasmuch as these organisms can never be moved to a greater
or less use of their several parts by any discriminating volition, such as that which leads
to the continued straining of a giraffe's neck for the purpose of reaching foliage. In the
second place, even among the higher animals there are numberless tissues and organs which unquestionably
present a high degree of adaptive evolution, but which nevertheless cannot be supposed to have
fallen within the influence of Lamarckian principles. Of such are the shells of crustacea,
tortoises, &c., which although undoubtedly of great use to the animals presenting them, cannot
ever have been used in the sense required by Lamarck's hypothesis, i. e. actively exercised,
so as to increase a flow of nutrition to the part. Lastly, in the third place, the validity
of Lamarck's hypothesis in any case whatsoever has of late years become a matter of serious
question, as will be fully shown and discussed in the next volume. Meanwhile it is enough to
observe that, on account of all these reasons, the theory of Lamarck, even if it be supposed
to present any truth at all, is clearly insufficient as a full or complete theory of organic
evolution.

       *       *       *       *       *

In historical order the next theory that was arrived at was the theory of natural selection,
simultaneously published by Darwin and Wallace on July 1st, 1858.

If we may estimate the importance of an idea by the change of thought which it effects, this
idea of natural selection is unquestionably the most important idea that has ever been conceived
by the mind of man. Yet the wonder is that it should not have been hit upon long before. Or
rather, I should say, the wonder is that its immense and immeasurable importance should not
have been previously recognised. For, since the publication of this idea by Darwin and Wallace,
it has been found that its main features had already occurred to at least two other minds--namely,
Dr. Wells in 1813, and Mr. Patrick Matthew in 1831. But neither of these writers perceived
that in the few scattered sentences which they had written upon the subject they had struck
the key-note of organic nature, and resolved one of the principal chords of the universe. Still
more remarkable is the fact that Mr. Herbert Spencer--notwithstanding his great powers of abstract
thought and his great devotion of those powers to the theory of evolution, when as yet this
theory was scorned by science--still more remarkable, I say, is the fact that Mr. Herbert Spencer
should have missed what now appears so obvious an idea. But most remarkable of all is the fact
that Dr. Whewell, with all his stores of information on the history of the inductive sciences,
and with all his acumen on the matter of scientific method, should not only have conceived
the idea of natural selection, but expressly stated it as a logically possible explanation
of the origin of species, and yet have so stated it merely for the purpose of dismissing it
with contempt[26]. This, I think, is most remarkable, because it serves to prove how very far
men's minds at that time must have been from entertaining, as in any way antecedently probable,
the doctrine of transmutation. In order to show this I will here quote one passage from the
writings of Whewell, and another from a distinguished French naturalist referred to by him.

    [26] For quotations, see Note A.

In 1846 Whewell wrote:--

     Not only is the doctrine of the transmutation of species in itself
     disproved by the best physiological reasonings, but the additional
     assumptions which are requisite to enable its advocates to apply it
     to the explanation of the geological and other phenomena of the
     earth, are altogether gratuitous and fantastical[27].

    [27] whewell, indications of the creator, 2nd ed., 1846.

Then he quotes with approval the following opinion:--

     Against this hypothesis, which, up to the present time, I regard as
     purely gratuitous, and likely to turn geologists out of the sound
     and excellent road in which they now are, I willingly raise my
     voice, with the most absolute conviction of being in the right[28].

    [28] de blainville, compte rendu, 1837.

And, after displaying the proof rendered by Lyell of uniformitarianism in geology, and cordially
subscribing thereto, Whewell adds:--

     We are led by our reasonings to this view, that the present order
     of things was commenced by an act of creative power entirely
     different to any agency which has been exerted since. None of the
     influences which have modified the present races of animals and
     plants since they were placed in their habitations on the earth's
     surface can have had any efficacy in producing them at first. We
     are necessarily driven to assume, as the beginning of the present
     cycle of organic nature, an event not included in the course of
     nature[29].

    [29] Whewell, ibid., p. 162.

So much, then, for the state of the most enlightened and representative opinions on the question
of evolution before the publication of Darwin's work; and so much, likewise, for the only reasonable
suggestions as to the causes of evolution which up to that time had been put forward, even
by those few individuals who entertained any belief in evolution as a fact. It was the theory
of natural selection that changed all this, and created a revolution in the thought of our
time, the magnitude of which in many of its far-reaching consequences we are not even yet in
a position to appreciate; but the action of which has already wrought a transformation in general
philosophy, as well as in the more special science of biology, that is without a parallel in
the history of mankind.

       *       *       *       *       *

Although every one is now more or less well acquainted with the theory of natural selection,
it is necessary, for the sake of completeness, that I should state the theory; and I will do
so in full detail. Similarly, by a continuation of the process, specific types would become
transmuted into generic, generic into family types, and so on.

       *       *       *       *       *

Now, the first thing we have to notice about this theory is, that in all its main elements
it is merely a statement of observable facts. It is an observable fact that in all species
of plants and animals a very much larger number of individuals are born than can possibly survive.
Thus, for example, it has been calculated that if the progeny of a single pair of elephants--which
are the slowest breeding of animals--were all allowed to reach maturity and propagate, in 750
years there would be living 19,000,000 descendants. Again, in the case of vegetables, if a
species of annual plant produces only two seeds a year, if these in successive years were all
allowed to reproduce their kind, in twenty years there would be 11,000,000 plants from a single
ancestor. Yet we know that nearly all animals and plants produce many more young at a time
than in either of these two supposed cases. Indeed, as individuals of many kinds of plants,
and not a few kinds of animals, produce every year several thousand young, we may make a rough
estimate and say, that over organic nature as a whole probably not one in a thousand young
are allowed to survive to the age of reproduction. How tremendous, therefore, must be the struggle
for existence! It is thought a terrible thing in battle when one half the whole number of combatants
perish. But what are we to think of a battle for life where only one in a thousand survives?

This, then, is the first fact. The second is the fact so long ago recognised, that the battle
is to the strong, the race to the swift. The thousandth individual which does survive in the
battle for existence--which does win the race for life--is, without question, one of the individuals
best fitted to do so; that is to say, best fitted to the conditions of its existence considered
as a whole. Nature is, therefore, always picking out, or selecting, such individuals to live
and to breed.

The third fact is, that the individuals so selected transmit their favourable qualities to
their offspring by heredity. There is no doubt about this fact, so far as we are concerned
with it. For although, as I have already hinted, considerable doubt has of late years been
cast upon Lamarck's doctrine of the hereditary transmission of acquired characters, it remains
as impossible as ever it was to question the hereditary transmission of what are called congenital
characters. And this is all that Darwin's theory necessarily requires.

The fourth fact is, that although heredity as a whole produces a wonderfully exact copy of
the parent in the child, there is never a precise reduplication. Of all the millions of human
beings upon the face of the earth, no one is so like another that we cannot see some difference;
the resemblance is everywhere specific, nowhere individual. Now this same remark applies to
all specific types. The only reason why we notice individual differences in the case of the
human type more than we do in the case of any other types, is because our attention is here
more incessantly focussed upon these differences. We are compelled to notice them in the case
of our own species, however small they may appear to a naturalist, because, unless we do so,
we should not recognise the members of our own family, or be able to distinguish between a
man whom we know is ready to do us an important service, and another man whom we know is ready
to cut our throats. But our common mother Nature is able thus to distinguish between all her
children. Her eyes are much more ready to detect small individual peculiarities than are the
eyes of any naturalist. No slight variations in the cast of feature or disposition of parts,
no minute difference in the arrangement of microscopical cells, can escape her ever vigilant
attention. And, consequently, when among all the innumerable multitudes of individual variations
any one arises which--no matter in how slight a degree--gives to that individual a better chance
of success in the struggle for life, Nature chooses that individual to survive, and so to perpetuate
the improvement in his or her progeny.

Now I say that all these several component parts of Darwinian doctrine are not matters of theory,
but matters of fact. The only element of theory in his doctrine of evolution by natural selection
has reference to the degree in which these observable facts, when thus brought together, are
adequate to account for the process of evolution.

       *       *       *       *       *

So much, then, as a statement of the theory of natural selection. But from this statement--i.
e. from the theory of natural selection itself--there follow certain matters of general principle
which it is important to bear in mind. These, therefore, I shall here proceed to mention.

First of all, it is evident that the theory is applicable as an explanation of organic changes
in specific types only in so far as these changes are of use, or so far as such changes endow
the species with better chances of success in the general struggle for existence. This is the
only sense in which I shall always employ the terms use, utility, service, benefit, and so
forth--that is to say, in the sense of life-preserving.

       *       *       *       *       *

Next, it must be clearly understood that the life which it is the object, so to speak, of natural
selection to preserve, is primarily the life of the species; not that of the individual. Natural
selection preserves the life of the individual only in so far as this is conducive to that
of the species. Wherever the life-interests of the individual clash with those of the species,
that individual is sacrificed in favour of others who happen better to subserve the interests
of the species. For example, in all organisms a greater or less amount of vigour is wasted,
so far as individual interests are concerned, in the formation and the nourishment of progeny.
In the great majority of plants and animals an enormous amount of physiological energy is thus
expended. Look at the roe or the milt of a herring, for instance, and see what a huge drain
has been made upon the individual for the sake of its species. Again, all unselfish instincts
have been developed for the sake of the species, and usually against the interests of the individual.
An ant which will allow her head to be slowly drawn from her body rather than relinquish her
hold upon a pupa, is clearly acting in response to an instinct which has been developed for
the benefit of the hive, though fatal to the individual. And, in a lesser degree, the parental
instincts, wherever they occur, are more or less detrimental to the interests of the individual,
though correspondingly essential to those of the race.

These illustrations will serve to show that natural selection always works primarily for the
life-interests of the species--and, indeed, only works for those of the individual at all in
so far as the latter happen to coincide with the former. Or, otherwise stated, the object of
natural selection is always that of producing and maintaining specific types in the highest
degree of efficiency, no matter what may become of the constituent individuals. Which is a
striking republication by Science of a general truth previously stated by Poetry:--

    So careful of the type she seems,
    So careless of the single life.

Tennyson thus noted the fact, and a few years later Darwin supplied the explanation.

But of course in many, if not in the majority of cases, anything that adds to the life-sustaining
power of the single life thereby ministers also to the life-sustaining power of the type; and
thus we can understand why all mechanisms and instincts which minister to the single life have
been developed--namely, because the life of the species is made up of the lives of all its
constituent individuals. It is only where the interests of the one clash with those of the
other that natural selection works against the individual. So long as the interests are coincident,
it works in favour of both.

Natural selection, then, is a theory which seeks to explain by natural causes the occurrence
of every kind of adaptation which is to be met with in organic nature, on the assumption that
adaptations of every kind have primary reference to the preservation of species, and therefore
also, as a general rule, to the preservation of their constituent individuals. And from this
it follows that where it is for the benefit of a species to change its type, natural selection
will effect that change, thus leading to a specific transmutation, or the evolution of a new
species. In such cases the old species may or may not become extinct. If the transmutation
affects the species as a whole, or throughout its entire range, of course that particular type
becomes extinct, although it does so by becoming changed into a still more suitable type in
the course of successive generations. If, on the other hand, the transmutation affects only
a part of the original species, or not throughout its entire range, then the other parts of
that species may survive for any number of ages as they originally were. In the one case there
is a ladder-like transmutation of species in time; in the other case a possibly tree-like multiplication
of species in space. But whether the evolution of species be thus serial in time or divergent
in space, the object of natural selection, so to speak, is in either case the same--namely,
that of preserving all types which prove best suited to the conditions of their existence.

       *       *       *       *       *

Once more, the term "struggle for existence" must be understood to comprehend, not only a competition
for life among contemporary individuals of the same species, but likewise a struggle by all
such individuals taken collectively for the continuance of their own specific type. Thus, on
the one hand, while there is a perpetual civil war being waged between members of the same
species, on the other hand there is a foreign war being waged by the species as a whole against
its world as a whole. Hence it follows that natural selection does not secure survival of the
fittest as regards individuals only, but also survival of the fittest as regards types. This
is a most important point to remember, because, as a general rule, these two different causes
produce exactly opposite effects. Success in the civil war, where each is fighting against
all, is determined by individual fitness and self-reliance. But success in the foreign war
is determined by what may be termed tribal fitness and mutual dependence. For example, among
social insects the struggle for existence is quite as great between different tribes or communities,
as it is between different individuals of the same community; and thus we can understand the
extraordinary degree in which not only co-operative instincts, but also largely intelligent
social habits, have here been developed[30]. Similarly, in the case of mankind, we can understand
the still more extraordinary development of these things--culminating in the moral sense. I
have heard a sermon, preached at one of the meetings of the British Association, entirely devoted
to arguing that the moral sense could not have been evolved by natural selection, seeing that
the altruism which this sense involves is the very opposite of selfishness, which alone ought
to have been the product of survival of the fittest in a struggle for life. And, of course,
this argument would have been perfectly sound had Darwin limited the struggle for existence
to individuals, without extending it to communities. But if the preacher had ever read Darwin's
works he would have found that, when thus extended, the principle of natural selection is bound
to work in favour of the co-operative instincts in the case of so highly social an animal as
man; and that of these instincts conscience is the highest imaginable exhibition.

    [30] For cases, see Animal Intelligence, in the chapters on Ants
    and Bees; and, for discussion of principles, Mental Evolution in
    Animals, in the chapters on Instinct.

What I have called tribal fitness--in contradistinction to individual fitness--begins with
the family, developes in the community (herd, hive, clan, &c.), and usually ends with the limits
of the species. On the one hand, however, it is but seldom that it extends so far as to embrace
the entire species; while, on the other hand, it may in some cases, and as it were sporadically,
extend beyond the species. In these latter cases members of different species mutually assist
one another, whether in the way of what is called symbiosis, or in a variety of other ways
which I need not wait to mention. For the only point which I now desire to make clear is, that
all cases of mutual aid or co-operation, whether within or beyond the limits of species, are
cases which fall under the explanatory sweep of the Darwinian theory[31].

    [31] Prince Kropotkin in the Nineteenth Century (Feb. 1888, Apr.
    1891) has adduced a large and interesting body of facts, showing the
    great prevalence of the principle of co-operation in organic
    nature.

       *       *       *       *       *

Another important point to notice is, that it constitutes no part of the theory of natural
selection to suppose that survival of the fittest must invariably lead to improvement of type,
in the sense of superior organization. On the contrary, if from change of habits or conditions
of life an organic type ceases to have any use for previously useful organs, natural selection
will not only allow these organs in successive generations to deteriorate--by no longer placing
any selective premium upon their maintenance--but may even proceed to assist the agencies engaged
in their destruction. For, being now useless, they may become even deleterious, by absorbing
nutriment, causing weight, occupying space, &c., without conferring any compensating benefit.
Thus we can understand why it is that parasites, for example, present the phenomena of what
is called degeneration, i. e. showing by their whole structure that they have descended from
a possibly very much higher type of organization than that which they now exhibit. Having for
innumerable generations ceased to require their legs, their eyes, and so forth, all such organs
of high elaboration have either disappeared or become vestigial, leaving the parasite as a
more or less effete representative of its ancestry.

These facts of degeneration, as we have previously seen, are of very general occurrence, and
it is evident that their importance in the field of organic evolution as a whole has been very
great. Moreover, it ought to be particularly observed that, as just indicated, the facts may
be due either to a passive cessation of selection, or to an active reversal of it. Or, more
correctly, these facts are probably always due to the cessation of selection, although in most
cases where species in a state of nature are concerned, the process of degeneration has been
both hastened and intensified by the super-added influence of the reversal of selection. In
the next volume I shall have occasion to recur to this distinction, when it will be seen that
it is one of no small importance to the general theory of descent.

       *       *       *       *       *

We may now proceed to consider certain misconceptions of the Darwinian theory which are largely,
not to say generally, prevalent among supporters of the theory. These misconceptions, therefore,
differ from those which fall to be considered in the next chapter, i. e. misconceptions which
constitute grounds of objection to the theory.

       *       *       *       *       *

Of all the errors connected with the theory of natural selection, perhaps the one most frequently
met with--especially among supporters of the theory--is that of employing the theory to explain
all cases of phyletic modification (or inherited change of type) indiscriminately, without
waiting to consider whether in particular cases its application is so much as logically possible.
The term "natural selection" thus becomes a magic word, or Sesame, at the utterance of which
every closed door is supposed to be immediately opened. Be it observed, I am not here alluding
to that merely blind faith in natural selection, which of late years has begun dogmatically
to force this principle as the sole cause of organic evolution in every case where it is logically
possible that the principle can have come into play. Such a blind faith, indeed, I hold to
be highly inimical, not only to the progress of biological science, but even to the true interests
of the natural selection theory itself. As to this I shall have a good deal to say in the next
volume. Here, however, the point is, that the theory in question is often invoked in cases
where it is not even logically possible that it can apply, and therefore in cases where its
application betokens, not merely an error of judgment or extravagance of dogmatism, but a fallacy
of reasoning in the nature of a logical contradiction. Almost any number of examples might
be given; but one will suffice to illustrate what is meant. And I choose it from the writings
of one of the authors of the selection theory itself, in order to show how easy it is to be
cheated by this mere juggling with a phrase--for of course I do not doubt that a moment's thought
would have shown the writer the untenability of his statement.

In his most recent work Mr. Wallace advances an interesting hypothesis to the effect that differences
of colour between allied species, which are apparently too slight to serve any other purpose,
may act as "recognition marks," whereby the opposite sexes are enabled at once to distinguish
between members of their own and of closely resembling species. Now, it is clearly not so much
as logically possible that these recognition-marks (supposing them to be such) can have been
acquired by natural selection, "for the purpose of checking intercrossing of allied forms."
For the theory of natural selection, from its own essential nature as a theory, is logically
exclusive of the supposition that survival of the fittest ever provides changes in anticipation
of future uses. Or, otherwise stated, it involves a contradiction of the theory itself to say
that the colour-changes in question were originated by natural selection, in order to meet
"one of the first needs of a new species," or for the purpose of subsequently preventing intercrossing
with allied forms. If it had been said that these colour-differentiations were originated by
some cause other than natural selection (or, if by natural selection, still with regard to
some previous, instead of prophetic, "purpose"), and, when so "acquired," then began to serve
the "purpose" assigned, the argument would not have involved the fallacy which we are now considering.
But, as it stands, the argument reverts to the teleology of pre-Darwinian days--or the hypothesis
of a "purpose" in the literal sense which sees the end from the beginning, instead of a "purpose"
in the metaphorical sense of an adaptation that is evolved by the very modifications which
subserve it[33].

    [32] Darwinism, pp. 218 and 227.

    [33] Since the above was written Prof. Lloyd Morgan has published a
    closely similar notice of the passage in question. "This language,"
    he says, "seems to savour of teleology (that pitfall of the
    evolutionist). The cart is put before the horse. The
    recognition-marks were, I believe, not produced to prevent
    intercrossing, but intercrossing has been prevented because of
    preferential mating between individuals possessing special
    recognition-marks. To miss this point is to miss an important
    segregation-factor."--(Animal Life and Intelligence, p. 103.)
    Again, on pp. 184-9, he furnishes an excellent discussion on the
    whole subject of the fallacy alluded to in the text, and gives
    illustrative quotations from other prominent Darwinians. I should
    like to add that Darwin himself has nowhere fallen into this, or any
    of the other fallacies, which are mentioned in the text.

       *       *       *       *       *

Another very prevalent, and more deliberate, fallacy connected with the theory of natural selection
is, that it follows deductively from the theory itself that the principle of natural selection
must be the sole means of modification in all cases where modification is of an adaptive kind,--with
the consequence that no other principle can ever have been concerned in the production of structures
or instincts which are of any use to their possessors. Whether or not natural selection actually
has been the sole means of adaptive modification in the race, as distinguished from the individual,
is a question of biological fact[34]; but it involves a grave error of reasoning to suppose
that this question can be answered deductively from the theory of natural selection itself,
as I shall show at some length in the next volume.

    [34] Of course adaptive modifications produced in the individual
    lifetime, and not inherited, do not concern the question at all.
    In this and the following paragraphs, therefore, "adaptations,"
    "adaptive modifications," &c., refer exclusively to such as are
    hereditary, i. e. phyletic.

       *       *       *       *       *

A still more extravagant, and a still more unaccountable fallacy is the one which represents
it as following deductively from the theory of natural selection itself, that all hereditary
characters are "necessarily" due to natural selection. In other words, not only all adaptive,
but likewise all non-adaptive hereditary characters, it is said, must be due to natural selection.
For non-adaptive characters are taken to be due to "correlation of growth," in connexion with
some of the adaptive ones--natural selection being thus the indirect means of producing the
former wherever they may occur, on account of its being the direct and the only means of producing
the latter. Thus it is deduced from the theory of natural selection itself,--1st, that the
principle of natural selection is the only possible cause of adaptive modification: 2nd, that
non-adaptive modifications can only occur in the race as correlated appendages to the adaptive:
3rd, that, consequently, natural selection is the only possible cause of modification, whether
adaptive or non-adaptive. Here again, therefore, we must observe that none of these sweeping
generalizations can possibly be justified by deductive reasoning from the theory of natural
selection itself. Any attempt at such deductive reasoning must necessarily end in circular
reasoning, as I shall likewise show in the second volume, where this whole "question of utility"
will be thoroughly dealt with.

       *       *       *       *       *

Once more, there is an important oversight very generally committed by the followers of Darwin.
For even those who avoid the fallacies above mentioned often fail to perceive, that natural
selection can only begin to operate if the degree of adaptation is already given as sufficiently
high to count for something in the struggle for existence. Any adaptations which fall below
this level of importance cannot possibly have been produced by survival of the fittest. Yet
the followers of Darwin habitually speak of adaptative characters, which in their own opinion
are subservient merely to comfort or convenience, as having been produced by such means. Clearly
this is illogical; for it belongs to the essence of Darwin's theory to suppose, that natural
selection can have no jurisdiction beyond the line where structures or instincts already present
a sufficient degree of adaptational value to increase, in some measure, the expectation of
life on the part of their possessors. We cannot speak of adaptations as due to natural selection,
without thereby affirming that they present what I have elsewhere termed a "selection value."

       *       *       *       *       *

Lastly, as a mere matter of logical definition, it is well-nigh self-evident that the theory
of natural selection is a theory of the origin, and cumulative development, of adaptations,
whether these be distinctive of species, or of genera, orders, families, classes, and sub-kingdoms.
It is only when the adaptations happen to be distinctive of the first (or lowest) of these
taxonomic divisions, that the theory which accounts for these adaptations accounts also for
the forms which present them,--i. e. becomes also a theory of the origin of species. This,
however, is clearly but an accident of particular cases; and, therefore, even in them the theory
is primarily a theory of adaptations, while it is but secondarily a theory of the species which
present them. Or, otherwise stated, the theory is no more a theory of the origin of species
than it is of the origin of genera, families, and the rest; while, on the other hand, it is
everywhere a theory of the adaptive modifications whereby each of these taxonomic divisions
has been differentiated as such. Yet, sufficiently obvious as the accuracy of this definition
must appear to any one who dispassionately considers it, several naturalists of high standing
have denounced it in violent terms. I shall therefore have to recur to the subject at somewhat
greater length hereafter. At present it is enough merely to mention the matter, as furnishing
another and a curious illustration of the not infrequent weakness of logical perception on
the part of minds well gifted with the faculty of observation. It may be added, however, that
the definition in question is in no way hostile to the one which is virtually given by Darwin
in the title of his great work. The Origin of Species by means of Natural Selection is beyond
doubt the best title that could have been given, because at the time when the work was published
the fact, no less than the method, of organic evolution had to be established; and hence the
most important thing to be done at that time was to prove the transmutation of species. But
now that this has been done to the satisfaction of naturalists in general, it is as I have
said, curious to find some of them denouncing a wider definition of the principle of natural
selection, merely because the narrower (or included) definition is invested with the charm
of verbal associations[35].

    [35] The question as to whether natural selection has been the only
    principle concerned in the origination of species, is quite distinct
    from that as to the accuracy of the above definition.

       *       *       *       *       *

So much for fallacies and misconceptions touching Darwin's theory, which are but too frequently
met with in the writings of its supporters. We must now pass on to mention some of the still
greater fallacies and misconceptions which are prevalent in the writings of its opponents.
And, in order to do this thoroughly, I shall begin by devoting the remainder of the present
chapter to a consideration of the antecedent standing of the two theories of natural selection
and supernatural design. This having been done, in the succeeding chapters I shall deal with
the evidences for, and the objections against, the former theory.

       *       *       *       *       *

Beginning, then, with the antecedent standing of these alternative theories, the first thing
to be noticed is, that they are both concerned with the same subject-matter, which it is their
common object to explain. Moreover, this subject-matter is clearly and sharply divisible into
two great classes of facts in organic nature--namely, those of Adaptation and those of Beauty.
Darwin's theory of descent explains the former by his doctrine of natural selection, and the
latter by his doctrine of sexual selection. In the first instance, therefore, I shall have
to deal only with the facts of adaptation, leaving for subsequent consideration the facts of
beauty.

Innumerable cases of the adaptation of organisms to their surroundings being the facts which
now stand before us to be explained either by natural selection or by supernatural intention,
we may first consider a statement which is frequently met with--namely, that even if all such
cases of adaptation were proved to be fully explicable by the theory of descent, this would
constitute no disproof of the theory of design: all the cases of adaptation, it is argued,
might still be due to design, even though they admit of being hypothetically accounted for
by the theory of descent. The objection is urged against his interpretation of the facts merely
on the ground that these facts might equally well be ascribed to intelligent design. And so
undoubtedly they might, if we were all simple enough to adopt a supernatural explanation whenever
a natural one is found sufficient to account for the facts.

So much, then, for the illogical position that, granting the evidence in favour of natural
descent and supernatural design to be equal and parallel, we should hesitate in our choice
between the two theories. But, of course, if the evidence is supposed not to be equal and parallel--i.
e. if it is supposed that the theory of natural selection is not so good a theory whereby to
explain the facts of adaptation as is that of supernatural design,--then the objection is no
longer the one which we are considering. It is quite another objection, and one which is not
prima facie absurd. Therefore let us state clearly the distinct question which thus arises.
Now, the adaptations in question involve an innumerable multitude of special mechanisms, in
most cases even within the limits of any one given species; but when we consider the sum of
all these mechanisms presented by organic nature as a whole, the mind must indeed be dull which
does not feel astounded. For, be it further observed, these mechanical contrivances[36] are,
for the most part, no merely simple arrangements, which might reasonably be supposed due, like
the phenomena of crystallization, to comparatively simple physical causes. On the contrary,
they everywhere and habitually exhibit so deep-laid, so intricate, and often so remote an adaptation
of means to ends, that no machinery of human contrivance can properly be said to equal their
perfection from a mechanical point of view. Therefore, without question, the hypothesis which
first of all they suggest--or suggest most readily--is the hypothesis of design. And this hypothesis
becomes virtually the only hypothesis possible, if it be assumed--as it generally was assumed
by natural theologians of the past,--that all species of plants and animals were introduced
into the world suddenly. For it is quite inconceivable that any known cause, other than intelligent
design, could be competent to turn out instantaneously any one of these intricate pieces of
machinery, already adapted to the performance of its special function. But, on the other hand,
if there is any evidence to show that one species becomes slowly transformed into another--or
that one set of adaptations becomes slowly changed into another set as changing circumstances
require,--then it becomes quite possible to imagine that a strictly natural causation may have
had something to do with the matter. And this suggestion becomes greatly more probable when
we discover, from geological evidence and embryological research, that in the history both
of races and of individuals the various mechanisms in question have themselves had a history--beginning
in the forms of most uniformity and simplicity, gradually advancing to forms more varied and
complex, nowhere exhibiting any interruptions in their upward progress, until the world of
organic machinery as we now have it is seen to have been but the last phase of a long and gradual
growth, the ultimate roots of which are to be found in the soil of undifferentiated protoplasm.

    [36] It is often objected to Darwin's terminology, that it embraces
    such words as "contrivance," "purpose," &c., which are strictly
    applicable only to the processes or the products of thought. But
    when it is understood that they are used in a neutral or
    metaphorical sense, I cannot see that any harm arises from their
    use.

Lastly, when there is supplied to us the suggestion of natural selection as a cause presumably
adequate to account for this continuous growth in the number, the intricacy, and the perfection
of such mechanisms, it is only the most unphilosophical mind that can refuse to pause as between
the older hypothesis of design and the newer hypothesis of descent.

Thus it is clear that the a priori standing of the rival hypotheses of naturalism and supernaturalism
in the case of all these pieces of organic machinery, is profoundly affected by the question
whether they came into existence suddenly, or whether they did so gradually. For, if they all
came into existence suddenly, the fact would constitute well-nigh positive proof in favour
of supernaturalism, or creation by design; whereas, if they all came into existence gradually,
this fact would in itself constitute presumptive evidence in favour of naturalism, or of development
by natural causes. And, as shown in the previous chapters, the proof that all species of plants
and animals came into existence gradually--or the proof of evolution as a fact--is simply overwhelming.

From a still more general point of view I may state the case in another way, by borrowing and
somewhat expanding an illustration which, I believe, was first used by Professor Huxley. If,
when the tide is out, we see lying upon the shore a long line of detached sea-weed, marking
the level which is reached by full tide, we should be free to conclude that the separation
of the sea-weed from the sand and the stones was due to the intelligent work of some one who
intended to collect the sea-weed for manure, or for any other purpose. But, on the other hand,
we might explain the fact by a purely physical cause--namely, the separation by the sea-waves
of the sea-weed from the sand and stones, in virtue of its lower specific gravity. Now, thus
far the fact would be explained equally well by either hypothesis; and this fact would be the
fact of selection. But whether we yielded our assent to the one explanation or to the other
would depend upon a due consideration of all collateral circumstances. The sea-weed might not
be of a kind that is of any use to man; there might be too great a quantity of it to admit
of our supposing that it had been collected by man; the fact that it was all deposited on the
high-water-mark would in itself be highly suggestive of the agency of the sea; and so forth.
Thus, in such a case any reasonable observer would decide in favour of the physical explanation,
or against the teleological one.

Now the question whether organic evolution has been caused by physical agencies or by intelligent
design is in precisely the same predicament. There can be no logical doubt that, theoretically
at all events, the physical agencies which the present chapter is concerned with, and which
are conveniently summed up in the term natural selection, are as competent to produce these
so-called mechanical contrivances, and the other cases of adaptation which are to be met with
in organic nature, as intelligent design could be. Hence, our choice as between these two hypotheses
must be governed by a study of all collateral circumstances; that is to say, by a study of
the evidences in favour of the physical explanation. To this study, therefore, we shall now
address ourselves, in the course of the following chapters.

CHAPTER VIII.

EVIDENCES OF THE THEORY OF NATURAL SELECTION.

I will now proceed to state the main arguments in favour of the theory of natural selection,
and then, in the following chapter, the main objections which have been urged against it.

In my opinion, the main arguments in favour of the theory are three in number.

First, it is a matter of observation that the struggle for existence in nature does lead to
the extermination of forms less fitted for the struggle, and thus makes room for forms more
fitted. This general fact may be best observed in cases where an exotic species proves itself
better fitted to inhabit a new country than is some endemic species which it exterminates.
In Great Britain, for example, the so-called common rat is a comparatively recent importation
from Norway, and it has so completely supplanted the original British rat, that it is now extremely
difficult to procure a single specimen of the latter: the native black rat has been all but
exterminated by the foreign brown rat. The same thing is constantly found in the case of imported
species of plants. I have seen the river at Cambridge so choked with the inordinate propagation
of a species of water-weed which had been introduced from America, that considerable expense
had to be incurred in order to clear the river for traffic. In New Zealand the same thing has
happened with the European water-cress, and in Australia with the common rabbit. So it is doubtless
true, as one of the natives is said to have philosophically remarked, "the white man's rat
has driven away our rat, the European fly drives away our fly, his clover kills our grass,
and so will the Maoris disappear before the white man himself." Innumerable other cases to
the same effect might be quoted; and they all go to establish the fact that forms less fitted
to survive succumb in their competition with forms better fitted.

       *       *       *       *       *

Secondly, there is a general consideration of the largest possible significance in the present
connexion--namely, that among all the millions of structures and instincts which are so invariably,
and for the most part so wonderfully, adapted to the needs of the species presenting them,
we cannot find a single instance, either in the vegetable or animal kingdom, of a structure
or an instinct which is developed for the exclusive benefit of another species. Now this great
and general fact is to my mind a fact of the most enormous, not to say overwhelming, significance.
The theory of natural selection has now been before the world for more than thirty years, and
during that time it had stood a fire of criticism such as was never encountered by any scientific
theory before. From the first Darwin invited this criticism to adduce any single instance,
either in the vegetable or animal kingdom, of a structure or an instinct which should unquestionably
be proved to be of exclusive use to any species other than the one presenting it. He even went
so far as to say that if any one such instance could be shown he would surrender his whole
theory on the strength of it--so assured had he become, by his own prolonged researches, that
natural selection was the true agent in the production of adaptive structures, and, as such,
could never have permitted such a structure to occur in one species for the benefit of another.
Now, as this invitation has been before the world for so many years, and has not yet been answered
by any naturalist, we may by this time be pretty confident that it never will be answered.
How tremendous, then, is the significance of this fact in its testimony to Darwin's theory!
The number of animal and vegetable species, both living and extinct, is to be reckoned by millions,
and every one of these species presents on an average hundreds of adaptive structures,--at
least one of which in many, possibly in most, if not actually in all cases, is peculiar to
the species that presents it. In other words, there are millions of adaptive structures (not
to speak of instincts) which are peculiar to the species presenting them, and also many more
which are the common property of allied species: yet, notwithstanding this inconceivable profusion
of adaptive structures in organic nature, there is no single instance that has been pointed
out of the occurrence of such a structure save for the benefit of the species that presents
it. Therefore, I say that this immensely large and general fact speaks with literally immeasurable
force in favour of natural selection, as at all events one of the main causes of organic evolution.
For the fact is precisely what we should expect if this theory is true, while upon no other
theory can its universality and invariability be rendered intelligible. On the beneficent design
theory, for instance, it is inexplicable that no species should ever be found to present a
structure or an instinct having primary reference to the welfare of another species, when,
ex hypothesi, such an endless amount of thought has been displayed in the creation of structures
and instincts having primary reference to the species which present them. Organic species might
then have been likened to a countless multitude of voices, all singing in one great harmonious
psalm.

In order that the force of this argument may not be misapprehended, it is necessary to bear
in mind that it is in no way affected by cases where a structure or an instinct is of primary
benefit to its possessor, and then becomes of secondary benefit to some other species on account
of the latter being able in some way or another to utilise its action. Of course organic nature
is full of cases of this kind; but they only go to show the readiness which all species display
to utilise for themselves everything that can be turned to good account in their own environments,
and so, among other things, the structures and instincts of other animals. For instance, it
would be no answer to Darwin's challenge if any one were to point to a hermit-crab inhabiting
the cast-off shell of a mollusk; because the shell was primarily of use to the mollusk itself,
and, so far as the mollusk is concerned, the fact of its shell being afterwards of a secondary
use to the crab is quite immaterial. What Darwin's challenge requires is, that some structure
or instinct should be shown which is not merely of such secondary or accidental benefit to
another species, but clearly adapted to the needs of that other species in the first instance--such,
for example, as would be the case if the tail of a rattle-snake were of no use to its possessor,
while serving to warn other animals of the proximity of a dangerous creature; or, in the case
of instincts, if it were true that a pilot-fish accompanies a shark for the purpose of helping
the shark to discover food. Both these instances have been alleged; but both have been shown
untenable. And so it has proved of all the other cases which thus far have been put forward.

Perhaps the most remarkable of all the allegations which ever have been put forward in this
connexion are those that were current with regard to instincts before the publication of Darwin's
work. These allegations are the most remarkable, because they serve to show, in a degree which
I do not believe could be shown anywhere else, the warping power of preconceived ideas. A short
time ago I happened to come across the 8th edition of the Encyclopædia Britannica, and turned
up the article on "Instinct" there, in order to see what amount of change had been wrought
with regard to our views on this subject by the work of Darwin--the 8th edition of the Encyclopædia
Britannica having been published shortly before The Origin of Species by means of Natural Selection.
I cannot wait to give any lengthy quotations from this representative exponent of scientific
opinion upon the subject at that time; but its general drift may be appreciated if I transcribe
merely the short concluding paragraph, wherein he sums up his general results. Here he says:--

     It thus only remains for us to regard instinct as a mental faculty,
     sui generis, the gift of God to the lower animals, that man in
     his own person, and by them, might be relieved from the meanest
     drudgery of nature.

Now, here we have the most extraordinary illustration that is imaginable of the obscuring influence
of a preconceived idea. Because he started with the belief that instincts must have been implanted
in animals for the benefit of man, this writer, even when writing a purely scientific essay,
was completely blinded to the largest, the most obvious, and the most important of the facts
which the phenomena of instinct display. For, as a matter of fact, among all the many thousands
of instincts which are known to occur in animals, there is no single one that can be pointed
to as having any special reference to man; while, on the other hand, it is equally impossible
to point to one which does not refer to the welfare of the animal presenting it. Indeed, when
the point is suggested, it seems to me surprising how few in number are the instincts of animals
which have proved to be so much as of secondary or accidental benefit to man, in the same way
as skins, furs, and a whole host of other animal products are thus of secondary use to him.
Therefore, this writer not only failed to perceive the most obvious truth that every instinct,
without any single exception, has reference to the animal which presents it; but he also conceived
a purely fictitious inversion of this truth, and wrote an essay to prove a statement which
all the instincts in the animal kingdom unite in contradicting.

This example will serve to show, in a striking manner, not only the distance that we have travelled
in our interpretation of organic nature between two successive editions of the Encyclopædia
Britannica, but also the amount of verification which this fact furnishes to the theory of
natural selection. For, inasmuch as it belongs to the very essence of this theory that all
adaptive characters (whether instinctive or structural) must have reference to their own possessors,
we find overpowering verification furnished to the theory by the fact now before us--namely,
that immediately prior to the enunciation of this theory, the truth that all adaptive characters
have reference only to the species which present them was not perceived. In other words, it
was the testing of this theory by the facts of nature that revealed to naturalists the general
law which the theory, as it were, predicted--the general law that all adaptive characters have
primary reference to the species which present them. And when we remember that this is a kind
of verification which is furnished by millions of separate cases, the whole mass of it taken
together is, as I have before said, overwhelming.

It is somewhat remarkable that the enormous importance of this argument in favour of natural
selection as a prime factor of organic evolution has not received the attention which it deserves.
Even Darwin himself, with his characteristic reserve, has not presented its incalculable significance;
nor do I know any of his followers who have made any approach to an adequate use of it in their
advocacy of his views. In preparing the present chapter, therefore, I have been particularly
careful not to pitch too high my own estimate of its evidential value. That is to say, I have
considered, both in the domain of structures and of instincts, what instances admit of being
possibly adduced per contra, or as standing outside the general law that adaptive structures
and instincts are of primary use only to their possessors. In the result I can only think of
two such instances. These, therefore, I will now dispose of.

The first was pointed out, and has been fully discussed, by Darwin himself. Certain species
of ants are fond of a sweet fluid that is secreted by aphides, and they even keep the aphides
as we keep cows for the purpose of profiting by their "milk." Now the point is, that the use
of this sweet secretion to the aphis itself has not yet been made out. Of course, if it is
of no use to the aphis, it would furnish a case which completely meets Darwin's own challenge.
But, even if this supposition did not stand out of analogy with all the other facts of organic
nature, most of us would probably deem it prudent to hold that the secretion must primarily
be of some use to the aphis itself, although the matter has not been sufficiently investigated
to inform us of what this use is. For, in any case, the secretion is not of any vital importance
to the ants which feed upon it: and I think but few impartial minds would go so far to save
an hypothesis as to maintain, that the Divinity had imposed this drain upon the internal resources
of one species of insect for the sole purpose of supplying a luxury to another. On the whole,
it seems most probable that the fluid is of the nature of an excretion, serving to carry off
waste products. Such, at all events, was the opinion at which Darwin himself arrived, as a
result of observing the facts anew, and in relation to his theory.

       *       *       *       *       *

The other instance to which I have alluded as seeming at first sight likely to answer Darwin's
challenge is the formation of vegetable galls. The great number and variety of galls agree
in presenting a more or less elaborate structure, which is not only foreign to any of the uses
of plant-life, but singularly and specially adapted to those of the insect-life which they
shelter. Yet they are produced by a growth of the plant itself, when suitably stimulated by
the insects' inoculation--or, according to recent observations, by emanations from the bodies
of the larvæ which develop from the eggs deposited in the plant by the insect. Now, without
question, this is a most remarkable fact; and if there were many more of the like kind to be
met with in organic nature, we might seriously consider whether the formation of galls should
not be held to make against the ubiquitous agency of natural selection. But inasmuch as the
formation of galls stands out as an exception to the otherwise universal rule of every species
for itself, and for itself alone, we are justified in regarding this one apparent exception
with extreme suspicion. Indeed, I think we are justified in regarding the peculiar pathological
effect produced in the plant by the secretions of the insect as having been in the first instance
accidentally beneficial to the insects. Thus, if any other effect than that of a growing tumour
had been produced in the first instance, or if the needs of the insect progeny had not been
such as to have derived profit from being enclosed in such a tumour, then, of course, the inoculating
instinct of these animals could not have been developed by natural selection. But, given these
two conditions, and it appears to me there is nothing very much more remarkable about an accidental
correlation between the effects of a parasitic larva on a plant and the needs of that parasite,
than there is between the similarly accidental correlation between a hydated parasite and the
nutrition furnished to it by the tissues of a warm-blooded animal. Doubtless the case of galls
is somewhat more remarkable, inasmuch as the morbid growth of the plant has more concern in
the correlation--being, in many instances, a more specialized structure on the part of a host
than occurs anywhere else, either in the animal or vegetable world. But here I may suggest
that although natural selection cannot have acted upon the plant directly, so as to have produced
galls ever better and better adapted to the needs of the insect, it may have so acted upon
the plants indirectly though the insects. For it may very well have been that natural selection
would ever tend to preserve those individual insects, the quality of whose emanations tended
to produce the form of galls best suited to nourish the insect progeny; and thus the character
of these pathological growths may have become ever better and better adapted to the needs of
the insects. Lastly, looking to the enormous number of relations and inter-relations between
all organic species, it is scarcely to be wondered at that even so extraordinary an instance
of correlation as this should have arisen thus by accident, and then have been perfected by
such an indirect agency of natural selection as is here suggested[37].

    [37] Note B.

       *       *       *       *       *

The third general class of facts which tell so immensely in favour of natural selection as
an important cause of organic evolution, are those of domestication. The art of the horticulturist,
the fancier, the cattle-breeder, &c., consists in producing greater and greater deviations
from a given wild type of plant or animal, in any particular direction that may be desired
for purposes either of use or of beauty. Cultivated cereals, fruits, and flowers are known
to have been all derived from wild species; and, of course, the same applies to all our domesticated
varieties of animals. Yet if we compare a cabbage rose with a wild rose, a golden pippin apple
with a crab, a toy terrier with any species of wild dog, not to mention any number of other
instances, there can be no question that, if such differences had appeared in nature, the organisms
presenting them would have been entitled to rank as distinct species--or even, in many cases,
as distinct genera. Yet we know, as a matter of fact, that all these differences have been
produced by a process of artificial selection, or pairing, which has been continuously practised
by horticulturists and breeders through a number of generations. It is the business of these
men to note the individual organisms which show most variation in the directions required,
and then to propagate from these individuals, in order that the progeny shall inherit the qualities
desired. The results thus become cumulative from generation to generation, until we now have
an astonishing manifestation of useful qualities on the one hand, and of beautiful qualities
on the other, according as the organisms have been thus bred for purposes of use or for those
of beauty.

Now it is immediately obvious that in these cases the process of artificial selection is precisely
analogous to that of natural selection (and of sexual selection which will be considered later
on), in all respects save one: the utility or the beauty which it is the aim of artificial
selection continually to enhance, is utility or beauty in relation to the requirements or to
the tastes of man; whereas the utility or the beauty which is produced by natural selection
and sexual selection has reference only to the requirements or the tastes of the organisms
themselves. But, with the exception of this one point of difference, the processes and the
products are identical in kind. Persevering selection by man is thus proved to be capable of
creating what are virtually new specific types, and this in any required direction. Hence,
when we remember how severe is the struggle for existence in nature, it becomes impossible
to doubt that selection by nature is able to do at least as much as artificial selection in
the way of thus creating new types out of old ones. Artificial selection, indeed, notwithstanding
the many and marvellous results which it has accomplished, can only be regarded as but a feeble
imitation of natural selection, which must act with so much greater vigilance and through such
immensely greater periods of time. In a word, the proved capabilities of artificial selection
furnish, in its best conceivable form, what is called an argument a fortiori in favour of natural
selection.

Or, to put it in another way, it may be said that for thousands of years mankind has been engaged
in making a gigantic experiment to test, as it were by anticipation, the theory of natural
selection. For, although this prolonged experiment has been carried on without any such intention
on the part of the experimenters, it is none the less an experiment in the sense that its results
now furnish an overwhelming verification of Mr. Darwin's theory. That is to say, they furnish
overwhelming proof of the efficacy of the selective principle in the modification of organic
types, when once this principle is brought steadily and continuously to bear upon a sufficiently
long series of generations.

In order to furnish ocular evidence of the value of this line of verification, I have had the
following series of drawings prepared. Another and equally striking series might be made of
the products of artificial selection in the case of plants; but it seems to me that the case
of animals is more than sufficient for the purpose just stated. Perhaps it is desirable to
add that considerable care has been bestowed upon the execution of these portraits; and that
in every case the latter have been taken from the most typical specimens of the artificial
variety depicted. Those of them which have not been drawn directly from life are taken from
the most authoritative sources; and, before being submitted to the engraver, they were all
examined by the best judges in each department. In none of the groups, however, have I aimed
at an exhaustive representation of all the varieties: I have merely introduced representatives
of as many as the page would in each case accommodate.

The exigencies of space have prevented, in some of the groups, strict adherence to a uniform
scale--with the result that contrasts between different breeds in respect of size are not adequately
rendered. This remark applies especially to the dogs; for although the artist has endeavoured
to draw them in perspective, unless the distance between those in the foreground and those
in the background is understood to be more considerable than it appears, an inadequate idea
is given of the relative differences of size. The most instructive of the groups, I think,
is that of the Canaries; because the many and great changes in different directions must in
this case have been produced by artificial selection in so comparatively short a time--the
first mention of this bird that I can find being by Gesner, in the sixteenth century.

       *       *       *       *       *

Now, it is surely unquestionable that in these typical proofs of the efficacy of artificial
selection in the modification of specific types, we have the strongest conceivable testimony
to the power of natural selection in the same direction. For it thus appears that wherever
mankind has had occasion to operate by selection for a sufficiently long time--that is to say,
on whatever species of plant or animal he chooses thus to operate for the purpose of modifying
the type in any required direction,--the results are always more or less the same: he finds
that all specific types lend themselves to continuous deflection in any particulars of structure,
colour, &c., that he may desire to modify.

Nevertheless, to this parallel between the known effects of artificial selection, and the inferred
effects of natural selection, two objections have been urged. The first is, that in the case
of artificial selection the selecting agent is a voluntary intelligence, while in the case
of natural selection the selecting agent is Nature herself; and whether or not there is any
counterpart of man's voluntary intelligence in nature is a question with which Darwinism has
nothing to do. Therefore, it is alleged, the analogy between natural selection and artificial
selection fails ab initio, or at the fountain-head of the causes which are taken by the analogy
to be respectively involved.

The second objection to the analogy is, that the products of artificial selection, closely
as they may resemble natural species in all other respects, nevertheless present one conspicuous
and highly important point of difference: they rarely, if ever, present the physiological character
of mutual infertility, which is a character of extremely general occurrence in the case of
natural species, even when these are most nearly allied.

I will deal with these two objections in the next chapter, where I shall be concerned with
the meeting of all the objections which have ever been urged against the theory of natural
selection. Meanwhile I am engaged only in presenting the general arguments which support the
theory, and therefore mention these objections to one of them merely en passant. And I do so
in order to pledge myself effectually to dispose of them later on, so that for the purposes
of my present argument both these objections may be provisionally regarded as non-existent;
which means, in other words, that we may provisionally regard the analogy between artificial
selection and natural selection as everywhere logically intact.

       *       *       *       *       *

To sum up, then, the results of the foregoing exposition thus far, what I hold to be the three
principal, or most general, arguments in favour of the theory of natural selection, are as follows.

First, there is the a priori consideration that, if on independent grounds we believe in the
theory of evolution at all, it becomes obvious that natural selection must have had some part
in the process. For no one can deny the potent facts of heredity, variability, the struggle
for existence, and survival of the fittest. But to admit these facts is to admit natural selection
as a principle which must be, at any rate, one of the factors of organic evolution, supposing
such evolution to have taken place. Next, when we turn from these a priori considerations,
which thus show that natural selection must have been concerned to some extent in the process
of evolution, we find in organic nature evidence a posteriori of the extent to which this principle
has been thus concerned. For we find that among all the countless millions of adaptive structures
which are to be met with in organic nature, it is an invariable rule that they exist in relation
to the needs of the particular species which present them: they never have any primary reference
to the needs of other species. And as this extraordinarily large and general fact is exactly
what the theory of natural selection would expect, the theory is verified by the fact in an
extraordinarily cogent manner. In other words, the fact goes to prove that in all cases where
adaptive structures or instincts are concerned, natural selection must have been either the
sole cause at work, or, at the least, an influence controlling the operation of all other causes.

Lastly, an actually experimental verification of the theory has been furnished on a gigantic
scale by the operations of breeders, fanciers, and horticulturists. For these men, by their
process of selective accumulation, have empirically proved what immense changes of type may
thus be brought about; and so have verified by anticipation, and in a most striking manner,
the theory of natural selection--which, as now so fully explained, is nothing more than a theory
of cumulative modifications by means of selective breeding.

So much, then, by way of generalities. But perhaps the proof of natural selection as an agency
of the first importance in the transmutation of species may be best brought home to us by considering
a few of its applications in detail. I will therefore devote the rest of the present chapter
to considering a few cases of this kind.

There are so many large fields from which such special illustrations may be supplied, that
it is difficult to decide which of them to draw upon. For instance, the innumerable, always
interesting, and often astonishing adaptations on the part of flowers to the fertilising agency
of insects, has alone given rise to an extensive literature since the time when Darwin himself
was led to investigate the subject by the guidance of his own theory. The same may be said
of the structures and movements of climbing plants, and in short, of all the other departments
of natural history where the theory of natural selection has led to the study of the phenomena
of adaptation. For in all these cases the theory of natural selection, which first led to their
discovery, still remains the only scientific theory by which they can be explained. But among
all the possible fields from which evidences of this kind may be drawn, I think the best is
that which may be generically termed defensive colouring. To this field, therefore, I will
restrict myself. But, even so, the cases to be mentioned are but mere samples taken from different
divisions of this field; and therefore it must be understood at the outset that they could
easily be multiplied a hundred-fold.

Protective Colouring.

A vast number of animals are rendered more or less inconspicuous by resembling the colours
of the surfaces on which they habitually rest. Such, for example, are grouse, partridges, rabbits,
&c. Moreover, there are many cases in which, if the needs of the creature be such that it must
habitually frequent surfaces of different colours, it has acquired the power of changing its
colour accordingly--e. g. cuttle-fish, flat-fish, frogs, chameleons, &c. The physiological
mechanism whereby these adaptive changes of colour are produced differs in different animals;
but it is needless for our purposes to go into this part of the subject. Again, there are yet
other cases where protective colouring which is admirably suited to conceal an animal through
one part of the year, would become highly conspicuous during another part of it--namely, when
the ground is covered with snow. Accordingly, in these cases the animals change their colour
in the winter months to a snowy white: witness stoats, mountain hares, ptarmigan, &c. (Fig. 108.)

Now, it is sufficiently obvious that in all these classes of cases the concealment from enemies
or prey which is thus secured is of advantage to the animals concerned; and, therefore, that
in the theory of natural selection we have a satisfactory theory whereby to explain it. And
this cannot be said of any other theory of adaptive mechanisms in nature that has ever been
propounded. The so-called Lamarckian theory, for instance, cannot be brought to bear upon the
facts at all; and on the theory of special creation it is unintelligible why the phenomena
of protective colouring should be of such general occurrence. For, in as far as protective
colouring is of advantage to the species which present it, it is of corresponding disadvantage
to those other species against the predatory nature of which it acts as a defence. And, of
course, the same applies to yet other species, if they serve as prey. Moreover, the more minutely
this subject is investigated in all its details, the more exactly is it found to harmonise
with the naturalistic interpretation[38].

    [38] Were it not that some of Darwin's critics have overlooked the
    very point wherein the great value of protective colouring as
    evidence of natural selection consists, it would be needless to
    observe that it does so in the minuteness of the protective
    resemblance which in so many cases is presented. Of course where the
    resemblance is only very general, the phenomena might be ascribed to
    mere coincidence, of which the instincts of the animal have taken
    advantage. But in the measure that the resemblance becomes minutely
    detailed, the supposition of mere coincidence is excluded, and the
    agency of some specially adaptive cause demonstrated. Again, it is
    almost needless to say, no real difficulty is presented (as has been
    alleged) by the cases above quoted of seasonal imitations, on the
    ground that natural selection could not act alternately on the same
    individual. Natural selection is not supposed to act alternately on
    the same individual. It is supposed to act always in the same
    manner, and if, as in the case of a regularly recurring change in
    the colours of the environment, correspondingly recurrent changes
    are required to appear in the colours of the animals, natural
    selection sets its premium upon those individuals the constitutions
    of which best lend themselves to seasonal changes of the needful
    kind--probably under the influence of stimuli supplied by the
    changes of external conditions (temperature, moisture, &c.).

In the first place, we always find a complete correspondence between imitative colouring and
instinctive endowment. If a caterpillar exactly resembles the colour of a twig, it also presents
the instinct of habitually reposing in the attitude which makes it most resemble a twig--standing
out from the branch on which it rests at the same angle as is presented by the real twigs of
the tree on which it lives.

Here, again, is a bird protectively coloured so as to resemble stones upon the rough ground
where it habitually lives; and the drawing shows the attitude in which the bird instinctively
reposes, so as still further to increase its resemblance to a stone. (Fig. 109.)

Warning Colours.

In strange and glaring contrast to all these cases of protective colouring, stand other cases
of conspicuous colouring. Thus, for example, although there are numberless species of caterpillars
which present in an astonishing degree the phenomena of protective colouring, there are numberless
other species which not only fail to present these phenomena in any degree, but actually go
to the opposite extreme of presenting colours which appear to have been developed for the sake
of their conspicuousness. At all events, these caterpillars are usually the most conspicuous
objects in their surroundings, and therefore in the early days of Darwinism they were regarded
by Darwin himself as presenting a formidable difficulty in the way of his theory. To Mr. Wallace
belongs the merit of having cleared up this difficulty in an extraordinarily successful manner.
He virtually reasoned thus. If the raison d'être of protective colouring be that of concealing
agreeably flavoured caterpillars from the eye-sight of birds, may not the raison d'être of
conspicuous colouring be that of protecting disagreeably flavoured caterpillars from any possibility
of being mistaken by birds? Should this be the case, of course the more conspicuous the colouring
the better would it be for the caterpillars presenting it. Now as soon as this suggestion was
acted upon experimentally, it was found to be borne out by facts. Birds could not be induced
to eat caterpillars of the kinds in question; and there is now no longer any doubt that their
conspicuous colouring is correlated with their distastefulness to birds, in the same way as
the inconspicuous or imitative colouring of other caterpillars is correlated with their tastefulness
to birds. Here then is yet another instance, added to those already given, of the verification
yielded to the theory of natural selection by its proved competency as a guide to facts in
nature; for assuredly this particular class of facts would never have been suspected but for
its suggestive agency.

As in the case of protective imitation, so in this case of warning conspicuousness, not only
colour, but structure may be greatly modified for the purpose of securing immunity from attack.
Here, of course, the object is to assume, as far as possible, a touch-me-not appearance; so
that, although destitute of any real means of offence, the creatures in question present a
fictitiously dangerous aspect. As the Devil's-coach-horse turns up his stingless tail when
threatened by an enemy, so in numberless ways do many harmless animals of all classes pretend
to be formidable. But the point now is that these instincts of self-defence are often helped
out by structural modifications, expressly and exclusively adapted to this end. For example,
what a remarkable series of protective adjustments occurs in the life-history of the Puss Moth--culminating
with so comical an instance of the particular device now under consideration as the following.
I quote the facts from Mr. E. B. Poulton's admirable book on The Colours of Animals (pp. 269-271).

     The larva of the Puss Moth (Cerura vinula) is very common upon
     poplar and willow. The circular dome-like eggs are laid, either
     singly or in little groups of two or three, upon the upper side of
     the leaf, and being of a reddish colour strongly suggest the
     appearance of little galls, or the results of some other injury to
     the leaf. The youngest larvæ are black, and also rest upon the
     upper surface of the leaf, resembling the dark patches which are
     commonly seen in this position. As the larva grows, the apparent
     black patch would cover too large a space, and would lead to
     detection if it still occupied the whole surface of the body. The
     latter gains a green ground-colour which harmonises with the leaf,
     while the dark marking is chiefly confined to the back. As growth
     proceeds the relative amount of green increases, and the dark mark
     is thus prevented from attaining a size which would render it too
     conspicuous. In the last stage of growth the green larva becomes
     very large, and usually rests on the twigs of its food-plant (Fig.
     111). The dark colour is still present on the back but is softened
     to a purplish tint, which tends to be replaced by a combination of
     white and green in many of the largest larvæ. Such a larva is well
     concealed by General Protective Resemblance, and one may search a
     long time before finding it, although assured of its presence from
     the stripped branches of the food-plant and the fæces on the ground
     beneath.

     As soon as a large larva is discovered and disturbed it withdraws
     its head into the first body-ring, inflating the margin, which is
     of a bright red colour. There are two intensely black spots on this
     margin in the appropriate position for eyes, and the whole
     appearance is that of a large flat face extending to the outer edge
     of the red margin (see Fig. 112). The effect is an intensely
     exaggerated caricature of a vertebrate face, which is probably
     alarming to the vertebrate enemies of the caterpillar. The
     terrifying effect is therefore mimetic. The movements entirely
     depend on tactile impressions: when touched ever so lightly a
     healthy larva immediately assumes the terrifying attitude, and
     turns so as to present its full face towards the enemy; if touched
     on the other side or on the back it instantly turns its face in the
     appropriate direction. The effect is also greatly strengthened by
     two pink whips which are swiftly protruded from the prongs of the
     fork in which the body terminates. The prongs represent the last
     pair of larval legs which have been greatly modified from their
     ordinary shape and use. The end of the body is at the same time
     curved forward over the back (generally much further than in Fig.
     112), so that the pink filaments are brandished above the head.

Mimicry.

Lastly, these facts as to imitative and conspicuous colouring lead on to the yet more remarkable
facts of what is called mimicry. By mimicry is meant the imitation in form and colour of one
species by another, in order that the imitating species may be mistaken for the imitated, and
thus participate in some advantage which the latter enjoys. For instance, if, as in the case
of the conspicuously-coloured caterpillars, it is of advantage to an ill-savoured species that
it should hold out a warning to enemies, clearly it may be of no less advantage to a well-savoured
species that it should borrow this flag, and thus be mistaken for its ill-savoured neighbour.
Now, the extent to which this device of mimicry is carried is highly remarkable, not only in
respect of the number of its cases, but also in respect of the astonishing accuracy which in
most of these cases is exhibited by the imitation. There need be little or virtually no zoological
affinity between the imitating and the imitated forms; that is to say, in some cases the zoological
affinity is not closer than ordinal, and therefore cannot possibly be ascribed to kinship.
Like all the other branches of the general subject of protective resemblance in form or colouring,
this branch has already been so largely illustrated by previous writers, that, as in the previous
cases, I need only give one or two examples. Those which I choose are chosen on account of
the colours concerned not being highly varied or brilliant, and therefore lending themselves
to less ineffectual treatment by wood-engraving than is the case where attempts are made to
render by this means even more remarkable instances. (Figs. 113, 114, 115.)

It is surely apparent, without further comment, that it is impossible to imagine stronger evidence
in favour of natural selection as a true cause in nature, than is furnished by this culminating
fact in the matter of protective resemblance, whereby it is shown that a species of one genus,
family, or even order, will accurately mimic the appearance of a species belonging to another
genus, family, or order, so as to deceive its natural enemies into mistaking it for a creature
of so totally different a kind. And it must be added that while this fact of mimicry is of
extraordinarily frequent occurrence, there can be no possibility of our mistaking its purpose.
For the fact is never observable except in the case of species which occupy the same area or
district.

Such being what appears to me the only reasonable view of the matter, I will now conclude this
chapter on the evidences of natural selection as at all events the main factor of organic evolution,
by simply adding illustrations of two further cases of mimicry, which are perhaps even more
remarkable than any of the foregoing examples. The first of the two (Fig. 115) speaks for itself.
The second will be rendered intelligible by the following few words of explanation.

There are certain ants of the Amazons which present the curious instinct of cutting off leaves
from trees, and carrying them like banners over their heads to the hive, as represented in
Fig. 116, B, where one ant is shown without a leaf, and the others each with a leaf. Their
object in thus collecting leaves is probably that of growing a fungus upon the "soil" which
is furnished by the leaves when decomposing. But, be this as it may[39], the only point we
are now concerned with is the appearance which these ants present when engaged in their habitual
operation of carrying leaves. For it has been recently observed by Mr. W. L. Sclater, that
in the localities where these hymenopterous insects occur, there occurs also a homopterous
insect which mimics the ant, leaf and all, in a wonderfully deceptive manner. The leaf is imitated
by the thin flattened body of the insect, "which in its dorsal aspect is so compressed laterally
that it is no thicker than a leaf, and terminates in a sharp jagged edge." The colour is exactly
the same as that of a leaf, and the brown legs show themselves beneath the green body in just
the same way as those of the ant show themselves beneath the leaf. So that both the form and
the colouring of the homopterous insect has been brought to resemble, with singular exactness,
those belonging to a different order of insect, when the latter is engaged in its peculiar
avocation. A glance at the figure is enough to show the means employed and the result attained.
In A, an ant and its mimic are represented as about 2-1/2 times their natural size, and both
proceeding in the same direction. It ought to be mentioned, however, that in reality the margin
of the leaf is seldom allowed to retain its natural serrations as here depicted: the ants usually
gnaw the edge of the real leaf, so that the margin of the false one bears an even closer resemblance
to it than the illustration represents. B is a drawing from life of a group of five ants carrying
leaves, and their mimic walking beside them[40].

    [39] For a full account of this instinct and its probable purpose,
    see Animal Intelligence, pp. 93-6.

    [40] Both drawings are reproduced from Mr. Poulton's paper upon the
    subject (Proc. Zool. Soc., June 16, 1891).

CHAPTER IX.

CRITICISMS OF THE THEORY OF NATURAL SELECTION.

I will now proceed to consider the various objections and difficulties which have hitherto
been advanced against the theory of natural selection.

Very early in the day Owen hurled the weight of his authority against the new theory, and this
with a strength of onslaught which was only equalled by its want of judgment. Indeed, it is
painfully apparent that he failed to apprehend the fundamental principles of the Darwinian
theory. For he says:--

     Natural Selection is an explanation of the process [of
     transmutation] of the same kind and value as that which has been
     proffered of the mystery of "secretion." For example, a particular
     mass of matter in a living animal takes certain elements out of the
     blood, and rejects them as "bile." Attributes were given to the
     liver which can only be predicated of the whole animal; the
     "appetency" of the liver, it was said, was for the elements of
     bile, and "biliosity," or the "hepatic sensation," guided the gland
     to their secretion. Such figurative language, I need not say,
     explains absolutely nothing of the nature of bilification[41].

    [41] Anatomy of Vertebrates, vol. iii. p. 794.

Assuredly, it was needless for Owen to say that figurative language of this kind explains nothing;
but it was little less than puerile in him to see no more in the theory of natural selection
than such a mere figure of speech. To say that the liver selects the elements of bile, or that
nature selects specific types, may both be equally unmeaning re-statements of facts; but when
it is explained that the term natural selection, unlike that of "hepatic sensation," is used
as a shorthand expression for a whole group of well-known natural causes--struggle, variation,
survival, heredity,--then it becomes evidence of an almost childish want of thought to affirm
that the expression is figurative and nothing more. The doctrine of natural selection may be
a huge mistake; but, if so, this is not because it consists of any unmeaning metaphor: it can
only be because the combination of natural causes which it suggests is not of the same adequacy
in fact as it is taken to be in theory.

Owen further objected that the struggle for existence could only act as a cause of the extinction
of species, not of their origination--a view of the case which again shows on his part a complete
failure to grasp the conception of Darwinism. Acting alone, the struggle for existence could
only cause extermination; but acting together with variation, survival, and heredity, it may
very well--for anything that Owen, or others who followed in this line of criticism, show to
the contrary--have produced every species of plant and animal that has ever appeared upon the
face of the earth.

Another and closely allied objection is, that the theory of natural selection "personifies
an abstraction." Or, as the Duke of Argyll states it, the theory is "essentially the image
of mechanical necessity concealed under the clothes, and parading in the mask, of mental purpose.
The word 'natural' suggests Matter, and the physical forces. The word 'selection' suggests
Mind, and the powers of choice." This, however, is a mere quarrelling about words. Darwin called
the principle which he had discovered by the name natural selection in order to mark the analogy
between it and artificial selection. No doubt in this analogy there is not necessarily supposed
to be in nature any counterpart to the mind of the breeder, nor, therefore, to his powers of
intelligent choice. But there is no need to limit the term selection (se and lego, Gr. [Greek:
legô]) to powers of intelligent choice. As previously remarked, a bank of sea-weed on the sea-shore
may be said to have been selected by the waves from all the surrounding sand and stones. Similarly,
we may say that grain is selected from chaff by the wind in the process of winnowing corn.
Or, if it be thought that there is any ambiguity involved in such a use of the term in the
case of "Natural Selection," there is no objection to employing the phrase which has been coined
by Mr. Spencer as its equivalent--namely, "Survival of the Fittest." The point of the theory
is, that those organisms which are best suited to their surroundings are allowed to live and
to propagate, while those which are less suited are eliminated; and whether we call this process
a process of selection, or call it by any other name, is clearly immaterial.

A material question is raised only when it is asked whether the process is one that can be
ascribed to causation strictly natural. It is often denied that such is the case, on the ground
that natural selection does not originate the variations which it favours, but depends upon
the variations being supplied by some other means. For, it is said, all that natural selection
does is to preserve the suitable variations after they have arisen. Natural selection does
not cause these suitable variations; and therefore, it is argued, Darwin and his followers
are profoundly mistaken in representing the principle as one which produces adaptations. Now,
although this objection has been put forward by some of the most intelligent minds in our generation,
it appears to me to betoken some extraordinary failure to appreciate the very essence of Darwinian
doctrine. No doubt it is perfectly true that natural selection does not produce variations
of any kind, whether beneficial or otherwise. But if it be granted that variations of many
kinds are occurring in every generation, and that natural selection is competent to preserve
the more favourable among them, then it appears to me unquestionable that this principle of
selection deserves to be regarded as, in the full sense of the word, a natural cause. The variations
being expressly regarded by the theory as more or less promiscuous[42], survival of the fittest
becomes the winnowing fan, whose function it is to eliminate all the less fit in each generation,
in order to preserve the good grain, out of which to constitute the next generation. And as
this process is supposed to be continuous through successive generations, its action is supposed
to be cumulative, till from the eye of a worm there is gradually developed the eye of an eagle.
Therefore it follows from these suppositions (which are not disputed by the present objection),
that if it had not been for the process of selection, such development would never have been
begun; and that in the exact measure of its efficiency will the development proceed. But any
agency without the operation of which a result cannot take place may properly be designated
the cause of that result: it is the agency which, in co-operation with all the other agencies
in the cosmos, produces that result.

    [42] The degree in which variability is indefinite, or, on the
    contrary, determinate, is a question which is not yet ripe for
    decision--nor even, in my opinion, for discussion. But I may here
    state the following general principles with regard to it.

    (1) It is evident that up to some point or another variations must
    be pre-determined in definite lines. Men do not gather grapes from
    thorns, figs from thistles, nor even moss-roses from sweet-briars.
    In other words, "the nature of the organism" in all cases
    necessitates the limiting of variations within certain bounds.

    (2) But when the question is as to what these bounds may be, we can
    only answer in a general way that, according to the general theory
    of evolution, they must be such as are imposed by heredity, coupled
    with the degree to which external conditions of life (and possibly
    also use-inheritance) are capable, in given cases, of modifying
    congenital characters. These are the only causes which the theory of
    descent can consistently recognise as producing variations in
    determinate directions.

    (3) Inasmuch as variation presupposes the existence of parts that
    vary, and inasmuch as the variation of parts can only be in the
    alternative directions of increase or decrease around an average, it
    follows that, in the first instance at all events, every variation,
    if determinate, must be so only in one or other of these two
    opposite directions.

    (4) In as far as variations are summated in successive generations,
    so as eventually to give rise to new structures, organs, mechanisms,
    &c., natural selection is theoretically competent to explain the
    facts, without our having to postulate the operation of unknown
    causes producing variations in determinate lines,--or not further
    than is stated in paragraphs 1 and 2.

    (5) Nevertheless, it does not follow that there are not such other
    unknown causes; and, if there are, of course the importance of
    natural selection as a cause of adaptive modification would be
    limited in proportion to their number and the extent of their
    operation. But it is for those who, like the late Professors Asa
    Gray and Nägeli, maintain the existence of such causes, to
    substantiate their belief by indicating them.

Take any analogous case. The selective agency of specific gravity which is utilised in gold-washing
does not create the original differences between gold-dust and dust of all other kinds. But
these differences being presented by as many different bodies in nature, the gold-washer takes
advantage of the selective agency in question, and, by using it as a cause of segregation,
is enabled to separate the gold from all the earths with which it may happen to be mixed. So
far as the objects of the gold-washer are concerned, it is immaterial with what other earths
the gold-dust may happen to be mixed. For although gold-dust may occur in intimate association
with earths of various kinds in various proportions, and although in each case the particular
admixture which occurs must have been due to definite causes, these things, in relation to
the selective process of the washer, are what is called accidental: that is to say, they have
nothing to do with the causative action of the selective process. Now, in precisely the same
sense Darwin calls the multitudinous variations of plants and animals accidental. By so calling
them he expressly says he does not suppose them to be accidental in the sense of not all being
due to definite causes. But they are accidental in relation to the sifting process of natural
selection: all that they have to do is to furnish the promiscuous material on which this sifting
process acts.

Or let us take an even closer analogy. The power of selective breeding by man is so wonderful,
that in the course of successive generations all kinds of peculiarities as to size, shape,
colour, special appendages or abortions, &c., can be produced at pleasure, as we saw in the
last chapter. Now all the promiscuous variations which are supplied to the breeder, and out
of which, by selecting only those that are suited to his purpose, he is able to produce the
required result--all those promiscuous variations, in relation to that purpose, are accidental.
Therefore the selective agency of the breeder deserves to be regarded as the cause of that
which it produces, or of that which could not have been produced but for the operation of such
agency. But where is the difference between artificial and natural selection in this respect?
And, if there is no difference, is not natural selection as much entitled to be regarded as
a true cause of the origin of natural species, as artificial selection is to be regarded as
a true cause of our domesticated races? Here, as in the case of the previous illustration,
if there be any ambiguity in speaking of variations as accidental, it arises from the incorrect
or undefined manner in which the term "accidental" is used by Darwin's critics. In its original
and philosophically-correct usage, the term "accident" signifies a property or quality not
essential to our conception of a substance: hence, it has come to mean anything that happens
as a result of unforeseen causes--or, lastly, that which is causeless. But, as we know that
nothing can happen without causes of some kind, the term "accident" is divested of real meaning
when it is used in the last of these senses. Yet this is the sense that is sought to be placed
upon it by the objection which we are considering. If the objectors will but understand the
term in its correct philosophical sense--or in the only sense in which it presents any meaning
at all,--they will see that Darwinians are both logically and historically justified in employing
the word "accidental" as the word which serves most properly to convey the meaning that they
intend--namely, variations due to causes accidental to the struggle for existence. Similarly,
when it is said that variations are "spontaneous," or even "fortuitous," nothing further is
meant than that we do not know the causes which lead to them, and that, so far as the principle
of selection is concerned, it is immaterial what these causes may be. Or, to revert to our
former illustration, the various weights of different kinds of earths are no doubt all due
to definite causes; but, in relation to the selective action of the gold-washer, all the different
weights of whatever kinds of earth he may happen to include in his washing-apparatus are, strictly
speaking, accidental. And as at different washings he meets with different proportions of heavy
earths with light ones, and as these "variations" are immaterial to him, he may colloquially
speak of them as "fortuitous," or due to "chance," even though he knows that at each washing
they must have been determined by definite causes.

More adequately to deal with this merely formal objection, however, would involve more logic-chopping
than is desirable on the present occasion. But I have already dealt with it fully elsewhere,--viz.
in The Contemporary Review for June, 1888, to which therefore I may refer any one who is interested
in dialectics of this kind[43].

    [43] Within the last few months this objection has been presented
    anew by Mr. D. Syme, whose book On the Modification of Organisms
    exhibits a curious combination of shrewd criticisms with almost
    ludicrous misunderstandings. One of the latter it is necessary to
    state, because it pervades the quotation which I am about to supply.
    He everywhere compares "natural selection" with "the struggle for
    existence," uses them as convertible terms, and while absurdly
    stating that "Darwin defines natural selection as the struggle for
    existence," complains of "the liability of error, both on his own
    part and on the part of his readers," which arises from his not
    having everywhere adhered to this definition! (p. 8).

    "Darwin has put forth two distinct and contradictory theories of the
    functions of natural selection. According to the one theory natural
    selection is selective or preservative, and nothing more. According
    to the other theory natural selection creates the variations(!) ...
    It certainly seems absurd to speak of natural selection, or the
    struggle for existence, as selective or preservative, for the
    struggle for existence does not preserve at all, not even the fit
    variations, as both the fit and the unfit struggle for existence,
    the unfit naturally more than the fit, and the fit are preserved,
    not in consequence of the struggle, but in consequence of their
    fitness. Suppose two varieties of the same species are driven, by an
    increase of their numbers, to seek for subsistence in a colder
    region than they have been accustomed to, and that one of these
    varieties had a hardier constitution than the other; and let us
    suppose that the former withstood the severe climate better than the
    latter, and consequently survived, while the other perished. In this
    case the hardier survived, not because of the struggle, but because
    it had a constitution better adapted to the climate. I wish to
    ascertain if a certain metal in my possession is gold or some baser
    metal, and I apply the usual test; but the mere fact of my testing
    this metal would not make it gold or any other kind of metal."

    I have thought it worth while to quote this passage for the sake of
    showing the extraordinary confusion of mind which still prevails on
    the part of Darwin's critics, even with reference to the very
    fundamental parts of his theory. For, as I have said, the writer of
    this passage shows himself a shrewd critic in some other parts of
    his essay, where he is not engaged especially on the theory of
    natural selection.

I will now pass on to consider another misconception of the Darwinian theory, which is very
prevalent in the public mind. It is virtually asked, If some species are supposed to have been
improved by natural selection, why have not all species been similarly improved? Why should
not all invertebrated animals have risen into vertebrated? Or why should not all monkeys have
become men?

The answers are manifold. In the first place, it by no means follows that because an advance
in organization has proved itself of benefit in the case of one form of life, therefore any
or every other form would have been similarly benefited by a similar advance. The business
of natural selection is to bring this and that form of life into the closest harmony with its
environment that all the conditions of the case permit. Sometimes it will happen that the harmony
will admit of being improved by an improvement of organization. But just as often it will happen
that it will be best secured by leaving matters as they are. If, therefore, an organism has
already been brought into a tolerably full degree of harmony with its environment, natural
selection will not try to change it so long as the environment remains unchanged; and this,
no doubt, is the reason why some species have survived through enormous periods of geological
time without having undergone any change. Again, as we saw in a previous chapter, there are
yet other cases where, on account of some change in the environment or even in the habits of
the organisms themselves, adaption will be best secured by an active reversal of natural selection,
with the result of causing degeneration.

But, it is sometimes further urged, there are cases where we cannot doubt that improvement
of organization would have been of benefit to species; and yet such improvement has not taken
place--as, for instance, in the case all monkeys not turning into men. Here, however, we must
remember that the operation of natural selection in any case depends upon a variety of highly
complex conditions; and, therefore, that the fact of all those conditions having been satisfied
in one instance is no reason for concluding that they must also have been satisfied in other
instances. Take, for example, the case of monkeys passing into men. The wonder to me appears
to be that this improvement should have taken place in even one line of descent; not that,
having taken place in one line, it should not also have taken place in other lines. For how
enormously complex must have been the conditions--physical, anatomical, physiological, psychological,
sociological--which by their happy conjunction first began to raise the inarticulate cries
of an ape into the rational speech of a man. Therefore, the more that we appreciate the superiority
of a man to an ape, the less ought we to countenance this supposed objection to Darwin's theory--namely,
that natural selection has not effected the change in more than one line of descent.

Even in the case of two races of mankind where one has risen higher in the scale of civilization
than another, it is now generally impossible to assign the particular causes of the difference;
much more, then, must this be impossible in the case of still more remote conditions which
have led to the divergence of species. The requisite variations may not have arisen in the
one line of descent which did arise in the other; or if they did arise in both, some counterbalancing
disadvantages may have attended their initial development in the one case which did not obtain
in the other. In short, where so exceedingly complex a play of conditions are concerned, the
only wonder would be if two different lines of descent had happened to present two independent
and yet perfectly parallel lines of history.

These general considerations would apply equally to the great majority of other cases where
some types have made great advances upon others, notwithstanding that we can see no reason
why the latter should not in this respect have imitated the former. But there is yet a further
consideration which must be taken into account. The struggle for existence is always most keen
between closely allied species, because, from the similarity of their forms, habits, needs,
&c., they are in closest competition. Therefore it often happens that the mere fact of one
species having made an advance upon others of itself precludes the others from making any similar
advance: the field, so to speak, has already been occupied as regards that particular improvement,
and where the struggle for existence is concerned possession is emphatically nine points of
the law. For example, to return to the case of apes becoming men, the fact of one rational
species having been already evolved (even if the rational faculty were at first but dimly nascent)
must make an enormous change in the conditions as regards the possibility of any other such
species being subsequently evolved--unless, of course, it be by way of descent from the rational
one. Or, as Sir Charles Lyell has well put it, two rational species can never coexist on the
globe, although the descendants of one rational species may in time become transformed into
another single rational species[44].

    [44] Principles of Geology, vol. ii. p. 487 (11th ed.).

In view of such considerations, another and exactly opposite objection has sometimes been urged--viz.
that we ought never to find inferior forms of organization in company with superior, because
in the struggle for existence the latter ought to have exterminated the former. Or, to quote
the most recent expression of this view, "in every locality there would only be one species,
and that the most highly organized; and thus a few superior races would partition the earth
amongst them to the entire exclusion of the innumerable varieties, species, genera, and orders
which now inhabit it[45]." Of course to this statement it would be sufficient to enquire, On
what would these few supremely organized species subsist? Unless manna fell from heaven for
their especial benefit, it would appear that such forms could under no circumstances be the
most improved forms; in exterminating others on such a scale as this, they would themselves
be quickly, and very literally, improved off the face of the earth. But even when the statement
is not made in so extravagant a form as this, it must necessarily be futile as an objection
unless it has first been shown that we know exactly all the conditions of the complex struggle
for existence between the higher and lower forms in question. And this it is impossible that
we ever can know. The mere fact that one form has been changed in virtue of this struggle must
in many cases of itself determine a change in the conditions of the struggle. Again, the other
and closely allied forms (and these furnish the best grounds for the objection) may also have
undergone defensive changes, although these may be less conspicuous to our observation, or
perhaps less suggestive of "improvement" to our imperfect means of judging. Lastly, not to
continue citing an endless number of such considerations, there is the broad fact that it is
only to those cases where, for some reason or another, the lower forms have not been exposed
to a struggle of fatal intensity, that the objection applies. But we know that in millions
of other cases the lower (i. e. less fitted) forms have succumbed, and therefore I do not see
that the objection has any ground to stand upon. That there is a general tendency for lower
forms to yield their places to higher is shown by the gradual advance of organization throughout
geological time; for if all the inferior forms had survived, the earth could not have contained
them, unless she had been continually growing into something like the size of Jupiter. And
if it be asked why any of the inferior forms have survived, the answer has already been given,
as above.

    [45] Syme, on the Modification of Organisms, p. 46.

There is only one other remark to be made in this connexion. Mr. Syme chooses two cases as
illustrations of the supposed difficulty. These are sufficiently diverse--viz. Foraminifera
and Man. Touching the former, there is nothing that need be added to the general answer just
given. But with regard to the latter it must be observed that the dominion of natural selection
as between different races of mankind is greatly restricted by the presence of rationality.
Competition in the human species is more concerned with wits and ideas than with nails and
teeth; and therefore the "struggle" between man and man is not so much for actual being, as
for well-being. Consequently, in regard to the present objection, the human species furnishes
the worst example that could have been chosen.

       *       *       *       *       *

Hitherto I have been considering objections which arise from misapprehensions of Darwin's theory.
I will now go on to consider a logically sound objection, which nevertheless is equally futile,
because, although it does not depend on any misapprehension of the theory, it is not itself
supported by fact.

The objection is the same as that which we have already considered in relation to the general
theory of descent--namely, that similar organs or structures are to be met with in widely different
branches of the tree of life. Now this would be an objection fatal to the theory of natural
selection, supposing these organs or structures in the cases compared are not merely analogous,
but also homologous. For it would be incredible that in two totally different lines of descent
one and the same structure should have been built up independently by two parallel series of
variations, and that in these two lines of descent it should always and independently have
ministered to the same function. On the other hand, there would be nothing against the theory
of natural selection in the fact that two structures, not homologous, should come by independent
variation in two different lines of descent to be adapted to perform the same function. For
it belongs to the very essence of the theory of natural selection that a useful function should
be secured by favourable variations of whatever structural material may happen to be presented
by different organic types. Flying, for instance, is a very useful function, and it has been
developed independently in at least four different lines of descent--namely, the insects, reptiles,
birds, and mammals. Now if in all, or indeed in any, of these four cases the wings had been
developed on the same anatomical pattern, so as not only to present the analogical resemblance
which it is necessary that they should present in order to discharge their common function
of flying, but likewise an homologous or structural resemblance, showing that they had been
formed on the same anatomical "plan,"--if such has been the case, I say, the theory of natural
selection would certainly be destroyed.

Now it has been alleged by competent naturalists that there are several such cases in organic
nature. We have already noticed in a previous chapter (pp. 58, 59), that Mr. Mivart has instanced
the eye of the cuttle-fish as not only analogous to, but also homologous with, the eye of a
true fish--that is to say, the eye of a mollusk with the eye of a vertebrate. And he has also
instanced the remarkable resemblance of a shrew to a mouse--that is, of an insectivorous mammal
to a rodent--not to mention other cases. In the chapter alluded to these instances of homology,
alleged to occur in different branches of the tree of life, were considered with reference
to the process of organic evolution as a fact: they are now being considered with reference
to the agency of natural selection as a method. And just as in the former case it was shown,
that if any such alleged instances could be proved, the proof would be fatal to the general
theory of organic evolution by physical causes, so in the present case, if this could be proved,
it would be equally fatal to the more special theory of natural selection. But, as we have
before seen, no single case of this kind has ever been made out; and, therefore, not only does
this supposed objection fall to the ground, but in so doing it furnishes an additional argument
in favour of natural selection. For in the earlier chapter just alluded to I showed that this
great and general fact of our nowhere being able to find two homologous structures in different
branches of the tree of life, was the strongest possible testimony in favour of the theory
of evolution. And, by parity of reasoning, I now adduce it as equally strong evidence of natural
selection having been the cause of adaptive structures, independently developed in all the
different lines of descent. For the alternative is between adaptations having been caused by
natural selection or by supernatural design. Now, if adaptations were caused by natural selection,
we can very well understand why they should never be homologous in different lines of descent,
even in cases where they have been brought to be so closely analogous as to have deceived so
good a naturalist as Mr. Mivart. Indeed, as I have already observed, so well can we understand
this, that any single instance to the contrary would be sufficient to destroy the theory of
natural selection in toto, unless the structure be one of a very simple type. But on the other
hand, it is impossible to suggest any rational explanation why, if all adaptations are due
to supernatural design, such scrupulous care should have been taken never to allow homologous
adaptations to occur in different divisions of the animal or vegetable kingdoms. Why, for instance,
should the eye of a cuttle-fish not have been constructed on the same ideal pattern as that
of vertebrate? Or why, among the thousands of vertebrated species, should no one of their eyes
be constructed on the ideal pattern that was devised for the cuttle-fish? Of course it may
be answered that perhaps there was some hidden reason why the design should never have allowed
an adaptation which it had devised for one division of organic nature to appear in another--even
in cases where the new design necessitated the closest possible resemblance in everything else,
save in the matter of anatomical homology. Undoubtedly such may have been the case--or rather
such must have been the case--if the theory of special design is true. But where the question
is as to the truth of this theory, I think there can be no doubt that its rival gains an enormous
advantage by being able to explain why the facts are such as they are instead of being obliged
to take refuge in hypothetical possibilities of a confessedly unsubstantiated and apparently
unsubstantial kind.

Therefore, as far as this objection to the theory of natural selection is concerned--or the
allegation that homologous structures occur in different divisions of organic nature--not only
does it fall to the ground, but positively becomes itself converted into one of the strongest
arguments in favour of the theory. As soon as the allegation is found to be baseless, the very
fact that it cannot be brought to bear upon any one of all the millions of adaptive structures
in organic nature becomes a fact of vast significance on the opposite side.

       *       *       *       *       *

The next difficulty to which I shall allude is that of explaining by the theory of natural
selection the preservation of the first beginnings of structures which are then useless, though
afterwards, when more fully developed, they become useful. For it belongs to the very essence
of the theory of natural selection, that a structure must be supposed already useful before
it can come under the influence of natural selection: therefore the theory seems incapable
of explaining the origin and conservation of incipient organs, or organs which are not yet
sufficiently developed to be of any service to the organisms presenting them.

This objection is one that has been advanced by all the critics of Darwinism; but has been
presented with most ability and force by the Duke of Argyll. I will therefore state it in his
words.

     If the doctrine of evolution be true--that is to say, if all
     organic creatures have been developed by ordinary generation from
     parents--then it follows of necessity that the primæval germs must
     have contained potentially the whole succeeding series. Moreover,
     if that series has been developed gradually and very slowly, it
     follows, also as a matter of necessity, that every modification of
     structure must have been functionless at first, when it began to
     appear.... Things cannot be selected until they have first been
     produced. Nor can any structure be selected by utility in the
     struggle for existence until it has not only been produced, but has
     been so far perfected as to actually be used.

The Duke proceeds to argue that all adaptive structures must therefore originally have been
due to special design: in the earlier stages of their development they must all have been what
he calls "prophetic germs." Not yet themselves of any use, and therefore not yet capable of
being improved by natural selection, both in their origin and in the first stages (at all events)
of their development, they must be regarded as intentionally preparatory to the various uses
which they subsequently acquire.

Now this argument, forcible as it appears at first sight, is really at fault both in its premiss
and in its conclusion. By which I mean that, in the first place the premiss is not true, and,
in the next place, that even if it were, the conclusion would not necessarily follow. The premiss
is, "that every modification of structure must have been functionless at first, when it began
to appear;" and the conclusion is, that, quâ functionless, such a modification cannot have
been caused by natural selection. I will consider these two points separately.

First as to the premiss, it is not true that every modification of structure must necessarily
be functionless when it first begins to appear. There are two very good reasons why such should
not be the case in all instances, even if it should be the case in some. For, as a matter of
observable fact, a very large proportional number of incipient organs are useful from the very
moment of their inception. Take, for example, what is perhaps the most wonderful instance of
refined mechanism in nature--the eye of a vertebrated animal. Comparative anatomy and embryology
combine to testify that this organ had its origin in modifications of the endings of the ordinary
nerves of the skin. Now it is evident that from the very first any modification of a cutaneous
nerve whereby it was rendered able, in however small a degree, to be differently affected by
light and by darkness would be of benefit to the creature presenting it; for the creature would
thus be able to seek the one and shun the other according to the requirements of its life.
And being thus useful from the very moment of its inception, it would afterwards be gradually
improved as variations of more and more utility presented themselves, until not only would
finer and finer degrees of difference between light and shade become perceptible, but even
the outlines of solid bodies would begin to be appreciated. And so on, stage by stage, till
from an ordinary nerve-ending in the skin is evolved the eye of an eagle.

Moreover, in this particular instance there is very good reason to suppose that the modification
of the cutaneous nerves in question began by a progressive increase in their sensitiveness
to temperature. Wherever dark pigment happened to be deposited in the skin--and we know that
in all animals it is apt to be deposited in points and patches, as it were by accident, or
without any "prophecy" as to future uses,--the cutaneous nerves in its vicinity would be better
able to appreciate the difference between sun and shade in respect of temperature, even though
as yet there were no change at all in these cutaneous nerves tending to make them responsive
to light. Now it is easy to see how, from such a purely accidental beginning, natural selection
would have had from the first sufficient material to act upon. It being of advantage to a lowly
creature that it should distinguish with more and more delicacy, or with more and more rapidity,
between light and darkness by means of its thermal sensations, the pigment spots in the skin
would be rendered permanent by natural selection, while the nerves in that region would by
the same agency be rendered more and more specialized as organs adapted to perceive changes
of temperature, until from the stage of responding to the thermal rays of the non-luminous
spectrum alone, they become capable of responding also to luminous.

So much, then, for the first consideration which serves to invalidate the Duke's premiss. The
second consideration is, that very often an organ which began by being useful for the performance
of one function, after having been fully developed for the performance of that function, finds
itself, so to speak, accidentally fitted to the performance of some other and even more important
function, which it thereupon begins to discharge, and so to undergo a new course of adaptive
development. In such cases, and so far as the new function is concerned, the difficulty touching
the first inception of an organ does not apply; for here the organ has already been built up
by natural selection for one purpose, before it begins to discharge the other. As an example
of such a case we may take the lung of an air-breathing animal. Originally the lung was a swim-bladder,
or float, and as such it was of use to the aquatic ancestors of terrestrial animals. But as
these ancestors gradually became more and more amphibious in their habits, the swim-bladder
began more and more to discharge the function of a lung, and so to take a wholly new point
of departure as regards its developmental history. But clearly there is here no difficulty
with regard to the inception of its new function, because the organ was already well developed
for one purpose before it began to serve another. Or, to take only one additional example,
there are few structures in the animal kingdom so remarkable in respect of adaptation as is
the wing of a bird or a bat; and at first sight it might well appear that a wing could be of
no conceivable use until it had already acquired enormous proportional dimensions, as well
as an immense amount of special elaboration as to its general form, size of muscle, amount
of blood-supply, and so on. For, obviously, not until it had attained all these things could
it even begin to raise the animal in the air. But observe how fallacious is this argument.
Although it is perfectly true that a wing could be of no use as a wing until sufficiently developed
to serve the purpose of flight, this is merely to say that until it has become a wing it is
no use as a wing. It does not, however, follow that on this account it was of no prior use
for any other purpose. The first modifications of the fore-limb which ended in its becoming
an organ of flight may very well have been due to adapting it as an organ for increased rapidity
of locomotion of other kinds--whether on land as in the case of its now degenerated form in
the ostrich, or in water as in the case of the expanded fins of fish. Indeed, we may see the
actual process of transition from the one function to the other in the case of "flying-fish."
Here the progressive expansion of the pectoral fins must certainly have been always of use
for continuously promoting rapidity of locomotion through water; and thus natural selection
may have continuously increased their development until they now begin to serve also as wings
for carrying the animal a short distance through air. Again, in the case of the so-called flying
squirrels we find the limbs united to the body by means of large extensions of the skin, so-that
when jumping from one tree to another the animal is able to sustain itself through a long distance
in the air by merely spreading out its limbs, and thus allowing the skin-extensions to act
after the manner of a parachute. Here, of course, we have not yet got a wing, any more than
we have in the case of the flying-fish; but we have the foundations laid for the possible development
of a future wing, upon a somewhat similar plan as that which has been so wonderfully perfected
in the case of bats. And through all the stages of progressive expansion which the skin of
the squirrel has undergone, the expansion has been of use, even though it has not yet so much
as begun to acquire the distinctive functions of a wing. Here, then, there is obviously nothing
"prophetic" in the matter, any more than there was in the case of the swim-bladder and the
lung, or in that of the nerve-ending and the eye. In short, it is the business of natural selection
to secure the highest available degree of adaptation for the time being; and, in doing this,
it not unfrequently happens that an extreme development of a structure in one direction (produced
by natural selection for the sake of better and better adapting the structure to perform some
particular function) ends by beginning to adapt it to the performance of some other function.
And, whenever this happens to be the case, natural selection forthwith begins to act upon the
structure, so to speak, from a new point of departure.

So much, then, for the Duke's premiss--namely, that "every modification of structure must have
been functionless at first, when it began to appear." This premiss is clearly opposed to observable
fact. But now, the second position is that, even if this were not so, the Duke's conclusion
would not follow. This conclusion, it will be remembered, is, that if incipient structures
are useless, it necessarily follows that natural selection can have had no part whatever in
their inception. Now, this is a conclusion which does not "necessarily" follow. Even if it
be granted that there are structures which in their first beginnings are not of any use at
all for any purpose, it is still possible that they may owe their origin to natural selection--not
indeed directly, but indirectly. This possibility arises from the occurrence in nature of a
principle which has been called the Correlation of Growth.

Mr. Darwin, who has paid more attention to this matter than any other writer, has shown, in
considerable detail, that all the parts of any given organism are so intimately bound together,
or so mutually dependent upon each other, that when one part is caused to change by means of
natural selection, some other parts are very likely to undergo modification as a consequence.
For example, there are several kinds of domesticated pigeons and fowls, which grow peculiar
wing-like feathers on the feet. These are quite unlike all the other feathers in the animal,
except those of the wing, to which they bear a very remarkable resemblance. Mr. Darwin records
the case of a bantam where these wing-like feathers were nine inches in length, and I have
myself seen a pigeon where they reproduced upon the feet a close imitation of the different
kinds of feathers which occupy homologous positions in the wing--primaries, secondaries, and
tertiaries all being distinctly repeated in their proper anatomical relations. The illustration
is drawn from the specimen to which I have referred.

    [46] Variation of Plants and Animals, vol. ii. p. 315.

Many similar instances of the same law are to be met with throughout organic nature; and it
is evident that in this principle we find a conceivable explanation of the origin of such adaptive
structures as could not have been originated by natural selection acting directly upon themselves:
they may have been originated by natural selection developing other adaptive structures elsewhere
in the organism, the gradual evolution of which has entailed the production of these by correlation
of growth. And, if so, when once started in this way, these structures, because thus accidentally
useful, will now themselves come under the direct action of natural selection, and so have
their further evolution determined with or without the correlated association which first led
to their inception.

Of course it must be understood that in thus applying the principle of correlated growth, to
explain the origin of adaptive structures where it is impossible to explain such origin by
natural selection having from the first acted directly upon these structures themselves, Darwinists
do not suppose that in all--or even in most--cases of correlated growth the correlated structures
are of use. On the contrary, it is well known that structures due to correlated growth are,
as a rule, useless. Being only the by-products of adaptive changes going on elsewhere, in any
given case the chances are against these correlated effects being themselves of any utilitarian
significance; and, therefore, as a matter of fact, correlated growths appear to be usually
meaningless from the point of view of adaptation. Still, on the doctrine of chances, it is
to be expected that sometimes a change of structure which has thus been indirectly produced
by correlation of growth might happen to prove useful for some purpose or another; and in as
many cases as such indirectly produced structures do prove useful, they will straightway begin
to be improved by the direct action of natural selection. In all such cases, therefore, we
should have an explanation of the origin of such a structure, which is the only point that
we are now considering.

I think, then, that all this effectually disposes of the doctrine of "prophetic germs." But,
before leaving the subject, I should like to make one further statement of greater generality
than any which I have hitherto advanced. This statement is, that we must remember how large
a stock of meaningless structures are always being produced in the course of specific transmutations,
not only by correlation of growth, which we have just been considering, but also by the direct
action of external conditions, together with the constant play of all the many and complex
forces internal to organisms themselves. In other words, important as the principle of correlation
undoubtedly is, we must remember that even this is very far from being the only principle which
is concerned in the origination of structures that may or may not chance to be useful. Therefore,
it is not only natural selection when operating indirectly through the correlation of growth
that is competent to produce new structures without reference to utility. In all the complex
action and reaction of internal and external forces, new variations are perpetually arising
without any reference to utility, either present or future. Among all this multitude of promiscuous
variations, the chances must be that some percentage will prove of some service, either from
the first moment of their appearance, or else after they have undergone some amount of development.
Such development prior to utility may be due, either to correlation of growth, to the structure
having previously performed some other function, as already explained, or else to a continued
operation of the causes which were concerned in the first appearance of originally useless
characters. In a series of chapters which will be devoted to the whole question of utility
in the next volume, I shall hope to give very good reasons for concluding that useless characters
are not only of highly frequent occurrence, but are due to a variety of other causes besides
correlation of growth. And, if so, the possibility of originally useless characters happening
in some cases to become, by increased development, useful characters, is correspondingly increased.
Among a hundred varietal or specific characters which are directly produced in as many different
species by a change of climate, for example, some five or six may be potentially useful: that
is to say, characters thus adventitiously produced in an incipient form may only require to
be further developed by a continuance of the same causes as first originated them, in order
that some percentage of the whole number shall become of some degree of use. Those professed
followers of Darwin, therefore, who without any reason--or, as it appears to me, against all
reason--deny the possibility of useless specific characters in any case or in any degree (unless
correlated with useful characters), are playing into the hands of Darwin's critics by indirectly
countenancing the difficulty which we are now considering. For, if correlation of growth is
unreasonably supposed to be the only possible cause of the origin of incipient structures which
are not useful from the first moment of their inception, clearly the field is greatly narrowed
as regards the occurrence of incipient characters sufficient in amount--and, still more, in
constancy of appearance and persistency of transmission--to admit of furnishing material for
the working of natural selection. But in the measure that incipient characters--whether varietal
or specific--are recognised as not always or "necessarily" useful from the moment of their
inception, and yet capable of being developed to a certain extent by the causes which first
led to their occurrence, in that measure is this line of criticism closed. For of all the variations
which thus occur, it is only those which afterwards prove of any use that are laid hold upon
and wrought up by natural selection into adaptive structures, or working organs. And, therefore,
what we see in organic nature is the net outcome of the development of all the happy chances.
So it comes that the appearance presented by organic nature as a whole is that of a continual
fulfilment of structural prophecies, when, in point of fact, if we had a similar record of
all the other variations it would be seen that possibly not one such prophecy in a thousand
is ever destined to be fulfilled.

       *       *       *       *       *

Here, then, I feel justified in finally taking leave of the difficulty from the uselessness
of incipient organs, as this difficulty has been presented, in varying degrees of emphasis,
by the Duke of Argyll, Mr. Mivart, Professors Nägeli, Bronn, Broca, Eimer, and, indeed, by
all other writers who have hitherto advanced it. For, as thus presented, I think I have shown
that it admits of being adequately met. But now, I must confess, to me individually it does
appear that behind this erroneous presentation of the difficulty there lies another question,
which is deserving of much more serious attention. For although it admits of being easily shown--as
I have just shown--that the difficulty as ordinarily presented fails on account of its extravagance,
the question remains whether, if stated with more moderation, a real difficulty might not be
found to remain.

My quarrel with the conclusion, like my quarrel with the premiss, is due to its universality.
By saying in the premiss that all incipient organs are necessarily useless at the time of their
inception, these writers admit of being controverted by fact; and by saying in the conclusion
that, if all incipient organs are useless, it necessarily follows that in no case can natural
selection have been the cause of building up an organ until it becomes useful, they admit of
being controverted by logic. For, even if the premiss were true in fact--namely, that all incipient
organs are useless at the time of their inception,--it would not necessarily follow that in
no case could natural selection build up a useless structure into a useful one; because, although
it is true that in no case can natural selection do this by acting on a useless structure directly,
it may do so by acting on the useless structure indirectly, through its direct action on some
other part of the organism with which the useless structure happens to be correlated. Moreover,
as I believe, and will subsequently endeavour to prove, there is abundant evidence to show
that incipient characters are often developed to a large extent by causes other than natural
selection (or apart from any reference to utility), with the result that some of them thus
happen to become of use, when, of course, the supposed difficulty is at an end.

But although it is thus easy to dispose of both the propositions in question, on account of
their universality, stated more carefully they would require, as I have said, more careful
consideration. Thus, if it had been said that some incipient organs are presumably useless
at the time of their inception, and that in some of these cases it is difficult, or impossible,
to conceive how the principle of correlation, or any other principle hitherto suggested, can
apply--then the question would have been raised from the sphere of logical discussion to that
of biological fact. And the new question thus raised would have to be debated, no longer on
the ground of general or abstract principles, but on that of special or concrete cases. Now
until within the last year or two it has not been easy to find such a special or concrete case--that
is to say, a case which can be pointed to as apparently excluding the possibility of natural
selection having had anything to do with the genesis of an unquestionably adaptive structure.
But eventually such a case has arisen, and the Duke of Argyll has not been slow in perceiving
its importance. This case is the electric organ in the tail of the skate. No sooner had Professor
Cossar Ewart published an abstract of his first paper on this subject, than the Duke seized
upon it as a case for which, as he said, he had long been waiting--namely, the case of an adaptive
organ the genesis of which could not possibly be attributed to natural selection, and must
therefore be attributed to supernatural design. Now, I do not deny that he is here in possession
of an admirable case--a case, indeed, so admirable that it almost seems to have been specially
designed for the discomfiture of Darwinians. Therefore, in order to do it full justice, I will
show that it is even more formidable than the Duke of Argyll has represented.

Electric organs are known to occur in several widely different kinds of fish--such as the Gymnotus
and Torpedo. Wherever these organs do occur, they perform the function of electric batteries
in storing and discharging electricity in the form of more or less powerful shocks. Here, then,
we have a function which is of obvious use to the fish for purposes both of offence and defence.
These organs are everywhere composed of a transformation of muscular, together with an enormous
development of nervous tissue; but inasmuch as they occupy different positions, and are also
in other respects dissimilar in the different zoological groups of fishes where they occur,
no difficulty can be alleged as to these analogous organs being likewise homologous in different
divisions of the aquatic vertebrata.

Now, in the particular case of the skate, the organ is situated in the tail, where it is of
a spindle-like form, measuring, in a large fish, about two feet in length by about an inch
in diameter at the middle of the spindle. Although its structure is throughout as complex and
perfect as that of the electric organ in Gymnotus or Torpedo, its smaller size does not admit
of its generating a sufficient amount of electricity to yield a discharge that can be felt
by the hand. Nevertheless, that it does discharge under suitable stimulation has been proved
by Professor Burdon Sanderson by means of a telephone; for he found that every time he stimulated
the animal its electrical discharge was rendered audible by the telephone. Here, then, the
difficulty arises. For of what conceivable use is such an organ to its possessor? We can scarcely
suppose that any aquatic animal is more sensitive to electric shocks than is the human hand;
and even if such were the case, a discharge of so feeble a kind taking place in water would
be short-circuited in the immediate vicinity of the skate itself. So there can be no doubt
that such weak discharges as the skate is able to deliver must be wholly imperceptible alike
to prey and to enemies. Yet for the delivery of such discharges there is provided an organ
of such high peculiarity and huge complexity, that, regarded as a piece of living mechanism,
it deserves to rank as at once the most extremely specialized and the most highly elaborated
structure in the whole animal kingdom. Thousands of separately formed elements are ranged in
row after row, all electrically insulated one from another, and packed away into the smallest
possible space, with the obvious end, or purpose, of conspiring together for the simultaneous
delivery of an electric shock. Nevertheless, the shock when delivered is, as we have just seen,
too slight to be of any conceivable use to the skate. Therefore it appears impossible to suggest
how this astonishing structure--much more astonishing, in my opinion, than the human eye or
the human hand--can ever have been begun, or afterwards developed, by means of natural selection.
For if it be not even yet of any conceivable use to its possessor, clearly thus far survival
of the fittest can have had nothing to do with its formation. On the other hand, seeing that
electric organs when of larger size, as in the Gymnotus and Torpedo, are of obvious use to
their possessors, the facts of the case, so far as the skate is concerned, assuredly do appear
to sanction the doctrine of "prophetic germs." The organ in the skate seems to be on its way
towards becoming such an organ as we meet with in these other animals; and, therefore, unless
we can show that it is now, and in all previous stages of its evolution has throughout been,
of use to the skate, the facts do present a serious difficulty to the theory of natural selection,
while they readily lend themselves to the interpretation of a disposing or fore-ordaining mind,
which knows how to construct an electric battery by thus transforming muscular tissue into
electric tissue, and is now actually in process of constructing such an apparatus for the prospective
benefit of future creatures.

Should it be suggested that possibly the electric organ of the skate may be in process of degeneration,
and therefore that it is now the practically functionless remnant of an organ which in the
ancestors of the skate was of larger size and functional use--against so obvious a suggestion
there lie the whole results of Professor Ewart's investigations, which go to indicate that
the organ is here not in a stage of degeneration, but of evolution. For instance, in Raia radiata,
it does not begin to be formed out of the muscular tissue until some time after the animal
has left the egg-capsule, and assumed all the normal proportions (though not yet the size)
of the adult creature. The organ, therefore, is one of the very latest to appear in the ontogeny
of R. radiata; and, moreover, it does not attain its full development (i. e. not merely growth,
but transforming of muscular fibres into electrical elements) till the fish attains maturity.
Read in the light of embryology, these facts prove, (1) that the electric organ of R. radiata
must be one of the very latest products of the animal's phylogeny; and, (2) that as yet, at
all events, it has not begun to degenerate. But, if not, it must either be at a stand-still,
or it must be in course of further evolution; and, whichever of these alternatives we adopt,
the difficulty of accounting for its present condition remains. In this connexion also it is
worth while to remark that the electric organ, even after it has attained its full development,
continues its growth with the growth of the fish, and this in a much higher ratio, either than
the tail alone, or the whole animal. Lastly, Prof. Burdon Sanderson finds that section for
section the organ in the skate is as efficient as it is in Torpedo. It is evident that these
facts also point to the skate's organ being in course of phylogenetic evolution.

    .

Again, it cannot be answered that the principle of correlation may be drawn upon in mitigation
of the difficulty. The structure of the electric organ is far too elaborate, far too specialized,
and far too obviously directed to a particular end, to admit of our conceivably supposing it
due to any accidental correlation with structural changes going on elsewhere. Even as regards
the initial changes of muscle-elements into electrical-elements, I do not think the principle
of correlation can be reasonably adduced by way of explanation; for, as shown in the illustrations,
even this initial change is most extraordinarily peculiar, elaborate, and specialized. But,
be this as it may, I am perfectly certain that the principle of correlation cannot possibly
be adduced to explain the subsequent association of these electrical elements into an electric
battery, actuated by a special nervous mechanism of enormous size and elaboration--unless of
course, the progress of such a structure were assumed to have been throughout of some utility.
Under this supposition, however, the principle of correlation would be forsaken in favour of
that of natural selection; and we should again be in the presence of the same difficulty as
that with which we started.

But now, and further, if we do thus abandon correlation in favour of natural selection, and
therefore if for the sake of saving an hypothesis we assume that the organ as it now stands
must be of some use to the existing skate, we should still have to face the question--Of what
conceivable use can those initial stages of its formation have been, when first the muscle-elements
began to be changed into the very different electrical-elements, and when therefore they became
useless as muscles while not yet capable of performing even so much of the electrical function
as they now perform?

Lastly, we must remember that not only have we here the most highly specialized, the most complex,
and altogether the most elaboratively adaptive organ in the animal kingdom; but also that in
the formation of this structure there has been needed an altogether unparalleled expenditure
of the most physiologically expensive of all materials--namely, nervous tissue. Whether estimated
by volume or by weight, the quantity of nervous tissue which is consumed in the electric organ
of the skate is in excess of all the rest of the nervous system put together. It is needless
to say that nowhere else in the animal kingdom--except, of course, in other electric fishes--is
there any approach to so enormous a development of nervous tissue for the discharge of a special
function. Therefore, as nervous tissue is, physiologically speaking, the most valuable of all
materials, we are forced to conclude that natural selection ought strongly to have opposed
the evolution of such organs, unless from the first moment of their inception, and throughout
the whole course of their development, they were of some such paramount importance as biologically
to justify so unexampled an expenditure. Yet this paramount importance does not admit of being
so much as surmised, even where the organ has already attained the size and degree of elaboration
which it presents in the skate.

In view of all these considerations taken together, I freely confess that the difficulty presented
by this case appears to me of a magnitude and importance altogether unequalled by that of any
other single case--or any series of cases--which has hitherto been encountered by the theory
of natural selection. So that, if there were many other cases of the like kind to be met with
in nature, I should myself at once allow that the theory of natural selection would have to
be discarded. But inasmuch as this particular case stands so far entirely by itself, and therefore
out of analogy with thousands, or even millions, of other cases throughout the whole range
of organic nature, I am constrained to feel it more probable that the electric organ of the
skate will some day admit of being marshalled under the general law of natural selection--in
just the same way as proved to be the case with the conspicuous colouring of those caterpillars,
which, as explained in the last chapter, at one time seemed to constitute a serious difficulty
to the theory, and yet, through a better knowledge of all the relations involved, has now come
to constitute one of the strongest witnesses in its favour.

       *       *       *       *       *

I have now stated all the objections of any importance which have hitherto been brought against
the theory of natural selection, excepting three, which I left to be dealt with together because
they form a logically connected group. With a brief consideration of these, therefore, I will
bring this chapter to a close.

The three objections to which I allude are, (1) that a large proportional number of specific,
as well as of higher taxonomic characters, are seemingly useless characters, and therefore
do not lend themselves to explanation by the Darwinian theory; (2) that the most general of
all specific characters--viz. cross-infertility between allied species--cannot possibly be
due to natural selection, as is demonstrated by Darwin himself; (3) that the swamping effects
of free intercrossing must always render impossible by natural selection alone any evolution
of species in divergent (as distinguished from serial) lines of change.

These three objections have been urged from time to time by not a few of the most eminent botanists
and zoologists of our century; and from one point of view I cannot myself have the smallest
doubt that the objections thus advanced are not only valid in themselves, but also by far the
most formidable objections which the theory of natural selection has encountered. From another
point of view, however, I am equally convinced that they all admit of absolute annihilation.
This strong antithesis arises, as I have said, from differences of standpoint, or from differences
in the view which we take of the theory of natural selection itself. If we understand this
theory to set forth natural selection as the sole cause of organic evolution, then all the
above objections to the theory are not merely, as already stated, valid and formidable, but
as I will now add, logically insurmountable. On the other hand, if we take theory to consist
merely in setting forth natural selection as a factor of organic evolution, even although we
believe it to have been the chief factor or principal cause, all the three objections in question
necessarily vanish. For in this case, even if it be satisfactorily proved that the theory of
natural selection is unable to explain the three classes of facts above mentioned, the theory
is not thereby affected: facts of each and all of these classes may be consistently left by
the theory to be explained by causes other than natural selection--whether these be so far
capable or incapable of hypothetical formulation. Thus it is evident that whether the three
objections above named are to be regarded as logically insurmountable by the theory, or as
logically non-existent in respect to it, depends simply upon the manner in which the theory
itself is stated.

In the next volume a great deal more will have to be said upon these matters--especially with
regard to the causes other than natural selection which in my opinion are capable of explaining
these so-called "difficulties." In the present connexion, however, all I have attempted to
show is, that, whatever may be thought touching the supplementary theories whereby I shall
endeavour to explain the facts of inutility, cross-sterility, and non-occurrence of free intercrossing,
no one of these facts is entitled to rank as an objection against the theory of natural selection,
unless we understand this theory to claim an exclusive prerogative in the field of organic
evolution. This, as we have previously seen, is what Mr. Wallace does claim for it; while on
the other hand, Mr. Darwin expressly--and even vehemently--repudiates the claim: from which
it follows that all the three main objections against the theory of natural selection are objections
which vitally affect the theory only as it has been stated and upheld by Wallace. As the theory
has been stated and upheld by Darwin, all these objections are irrelevant. This is a fact which
I had not myself perceived at the time when I mentioned these objections in a paper entitled
Physiological Selection, which was published in 1886. The discussions to which that paper gave
rise, however, led me to consider these matters more closely; and further study of Darwin's
writings, with these matters specially in view, has led me to see that none of the objections
in question are relevant to his theory, as distinguished from that of Mr. Wallace. This, I
acknowledge, I ought to have perceived before I published the paper just alluded to; but in
those days I had had no occasion to follow out the differences between Darwin and Wallace to
all their consequences, and therefore adopted the prevalent view that their theories of evolution
were virtually identical. Now, however, I have endeavoured to make it clear that the points
wherein they differ involve the important consequences above set forth. All these the most
formidable objections against the theory of natural selection arise simply and solely from
what I conceive to be the erroneous manner in which the theory has been presented by Darwin's
distinguished colleague.

       *       *       *       *       *

I have now considered, as impartially as I can, all the main criticisms and objections which
have been brought against the theory of natural selection; and the result is to show that,
neither singly nor collectively, are they entitled to much weight. On the other hand, as we
have seen in the preceding chapter, there is a vast accumulation of evidence in favour of the
theory. Hence, it is no wonder that the theory has now been accepted by all naturalists, with
scarcely any one notable exception, as at any rate the best working hypothesis which has ever
been propounded whereby to explain the facts of organic evolution. Moreover, in the opinion
of those most competent to judge, the theory is entitled to be regarded as something very much
more than a working hypothesis: it is held to be virtually a completed induction, or, in other
words, the proved exhibition of a general law, whereby the causation of organic evolution admits
of being in large part--if not altogether--explained.

Now, whether or not we subscribe to this latter conclusion ought, I think, to depend upon what
we mean by an explanation in the case which is before us. If we mean only that, given the large
class of known facts and unknown causes which are conveniently summarized under the terms Heredity
and Variability, then the further facts of Struggle and Survival serve, in some considerable
degree or another, to account for the phenomena of adaptive evolution, I cannot see any room
to question that the evidence is sufficient to prove the statement. But it is clear that by
taking for granted these great facts of Heredity and Variability, we have assumed the larger
part of the problem as a whole. Or, more correctly, by thus generalizing, in a merely verbal
form, all the unknown causes which are concerned in these two great factors of the process
in question, we are not so much as attempting to explain the precedent causation which serves
as a condition to the process. Much more than half the battle would already have been won,
had Darwin's predecessors been able to explain the causes of Heredity and Variation; hence
it is but a very partial victory which we have hitherto gained in our recent discovery of the
effects of Struggle and Survival.

Yet partial though it be in relation to the whole battle, in itself, or considered absolutely,
there can be no reasonable doubt that it constitutes the greatest single victory which has
ever been gained by the science of Biology. For this very reason, however, it behoves us to
consider all the more carefully the extent to which it goes.

CHAPTER X.

THE THEORY OF SEXUAL SELECTION, AND CONCLUDING REMARKS.

Although the explanatory value of the Darwinian theory of natural selection is, as we have
now seen, incalculably great, it nevertheless does not meet those phenomena of organic nature
which perhaps more than any other attract the general attention, as well as the general admiration,
of mankind: I mean all that class of phenomena which go to constitute the Beautiful. Whatever
value beauty as such may have, it clearly has not a life-preserving value. The gorgeous plumage
of a peacock, for instance, is of no advantage to the peacock in his struggle for life, and
therefore cannot be attributed to the agency of natural selection. Now this fact of beauty
in organic structures is a fact of wide generality--almost as wide, indeed, as is the fact
of their utility. Mr. Darwin, therefore, suggested another hypothesis whereby to render a scientific
explanation of this fact. Just as by his theory of natural selection he sought to explain the
major fact of utility, so did he endeavour to explain the minor fact of beauty by a theory
of what he termed Sexual Selection.

It is a matter of observation that the higher animals do not pair indiscriminately; but that
the members of either sex prefer those individuals of the opposite sex which are to them most
attractive. It is important to understand in limine that nobody has ever attempted to challenge
this statement. In other words, it is an unquestionable fact that among many of the higher
animals there literally and habitually occurs a sexual selection; and this fact is not a matter
of inference, but, as I have said, a matter of observation. The inference only begins where,
from this observable fact, it is argued,--1st, that the sexual selection has reference to an
æsthetic taste on the part of the animals themselves; and 2nd, that, supposing the selection
to be determined by such a taste, the cause thus given is adequate to explain the phenomena
of beauty which are presented by these animals. I will consider these two points separately.

From the evidence which Darwin has collected, it appears to me impossible to doubt that an
æsthetic sense is displayed by many birds, and not a few mammals. This of course does not necessarily
imply that the standards of such a sense are the same as our own; nor does it necessarily imply
that there is any constant relation between such a sense and high levels of intelligence in
other respects. In point of fact, such is certainly not the case, because the best evidence
that we have of an æsthetic sense in animals is derived from birds, and not from mammals. The
most cogent cases to quote in this connexion are those of the numerous species of birds which
habitually adorn their nests with gaily coloured feathers, wool, cotton, or any other gaudy
materials which they may find lying about the woods and fields. In many cases a marked preference
is shown for particular objects--as, for instance, in the case of the Syrian nut-hatch, which
chooses the iridescent wings of insects, or that of the great crested fly-catcher, which similarly
chooses the cast-off skins of snakes. But no doubt the most remarkable of these cases is that
of the baya-bird of Asia, which after having completed its bottle-shaped and chambered nest[47],
studs it over with small lumps of clay, both inside and out, upon which the cock-bird sticks
fire-flies, apparently for the sole purpose of securing a brilliantly decorative effect. Other
birds, such as the hammer-head of Africa, adorn the surroundings of their nests (which are
built upon the ground) with shells, bones, pieces of broken glass and earthenware, or any objects
of a bright and conspicuous character which they may happen to find. The most consummate artists
in this respect are, however, the bower-birds; for the species of this family construct elaborate
play-houses in the form of arched tunnels, built of twigs upon the ground. Through and around
such a tunnel they chase one another; and it is always observable that not only is the floor
paved with a great collection of shells, bones, coloured stones, and any other brilliant objects
which they are able to carry in their beaks, but also that the walls are decorated with the
most gaudy articles which the birds can find. There is one genus, in Papua, which even goes
so far as to provide the theatre with a surrounding garden. A level piece of ground is selected
as a site for the building. The latter is about two feet high, and constructed round the growing
stalk of a shrub, which therefore serves as a central pillar to which the frame-work of the
roof is attached. Twigs are woven into this frame-work until the whole is rendered rain-proof.
The tent thus erected is about nine feet in circumference at its base, and presents a large
arch as an entrance. The central pillar is banked up with moss at its base, and a gallery is
built round the interior of the edifice. This gallery is decorated with flowers, fruits, fungi,
&c. These are also spread over the garden, which covers about the same area as the play-house.
The flowers are said to be removed when they fade, while fresh ones are gathered to supply
their places. Thus the garden is always kept bright with flowers, as well as with the brilliant
green of mosses, which are collected and distributed in patches, resembling tiny lawns.

    [47] The chambers are three in number. The two upper ones are
    occupied respectively by the male and the sitting female. The lower
    one serves as a general living room when the young are hatched.

Now these sundry cases alone seem to prove a high degree of the æsthetic sense as occurring
among birds; for, it is needless to say, none of the facts just mentioned can be due to natural
selection, seeing that they have no reference to utility, or the preservation of life. But
if an æsthetic sense occurs in birds, we should expect, on a priori grounds, that it would
probably be exercised with reference to the personal appearance of the sexes. And this expectation
is fully realized. For it is an observable fact that in most species of birds where the males
are remarkable for the brilliancy of their plumage, not only is this brilliancy most remarkable
during the pairing season, but at this season also the male birds take elaborate pains to display
their charms before the females. Then it is that the peacock erects his tail to strut round
and round the hens, taking care always to present to them a front view, where the coloration
is most gorgeous. And the same is true of all other gaily coloured male birds. During the pairing
season they actively compete with one another in exhibiting their attractiveness to the females;
and in many cases there are added all sorts of extraordinary antics in the way of dancings
and crowings. Again, in the case of all song-birds, the object of the singing is to please
the females; and for this purpose the males rival one another to the best of their musical ability.

Thus there can be no question that the courtship of birds is a highly elaborate business, in
which the males do their best to surpass one another in charming the females. Obviously the
inference is that the males do not take all this trouble for nothing; but that the females
give their consent to pair with the males whose personal appearance, or whose voice, proves
to be the most attractive. But, if so, the young of the male bird who is thus selected will
inherit his superior beauty; and thus, in successive generations, a continuous advance will
be made in the beauty of plumage or of song, as the case may be,--both the origin and development
of beauty in the animal world being thus supposed due to the æsthetic taste of animals themselves.

Such is the theory of sexual selection in its main outlines; and with regard to it we must
begin by noting two things which are of most importance. In the first place, it is a theory
wholly and completely distinct from the theory of natural selection; so that any truth or error
in the one does not in the least affect the other. The second point is, that there is not so
great a wealth of evidence in favour of sexual selection as there is in favour of natural selection;
and, therefore, that while all naturalists nowadays accept natural selection as a (whether
or not the) cause of adaptive, useful, or life-preserving structures, there is no such universal--but
only a very general--agreement with reference to sexual selection as a cause of decorative,
beautiful, or life-embellishing structures. Nevertheless, the evidence in favour of sexual
selection is both large in amount and massive in weight.

Our consideration of this evidence will bring us to the second division of our subject, as
previously marked out for discussion--namely, granting that an æsthetic sense occurs in certain
large divisions of the animal kingdom, what is the proof that such a sense is a cause of the
beauty which is presented by the animals in question?

Before proceeding to state this proof, however, it is desirable to observe that under the theory
of sexual selection Darwin has included two essentially different classes of facts. For besides
the large class of facts to which I have thus far been alluding,--i. e. the cases where two
sexes of the same species differ from one another in respect of ornamentation,--there is another
class of facts equally important, namely, the cases where the two sexes of the same species
differ from one another in respect of size, strength, and the possession of natural weapons,
such as spurs, horns, &c. In most of these cases it is the males which are thus superiorly
endowed; and it is a matter of observation that in all cases where they are so endowed they
use their superior strength and natural weapons for fighting together, in order to secure possession
of the females. Hence results what Mr. Darwin has called the Law of Battle between males of
the same species; and this law of battle he includes under his theory of sexual selection.
But it is evident that the principle which is operative in the law of battle differs from the
principle which is concerned in the form of sexual selection that has to do with embellishment,
and consequent charm. The law of battle, in fact, more nearly approaches the law of natural
selection; seeing that it expresses the natural advantages of brute force in the struggling
of rival animals, and so frequently results in death of the less fitted, as distinguished from
a mere failure to propagate. Now against this doctrine of the law of battle, and the consequences
to which it leads in the superior fighting powers of male animals, no objection has been raised
in any quarter. It is only with regard to the other aspect of the theory of sexual selection--or
that which is concerned with the superior embellishment of male animals--that any difference
of opinion obtains. I will now proceed to give the main arguments on both sides of this question,
beginning with a résumé of the evidences in favour of sexual selection.

In the first place, the fact that secondary sexual characters of the embellishing kind are
so generally restricted to the male sex in itself seems to constitute very cogent proof that,
in some way or another, such characters are connected with the part which is played by the
male in the act of propagation. Moreover, secondary sexual characters of this kind are of quite
as general occurrence as are those of the other kind which have to do with rivalry in battle;
and the former are usually of the more elaborate description. Therefore, as there is no doubt
that secondary sexual characters of the one order have an immediate purpose to serve in the
act of propagation, we are by this close analogy confirmed in our surmise that secondary sexual
characters of the other, and still more elaborate, order are likewise so concerned. Moreover,
this view of their meaning becomes still further strengthened when we take into consideration
the following facts.

Such are the main lines of evidence in favour of the theory of sexual selection. And although
it is enough that some of them should be merely stated as above in order that their immense
significance should become apparent, in the case of others a bare statement is not sufficient
for this purpose. More especially is this the case as regards the enormous profusion, variety,
and elaboration of sexually-embellishing characters which occur in birds and mammals--not to
mention several divisions of Arthropoda; together with the extraordinary amount of trouble
which, in a no less extraordinary number of different ways, is taken by the male animals to
display their embellishments before the females. And even in many cases where to our eyes there
is no particular embellishment to display, the process of courtship consists in such an elaborate
performance of dancings, struttings, and attitudinizings that it is scarcely possible to doubt
their object is to incite the opposite sex. Here, for instance, is a series of drawings illustrating
the courtship of spiders. I choose this case as an example, partly because it is the one which
has been published most recently, and partly because it is of particular interest as occurring
so low down in the zoological scale. I am indebted to the kindness of Mr. and Mrs. Peckham
for permission to reproduce these few selected drawings from their very admirable work, which
is published by the Natural History Society of Wisconsin, U.S. It is evident at a glance that
all these elaborate, and to our eyes ludicrous, performances are more suggestive of incitation
than of any other imaginable purpose. And this view of the matter is strongly corroborated
by the fact that it is the most brightly coloured parts of the male spiders which are most
obtruded upon the notice of the female by these peculiar attitudes--in just the same way as
is invariably the case in the analogous phenomena of courtship among birds, insects, &c.

But so great is the mass of material which Darwin has collected in proof of all the points
mentioned in the foregoing paragraph, that to attempt anything in the way of an epitome would
really be to damage its evidential force.

We may next proceed to consider the objections which have been brought against the theory of
sexual selection. And this is virtually the same thing as saying that we may now consider Mr.
Wallace's views upon the subject.

Reserving for subsequent consideration the most general of these objections--namely, that at
best the theory can only apply to the more intelligent animals, and so must necessarily fail
to explain the phenomena of beauty in the less intelligent, or in the non-intelligent, as well
as in all species of plants--we may take seriatim the other objections which, in the opinion
of Mr. Wallace, are sufficient to dispose of the theory even as regards the higher animals.

In the first place, he argues that the principal cause of the greater brilliancy of male animals
in general, and of male birds in particular, is that they do not so much stand in need of protection
arising from concealment as is the case with their respective females. Consequently natural
selection is not so active in repressing brilliancy of colour in the males, or, which amounts
to the same thing, is more active in "repressing in the female those bright colours which are
normally produced in both sexes by general laws."

Next, he argues that not only does natural selection thus exercise a negative influence in
passively permitting more heightened colour to appear in the males, but even exercises a positive
influence in actively promoting its development in the males, while, at the same time, actively
repressing its appearance in the females. For heightened colour, he says, is correlated with
health and vigour; and as there can be no doubt that healthy and vigorous birds best provide
for their young, natural selection, by always placing its premium on health and vigour in the
males, thus also incidentally promotes, through correlated growth, their superior coloration.

Again, with regard to the display which is practised by male birds, and which constitutes the
strongest of all Mr. Darwin's arguments in favour of sexual selection, Mr. Wallace points out
that there is no evidence of the females being in any way affected thereby. On the other hand,
he argues that this display may be due merely to general excitement; and he lays stress upon
the more special fact that moveable feathers are habitually erected under the influence of
anger and rivalry, in order to make the bird look more formidable in the eyes of antagonists.

Furthermore, he adduces the consideration that, even if the females are in any way affected
by colour and its display on the part of the males, and if, therefore, sexual selection be
conceded a true principle in theory, still we must remember that, as a matter of fact, it can
only operate in so far as it is allowed to operate by natural selection. Now, according to
Mr. Wallace, natural selection must wholly neutralize any such supposed influence of sexual
selection. For, unless the survivors in the general struggle for existence happen to be those
which are also the most highly ornamented, natural selection must neutralize and destroy any
influence that may be exerted by female selection. But obviously the chances against the otherwise
best fitted males happening to be likewise the most highly ornamented must be many to one,
unless, as Wallace supposes, there is some correlation between embellishment and general perfection,
in which case, as he points out, the theory of sexual selection lapses altogether, and becomes
but a special case of natural selection.

Once more, Mr. Wallace argues that the evidence collected by Mr. Darwin himself proves that
each bird finds a mate under any circumstances--a general fact which in itself must quite neutralize
any effect of sexual selection of colour or ornament, since the less highly coloured birds
would be at no disadvantage as regards the leaving of healthy progeny.

Lastly, he urges the high improbability that through thousands of generations all the females
of any particular species--possibly spread over an enormous area--should uniformly and always
have displayed exactly the same taste with respect to every detail of colour to be presented
by the males.

Now, without any question, we have here a most powerful array of objections against the theory
of sexual selection. Each of them is ably developed by Mr. Wallace himself in his work on Tropical
Nature; and although I have here space only to state them in the most abbreviated of possible
forms, I think it will be apparent how formidable these objections appear. Unfortunately the
work in which they are mainly presented was published several years after the second edition
of the Descent of Man, so that Mr. Darwin never had a suitable opportunity of replying. But,
if he had had such an opportunity, as far as I can judge it seems that his reply would have
been more or less as follows.

In the first place, Mr. Wallace fails to distinguish between brilliancy and ornamentation--or
between colour as merely "heightened," and as distinctively decorative. Yet there is obviously
the greatest possible difference between these two things. We may readily enough admit that
a mere heightening of already existing coloration is likely enough--at all events in many cases--to
accompany a general increase of vigour, and therefore that natural selection, by promoting
the latter, may also incidentally promote the former, in cases where brilliancy is not a source
of danger. But clearly this is a widely different thing from showing that not only a general
brilliancy of colour, but also the particular disposition of colours, in the form of ornamental
patterns, can thus be accounted for by natural selection. Indeed, it is expressly in order
to account for the occurrence of such ornamental patterns that Mr. Darwin constructed his theory
of sexual selection; and therefore, by thus virtually ignoring the only facts which that theory
endeavours to explain, Mr. Wallace is not really criticizing the theory at all. By representing
that the theory has to do only with brilliancy of colour, as distinguished from disposition
of colours, he is going off upon a false issue which has never really been raised[48]. Look,
for example, at a peacock's tail. No doubt it is sufficiently brilliant; but far more remarkable
than its brilliancy is its elaborate pattern on the one hand, and its enormous size on the
other. There is no conceivable reason why mere brilliancy of colour, as an accidental concomitant
of general vigour, should have run into so extraordinary, so elaborate, and so beautiful a
design of colours. Moreover, this design is only unfolded when the tail is erected, and the
tail is not erected in battle (as Mr. Wallace's theory of the erectile function in feathers
would require), but in courtship; obviously, therefore, the purpose of the pattern, so to speak,
is correlated with the act of courtship--it being only then, in fact, that the general purpose
of the whole structure, as well as the more special purpose of the pattern, becomes revealed.
Lastly, the fact of this whole structure being so large, entailing not only a great amount
of physiological material in its production, but also of physiological energy in carrying about
such a weight, as well as of increased danger from impeding locomotion and inviting capture--all
this is obviously incompatible with the supposition of the peacock's tail having been produced
by natural selection. And such a case does not stand alone. There are multitudes of other instances
of ornamental structures imposing a drain upon the vital energies of their possessors, without
conferring any compensating benefit from a utilitarian point of view. Now, in all these cases,
without any exception, such structures are ornamental structures which present a plain and
obvious reference to the relationship of the sexes. Therefore it becomes almost impossible
to doubt--first, that they exist for the sake of ornament; and next, that the ornament exists
on account of that relationship. If such structures were due merely to a superabundance of
energy, as Mr. Wallace supposes, not only ought they to have been kept down by the economizing
influence of natural selection; but we can see no reason, either why they should be so highly
ornamental on the one hand, or so exclusively related to the sexual relationship on the other.

    [48] Note C.

Finally, we must take notice of the fact that where peculiar structures are concerned for purposes
of display in courtship, the elaboration of these structures is often no less remarkable than
that of patterns where colours are thus concerned. Take, for example, the case of the Bell-bird,
which I select from an innumerable number of instances that might be mentioned because, while
giving a verbal description of this animal, Darwin does not supply a pictorial representation
thereof. The bird, which lives in South America, has a very loud and peculiar call, that can
be heard at a distance of two or three miles. The female is dusky-green; but the adult male
is a beautiful white, excepting the extraordinary structure with which we are at present concerned.
This is a tube about three inches long, which rises from the base of the beak. It is jet black,
and dotted over with small downy feathers. The tube is closed at the top, but its cavity communicates
with the palate, and thus the whole admits of being inflated from within, when, of course,
it stands erect as represented in one of the two drawings. When not thus inflated, it hangs
down, as shown in the second figure, which represents the plumage of a young male. (Fig. 124.)

In another species of the genus there are three of these appendages--the two additional ones
being mounted on the corners of the mouth. (Fig. 125.) In all species of the genus (four in
number) the tubes are inflated during courtship, and therefore perform the function of sexual
embellishments. Now the point to which I wish to draw attention is, that so specialized and
morphologically elaborate a structure cannot be regarded as merely adventitious. It must have
been developed by some definite cause, acting through a long series of generations. And as
no other function can be assigned to it than that of charming the female when it is erected
in courtship, the peculiarity of form and mechanism which it presents--like the elaboration
of patterns in cases where colour only is concerned--virtually compels us to recognise in sexual
selection the only conceivable cause of its production.

For these reasons I think that Mr. Wallace's main objection falls to the ground. Passing on
to his subsidiary objections, I do not see much weight in his merely negative difficulty as
to there being an absence of evidence upon hen birds being charmed by the plumage, or the voice,
of their consorts. For, on the one hand, it is not very safe to infer what sentiments may be
in the mind of a hen; and, on the other hand, it is impossible to conceive what motive can
be in the mind of a cock, other than that of making himself attractive, when he performs his
various antics, displays his ornamental plumes, or sings his melodious songs. Considerations
somewhat analogous apply to the difficulty of supposing so much similarity and constancy of
taste on the part of female animals as Mr. Darwin's theory undoubtedly requires. Although we
know very little about the psychology of the lower animals, we do observe in many cases that
small details of mental organization are often wonderfully constant and uniform throughout
all members of a species, even where it is impossible to suggest any utility as a cause.

Again, as regards the objection that each bird finds a mate under any circumstances, we have
here an obvious begging of the whole question. That every feathered Jack should find a feathered
Jill is perhaps what we might have antecedently expected; but when we meet with innumerable
instances of ornamental plumes, melodious songs, and the rest, as so many witnesses to a process
of sexual selection having always been in operation, it becomes irrational to exclude such
evidence on account of our antecedent prepossessions.

There remains the objection that the principles of natural selection must necessarily swallow
up those of sexual selection. And this consideration, I doubt not, lies at the root of all
Mr. Wallace's opposition to the supplementary theory of sexual selection. He is self-consistent
in refusing to entertain the evidence of sexual selection, on the ground of his antecedent
persuasion that in the great drama of evolution there is no possible standing-ground for any
other actor than that which appears in the person of natural selection. But here, again, we
must refuse to allow any merely antecedent presumption to blind our eyes to the actual evidence
of other agencies having co-operated with natural selection in producing the observed results.
And, as regards the particular case now before us, I think I have shown, as far as space will
permit, that in the phenomena of decorative colouring (as distinguished from merely brilliant
colouring), of melodious song (as distinguished from merely tuneless cries), of enormous arborescent
antlers (as distinguished from merely offensive weapons), and so forth--I say that in all these
phenomena we have phenomena which cannot possibly be explained by the theory of natural selection;
and, further, that if they are to be explained at all, this can only be done, so far as we
can at present see, by Mr. Darwin's supplementary theory of sexual selection.

I have now briefly answered all Mr. Wallace's objections to this supplementary theory, and,
as previously remarked, I feel pretty confident that, at all events in the main, the answer
is such as Mr. Darwin would himself have supplied, had there been a third edition of his work
upon the subject. At all events, be this as it may, we are happily in possession of unquestionable
evidence that he believed all Mr. Wallace's objections to admit of fully satisfactory answers.
For his very last words to science--read only a few hours before his death at a meeting of
the Zoological Society--were:

     I may perhaps be here permitted to say that, after having carefully
     weighed, to the best of my ability, the various arguments which
     have been advanced against the principle of sexual selection, I
     remain firmly convinced of its truth[49].

    [49] Since the above exposition of the theory of sexual selection
    was written, Mr. Poulton has published his work on the Colours of
    Animals. He there reproduces some of the illustrations which occur
    in Mr. and Mrs. Peckham's work on Sexual Selection in Spiders, and
    furnishes appropriate descriptions. Therefore, while retaining the
    illustrations, I have withdrawn my own descriptions.

    Mr. Poulton has also in his book supplied a résumé of the
    arguments for and against the theory of sexual selection in general.
    Of course in nearly all respects this corresponds with the résumé
    which is given in the foregoing pages; but I have left the latter as
    it was originally written, because all the critical part is
    reproduced verbatim from a review of Mr. Wallace's Darwinism, of
    a date still earlier than that of Mr. Poulton's book--viz.
    Contemporary Review, August, 1889.

Concluding Remarks.

I will now conclude this chapter, and with it the present volume, by offering a few general
remarks on what may be termed the philosophical relations of Darwinian doctrine to the facts
of adaptation on the one hand, and to those of beauty on the other. Of course we are all aware
that before the days of this doctrine the facts of adaptation in organic nature were taken
to constitute the clearest possible evidence of special design, on account of the wonderful
mechanisms which they everywhere displayed; while the facts of beauty were taken as constituting
no less conclusive evidence of the quality of such special design as beneficent, not to say
artistic. But now that the Darwinian doctrine appears to have explained scientifically the
former class of facts by its theory of natural selection, and the latter class of facts by
its theory of sexual selection, we may fitly conclude this brief exposition of the doctrine
as a whole by considering what influence such naturalistic explanations may fairly be taken
to exercise upon the older, or super-naturalistic, interpretations.

To begin with the facts of adaptation, we must first of all observe that the Darwinian doctrine
is immediately concerned with these facts only in so far as they occur in organic nature. With
the adaptations--if they can properly be so called--which occur in all the rest of nature,
and which go to constitute the Cosmos as a whole so wondrous a spectacle of universal law and
perfect order, this doctrine is but indirectly concerned. Nevertheless, it is of course fundamentally
concerned with them to the extent that it seeks to bring the phenomena of organic nature into
line with those of inorganic; and therefore to show that whatever view we may severally take
as to the kind of causation which is energizing in the latter we must now extend to the former.
This is usually expressed by saying that the theory of evolution by natural selection is a
mechanical theory. It endeavours to comprise all the facts of adaptation in organic nature
under the same category of explanation as those which occur in inorganic nature--that is to
say, under the category of physical, or ascertainable, causation. Indeed, unless the theory
has succeeded in doing this, it has not succeeded in doing anything--beyond making a great
noise in the world. If Mr. Darwin has not discovered a new mechanical cause in the selection
principle, his labour has been worse than in vain.

Now, without unduly repeating what has already been said in Chapter VIII, I may remark that,
whatever we may each think of the measure of success which has thus far attended the theory
of natural selection in explaining the facts of adaptation, we ought all to agree that, considered
as a matter of general reasoning, the theory does certainly refer to a vera causa of a strictly
physical kind; and, therefore, that no exception can be taken to the theory in this respect
on grounds of logic. If the theory in this respect is to be attacked at all, it can only be
on grounds of fact--namely, by arguing that the cause does not occur in nature, or that, if
it does, its importance has been exaggerated by the theory. Even, however, if the latter proposition
should ever be proved, we may now be virtually certain that the only result would be the relegation
of all the residual phenomena of adaptation to other causes of the physical order--whether
known or unknown. Hence, as far as the matter of principle is concerned, we may definitely
conclude that the great naturalistic movement of our century has already brought all the phenomena
of adaptation in organic nature under precisely the same category of mechanical causation,
as similar movements in previous centuries have brought all the known phenomena of inorganic
nature: the only question that remains for solution is the strictly scientific question touching
the particular causes of the mechanical order which have been at work.

So much, then, for the phenomena of adaptation. Turning next to those of beauty, we have already
seen that the theory of sexual selection stands to these in precisely the same relation as
the theory of natural selection does to those of adaptation. In other words, it supplies a
physical explanation of them; because, as far as our present purposes are concerned, it may
be taken for granted, or for the sake of argument, that inasmuch as psychological elements
enter into the question the cerebral basis which they demand involves a physical side.

There is, moreover, this further point of resemblance between the two theories: neither of
them has any reference to inorganic nature. Therefore, with the charm or the loveliness of
landscapes, of earth and sea and sky, of pebbles, crystals, and so forth, we have at present
nothing to do. How it is that so many inanimate objects are invested with beauty--why it is
that beauty attaches to architecture, music, poetry, and many other things--these are questions
which do not specially concern the biologist. If they are ever to receive any satisfactory
explanation in terms of natural causation, this must be furnished at the hands of the psychologist.
It may be possible for him to show, more satisfactorily than hitherto, that all beauty, whenever
and wherever it occurs, is literally "in the eyes of the beholder"; or that objectively considered,
there is no such thing as beauty. It may be--and in my opinion it probably is--purely an affair
of the percipient mind itself, depending on the association of ideas with pleasure-giving objects.
This association may well lead to a liking for such objects, and so to the formation of what
is known as æsthetic feeling with regard to them. Moreover, beauty of inanimate nature must
be an affair of the percipient mind itself, unless there be a creating intelligence with organs
of sense and ideals of beauty similar to our own. And, apart from any deeper considerations,
this latter possibility is scarcely entitled to be regarded as a probability, looking to the
immense diversities in those ideals among different races of mankind. But, be this as it may,
the scientific problem which is presented by the fact of æsthetic feeling, even if it is ever
to be satisfactorily solved, is a problem which, as already remarked, must be dealt with by
psychologists. As biologists we have simply to accept this feeling as a fact, and to consider
how, out of such a feeling as a cause, the beauty of organic nature may have followed as an effect.

Now we have already seen how the theory of sexual selection supposes this to have happened.
But against this theory a formidable objection arises, and one which I have thought it best
to reserve for treatment in this place, because it serves to show the principal difference
between Mr. Darwin's two great generalizations, considered as generalizations in the way of
mechanical theory. For while the theory of natural selection extends equally throughout the
whole range of organic nature, the theory of sexual selection has but a comparatively restricted
scope, which, moreover, is but vaguely defined. For it is obvious that the theory can only
apply to living organisms which are sufficiently intelligent to admit of our reasonably accrediting
them with æsthetic taste--namely, in effect, the higher animals. And just as this consideration
greatly restricts the possible scope of the theory, as compared with that of natural selection,
so does it render undefined the zoological limits within which it can be reasonably employed.
Lastly, this necessarily undefined, and yet most important limitation exposes the theory to
the objection just alluded to, and which I shall now mention.

The theory, as we have just seen, is necessarily restricted in its application to the higher
animals. Yet the facts which it is designed to explain are not thus restricted. For beauty
is by no means restricted to the higher animals. The whole of the vegetable world, and the
whole of the animal world at least as high up in the scale as the insects, must be taken as
incapable of æsthetic feeling. Therefore, the extreme beauty of flowers, sea-anemones, corals,
and so forth, cannot possibly be ascribed to sexual selection.

Now, with regard to this difficulty, we must begin by excluding the case of the vegetable kingdom
as irrelevant. For it has been rendered highly probable--if not actually proved--by Darwin
and others, that the beauty of flowers and of fruits is in large part due to natural selection.
It is to the advantage of flowering plants that their organs of fructification should be rendered
conspicuous--and in many cases also odoriferous,--in order to attract the insects on which
the process of fertilization depends. Similarly, it is to the advantage of all plants which
have brightly coloured fruits that these should be conspicuous for the purpose of attracting
birds, which eat the fruits and so disseminate the seed. Hence all the gay colours and varied
forms, both of flowers and fruits, have been thus adequately explained as due to natural causes,
working for the welfare, as distinguished from the beauty, of the plants. For even the distribution
of colours on flowers, or the beautiful patterns which so many of them present, are found to
be useful in guiding insects to the organs of fructification.

Again, the green colouring of leaves, which lends so much beauty to the vegetable world, has
likewise been shown to be of vital importance to the physiology of plant-life; and, therefore,
may also be ascribed to natural selection. Thus, there remains only the forms of plants other
than the flowers. But the forms of leaves have also in many cases been shown to be governed
by principles of utility; and the same is to be said of the branching structure which is so
characteristic of trees and shrubs, since this is the form most effectual for spreading out
the leaves to the light and air. Here, then, we likewise find that the cause determining plant
beauty is natural selection; and so we may conclude that the only reason why the forms of trees
which are thus determined by utility appeal to us as beautiful, is because we are accustomed
to these the most ordinary forms. Our ideas having been always, as it were, moulded upon these
forms, æsthetic feeling becomes attached to them by the principle of association. At any rate,
it is certain that when we contemplate almost any forms of plant-structure which, for special
reasons of utility, differ widely from these (to us) more habitual forms, the result is not
suggestive of beauty. Many of the tropical and un-tree-like plants--such as the cactus tribe--strike
us as odd and quaint, not as beautiful. Be this however as it may, I trust I have said enough
to prove that in the vegetable world, at all events, the attainment of beauty cannot be held
to have been an object aimed at, so to speak, for its own sake. Even if, for the purposes of
argument, we were to suppose that all the forms and colours in the vegetable world are due
to special design, there could be no doubt that the purpose of this design has been in chief
part a utilitarian purpose; it has not aimed at beauty exclusively for its own sake. For most
of such beauty as we here perceive is plainly due to the means adopted for the attainment of
life-preserving ends, which, of course, is a metaphorical way of saying that it is probably
due to natural selection[50].

    [50] The beauty of autumnal tints in fading leaves may possibly be
    adduced per contra. But here we have to remember that it is only
    some kinds of leaves which thus become beautiful when fading, while,
    even as regards those that do, it is not remarkable that their
    chlorophyll should, as it were, accidentally assume brilliant tints
    while breaking down into lower grades of chemical constitution. The
    case, in fact, is exactly parallel to those in the animal kingdom
    which are considered in the ensuing paragraphs.

Turning, then, to the animal kingdom below the level of insects, here we are bound to confess
that the beauty which so often meets us cannot reasonably be ascribed either to natural or
to sexual selection. Not to sexual selection for the reasons already given; the animals in
question are neither sufficiently intelligent to possess any æsthetic taste, nor, as a matter
of fact, do we observe that they exercise any choice in pairing. Not to natural selection,
because we cannot here, as in the case of vegetables, point to any benefit as generally arising
from bright colours and beautiful forms. On the principles of naturalism, therefore, we are
driven to conclude that the beauty here is purely adventitious, or accidental. Nor need we
be afraid to make this admission, if only we take a sufficiently wide view of the facts. For,
when we do take such a view, we find that beauty here is by no means of invariable, or even
of general, occurrence. There is no loveliness about an oyster or a lob-worm; parasites, as
a rule, are positively ugly, and they constitute a good half of all animal species. The truth
seems to be, when we look attentively at the matter, that in all cases where beauty does occur
in these lower forms of animal life, its presence is owing to one of two things--either to
the radiate form, or to the bright tints. Now, seeing that the radiate form is of such general
occurrence among these lower animals--appearing over and over again, with the utmost insistence,
even among groups widely separated from one another by the latest results of scientific classification--seeing
this, it becomes impossible to doubt that the radiate form is due to some morphological reasons
of wide generality. Whether these reasons be connected with the internal laws of growth, or
to the external conditions of environment, I do not pretend to suggest. But I feel safe in
saying that it cannot possibly be due to any design to secure beauty for its own sake. The
very generality of the radiate form is in itself enough to suggest that it must have some physical,
as distinguished from an æsthetic, explanation; for, if the attainment of beauty had here been
the object, surely it might have been even more effectually accomplished by adopting a greater
variety of typical forms--as, for instance, in the case of flowers.

Coming then, lastly, to the case of brilliant tints in the lower animals, Mr. Darwin has soundly
argued that there is nothing forced or improbable in the supposition that organic compounds,
presenting as they do such highly complex and such varied chemical constitutions, should often
present brilliant colouring incidentally. Considered merely as colouring, there is nothing
in the world more magnificent than arterial blood; yet here the colouring is of purely utilitarian
significance. It is of the first importance in the chemistry of respiration; but is surely
without any meaning from an æsthetic point of view. For the colour of the cheeks, and of the
flesh generally, in the white races of mankind, could have been produced quite as effectually
by the use of pigment--as in the case of certain monkeys. Now the fact that in the case of
blood, as in that of many other highly coloured fluids and solids throughout the animal kingdom,
the colour is concealed, is surely sufficient proof that the colour, if regarded from an æsthetic
point of view, is accidental. Therefore, when, as in other cases, such colouring occurs upon
the surface, and thus becomes apparent, are we not irresistibly led to conclude that its exhibition
in such cases is likewise accidental, so far as any question of æsthetic design is concerned?

I have now briefly glanced at all the main facts of organic nature with reference to beauty;
and, as a result, I think it is impossible to resist the general conclusion, that in organic
nature beauty does not exist as an end per se. All cases where beauty can be pointed to in
organic nature are seemingly due--either to natural selection, acting without reference to
beauty, but to utility; to sexual selection, acting with reference to the taste of animals;
or else to sheer accident. And if this general conclusion should be held to need any special
verification, is it not to be found in the numberless cases where organic nature not only fails
to be beautiful, but reveals itself as the reverse. Not again to refer to the case of parasites,
what can be more unshapely than a hippopotamus, or more generally repulsive than a crocodile?
If it be said that these are exceptions, and that the forms of animals as a rule are graceful,
the answer--even apart from parasites--is obvious. In all cases where the habits of life are
such as to render rapid locomotion a matter of utilitarian necessity, the outlines of an animal
must be graceful--else, whether the locomotion be terrestrial, aerial, or aquatic, it must
fail to be swift. Hence it is only in such cases as that of the hippopotamus, rhinoceros, elephant,
crocodile, and so forth, where natural selection has had no concern in developing speed, that
the accompanying accident of gracefulness can be allowed to disappear. But if beauty in organic
nature had been in itself what may be termed an artistic object on the part of a divine Creator,
it is absurd to suggest that his design in this matter should only have been allowed to appear
where we are able to detect other and very good reasons for its appearance.

       *       *       *       *       *

Thus, whether we look to the facts of adaptation or to those of beauty, everywhere throughout
organic nature we meet with abundant evidence of natural causation, while nowhere do we meet
with any independent evidence of supernatural design. But, having led up to this conclusion,
and having thus stated it as honestly as I can, I should like to finish by further stating
what, in my opinion is its logical bearing upon the more fundamental tenets of religious thought.

As I have already observed at the commencement of this brief exposition, prior to the Darwinian
theory of organic evolution, the theologian was prone to point to the realm of organic nature
as furnishing a peculiarly rich and virtually endless store of facts, all combining in their
testimony to the wisdom and the beneficence of the Deity. Innumerable adaptations of structures
to functions appeared to yield convincing evidence in favour of design; the beauty so profusely
shed by living forms appeared to yield evidence, no less convincing, of that design as beneficent.
But both these sources of evidence have now, as it were, been tapped at their fountain-head:
the adaptation and the beauty are alike receiving their explanation at the hands of a purely
mechanical philosophy. Nay, even the personality of man himself is assailed; and this not only
in the features which he shares with the lower animals, but also in his god-like attributes
of reason, thought, and conscience. All nature has thus been transformed before the view of
the present generation in a manner and to an extent that has never before been possible: and
inasmuch as the change which has taken place has taken place in the direction of naturalism,
and this to the extent of rendering the mechanical interpretation of nature universal, it is
no wonder if the religious mind has suddenly awakened to a new and a terrible force in the
words of its traditional enemy--Where is now thy God?

This is not the place to discuss the bearings of science on religion[51]; but I think it is
a place where one may properly point out the limits within which no such bearings obtain. Now,
from what has just been said, it will be apparent that I am not going to minimise the change
which has been wrought. On the contrary, I believe it is only stupidity or affectation which
can deny that the change in question is more deep and broad than any single previous change
in the whole history of human thought. It is a fundamental, a cosmical, a world-transforming
change. Nevertheless, in my opinion, it is a change of a non-theistic, as distinguished from
an a-theistic, kind. It has rendered impossible the appearance in literature of any future
Paley, Bell, or Chalmers; but it has done nothing in the way of negativing that belief in a
Supreme Being which it was the object of these authors to substantiate. If it has demonstrated
the futility of their proof, it has furnished nothing in the way of disproof. It has shown,
indeed, that their line of argument was misjudged when they thus sought to separate organic
nature from inorganic as a theatre for the special or peculiar display of supernatural design;
but further than this it has not shown anything. The change in question therefore, although
greater in degree, is the same in kind as all its predecessors: like all previous advances
in cosmological theory which have been wrought by the advance of science, this latest and greatest
advance has been that of revealing the constitution of nature, or the method of causation,
as everywhere the same. But it is evident that this change, vast and to all appearance final
though it be, must end within the limits of natural causation itself. The whole world of life
and mind may now have been annexed to that of matter and energy as together constituting one
magnificent dominion, which is everywhere subject to the same rule, or method of government.
But the ulterior and ultimate question touching the nature of this government as mental or
non-mental, personal or impersonal, remains exactly where it was. Indeed, this is a question
which cannot be affected by any advance of science, further than science has proved herself
able to dispose of erroneous arguments based upon ignorance of nature. For while the sphere
of science is necessarily restricted to that of natural causation which it is her office to
explore, the question touching the nature of this natural causation is one which as necessarily
lies without the whole sphere of such causation itself: therefore it lies beyond any possible
intrusion by science. And not only so. But if the nature of natural causation be that of the
highest order of known existence, then, although we must evidently be incapable of conceiving
what such a Mind is, at least we seem capable of judging what in many respects it is not. It
cannot be more than one; it cannot be limited either in space or time; it cannot be other than
at least as self-consistent as its manifestations in nature are invariable. Now, from the latter
deduction there arises a point of first-rate importance in the present connexion. For if the
so-called First Cause be intelligent, and therefore all secondary causes but the expression
of a supreme Will, in as far as such a Will is self-consistent, the operation of all natural
causes must be uniform,--with the result that, as seen by us, this operation must needs appear
to be what we call mechanical. The more unvarying the Will, the more unvarying must be this
expression thereof; so that, if the former be absolutely self-consistent, the latter cannot
fail to be as reasonably interpreted by the theory of mindless necessity, as by that of ubiquitous
intention. Such being, as it appears to me, the pure logic of the matter, the proof of organic
evolution amounts to nothing more than the proof of a natural process. What mode of being is
ultimately concerned in this process--or in what it is that this process ultimately consists--is
a question upon which science is as voiceless as speculation is vociferous.

    [51] The best treatise on this subject is Prof. Le Conte's
    Evolution and its Relation to Religious Thought (Appleton & Co.
    1888).

But, it may still be urged, surely the principle of natural selection (with its terrible basis
in the struggle for existence) and the principle of sexual selection (with its consequence
in denying beauty to be an end in itself) demonstrate that, if there be design in nature, such
design at all events cannot be beneficent. To this, however, I should again reply that, just
as touching the major question of design itself, so as touching this minor question of the
quality of such design as beneficent, I do not see how the matter has been much affected by
a discovery of the principles before us. For we did not need a Darwin to tell us that the whole
creation groaneth and travaileth together in pain. The most that in this connexion Darwin can
fairly be said to have done is to have estimated in a more careful and precise manner than
any of his predecessors, the range and the severity of this travail. And if it be true that
the result of what may be called his scientific analysis of nature in respect of suffering
is to have shown the law of suffering even more severe, more ubiquitous, and more necessary
than it had ever been shown before, we must remember at the same time how he has proved, more
rigidly than was ever proved before, that suffering is a condition to improvement--struggle
for life being the raison d'être of higher life, and this not only in the physical sphere,
but also in the mental and moral.

Lastly, if it be said that the choice of such a method, whereby improvement is only secured
at the cost of suffering, indicates a kind of callousness on the part of an intelligent Being
supposed to be omnipotent, I confess that such does appear to me a legitimate conclusion--subject,
however, to the reservation that higher knowledge might displace it. For, as far as matters
are now actually presented to the unbiased contemplation of a human mind, this provisional
inference appears to me unavoidable--namely, that if the world of sentient life be due to an
Omnipotent Designer, the aim or motive of the design must have been that of securing a continuous
advance of animal improvement, without any regard at all to animal suffering. For I own it
does not seem to me compatible with a fair and honest exercise of our reason to set the sum
of animal happiness over against the sum of animal misery, and then to allege that, in so far
as the former tends to balance--or to over-balance--the latter, thus far is the moral character
of the design as a whole vindicated. Even if it could be shown that the sum of happiness in
the brute creation considerably preponderates over that of unhappiness--which is the customary
argument of theistic apologists,--we should still remain without evidence as to this state
of matters having formed any essential part of the design. On the other hand, we should still
be in possession of seemingly good evidence to the contrary. For it is clearly a condition
to progress by survival of the fittest, that as soon as organisms become sentient selection
must be exercised with reference to sentiency; and this means that, if further progress is
to take place, states of sentiency must become so organized with reference to habitual experience
of the race, that pleasures and pains shall answer respectively to states of agreement and
disagreement with the sentient creature's environment. Those animals which found pleasure in
what was deleterious to life would not survive, while those which found pleasure in what was
beneficial to life would survive; and so eventually, in every species of animal, states of
sentiency as agreeable or disagreeable must approximately correspond with what is good for
the species or bad for the species. Indeed, we may legitimately surmise that the reason why
sentiency (and, a fortiori, conscious volition) has ever appeared upon the scene at all, has
been because it furnishes--through this continuously selected adjustment of states of sentiency
to states of the sentient organism--so admirable a means of securing rapid, and often refined,
adjustments by the organism to the habitual conditions of its life[52]. But, if so, not only
is this state of matters a condition to progress in the future; it is further, and equally,
a consequence of progress in the past.

    [52] See Mental Evolution in Animals, pp. 110-111.

However, be this as it may, from all that has gone before does it not become apparent that
pleasure or happiness on the one hand, and pain or misery on the other, must be present in
sentient nature? And so long as they are both seen to be equally necessary under the process
of evolution by natural selection, we have clearly no more reason to regard the pleasure than
the pain as an object of the supposed design. Rather must we see in both one and the same condition
to progress under the method of natural causation which is before us; and therefore I cannot
perceive that it makes much difference--so far as the argument for beneficence is concerned--whether
the pleasures of animals outweigh their pains, or vice versâ.

Upon the whole, then, it seems to me that such evidence as we have is against rather than in
favour of the inference, that if design be operative in animate nature it has reference to
animal enjoyment or well-being, as distinguished from animal improvement or evolution. And
if this result should be found distasteful to the religious mind--if it be felt that there
is no desire to save the evidences of design unless they serve at the same time to testify
to the nature of that design as beneficent,--I must once more observe that the difficulty thus
presented to theism is not a difficulty of modern creation. On the contrary, it has always
constituted the fundamental difficulty with which natural theologians have had to contend.
The external world appears, in this respect, to be at variance with our moral sense; and when
the antagonism is brought home to the religious mind, it must ever be with a shock of terrified
surprise. It has been newly brought home to us by the generalizations of Darwin; and therefore,
as I said at the beginning, the religious thought of our generation has been more than ever
staggered by the question--Where is now thy God? But I have endeavoured to show that the logical
standing of the case has not been materially changed; and when this cry of Reason pierces the
heart of Faith, it remains for Faith to answer now, as she has always answered before--and
answered with that trust which is at once her beauty and her life--Verily thou art a God that
hidest thyself.

APPENDIX AND NOTES

APPENDIX TO CHAPTER V.

ON OBJECTIONS WHICH HAVE BEEN BROUGHT AGAINST THE THEORY OF ORGANIC EVOLUTION ON GROUNDS OF
PALÆONTOLOGY.

While stating in the text, and in a necessarily general way, the evidence which is yielded
by palæontology to the theory of organic evolution, I have been desirous of not overstating
it. Therefore, in the earlier paragraphs of the chapter, which deal with the most general heads
of such evidence, I introduced certain qualifying phrases; and I will now give the reasons
which led me to do so.

Of all the five biological sciences which have been called into evidence--viz. those of Classification,
Morphology, Embryology, Palæontology, and Geographical Distribution--it is in the case of palæontology
alone that any important or professional opinions still continue to be unsatisfied. Therefore,
in order that justice may be done to this line of dissent, I have thought it better to deal
with the matter in a separate Appendix, rather than to hurry it over in the text. And, as all
the difficulties or objections which have been advanced against the theory of evolution on
grounds of palæontology must vary, as to their strength, with the estimate which is taken touching
the degree of imperfection of the geological record, I will begin by adding a few paragraphs
to what has already been said in the text upon this subject.

First, then, as to the difficulties in the way of fossils being formed at all. We have already
noticed in the text that it is only the more or less hard parts of organisms which under any
circumstances can be fossilized; and even the hardest parts quickly disintegrate if not protected
from the weather on land, or from the water on the sea-bottom. Lastly, "with respect to the
terrestrial productions which lived through the secondary and palæozoic periods, it is superfluous
to state our evidence is fragmentary in an extreme degree.

But perhaps of even more importance than all these known causes which prevent the formation
of fossils, is the existence of unknown causes which make for the same result. For example,
the Flysch-formation is a formation of several thousand feet in thickness (as much as 6000
in some places), and it extends for at least 300 miles from Vienna to Switzerland; moreover,
it consists of shale and sandstone. Therefore, alike in respect of time, space, and character,
it is just such a formation as we should expect to find highly rich in fossils; yet, "although
this great mass has been most carefully searched, no fossils, except a few vegetable remains,
have been found."

So much then for the difficulty, so to speak, which nature experiences in the manufacture of
fossils. Probably not one per cent. of the species of animals which have inhabited the earth
has left a single individual as a fossil, whereby to record its past existence.

But of even more importance than this difficulty of making fossils in the first instance, is
the difficulty of preserving them when they are made. The vast majority of fossils have been
formed under water, and a large proportional number of these--whether the animals were marine,
terrestrial, or inhabitants of fresh water--have been formed in sedimentary deposits either
of sand, gravel, or other porous material. Now, where such deposits have been afterwards raised
into the air for any considerable time--and this has been more or less the case with all deposits
which are available for exploration--their fossiliferous contents will have been, as a general
rule, dissolved by the percolation of rain-water charged with carbonic acid. Similarly, sea-water
has recently been found to be a surprisingly strong solvent of calcareous material: hence,
Saturn-like, the ocean devours her own progeny as far as shells and bones of all kinds are
concerned--and this to an extent of which we have probably no adequate conception.

Of still greater destructive influence, however, than these solvent agencies in earth and sea,
are the erosive agencies of both. Any one who watches the pounding of the waves upon the shore;
who then observes the effect of it upon the rocks broken into shingle, and on the shingle reduced
to sand; who, looking behind him at the cliffs, sees there the evidence of the gradual advance
of this all-pulverising power--an advance so gradual that no yard of it is accomplished until
within that yard the "white teeth" have eaten well into the "bowels of the earth"; who then
reflects that this process is going on simultaneously over hundreds of thousands of miles of
coast-lines throughout the world; and who finally extends his mental vision from space to time,
by trying dimly to imagine what this ever-roaring monster must have consumed during the hundreds
of millions of years that slowly rising and slowly sinking continents have exposed their whole
areas to her jaws; whoever thus observes and thus reflects must be a dull man, if he does not
begin to feel that in the presence of such a destroyer as this we have no reason to wonder
at a frequent silence in the testimony of the rocks.

But although the erosive agency of the sea is thus so inconceivably great, it is positively
small if compared with erosive agencies on land. The constant action of rain, wind, and running
water, in wearing down the surfaces of all lands into "the dust of continents to be"; the disintegrating
effects on all but the very hardest rocks of winter frosts alternating with summer heats; the
grinding power of ice in periods of glaciation; and last, but not least, the wholesale melting
up of sedimentary formations whenever these have sunk for any considerable distance beneath
the earth's surface:--all these agencies taken together constitute so prodigious a sum of energies
combined through immeasureable ages in their common work of destruction, that when we try to
realise what it must amount to, we can scarcely fail to wonder, not that the geological record
is highly imperfect, but that so much of the record has survived as we find to have been the
case. And, if we add to these erosive and solvent agencies on land the erosive and solvent
agencies of the sea, we may almost begin to wonder that anything deserving the name of a geological
record is in existence at all.

That such estimates of the destructive powers of nature are not mere matters of speculative
reasoning may be amply shown by stating one single fact, which, like so many others where the
present subject is concerned, we owe to the generalizations of Darwin. Plutonic rocks, being
those which have emerged from subterranean heat of melting intensity, must clearly at some
time or another have lain beneath the whole thickness of sedimentary deposits, which at that
time occupied any part of the earth's surface where we now find the Plutonic rocks exposed
to view. Or, in other words, wherever we now find Plutonic rocks at the surface of the earth,
we must conclude that all the sedimentary rocks by which they were covered when in a molten
state have since been entirely destroyed; several vertical miles of the only kinds of rocks
in which fossils can possibly occur must in all such cases have been abolished in toto. Now,
in many parts of the world metamorphic rocks--which have thus gradually risen from Plutonic
depths, while miles of various other rock-formations have been removed from their now exposed
surfaces--cover immense areas, and therefore testify by their present horizontal range, no
less than by their previously vertical depth, to the enormous scale on which a total destruction
has taken place of everything that once lay above them. For instance, the granitic region of
Parime is at least nineteen times the size of Switzerland; a similar region south of the Amazon
is probably larger than France, Spain, Italy, and Great Britain all put together; and, more
remarkable still, over the area of the United States and Canada, granitic rocks exceed in the
proportion of 19 to 12-1/2 the whole of the newer Palæozoic formations. Lastly, after giving
these examples, Darwin adds the important consideration, that "in many regions the metamorphic
and granitic rocks would be found much more widely extended than they appear to be, if all
the sedimentary beds were removed which rest unconformably on them, and which could not have
formed part of the original mantle under which they were crystallized."

The above is a brief condensation of the already condensed statement which Darwin has given
of the imperfection of the geological record; but I think it is enough to show, in a general
way, how precarious must be the nature of any objections to the theory of evolution which are
founded merely upon the silence of palæontology in cases where, if the record were anything
like complete, we should be entitled to expect from it some positive information. But, as we
have seen in the text, imperfect though the record be, in as far as it furnishes positive information
at all, this is well-nigh uniformly in favour of the theory; and therefore, even on grounds
of palæontology alone, it appears to me that Darwin is much too liberal where he concludes
his discussion by saying,--"Those who believe that the geological record is in any degree perfect,
will undoubtedly at once reject the theory." If in any measure reasonable, such persons ought
rather to examine their title to such a belief; and even if they disregard the consensus of
testimony which is yielded by all the biological sciences to the theory of evolution, they
ought at least to hold their judgment in suspense until they shall have not only set against
the apparently negative testimony which is yielded by geology its unquestionably positive testimony,
but also well considered the causes which may--or rather must--have so gravely impaired the
geological record.

However, be this as it may, I will now pass on to consider the difficulties and objections
which have been brought against the theory on grounds of palæontology.

These may be classified under four heads. First, the absence of varietal links between allied
species; second, the sudden appearance of whole groups of species--not only as genera and families,
but even sometimes as orders and classes--without any forms leading up to them; third, the
occurrence of highly organized types at much lower levels of geological strata than an evolutionist
would antecedently expect; and, fourth, the absence of fossils of any kind lower down than
the Cambrian strata.

Now all these objections depend on estimates of the imperfection of the geological record much
lower than that which is formed by Darwin. Therefore I have arranged the objections in their
order of difficulty in this respect, or in the order that requires successively increasing
estimates of the imperfection of the record, if they are to be successively answered.

I think that the first of them has been already answered in the text, by showing that even
a very moderate estimate of the imperfection of the record is enough to explain why intermediate
varieties, connecting allied species, are but comparatively seldom met with. Moreover it was
shown that in some cases, where shells are concerned, remarkably well-connected series of such
varieties have been met with. And the same applies to species and genera in certain other cases,
as in the equine family.

But no doubt a greater difficulty arises where whole groups of species and genera, or even
families and orders, appear to arise suddenly, without anything leading up to them. Even this
the second difficulty, however, admits of being fully met, when we remember that in very many
cases it has been proved, quite apart from the theory of descent, that superjacent formations
have been separated from one another by wide intervals of time. And even although it often
happens that intermediate deposits which are absent in one part of the world are present in
another, we have no right to assume that such is always the case. Besides, even if it were,
we should have no right further to assume that the faunas of widely separated geographical
areas were identical during the time represented by the intermediate formation. Yet, unless
they were identical, we should not expect the fossils of the intermediate formation, where
extant, to yield evidence of what the fossils would have been in this same formation elsewhere,
had it not been there destroyed. Now, as a matter of fact, "geological formations of each region
are almost invariably intermittent"; and although in many cases a more or less continuous record
of past forms of life can be obtained by comparing the fossils of one region and formation
with those of another region and adjacent formations, it is evident (from what we know of the
present geographical distribution of plants and animals) that not a few cases there must have
been where the interruption of the record in one region cannot be made good by thus interpolating
the fossils of another region. And we must remember it is by selecting the cases where this
cannot be done that the objection before us is made to appear formidable. In other words, unless
whole groups of new species which are unknown in formation A appear suddenly in formation C
of one region (X), where the intermediate formation B is absent; and unless in some other region
(Y), where B is present, the fossiliferous contents of B fail to supply the fossil ancestry
of the new species in A (X); unless such a state of matters is found to obtain, the objection
before us has nothing to say. But at best this is negative evidence; and, in order to consider
it fairly, we ought to set against it the cases where an interposition of fossils found in
B (Y) does furnish the fossil ancestry of what would otherwise have been an abrupt appearance
of whole groups of new species in A (X). Now such cases are neither few nor unimportant, and
therefore they deprive the objection of the force it would have had if the selected cases to
the contrary were the general rule.

In addition to these considerations, the following, some of which are of
a more special kind, appear to me so important that I will quote them
almost in extenso. Had it not been for the rare
     accident of the preservation of footsteps in the new red sandstone
     of the United States, who would have ventured to suppose that, no
     less than at least thirty kinds of bird-like animals, some of
     gigantic size, existed during that period? Not a fragment of bone
     has been discovered in these beds. Not long ago palæontologists
     maintained that the whole class of birds came suddenly into
     existence during the eocene period; but now we know, on the
     authority of Professor Owen, that a bird certainly lived during the
     deposition of the upper green-sand. And still more recently that
     strange bird, the Archeopteryx ... has been discovered in the
     oolitic slates of Solenhofen. Hardly any recent discovery shows
     more forcibly than this, how little we as yet know of the former
     inhabitants of the world. Still more
     recently, a Pyrgoma, a member of a distinct sub-family of sessile
     cirripedes, has been discovered by Mr. Woodward in the upper chalk;
     so that we now have abundant evidence of the existence of this
     group of animals during the secondary period. But certain Jurassic and Triassic forms are now commonly
     admitted to be teleostean; and even some palæozoic forms have been
     thus classed by one high authority. If the teleosteans had really
     appeared suddenly in the northern hemisphere, the fact would have
     been highly remarkable; but it would not have formed an insuperable
     difficulty, unless it could likewise have been shown that at the
     same period the species were suddenly and simultaneously developed
     in other quarters of the world.

    [53] Origin of Species, 282-5.

In view of all the foregoing facts and considerations, it appears to me that the second difficulty
on our list is completely answered. Indeed, even on a moderate estimate of the imperfection
of the geological record, the wonder would have been if many cases had not occurred where groups
of species present the fictitious appearance of having been suddenly and simultaneously created
in the particular formations where their remains now happen to be observable.

Turning next to the third objection, there cannot be any question that every here and there
in the geological series animals occur of a much higher grade zoologically than the theory
of evolution would have expected to find in the strata where they are found. At any rate, speaking
for myself, I should not have antecedently expected to meet with such highly differentiated
insects as butterflies and dragonflies in the middle of the Secondaries: still less should
I have expected to encounter beetles, cockroaches, spiders, and May-flies in the upper and
middle Primaries--not to mention an insect and a scorpion even in the lower. And I think the
same remark applies to a whole sub-kingdom in the case of Vertebrata. For although it is only
the lowest class of the sub-kingdom which, so far as we positively know, was represented in
the Devonian and Silurian formations, we must remember, on the one hand, that even a cartilaginous
or ganoid fish belongs to the highest sub-kingdom of the animal series; and, on the other hand,
that such animals are thus proved to have abounded in the very lowest strata where there is
good evidence of there having been any forms of life at all. Lastly, the fact that Marsupials
occur in the Trias, coupled with the fact that the still existing Monotremata are what may
be termed animated fossils, referring us by their lowly type of organization to some period
enormously more remote,--these facts render it practically certain that some members of this
very highest class of the highest sub-kingdom must have existed far back in the Primaries.

These things, I say, I should not have expected to find, and I think all other evolutionists
ought to be prepared to make the same acknowledgment. But as these things have been found,
the only possible way of accounting for them on evolutionary principles is by supposing that
the geological record is even more imperfect than we needed to suppose in order to meet the
previous objections. I cannot see, however, why evolutionists should be afraid to make this
acknowledgment. For I do not know any reason which would lead us to suppose that there is any
common measure between the distances marked on our tables of geological formations, and the
times which those distances severally represent. Let the reader turn to the table on page 163,
and then let him say why the 30,000 feet of so-called Azoic rocks may not represent a greater
duration of time than does the thickness of all the Primary rocks above them put together.
For my own part I believe that this is probably the case, looking to the enormous ages during
which these very early formations must have been exposed to destructive agencies of all kinds,
now at one time and now at another, in different parts of the world. And, of course, we are
without any means of surmising what ranges of time are represented by the so-called Primeval
rocks, for the simple reason that they are non-sedimentary, and non-sedimentary rocks cannot
be expected to contain fossils.

But, it will be answered, the 30,000 feet of Azoic rocks, lying above the Primeval, are sedimentary
to some extent: they are not all completely metamorphic: yet they are all destitute of fossils.
This is the fourth and last difficulty which has to be met, and it can only be met by the considerations
which have been advanced by Lyell and Darwin. The former says:--

     The total absence of any trace of fossils has inclined many
     geologists to attribute the origin of the most ancient strata to an
     azoic period, or one antecedent to the existence of organic beings.
     Admitting, they say, the obliteration, in some cases, of fossils by
     plutonic action, we might still expect that traces of them would
     oftener be found in certain ancient systems of slate, which can
     scarcely be said to have assumed a crystalline structure. But in
     urging this argument it seems to be forgotten that there are
     stratified formations of enormous thickness, and of various ages,
     some of them even of tertiary date, and which we know were formed
     after the earth had become the abode of living creatures, which
     are, nevertheless, in some districts, entirely destitute of all
     vestiges of organic bodies[54].

     [54] Elements of Geology, p. 587.

He then proceeds to mention sundry causes (in addition to plutonic action) which are adequate
to destroy the fossiliferous contents of stratified rocks, and to show that these may well
have produced enormous destruction of organic remains in these oldest of known formations.

Darwin's view is that, during the vast ages of time now under consideration, it is probable
that the distribution of sea and land over the earth's surface has not been uniformly the same,
even as regards oceans and continents. The probability of this view he sustains by certain
general considerations, as well as particular facts touching the geology of oceanic islands, &c.

    [55] Origin of Species, p. 289. On this view, the difficulties above
     discussed are greatly diminished, or even disappear[56].

     [56] Ibid.

As far as I can see, the only reasonable exception that can be taken to this general view of
the whole matter, is one which has been taken from the side of astronomical physics.

Put briefly, it is alleged by one of the highest authorities in this branch of science, that
there cannot have been any such enormous reaches of unrecorded time as would be implied by
the supposition of there having been a lost history of organic evolution before the Cambrian
period. The grounds of this allegation I am not qualified to examine; but in a general way
I agree with Prof. Huxley in feeling that, from the very nature of the case, they are necessarily
precarious,--and this in so high a degree that any conclusions raised on such premises are
not entitled to be deemed formidable[57].

    [57] See Lay Sermons, Lecture on Geological Reform.

       *       *       *       *       *

Turning now to plants, the principal and the ablest opponent of the theory of evolution is
here unquestionably Mr. Carruthers[58]. The difficulties which he adduces may be classified
under three heads, as follows:--

    [58] See especially the following Presidential addresses:--Geol.
    Assoc. Nov. 1876; Section D. Brit. Assoc., 1886; Lin. Soc., 1890.

1. There is no evidence of change in specific forms of existing plants. Not only are the numerous
species of plants which have been found in Egyptian mummies indistinguishable from their successors
of to-day; but, what is of far more importance, a large number of our own indigenous plants
grew in Great Britain during the glacial period (including under this term the warm periods
between those of successive glaciations), and in no one case does it appear that any modification
of specific type has occurred. This fact is particularly remarkable as regards leaves, because
on the one hand they are the organs of plants which are most prone to vary, while on the other
hand they are likewise the organs which lend themselves most perfectly to the process of fossilization,
so that all details of their structure can be minutely observed in the fossil state. Yet the
interval since the glacial period, although not a long one geologically speaking, is certainly
what may be called an appreciable portion of time in the history of Dicotyledonous plants since
their first appearance in the Cretaceous epoch. Again, if we extend this kind of enquiry so
as to include the world as a whole, a number of other species of plants dating from the glacial
epoch are found to tell the same story--notwithstanding that, in the opinion of Mr. Carruthers,
they must all have undergone many changes of environment while advancing before, and retreating
after, successive glaciations in different parts of the globe. Or, to quote his own words:--"The
various physical conditions which of necessity affected these {41} species in their diffusion
over such large areas of the earth's surface in the course of, say, 250,000 years, should have
led to the production of many varieties; but the uniform testimony of the remains of this considerable
pre-glacial flora, as far as the materials admit of a comparison, is that no appreciable change
has taken place."

2. There is no appearance of generalized forms among the earliest plants with which we are
acquainted. For example, in the first dry land flora--the Devonian--we have representatives
of the Filices, Equisetaceæ, and Lycopodiaceæ, all as highly specialized as their living representatives,
and exhibiting the differential characters of these closely related groups. Moreover, these
plants were even more highly organized than their existing descendants in regard to their vegetative
structure, and in some cases also in regard to their reproductive organs. So likewise the Gymnosperms
of that time show in their fossil state the same highly organized woody structure as their
living representatives.

3. Similarly, and more generally, the Dicotyledonous plants, which first appear in the Cretaceous
rocks, appear there suddenly, without any forms leading up to them--notwithstanding that "we
know very well the extensive flora of the underlying Wealden." Moreover, we have all the three
great divisions of the Dicotyledons appearing together, and so highly differentiated that all
the species are referred to existing genera, with the exception of a very few imperfectly preserved,
and therefore uncertain fragments.

Such being the facts, we may begin by noticing that, even at first sight, they present different
degrees of difficulty. Thus, I cannot see that there is much difficulty with regard to those
in class 2. Only if we were to take the popular (and very erroneous) view of organic evolution
as a process which is always and everywhere bound to promote the specialization of organic
types--only then ought we to see any real difficulty in the absence of generalized types preceding
these existing types. Of course we may wonder why still lower down in the geological series
we do not meet with more generalized (or ancestral) types; but this is the difficulty number
3, which we now proceed to examine.

Concerning the other two difficulties, then, the only possible way of meeting that as to the
absence of any parent forms lower down in the geological series is by falling back--as in the
analogous case of animals--upon the imperfection of the geological record. Although it is certainly
remarkable that we should not encounter any forms serving to connect the Dicotyledonous plants
of the Chalk with the lower forms of the underlying Wealden, we must again remember that difficulties
thus depending on the absence of any corroborative record, are by no means equivalent to what
would have arisen in the presence of an adverse record--such, for instance, as would have been
exhibited had the floras of the Wealden and the Chalk been inverted. But, as the case actually
stands, the mere fact that Dicotyledonous plants, where they first occur, are found to have
been already differentiated into their three main divisions, is in itself sufficient evidence,
on the general theory of evolution, that there must be a break in the record as hitherto known
between the Wealden and the Chalk. Nor is it easy to see how the opponents of this theory can
prove their negative by furnishing evidence to the contrary. And although such might justly
be deemed an unfair way of putting the matter, were this the only case where the geological
record is in evidence, it is not so when we remember that there are numberless other cases
where the geological record does testify to connecting links in a most satisfactory manner.
For in view of this consideration the burden of proof is thrown upon those who point to particular
cases where there is thus a conspicuous absence of transitional forms--the burden, namely,
of proving that such cases are not due merely to a break in the record. Besides, the break
in the record as regards this particular case may be apparent rather than real. For I suppose
there is no greater authority on the pure geology of the subject than Sir Charles Lyell, and
this is what he says of the particular case in question. "If the passage seem at present to
be somewhat sudden from the flora of the Lower or Neocomian to that of the Upper Cretaceous
period, the abruptness of the change will probably disappear when we are better acquainted
with the fossil vegetation of the uppermost tracts of the Neocomian and that of the lowest
strata of the Gault, or true Cretaceous series[59]."

    [59] Elements of Geology, p. 280.

Lastly, the fact of the flora of the glacial epoch not having exhibited any modifications during
the long residence of some of its specific types in Great Britain and elsewhere, is a fact
of some importance to the general theory of evolution, since it shows a higher degree of stability
on the part of these specific types than might perhaps have been expected, supposing the theory
to be true. But I do not see that this constitutes a difficulty against the theory, when we
have so many other cases of proved transmutation to set against it. For instance, not to go
further afield than this very glacial flora itself, it will be remembered that in an earlier
chapter I selected it as furnishing specially cogent proof of the transmutation of species.
What, then, is the explanation of so extraordinary a difference between Mr. Carruthers' views
and my own upon this point? I believe the explanation to be that he does not take a sufficiently
wide survey of the facts.

To begin with, it seems to me that he exaggerates the vicissitudes to which the species of
plants that he calls into evidence have been exposed while advancing before, and retreating
after, the ice. Rather do I agree with Darwin that "they would not have been exposed during
their long migrations to any great diversity of temperature; and as they all migrated in a
body together, their mutual relations will not have been much disturbed; hence, in accordance
with the principles indicated in this volume, these forms will not have been liable to much
modification[60]." But, be this matter of opinion as it may, a much better test is afforded
by those numerous cases all the world over, where arctic species have been left stranded on
alpine areas by the retreat of glaciation; because here there is no room for differences of
opinion as to a "change of environment" having taken place. Not to speak of climatic differences
between arctic and alpine stations, consider merely the changes which must have taken place
in the relations of the thus isolated species to each other, as well as to those of all the
foreign plants, insects, &c., with which they have long been thrown into close association.
If in such cases no variation or transmutation had taken place since the glacial epoch, then
indeed there would have been a difficulty of some magnitude. But, by parity of reasoning, whatever
degree of difficulty would have been thus presented is not merely discharged, but converted
into at least an equal degree of corroboration, when it is found that under such circumstances,
in whatever part of the world they have occurred, some considerable amount of variation and
transmutation has always taken place,--and this in the animals as well as in the plants. Lastly,
if instead of considering the case of alpine floras, we take the much larger case of the Old
and New World as a whole, we meet with much larger proofs of the same general facts.

    [60] Origin of Species, p. 332.

    [61] Origin of Species, p. 332.

    [62] Ibid. pp. 333-4.

In view then of all the above considerations--and especially those quoted from Darwin--it appears
to me that far from raising any difficulty against the theory of evolution, the facts adduced
by Mr. Carruthers make in favour of it. For when once these facts are taken in connection with
the others above mentioned, they serve to complete the correspondence between degrees of modification
with degrees of time on the one hand, and with degrees of evolution, of change of environment,
&c., on the other. Or, in the words of Le Conte, when dealing with this very subject, "It is
impossible to conceive a more beautiful illustration of the principles we have been trying
to enforce[63]."

    [63] Evolution and its Relation to Religious Thought, p. 194.

NOTE A TO PAGE 257.

The passages in Dr. Whewell's writings, to which allusion is here made,
are somewhat too long to be quoted in the text. But as I think they
deserved to be given, I will here reprint a letter which I wrote to
Nature in March, 1888. (Life and Lectures of Charles Darwin,
     vol. ii, p. 195).

     And again, in the article Science, supplied to The Reign of
     Queen Victoria, he says:--

     "Whewell had not the slightest suspicion of Darwin's main theorem,
     even as a logical possibility" (p 365).

     Now, although it is true that no indication of such a logical
     possibility is to be met with in the History of the Inductive
     Sciences, there are several passages in the Bridgewater Treatise
     which show a glimmering idea of such a possibility. Of these the
     following are, perhaps, worth quoting. Speaking of the adaptation
     of the period of flowering to the length of a year, he says:--

     "Now such an adjustment must surely be accepted as a proof of
     design, exercised in the formation of the world. Why should the
     solar year be so long and no longer? or, this being such a length,
     why should the vegetable cycle be exactly of the same length? Can
     this be chance?... And, if not by chance, how otherwise could such
     a coincidence occur than by an intentional adjustment of these two
     things to one another; by a selection of such an organization in
     plants as would fit them to the earth on which they were to grow;
     by an adaptation of construction to conditions; of the scale of
     construction to the scale of conditions? It cannot be accepted as
     an explanation of this fact in the economy of plants, that it is
     necessary to their existence; that no plants could possibly have
     subsisted, and come down to us, except those which were thus
     suited to their place on the earth. This is true; but it does not
     at all remove the necessity of recurring to design as the origin of
     the construction by which the existence and continuance of plants
     is made possible. A watch could not go unless there were the most
     exact adjustment in the forms and positions of its wheels; yet no
     one would accept it as an explanation of the origin of such forms
     and positions that the watch would not go if these were other than
     they were. If the objector were to suppose that plants were
     originally fitted to years of various lengths, and that such only
     have survived to the present time as had a cycle of a length equal
     to our present year, or one which could be accommodated to it, we
     should reply that the assumption is too gratuitous and extravagant
     to require much consideration."

     Again, with regard to "the diurnal period," he adds:--

     "Any supposition that the astronomical cycle has occasioned the
     physiological one, that the structure of plants has been brought to
     be what it is by the action of external causes, or that such plants
     as could not accommodate themselves to the existing day have
     perished, would be not only an arbitrary and baseless assumption,
     but, moreover, useless for the purposes of explanation which it
     professes, as we have noticed of a similar supposition with respect
     to the annual cycle."

     Of course these passages in no way make against Mr. Huxley's
     allusions to Dr. Whewell's writings in proof that, until the
     publication of the Origin of Species, the "main theorem" of this
     work had not dawned on any other mind, save that of Mr. Wallace.
     But these passages show, even more emphatically than total silence
     with regard to the principle of survival could have done, the real
     distance which at that time separated the minds of thinking men
     from all that was wrapped up in this principle. For they show that
     Dr. Whewell, even after he had obtained a glimpse of the principle
     "as a logical possibility," only saw in it an "arbitrary and
     baseless assumption." Moreover, the passages show a remarkable
     juxtaposition of the very terms in which the theory of natural
     selection was afterwards formulated. Indeed, if we strike out the
     one word "intentional" (which conveys the preconceived idea of the
     writer, and thus prevented him from doing justice to any
     naturalistic view), all the following parts of the above quotations
     might be supposed to have been written by a Darwinian. Was there ever a more
     curious exhibition of failure to perceive the importance of a
     "logical possibility"? And this at the very time when another mind
     was bestowing twenty years of labour on its "consideration."

NOTE B TO PAGE 295.

Since these remarks were delivered in my lectures as here printed, Mr. Mivart has alluded to
the subject in the following and precisely opposite sense:--

     Many of the more noteworthy instincts lead us from manifestations
     of purpose directed to the maintenance of the individual, to no
     less plain manifestations of a purpose directed to the preservation
     of the race. But a careful study of the interrelations and
     interdependencies which exist between the various orders of
     creatures inhabiting this planet shows us yet a more noteworthy
     teleology--the existence of whole orders of such creatures being
     directed to the service of other orders in various degrees of
     subordination and augmentation respectively. This study reveals to
     us, as a fact, the enchainment of all the various orders of
     creatures in a hierarchy of activities, in harmony with what we
     might expect to find in a world the outcome of a First Cause
     possessed of intelligence and will[64].

     [64] On Truth, p. 493.

Having read this much, a Darwinian is naturally led to expect that Mr. Mivart is about to offer
some examples of instincts or structures exemplifying what in the margin he calls the "Hierarchy
of Ministrations." Yet the only facts he proceeds to adduce are the sufficiently obvious facts,
that the inorganic world existed before the organic, plants before herbivorous animals, these
before carnivorous, and so on: that is to say, everywhere the conditions to the occurrence
of any given stage of evolution preceded such occurrence, as it is obvious that they must,
if, as of course it is not denied, the possibility of such occurrence depended on the precedence
of such conditions. Now, it is surely obvious that such a "hierarchy of ministrations" as this,
far from telling against the theory of natural selection, is the very thing which tells most
in its favour. The fact that animals, for instance, only appeared upon the earth after there
were plants for them to feed upon, is clearly a necessity of the case, whether or not there
was any design in the matter. Such "ministrations," therefore, as plant-organisms yield to
animal-organisms is just the kind of ministration that the theory of natural selection requires.
Thus far, then, both the theories--natural selection and super-natural design--have an equal
right to appropriate the facts. But now, if in no one instance can it be shown that the ministration
of plant-life to animal-life is of such a kind as to subserve the interests of animal-life
without at the same time subserving those of the plant-life itself, then the fact makes wholly
in favour of the naturalistic explanation of such ministration as appears. If any plants had
presented any characters pointing prospectively to needs of animals without primarily ministering
to their own, then, indeed, there would have been no room for the theory of natural selection.
But as this can nowhere be alleged, the theory of natural selection finds all the facts to
be exactly as it requires them to be: such ministration as plants yield to animals becomes
so much evidence of natural selection having slowly formed the animals to appropriate the nutrition
which the plants had previously gathered--and gathered under the previous influence of natural
selection acting on themselves entirely for their own sakes. So far as any argument from such
"enchainment" reaches, it makes entirely against the view which Mr. Mivart is advocating. In
point of fact, there is a total absence of any such "ministration" by one "order of creatures"
to the needs of any other order, as the beneficent design theory would necessarily expect;
while such ministration as actually does obtain is exactly and universally the kind which the
naturalistic theory requires.

Again, quite independently, and still more recently, Mr. Mivart alluded in Nature (vol. xli,
p. 41) to the difficulty which the apparently exceptional case of gall-formation presents to
the theory of natural selection. Therefore I supplied (vol. xli, p. 80) the suggestion given
in the text, viz. that although it appears impossible that the sometimes remarkably elaborate
and adaptive structures of galls can be due to natural selection acting directly on the plants
themselves--seeing that the adaptation has reference to the needs of their parasites--it is
quite possible that the phenomena may be due to natural selection acting indirectly on the
plants, by always preserving those individual insects (and larvae) the character of whose secretions
is such as will best induce the particular shapes of galls that are required. Several other
correspondents took part in the discussion, and most of them accepted the above explanation.
Mr. T. D. A. Cockerell, however, advanced another and very ingenious hypothesis, showing that
there is certainly one conceivable way in which natural selection might have produced all the
phenomena of gall-formation by acting directly on the plants themselves[65]. Subsequently Mr.
Cockerell published another paper upon the subject, stating his views at greater length. The
following is the substance of his theory as there presented:--

     [65] Nature, vol. xli, p. 344.

     Doubtless there were internal plant-feeding larvae before there
     were galls: and, indeed, we have geological evidence that boring
     insects date very far back indeed. The primitive internal feeders,
     then, were miners in the roots, stems, twigs, or leaves, such as
     occur very commonly at the present day. These miners are
     excessively harmful to plant-life, and form a class of the most
     destructive insect-pests known to the farmer: they frequently cause
     the death of the whole or part of the plant attacked. Now, we may
     suppose that the secretions of certain of these insects caused a
     swelling to appear where the larvae lived, and on this excrescence
     the larvae fed. It is easy to see that the greater the excrescence,
     and the greater the tendency of the larvae to feed upon it, instead
     of destroying the vital tissues, the smaller is the amount of harm
     to the plant. Now the continued life and vitality of the plant is
     beneficial to the larvae, and the larger or more perfect the gall,
     the greater the amount of available food. Hence natural selection
     will have preserved and accumulated the gall-forming tendencies, as
     not only beneficial to the larvae, but as a means whereby the
     larvae can feed with least harm to the plant. So far from being
     developed for the exclusive benefit of the larvae, it is easy to
     see that, allowing a tendency to gall-formation, natural selection
     would have developed galls exclusively for the benefit of the
     plants, so that they might suffer a minimum of harm from the
     unavoidable attacks of insects.

     But here it may be questioned--have we proof that internal feeders
     tend to form galls? In answer to this I would point out that
     gall-formation is a peculiar feature, and cannot be expected to
     arise in every group of internal feeders. But I think we can afford
     sufficient proof that wherever it has arisen it has been preserved;
     and further, that even the highly complex forms of galls are
     evolved from forms so simple that we hesitate to call them galls at
     all[66].

     [66] Entomologist, March, 1890.

The paper then proceeds to give a number of individual cases. No doubt the principal objection
to which Mr. Cockerell's hypothesis is open is one that was pointed out by Herr Wetterhan,
viz. "the much greater facility afforded to the indirect action through insects, by the enormously
more rapid succession of generations with the latter than with many of their vegetable hosts--oaks
above all[67]." This difficulty, however, Mr. Cockerell believes maybe surmounted by the consideration
that a growing plant need not be regarded as a single individual, but rather as an assemblage
of such[68].

    [67] Nature, vol. xli, p. 394.

    [68] Ibid. vol. xli, pp. 559-560.

NOTE C TO PAGE 394.

The only remarks that Mr. Wallace has to offer on the pattern of colours, as distinguished
from a mere brilliancy of colour, are added as an afterthought suggested to him by the late
Mr. Alfred Tylor's book on Colouration of Animals and Plants (1886). But, in the first place,
it appears to me that Mr. Wallace has formed an altogether extravagant estimate of the value
of this work. For the object of the work is to show, "that diversified colouration follows
the chief lines of structure, and changes at points, such as the joints, where function changes."
Now, in publishing this generalization, Mr. Tylor--who was not a naturalist--took only a very
limited view of the facts. When applied to the animal kingdom as a whole, the theory is worthless;
and even within the limits of mammals, birds, and insects--which are the classes to which Mr.
Tylor mainly applies it--there are vastly more facts to negative than to support it. This may
be at once made apparent by the following brief quotation from Prof. Lloyd Morgan:--

     It can hardly be maintained that the theory affords us any adequate
     explanation of the specific colour-tints of the humming-birds, or
     the pheasants, or the Papilionidae among butterflies. If, as Mr.
     Wallace argues, the immense tufts of golden plumage in the bird of
     paradise owe their origin to the fact that they are attached just
     above the point where the arteries and nerves for the supply of the
     pectoral muscles leave the interior of the body--and the
     physiological rationale is not altogether obvious,--are there no
     other birds in which similar arteries and nerves are found in a
     similar position? Why have these no similar tufts? And why, in the
     birds of paradise themselves, does it require four years ere these
     nervous and arterial influences take effect upon the plumage?
     Finally, one would inquire how the colour is determined and held
     constant in each species. The difficulty of the Tylor-Wallace view,
     even as a matter of origin, is especially great in those numerous
     cases in which the colour is determined by delicate lines, thin
     plates, or thin films of air or fluid. Mr. Poulton, who takes a
     similar line of argument in his Colours of Animals (p. 326), lays
     special stress on the production of white (pp. 201-202).

As regards the latter point, it may be noticed that not in any part of his writings, so far
as I can find, does Mr. Wallace allude to the highly important fact of colours in animals being
so largely due to these purely physical causes. Everywhere he argues as if colours were universally
due to pigments; and in my opinion this unaccountable oversight is the gravest defect in Mr.
Wallace's treatment both of the facts and the philosophy of colouration in the animal kingdom.
For instance, as regards the particular case of sexual colouration, the oversight has prevented
him from perceiving that his theory of "brilliancy" as due to "a surplus of vital energy,"
is not so much as logically possible in what must constitute at least one good half of the
facts to which he applies it--unless he shows that there is some connection between vital energy
and the development of striations, imprisonment of air-bubbles, &c. But any such connection--so
essentially important for his theory--he does not even attempt to show. Lastly, and quite apart
from these remarkable oversights, even if Mr. Tylor's hypothesis were as reasonable and well-sustained
as it is fanciful and inadequate, still it could not apply to sexual colouration: it could
apply only to colouration as affected by physiological functions common to both sexes. Yet
it is in order to furnish a "preferable substitute" for Mr. Darwin's theory of sexual colouration,
that Mr. Wallace adduces the hypothesis in question as one of "great weight"! In this matter,
therefore, I entirely agree with Poulton and Lloyd Morgan.

INDEX

A.

Accident, Darwin's use of the word, 334-340;
  beauty due to, 408, 409.

Achromatin, 126-134.

Acquired characters, see Characters.

Acræa eurita, 328.

Adaptation, facts of, in relation to theory of natural selection,
    401-403, 411.

Adaptive characters, see Characters.

Æsthetic sense in animals, 380-385;
  see Beautiful.

Agassiz, Prof. A., on fauna of the Mammoth cave, 70.

Alpine plants, 209, 210, 440-442.

Amauris niavius, 328.

Amblyornis inornata, 381-383.

Amphioxus, 137, 138, 145, 146.

Analogy, 38, 50-65, 176, 177, 347-350.

Anthropoid, see Apes.

Antlers, 98-100, 167-169.

Ants, co-operative instincts of, 268;
  leaf-cutting, 332;
  keeping aphides, 292.

Ape, eye of, 75;
  appendix vermiformis of, 84-86.

Apes, ears of, compared with those of man, 88;
  muscles of, 77, 82, 83;
  feet of, 77, 78;
  tail of, compared with that of man, 82-84;
  hair of, compared with that of man, 89-91;
  teeth of, compared with those of man, 92-94;
  flattening of tibiæ of, 95, 96.

Aphides, 292.

Appendix vermiformis of man compared with that of orang, 84-86.

Apteryx, 68, 69.

Archæopteryx, 171-173.

Arctic plants, 209, 210, 440-442.

Argyll, Duke of, on natural selection, 334-362.

Aristotle, his idea of scientific method, 1;
  on classification, 23, 24.

Arm, distribution of hair on, in man and apes, 89-92.

Arthropoda, embryology of, 155.

Artificial selection, analogy of, to natural selection, 295-314;
  pictorial representations of products of, 298-312.

Artiodactyls, 182-191.

Association, principle of, in æsthetics, 404-407.

Aster, 129-133.

Attraction-spheres, 128, 132, 133.

Australia, fauna of, 204, 205;
  thriving of exotic species in, 286;
  portrait of wild dog of, 304.

Azores, 224, 225.

B.

Bacon, Lord, on scientific method, 2.

Balanoglossus, 147, 148.

Baptanodon discus, posterior limb of, 179-181.

Barriers, in relation to geographical distribution, 216-224.

Bats, 56, 224, 226, 240.

Battle, law of, 385, 386.

Baya-bird, 381.

Bear, skeleton of, 174;
  feet of, 178.

Beautiful, the, sense of, in animals, 380-385;
  standards of, 380-404;
  Darwin's explanation of, in organic nature, 379-411;
  facts of, in inorganic nature in relation to Darwin's theory of, in
      organic, 404;
  often determined by natural selection, 406, 407;
  absent in many plants and animals, 408;
  in nature often accidental, 409-411;
  does not exist in organic nature as an end per se, 410, 411.

Bees, co-operative instincts of, 268.

Beetles, wingless, 68-70;
  on oceanic islands, 224, 226, 229, 232.

Bell, Dr., on natural theology, 412.

Bell-bird, 396-398.

Bembidium, 233.

Bermudas, 225-227.

Biology, ideas of method in, 1-9.

Birds, ovum of, 124;
  embryology of, 151-155;
  paleontology of, 163-165, 172, 173;
  brain of, 194-197;
  as carriers of seed, eggs, and small organisms, 217, 218;
  distribution of, 224-240;
  æsthetic sense of, 380-385;
  courtship of, 380-385.

Birgus latro, 62-65.

Blood, colour of arterial, 409.

Boar, see Pig.

Bombus lapidarius, 331.

Bower-birds, play-houses of, 381-383.

Boyd-Dawkins, on flattening of early human tibiæ, 96.

Brain, palæontology of, 194-197.

British Isles, see Islands.

Broca, 363.

Bronn, 363.

Budding, see Germination.

Burdon-Sanderson, Prof., on electric organ of skate, 366.

Butler, Bishop, on argument from ignorance, 41.

Butterflies, defensive colouring of, 321-329.

C.

Cæsalpino, on classification, 24.

Calf, embryology of, 153.

Camel, foot of, 187-191.

Canadian stag, 196, 198, 199.

Canaries, portraits of, 303;
  first mentioned by Gesner, 312, 313.

Cape de Verde Archipelagoes, fauna of, 228.

Carcharias melanopterus, 149.

Carruthers, on evolution, 436-442.

Caterpillars, colours and forms of, 319, 322-326.

Cattle, portraits of, 311.

Causation, natural, 402, 413, 414.

Caves, faunas of dark, 70-72.

Cell, physiological, and properties of the, 104-134.

Cerura vinula, 325, 326.

Cervalces Americanus, 196, 198, 199.

Cervus dicrocerus, issiodorensis, matheronis, pardinensis,
    Sedgwickii, tetraceros, 168.

Chalmers, Dr., on natural theology, 412.

Chameleons, 317.

Characters, as adaptive, 273-276, 286-293, 349;
  as specific, 274-276, 286-295;
  as congenital and acquired, 274-276.

Chasmorhynchus niveus, and C. tricarunculatus, 396-398.

Chelydra serpentina, anterior limb of, 179-181.

Chick, embryology of, 153.

Chimpanzee, see Apes.

Chlorophyll, 408.

Chondracanthus cornutus, 122.

Cirripedes, 430.

Classification, 23-49;
  of organic nature by Genesis and Leviticus, 23;
  artificial and natural, 24-26;
  empirical rules of, 33-40;
  Darwin on, 35, 36, 39,40;
  form of, a nexus or tree, 29-32;
  of organic forms like that of languages, 32;
  single characters in relation to, 37;
  aggregates of characters in relation to, 35-37;
  adaptive and non-adaptive characters in relation to, 34, 35, 38, 39;
  chains of affinities in relation to, 39-40;
  biological differs from astronomical, 43.

Cockerell, on vegetable galls, 447, 448.

Colours, of plants and animals in relation to the theory of natural
      selection, 317-332;
  in relation to the theory of sexual selection, 391, 392, 394-396,
      408-410, 448-450.

Colouring, see Recognition marks, Protective, Seasonal, Warning, and
    Mimicry.

Congenital characters, see Characters.

Conjugation, of Protozoa, 115-117.

Continuity, principle of, in nature, 15-21.

Contrivance, Darwin's use of the word, 281.

Co-operation, mutual, of species alleged, 445-448.

Co-operative instincts, due to natural selection, 267, 269.

Cope, Professor, his table of geological formations, 163, 164;
  his table of palæontological development of feet, vertebral column, and
      brain, 197.

Correlation of growth, 357-362.

Cossonidæ, 233.

Courtship, see Sexual Selection.

Crabs, 62-65, 139.

Cuttle-fish, 317.

Cuvier, on method in natural history, 3-4;
  on monkeys, 429.

Cyst, see Encystation.

D.

Darwin, Charles, his influence on ideas of method, 1-9;
  on classification, 35, 36, 39, 40;
  on vestigial characters in man, 77, 86, 87, 92;
  on imperfection of geological record, 165, and Appendix;
  on means of dispersal, 216, 218;
  on geographical distribution, 218, 219;
  on fauna of the Galapagos Archipelago, 227, 228;
  on natural selection, 252, 253, 255, 256, 286, 375, 376;
  his use of such words as 'accident,' 'fortuitous,' 'purpose,'
      'contrivance,' &c., 281, 334-340;
  on sexual selection, 379-400.

Darwin, Erasmus, his theory of evolution, 253.

De Blainville, on the theory of descent, 258.

De Candolle, on classification, 34.

Deer, 98, 99, 167-169, 187, 191, 196, 198, 199.

Degeneration, 269, 270, 342.

Delamination, 139.

Diadema euryta, 330.

Diaster, 129-133.

Dingo, see Dog.

Dinornis, 60, 61.

Diptera mimicking Hymenoptera, 329.

Dog, dentition of, 39;
  Dingo, 304;
  domesticated varieties of, 305, 307;
  hairless, 307;
  skulls of, 307.

Duck, logger-headed, 68.

Dugong, eye of, 75.

E.

Eagle, eye of, 75.

Ear, of whales, 65;
  vestigial features of human, 76, 86-89;
  of man and apes compared, 88.

Eaton, Rev. A. E., on wingless insects, 70.

Echinodermata, 125-127, 138, 155.

Ectoderm, 137-142.

Egg, see Ovum.

Eimer, 363.

Elaps fulvius imitated by non-venomous snakes, 330.

Electric organs, 365-373.

Elephant, foot of, 185, 186;
  rate of propagation of, 261, 262.

Elk, 196-198, 199.

Embryo, human, see Man.

Embryogeny, see Ontogeny.

Embryology, 98-155.

Embryos, comparative series of, 152, 153.

Encyclopædia Britannica, eighth ed., on instinct, 289-291.

Encystation of Protozoa, 115.

Endoderm, 137-142.

Equatorial plate, 129.

Equus, see Horse.

Erythrolamprus venustissimus, 330.

Evolution, organic, fact of, Section I;
  Method of, Section II;
  ideas upon, prior to Darwin, 253-258;
  divergent, 266, 267.

Ewart, Professor Cossar, on electric organ of skate, 364, 367.

Existence, see Struggle for.

Eye, of octopus, 57, 58, 347-350;
  absence of, in dark cave animals, 70-72;
  nictitating membrane of, 74, 75;
  development of, from cutaneous nerve-ending, 352-354.

F.

Feet, 51-59, 66, 77-80, 174-192, 197.

Fertilization of ova, 127, 128;
  of flowers by insects, 406.

Fish, embryology of, 143-155;
  palæontology of, 163, 165, 169-171;
  brain of, 194-197;
  distribution of, 224-246;
  flying, 355.

Fission, reproduction by, 106, 107.

Flat fish, 317.

Float, see Swim-bladder.

Flowers, fertilization of, by insects, 406.

Fly, imitating a wasp, 329.

Flying-fish, and squirrels, 355.

Foraminifera, 346.

Forbes, H. O., on scapulo-coracoid bones of Dinornis, 60.

Fortuitous, Darwin's use of the word, 340.

Fossils, see Palæontology.

Frogs, 317.

G.

Galapagos Islands, 227-231, 236, 237.

Galeus, eye of, 75.

Galls, vegetable, 293-295, 446-448.

Gastræa, 137-140.

Gastrophysema, 138.

Gastrulation, 137, 140.

Gegenbaur, 147, 181.

Gemmation, reproduction by, 106, 107, 110, 111.

Generalization, 5.

Generalized types, 33.

Genesis, classification of organic nature in, 23.

Genial tubercle, 96.

Geographical distribution, 204-248;
 see Glacial period, Barriers Transport of organisms, Oceanic
     islands, &c.

Geology, record of imperfect, 156-160, and Appendix;
  see Palæontology.

Germs, prophetic, 272, 351-362.

Gesner, on classification, 24;
  on canaries, 313.

Gill-arches, 146, 147, 150, 151.

Gill-slits, 146, 147, 150-153.

Gills, of young salamanders, 102;
  origin of, in embryo, 144;
  of fish, 150, 152.

Giraffe, neck of, in relation to Lamarck's theory, 254.

Glacial periods, effects of, on distribution of plants and animals,
    209, 210, and Appendix.

Goose, Frizzled, portrait of, 304.

Gorilla, see Apes.

Gray, Professor Asa, 337

Great-toe, in man and apes, 79-81.

Grouse, 317-319

Growth, correlation of, 357, 362.

Gymnotus, 365, 367.

H.

Häckel, on analogy between species and languages, 32;
  on reproduction as discontinuous growth, 105, 106;
  his ideal primitive vertebrate, 143, 144.

Hair, vestigial characters of, in man, 89-92.

Hales, 3.

Haller, 3.

Hamilton, Sir William, 272.

Hands, 51-55, 66, 80-82, 174-192.

Hare, 318, 319.

Hartmann, on flattening of early human tibiæ, 96.

Harvey, on Lord Bacon's writings, 2.

Heart, development of, 154.

Heilprin, on skulls of deer, 198, 199;
  on fossil shells, 201, 202.

Hen, ovum of, 122.

Heredity, in relation to classification, 28-31;
  in relation to embryology, 98-102;
  chromatin-fibres in relation to, 134;
  in relation to theories of organic evolution, 253-255, 260-264, 377.

Hermit-crabs, 62-65, 288, 289.

Heteromera, 233.

Hilgendorf, on shells of Planorbis, 201.

Hipparion, 191, 192.

Hippopotamus, foot of, 187.

Hog, see Pig.

Homology, 38, 50-65, 176, 177, 347-350, 357-359.

Homopterous insect, imitating leaf-cutting ants, 331, 332.

Hooker, Sir Joseph, on flora of St. Helena, 234.

Horns, 98-100, 167-169.

Horse, eye of, 75;
  limb-bones of, 176, 177, 186, 188-192;
  teeth of, 189-191;
  portraits of domesticated breeds of, 309.

Human, see Man.

Humerus, perforations of, in quadrumana and man, 94, 95.

Humming-birds, restricted to the New World, 211.

Hunter, 3;
  on ear of whale, 65.

Huxley, Prof., on mechanical selection, 283;
  on age of the earth, 435, 436;
  on Dr. Whewell, 243.

Hyatt, on shells of Planorbis, 201.

Hydra, 111, 122.

Hyrax, foot of, 185, 186.

I.

Ignorance, argument from, 41, 42, 49.

Illative Sense, 6.

Imitative colours, 317-323, 326-332.

Infant, feet of, 78, 79;
  grasping power of, 81.

Infertility, inter-specific, in relation to natural selection, 374-376.

Insects, wingless, 68-70;
  in primary formations, 163, Appendix;
  on oceanic islands, 224-238;
  in relation to galls, 293-295, 446-448;
  defensive colouring of, 321-332;
  fertilizing flowers, 406.

Instincts, always of primary use to species presenting them, 286-293.

Intercrossing, in relation to natural selection, 374-376.

Inutility of specific characters, in relation to natural selection,
    374-376.

Islands, oceanic, 224-237;
  British, 238-241.

J.

Japan, hairless dog of, 101.

Jelly-fish, 119, 120.

K.

Kallima, 323.

Karyokinesis, 112-114, 128-134.

Kepler, 272.

Kerguelen Island, flightless insects of, 70.

Kropotkin, Prince, on co-operative instincts, 269.

L.

Lagopus mutus, 317, 318.

Lamarck, his method in natural history, 4;
  his theory of evolution, 253-256.

Lamprey, 148.

Languages, classification of, resembles that of organic forms, 32.

Lankester, E. Ray, on karyokinesis, 129, 130.

Leaf insect, 322.

Le Conte, on geological succession of animal classes, 164, 165;
  on types of tails, 169-173;
  on fossil shells of Planorbis, 201;
  his work on the relation of the theory of evolution to religious
      thought, 412.

Leptalis, 328.

Leuculmis echinus, 122.

Leviticus, classification of organic nature in, 23.

Life, origin of, 15.

Linnæus, on method in natural history, 3;
  on classification, 26, 35-40.

Lion, skeleton of, 175;
  feet of, 178.

Lizard, heart and gill-arches of, 150.

Lloyd Morgan, 273, 449, 450.

Lungs, development of, 154, 354.

Lyell, Sir Charles, on classification, 32;
  on uniformitarianism, 258;
  on rational species, 344;
  on geological record, 420, 435, 439.

M.

Madeira, wingless beetles of, 68-70;
  peculiar beetles of, 226, 227.

Mammals, ovum of, 120-124;
  embryology of, 151-155;
  palæontology of, 163, 165, 167, 180-199;
  limbs of, 174-178, 182-199;
  brain of, 194-199;
  of Australia and New Zealand, 204, 205;
  distribution of, on islands, 224-240.

Mammoth cave, fauna of, 70-72.

Man, nictitating membrane of, 75;
  vestigial muscles of, 76, 77, 82, 83;
  tail of, compared with that of apes, 82-84;
  hair of, compared with that of apes, 89-92;
  teeth of, compared with those of apes, 92-94;
  perforation of humerus of, 94, 95;
  flattening of ancient tibiæ of, 95, 96;
  embryology of, 119, 153;
  hand of, 54;
  arm of, 90, 91;
  limb-bones of, 176, 177;
  palæontology of, 163, 165;
  brain of, 194, 195;
  Mr. Syme on, 346, 347.

Marsh, on palæontology of the horse, 188-190.

Matthew, Patrick, on natural selection, 257.

Mesoderm, 142.

Mesohippus, 189, 192.

Metaphyta, 104, 105.

Metazoa, 104.

Method, ideas of, in natural history, 1-9;
  of organic evolution, 252-261.

Meyer, Professor Ludwig, on helix of the human ear, 86.

Mimicry, 320-322.

Ministration, mutual, of species alleged, 445, 446.

Miohippus, 189.

Mivart, St. George, on eye of octopus, 57, 58, 348, 349;
  on incipient organs, 362;
  on mutual ministration of species, 445, 446.

Mollusca, shells of, 19, 199-203;
  eye of, 57, 58;
  embryology of, 155;
  palæontology of, 163, 165.

Monkeys, why all, do not become men, 342-344.

Monotremata, 205.

Morgan, see Lloyd Morgan.

Morphology, 50-97.

Mule, portrait of, 309.

Multicellular organisms, 104.

Multiplication, see Reproduction.

N.

Nägeli, Prof., 337, 367.

Natural History, ideas of method in, 1-9.

Natural, interpretations as opposed to super-natural, 13-15;
  causation, 13-15.

Natural selection, 252-378, 401-410;
  Wells, Matthew, and Whewell on, 257, 258, 443-445;
  statement of theory of, 256-284;
    of evidences of, 285-332;
    of criticisms of, 333-378;
  relation of theory of, to religious thought, 401-410;
  preserves types, 264-267;
  cessation and reversal of, 270, 342;
  errors touching theory of, 270-284, 332-364;
  definition of, 275-376;
  antecedent standing of theory of, 277-284;
  Prof. Owen on, 333, 334;
  Duke of Argyll on, 334-362;
  Mr. Syme on, 340, 341, 345;
  need not always make for improvement, 341-347;
  homology and analogy in relation to, 347-350;
  often determines beauty, 406, 407;
  in relation to the formation of galls, 293-295. 446-448.

Nature, organic, 17;
  inorganic, 1, 17, 18.

Nauplius, 138.

Neumayr, 19.

New Zealand, fauna of, 68, 204, 205;
  thriving of exotic species in, 286.

Newman, on the Illative Sense, 6.

Newton, his idea of scientific method, 6.

Nictitating membrane, 74, 75.

Notochord, 146.

Novum Organon, the, on scientific method, 2.

Nucleus, 105, 112-134.

Nucleus-spindle, 129.

Nut-hatch, Syrian, ornamented nests of, 381.

O.

Objective methods, 6.

Oceanic islands, see Islands.

Octopus, eye of, 57, 58, 348-350.

[OE]dicnemus crepitans, 320.

Ontogeny, as recapitulation of phylogeny, 98-104.

Orang Outang, see Apes.

Oredon Culbertsoni, 167.

Origin of Species, the, influence exercised by, on ideas of method, 1-9

Orohippus, 189.

Otaria, eye of, 75.

Ovum, 113-142;
  human, 120-133;
  amoeboid movements of young, 121-123;
  segmentation of, 134, 135.

Owen, on ear of whale, 65;
  on natural selection, 333, 334.

Owl, eye of, 75.

P.

Paddle, see Whale, and Baptanodon discus.

Pagurus bernhardus, 64.

Pain, in relation to the theory of evolution, 417.

Palæontology, 159-203;
  general testimony of, 156-165;
  testimony of, in particular cases, 165-203;
  consideration of objections to theory of evolution founded on grounds
      of, 156-165, and Appendix.

Palæotherium, 190, 191.

Paley, on natural theology, 98, 412.

Paludina, successive forms of, 19.

Panama, Isthmus of, 219.

Panniculus carnosis, 77.

Papilio merope, 330.

Parasites, of animals, devoid of beauty, 408.

Parsimony, law of, 272.

Parthenogenesis, 119.

Partridges, 319.

Peacock, tail of, 378;
  courtship of, 383.

Peckham, Mr. and Mrs., on courtship of spiders, 388-390.

Perissodactyls, 182-192.

Petromyzon marinus, 148.

Phenacodus primævus, 184, 185.

Phylogeny, see Ontogeny.

Physiological selection, 376.

Pig, embryology of, 153;
  feet of, 176, 187;
  portraits of wild and domesticated, 312.

Pigeons, portraits of, 298, 299;
  feather-footed, 359.

Pilot fish, 289.

Planorbis, transmutations of, 200, 201.

Pleasure and pain, in relation to the theory of evolution, 417.

Plica semilunaris, 75.

Pliohippus, 189.

Polar bear, skeleton of, 174;
  feet of, 178.

Polar bodies, 125, 126.

Polar star, 129.

Polyps, 114.

Porpoises, 24, 25, 50.

Poulton, E. B., on warning colours, 325, 326;
  on mimicry, 331, 332;
  sexual selection, 400, 401, 449, 450.

Poultry, portraits of, 300-302.

Pronucleus, 126-128.

Prophetic types, 272, 351-362.

Prophysema primordiale, 140.

Protective colouring, 317-323.

Protohippus, 189.

Protozoa, 104.

Ptarmigan, 317, 318.

Pterodactyl, wing of, 56.

Purpose, Darwin's use of the word, 281, 340.

Puss moth, larva of, 325, 326.

Python, 66, 67.

Q.

Quadrumana, muscles of, 76, 82, 83;
  perforations of humeri of, 94, 95;
  hair on phalanges of, 91.

R.

Rabbit, embryology of, 153;
  multiplication of, in Australia, 286;
  portraits of wild and domesticated breeds of, 308;
  protective colouring of, 319, 320.

Radiate form, beauty of, 408, 409.

Raia radiata, and batis, 367-371.

Rats, species of, restricted to Old and New Worlds, 212;
  British and Norwegian, 285, 286.

Rattle-snake, tail of, 289.

Recognition marks, 271-273.

Religion, in relation to Darwinism, 401-418.

Reproduction, different methods of, 106-117;
  essence of sexual, 110;
  foreshadowing of sexual in unicellular organisms, 115-117.

Reptiles, wing of flying, 56;
  rudimentary limbs of, 67;
  nictitating membrane of, 75;
  branchial arches of, 150;
  embryology of, 152;
  palæontology of, 163, 165, 178-180;
  brain of, 194-197;
  distribution of, 224-240.

Rhinoceros, foot of, 186.

Robinson, Dr L., on grasping power of an infant's hands, 80-82.

Rudimentary organs, 65-97.

Ruminants, palæontology of, 167, 168.

S.

Sacrum of man, compared with that of apes, 82-84.

Sagitta, 138.

Salamander, young of terrestrial, living in water, 102;
  embryology of, 152.

Sandwich Islands, 234-237.

Science, method of, 1-9.

Sclater, W. L., on a case of mimicry, 331, 332.

Scorpion in Silurian formation, 163.

Sea, lamprey, 148;
  destructive agency of the, 423, 424.

Seal, 51, 52, 75.

Seasonal changes of colour, 317-319.

Selection, value, 275;
  by physical processes, 282, 283, 335. See also Natural selection,
      Artificial selection, Sexual selection, Physiological selection.

Sentiency, in relation to the theory of evolution, 417.

Sex, difference of, restricted to Metazoa and Metaphyta, 105.

Sexual reproduction, see Reproduction.

Sexual selection, theory of, 277, 378-410;
  statement and evidences of, 379-391;
  criticisms of, 391-400;
  includes law of battle with that of charming, 385, 386;
  in relation to religious thought, 411-418;
  Tylor's theory substituted for, by Wallace, 449, 450.

Shark, eye of, 75;
  man-eating, 149;
  and pilot-fish, 289.

Sheep, limb-bones of, 176, 177;
  portraits of, 310.

Shells, of crabs, 62-64;
  palæontology of mollusks, 199-203;
  land on oceanic islands, 224-240.

Silliman's Journal, on fauna of the Mammoth Cave, 70.

Skate, electric organ of, 364-373.

Skull, palæontology of, 194-199;
  of bull-dog compared with that of deer-hound, 307.

Slavonia, Tertiary deposits of, 18, 19.

Species, not eternal, but either created or evolved, 13;
  named as such through absence of intermediate forms, 18-20;
  groups of, in classification, 20,
    and appearing suddenly in geological formations, 427-432, 437-440;
  origin of, coincide in space and time with pre-existing and allied
      species, 22;
  geographical distribution of, 204-248;
  extinct and living allied on same areas, 213;
  life of, preserved by natural selection, 264-270;
  not room for more than one rational, 344;
  characters of, 274-276, 286-295, 374-376;
  inter-sterility of allied, 374-376;
  mutual ministration of alleged, 445, 446.

Specific characters, see Characters.

Speculation, method of, 3-9.

Spencer, Herbert, on reproduction as discontinuous growth, 105, 106;
  on use-inheritance, 253-256;
  his failure to conceive the idea of natural selection, 257.

Spermatozoa, 123, 126-128.

Spiders, in primary formations, 163;
  courtship of, 388, 389.

Sponges, 122, 139, 140.

Spontaneous, Darwin's use of the term, 340.

Spores, 115.

Squirrels, flying, 355.

Sterility, see Infertility.

St. Helena, 231-234, 236-237.

St. Hilaire, 4.

Stick-insect, 322.

Stoat, 318.

Strombus accipilrinus, 201.

Strombus Leidy, 201.

Struggle for existence, 259-270.

Subjective, methods, 6.

Survival of the fittest, 335. See also Natural selection.

Swim-bladder of fish, 154, 354.

Symbiosis, 269.

Syme, David, on the theory of natural selection, 340, 341.

T.

Tail, types of, in fish and birds, 169-173.

Tasmanian wolf, dentition of, 39.

Teeth, of Tasmanian wolf, 39;
  molar, of man, compared with those of apes, 92-94;
  palæontology of horses', 189-191.

Temperature, sense of, probable origin of that of sight, 353, 354.

Tennyson, 266.

Tibiæ, flattening of, 95, 96.

Tissue-cells, see Cell.

Toes, 79, 80; see also Feet.

Tomes, C. S., on molar teeth of man and apes, 94.

Torpedo, 365, 367.

Tortoise, embryology of, 152, 154.

Toxopneustes variegatus, and T. lividus, 122.

Transport of organisms, means of, 207, 216-218.

Tribal fitness, as distinguished from individual, 267-269.

Trout, ovum of, 122.

Turtle, eye of, 75.

Tylor, Alfred, on colouration of animals, 448-450.

Type, preserved by natural selection, 264-269;
  improvement of, by natural selection, 269, 270;
  prophetic, 272, 351-362.

Types, as simple and generalized, 33.

U.

Unicellular organisms, 104.

Uraster, 138.

Utility, of specific characters, 274, 275;
  of incipient characters, 351-363;
  of electric organs, 365-373.

V.

Variation, in relation to natural selection, 263, 335-340, 377.

Verification, 6-9.

Vertebral column, embryology of 145, 146;
  palæontology of, 192, 193.

Vertebrated animal, ideal primitive, 143, 144;
  embryology of, 143, 155.

Vespa vulgaris, 331.

Vestigial organs, 65-97.

Volucella inans, and V. bombylans, 329.

W.

Wagner, Moritz, on geographical distribution, 216.

Wallace, A. R., on origin of species as coincident in time and space
    with pre-existing and allied species, 22;
  on wingless insects, 70;
  on absence of hair from human back, and function of on arms of
      orang, 89;
  on geographical distribution, 207, 231, 232, 233, 243;
  on natural selection, 256;
  on recognition marks, 271-273;
  on alleged deductive consequences of the natural selection theory,
      273-276;
  his theory of warning colours, 323, 324;
  on sexual selection, 391-400, 450;
  his principal defect in treating of animal colouration, 449, 450.

Warning colours, 323-326.

Wasp, imitated by a fly, 329.

Water-cress, multiplication of, in New Zealand, 286.

Weevils, on St. Helena, 232.

Weismann, his theory of heredity, 130, 134.

Wells, Dr., on natural selection, 257.

Wetterhan, Prof., on vegetable galls, 448.

Whales, 38, 50, 53, 54, 65, 180.

Whewell, on natural selection, 257, 258, 443-445.

Wings, 54-56, 60, 61, 68-70, 355.

Wolf, Tasmanian, dentition of, 34.

Wood, John, on vestigial muscles in man, 77.

Woodward, on fossil cirripedes, 431.

Woolner, on the human ear, 86.

Worms, embryology of, 155.

Wyman, Prof., on the great toe of human embryo, 79, 80.

Z.

Zona pellucida, 121.

  +--------------------------------------------------------------+
  |                                                              |
  |                Transcriber’s Notes and Errata                |
  |                                                              |
  | The following words were found in both hyphenated and        |
  | unhyphenated forms in the text. The number of instances is   |
  | given in parentheses after each word.                        |
  |                                                              |
  |          |deer-hound (2)      |deerhound (1)      |          |
  |          |fresh-water (13)    |freshwater (1)     |          |
  |          |inter-relations (1) |interrelations (1) |          |
  |          |re-action (1)       |reaction (1)       |          |
  |          |sea-weed (7)        |seaweed (1)        |          |
  |          |super-natural (2)   |supernatural (24)  |          |
  |          |wood-cut (3)        |woodcut (3)        |          |
  |          |wood-cuts (4)       |woodcuts (1)       |          |
  |                                                              |
  | There were 9 instances of 'larvae' and 3 instances of        |
  | 'larvæ'.                                                     |
  |                                                              |
  | The following typographical errors were corrected:           |
  |                                                              |
  |                  |Error      |Correction  |                  |
  |                  |           |            |                  |
  |                  |arboresent |arborescent |                  |
  |                  |the        |The         |                  |
  |                  |dicussion  |discussion  |                  |
  |                                                              |
  | In the index, the page entry for "Lyell, Sir Charles ... on  |
  | geological record" was changed from '420' to '422'.          |
  |                                                              |
  | Also, the page entry for "Natural selection ... definition   |
  | of" was changed from '275-376' to '275-276'.                 |
  +--------------------------------------------------------------+

