JOURNALS OF EXPEDITIONS OF DISCOVERY INTO CENTRAL AUSTRALIA AND OVERLAND FROM ADELAIDE TO KING
GEORGE'S SOUND IN THE YEARS 1840-1: SENT BY THE COLONISTS OF SOUTH AUSTRALIA, WITH THE SANCTION
AND SUPPORT OF THE GOVERNMENT: INCLUDING AN ACCOUNT OF THE MANNERS AND CUSTOMS OF THE ABORIGINES
AND THE STATE OF THEIR RELATIONS WITH EUROPEANS.

by EYRE, EDWARD JOHN (1815-1901)

TO LIEUT.-COLONEL GEORGE GAWLER, K.H. M.R.G.S. UNDER WHOSE AUSPICES, AS GOVERNOR OF SOUTH AUSTRALIA,
THE EXPEDITIONS, DESCRIBED IN THE FOLLOWING PAGES, WERE UNDERTAKEN, THESE VOLUMES ARE RESPECTFULLY
INSCRIBED, AS A TRIBUTE OF GRATITUDE FOR HIS KINDNESS AND RESPECT FOR HIS VIRTUES, BY THE AUTHOR.

PREFACE.

In offering to the public an account of Expeditions of Discovery in Australia, undertaken in
the years 1840-1, and completed in July of the latter year, some apology may be deemed necessary
for this narrative not having sooner appeared, or perhaps even for its being now published at all.

With respect to the first, the author would remark that soon after his return to South Australia
upon the close of the Expeditions, and when contemplating an immediate return to England, he
was invited by the Governor of the Colony to remain, and undertake the task of re-establishing
peace and amicable relations with the numerous native tribes of the Murray River, and its neighbourhood,
whose daring and successful outrages in 1841, had caused very great losses to, and created
serious apprehensions among the Colonists.

Hoping that his personal knowledge of and extensive practical experience among the Aborigines
might prove serviceable in an employment of this nature, the author consented to undertake
it; and from the close of September 1841, until December 1844, was unremittingly occupied with
the duties it entailed. It was consequently not in his power to attend to the publication of
his travels earlier, nor indeed can he regret a delay, which by the facilities it afforded
him of acquiring a more intimate knowledge of the character and habits of the Aborigines, has
enabled him to render that portion of his work which relates to them more comprehensive and
satisfactory than it otherwise would have been.

With respect to the second point, or the reasons which have led to this work being published
at all, the author would observe that he has been led to engage in it rather from a sense of
duty, and at the instance of many of his friends, than from any wish of his own. The greater
portion of the country he explored was of so sterile and worthless a description, and the circumstances
which an attempt to cross such a desert region led to, were of so distressing a character,
that he would not willingly have revived associations, so unsatisfactory and so painful.

It has been his fate, however, to cross, during the course of his explorations, a far greater
extent of country than any Australian traveller had ever done previously, and as a very large
portion of this had never before been trodden by the foot of civilized man, and from its nature
is never likely to be so invaded again, it became a duty to record the knowledge which was
thus obtained, for the information of future travellers and as a guide to the scientific world
in their inquiries into the character and formation of so singular and interesting a country.

To enable the reader to judge of the author's capabilities for the task he undertook, and of
the degree of confidence that may be due to his impressions or opinions, it may not be out
of place to state, that the Expeditions of 1840--1 were not entered upon without a sufficient
previous and practical experience in exploring.

For eight years the author had been resident in Australia, during which he had visited many
of the located parts of New South Wales, Port Phillip, South Australia, Western Australia,
and Van Diemen's Land. In the years 1836, 1837, 1838, 1839, and 1840 he had conducted expeditions
across from Liverpool Plains in New South Wales to the county of Murray, from Sydney to Port
Phillip, from Port Phillip to Adelaide, and from King George's Sound to Swan River, besides
undertaking several explorations towards the interior, both from Port Lincoln and from Adelaide.

To the knowledge and experience which were thus acquired, the author must ascribe the confidence
and good opinion of his fellow-colonists, which led them in 1840 to place under his command
an undertaking of such importance, interest, and responsibility; and to these advantages he
feels that he is in a great measure indebted, under God's blessing, for having been enabled
successfully to struggle through the difficulties and dangers which beset him, in crossing
from Adelaide to King George's Sound.

With this explanation for obtruding upon the public, the author would also solicit their indulgence,
for the manner in which the task has been performed. The only merit to which he can lay claim,
is that of having faithfully described what he saw, and the impressions which were produced
upon him at the time. In other respects it is feared that a work, which was entirely (and consequently
very hastily) prepared for the press from the original notes, whilst voyaging from Australia
to England, must necessarily be crude and imperfect. Where the principal object, however, was
rather to record with accuracy than indulge in theory or conjecture, and where a simple statement
of occurrences has been more attended to than the language in which they are narrated, plainness
and fidelity will, it is hoped, be considered as some compensation for the absence of the embellishments
of a more finished style, or a studied composition, and especially as the uncertainty attending
the duration of the author's visit to England made it a matter of anxious consideration to
hurry these volumes through the press as rapidly as possible. There is one circumstance to
which he wishes particularly to allude, as accounting for the very scanty notices he is now
able to give of the geology or botany of the country through which he travelled; it is the
loss of all the specimens that were collected during the earlier part of the Expedition, which
occurred after they had been sent to Adelaide; this loss has been irreparable, and has not
only prevented him from ascertaining points about which he was dubious, but has entirely precluded
him from having the subjects considered, or the specimens classified and arranged by gentlemen
of scientific acquirements in those departments of knowledge, in which the author is conscious
he is himself defective. In the latter part of the Expedition, or from Fowler's Bay to King
George's Sound, the dreadful nature of the country, and the difficulties and disasters to which
this led, made it quite impossible either to make collections of any kind, or to examine the
country beyond the immediate line of route; still it is hoped that the passing notices which
are made in the journal, and the knowledge of the similarity of appearance and uniform character,
prevalent throughout the greater portion of the country passed through, will be quite sufficient
to give a general and correct impression of the whole.

To Mr. Gray of the British Museum, the author is particularly indebted for his valuable contribution
on the Natural History of the Southern coast of Australia, and to Mr. Gould, the celebrated
Ornithologist, his thanks are equally due, for a classified and most interesting list of the
birds belonging to the same portion of the continent.

To Mr. Adam White, of the British Museum, he is also indebted for an account of some new insects,
and to Dr. Richardson, for a scientific and classified arrangement of fish caught on the Southern
coast, near King George's Sound. The plates to which the numbers refer in the last-mentioned
paper, are the admirable drawings made from life, by J. Neill, Esq. of King George's Sound,
and now lodged at the British Museum. They are, however, both too numerous and too large to
give in a work of this description, and will probably be published at some future time by their
talented author.

For the account given of the Aborigines the author deems it unnecessary to offer any apology;
a long experience among them, and an intimate knowledge of their character, habits, and position
with regard to Europeans, have induced in him a deep interest on behalf of a people, who are
fast fading away before the progress of a civilization, which ought only to have added to their
improvement and prosperity. Gladly would the author wish to see attention awakened on their
behalf, and an effort at least made to stay the torrent which is overwhelming them.

It is most lamentable to think that the progress and prosperity of one race should conduce
to the downfal and decay of another; it is still more so to observe the apathy and indifference
with which this result is contemplated by mankind in general, and which either leads to no
investigation being made as to the cause of this desolating influence, or if it is, terminates,
to use the language of the Count Strzelecki, "in the inquiry, like an inquest of the one race
upon the corpse of the other, ending for the most part with the verdict of 'died by the visitation
of God.'"

In his attempt to delineate the actual circumstances and position of the natives, and the just
claims they have upon public sympathy and benevolence, he has been necessitated to refer largely
to the testimony of others, but in doing this he has endeavoured as far as practicable, to
support the views he has taken by the writings or opinions of those who are, or who have been
resident in the Colonies, and who might therefore be supposed from a practical acquaintance
with the subject, to be most competent to arrive at just conclusions.

In suggesting the only remedy which appears at all calculated to mitigate the evil complained
of, it has studiously been kept in view that there are the interests of two classes to be provided
for, those of the Settlers, and those of the Aborigines, it is thought that these interests
cannot with advantage be separated, and it is hoped that it may be found practicable to blend
them together.

The Aborigines of New Holland are not on the whole a numerous people; they are generally of
a very inoffensive and tractable character, and it is believed that they may, under ordinary
circumstances, almost always be rendered peaceable and well-disposed by kind and consistent
treatment. Should this, in reality, prove to be the case, it may be found perhaps, that they
could be more easily managed, and in the long run at a less expense, by some such system as
is recommended, than by any other requiring means of a more retaliatory or coercive character.
The system proposed is at least one which by removing in a great measure temptation from the
native, and thereby affording comparative security to the settlers, will have a powerful effect
in inducing the latter to unite with the Government in any efforts made to ameliorate the condition
of the Aborigines; a union which under present or past systems has not ever taken place, but
one which it is very essential should be effected, if any permanent good is hoped for.

To Mr. Moorhouse the author returns his best thanks for his valuable notes on the Aborigines,
to which he is indebted for the opportunity of giving an account of many of the customs and
habits of the Adelaide tribes.

To Anthony Forster, Esq. he offers his warmest acknowledgments for his assistance in overlooking
the manuscripts during the voyage from Australia, and correcting many errors which necessarily
resulted from the hurried manner in which they were prepared; it is to this kind supervision
must be ascribed the merit--negative though it may be--of there not being more errors than
there are.

CONTENTS OF VOLUME II.

CHAPTER I. THE CAMP PLUNDERED--NIGHT OF HORRORS--PROCEED ON TO THE WESTWARD--THE BOYS FOLLOW
US--THEY ARE LEFT BEHIND--FORCED MARCHES--DESERT COUNTRY--BANKSIAS MET WITH--TRACES OF NATIVES--TERMINATION
OF THE CLIFFS--FIND WATER

CHAPTER II. REFLECTIONS UPON SITUATION--WATCH FOR THE ARRIVAL OF THE NATIVE BOYS--THEIR PROBABLE
FATE--PROCEED ON THE JOURNEY--FACILITY OF OBTAINING WATER--KILL A HORSE FOR FOOD--SILVER-BARK
TEA-TREE--INTENSE COLD--FIRST HILLS SEEN--GOOD GRASS--APPETITE OF A NATIVE--INJURIOUS EFFECTS
OF UNWHOLESOME DIET--CHANGE IN THE CHARACTER OF THE COUNTRY--GRANITE FORMS THE LOW WATER LEVEL--TREE
WASHED ON SHORE--INDISPOSITION

CHAPTER III. HEAVY ROAD--A YOUNG KANGAROO SHOT--GRASSY COUNTRY--POINT MALCOLM--TRACES OF ITS
HAVING BEEN VISITED BY EUROPEANS--GRASS-TREES MET WITH--A KANGAROO KILLED--CATCH FISH--GET
ANOTHER KANGAROO--CRAB HUNTING--RENEW THE JOURNEY--CASUARINAE MET WITH--CROSS THE LEVEL BANK--LOW
COUNTRY BEHIND IT--CAPE ARID--SALT WATER CREEK--XAMIA SEEN--CABBAGE TREE OF THE SOUND--FRESH
WATER LAKE--MORE SALT STREAMS--OPOSSUMS CAUGHT--FLAG REEDS FOUND--FRESH WATER STREAMS--BOATS
SEEN--MEET WITH A WHALER

CHAPTER IV. GO ON BOARD THE MISSISSIPPI--WET WEATHER--VISIT LUCKY BAY--INTERVIEW WITH NATIVES--WYLIE
UNDERSTANDS THEIR LANGUAGE--GET THE HORSES SHOD--PREPARE TO LEAVE THE VESSEL--KINDNESS AND
LIBERALITY OF CAPTAIN ROSSITER--RENEW JOURNEY TO THE WESTWARD--FOSSIL FORMATION STILL CONTINUES--SALT
WATER STREAMS AND LAKES--A LARGE SALT RIVER--CHARACTER OF THE COUNTRY

CHAPTER V. LARGE WATERCOURSE--LAKE OF FRESH WATER--HEAVY RAINS--REACH MOUNT BARREN--SALT LAKES
AND STREAMS--BARREN SCRUBBY COUNTRY--RANGES BEHIND KING GEORGE'S SOUND ARE SEEN--BRACKISH PONDS--PASS
CAPE RICHE--A LARGE SALT RIVER--CHAINS OF PONDS--GOOD LAND--HEAVILY TIMBERED COUNTRY--COLD
WEATHER--FRESH LAKE--THE CANDIUP RIVER--KING'S RIVER--EXCESSIVE RAINS--ARRIVAL AT KING GEORGE'S
SOUND, AND TERMINATION OF THE EXPEDITION--RECEPTION OF WYLIE BY THE NATIVES

CHAPTER VI. CONCLUDING REMARKS

MANNERS AND CUSTOMS OF THE ABORIGINES OF AUSTRALIA.

CHAPTER I. PRELIMINARY REMARKS--UNJUST OPINIONS GENERALLY ENTERTAINED OF THE CHARACTER OF THE
NATIVE--DIFFICULTIES AND DISADVANTAGES HE LABOURS UNDER IN HIS RELATIONS WITH EUROPEANS--AGGRESSIONS
AND INJURIES ON THE PART OF THE LATTER IN GREAT DEGREE EXTENUATE HIS CRIMES

CHAPTER II. PHYSICAL APPEARANCE--DRESS--CHARACTER--HABITS OF LIFE--MEETINGS OF TRIBES--WARS--DANCES--SONGS

CHAPTER III. FOOD--HOW PROCURED--HOW PREPARED--LIMITATION AS TO AGE, etc.

CHAPTER IV. PROPERTY IN LAND--DWELLINGS--WEAPONS--IMPLEMENTS--GOVERNMENT--CUSTOMS--SOCIAL RELATIONS--MARRIAGE--NOMENCLATURE

CHAPTER V. CEREMONIES AND SUPERSTITIONS--FORMS OF BURIAL--MOURNING CUSTOMS--RELIGIOUS IDEAS--EMPIRICS,
etc.

CHAPTER VI. NUMBERS--DISEASES--CAUSE OF LIMITED POPULATION--CRIMES AGAINST EUROPEANS--AMONGST
THEMSELVES--TREATMENT OF EACH OTHER IN DISTRIBUTION OF FOOD, etc.

CHAPTER VII. LANGUAGE, DIALECTS, CUSTOMS, etc.--GENERAL SIMILARITY THROUGHOUT THE CONTINENT--CAUSES
OF DIFFERENCES--ROUTE BY WHICH THE NATIVES HAVE OVERSPREAD THE COUNTRY, etc.

CHAPTER VIII. EFFECTS OF CONTACT WITH EUROPEANS--ATTEMPTS AT IMPROVEMENT AND CIVILIZATION--ACCOUNT
OF SCHOOLS--DEFECTS OF THE SYSTEM

CHAPTER IX. SUGGESTIONS FOR IMPROVEMENT OF SYSTEM ADOPTED TOWARDS THE NATIVES

* * * * *

EXPLANATION OF THE PLATES OF NATIVE ORNAMENTS, WEAPONS, IMPLEMENTS, AND WORKS OF INDUSTRY

LIST OF PLATES.--VOL. II.

Distribution of flour at Moorunde, G. Hamilton Arrival at King George's Sound, J. Neill Plate
I.--Native Ornaments Kangaroo Dance of King George's Sound, J. Neill Woodcut of a Standard
used in the Dances performed by day Plate II. Native Weapons Plate III. Native Weapons Plate
IV. Native Implements Plate V. Native Works of Industry Mode of disposing of the Dead of the
Lower Murray Murray River at Moorunde Plate VI. Miscellaneous Native Articles 1. Head of war
spear of the North Coast, barbed for 3 feet, total length 9 1/2 feet. 2. Head of fish spear
of the North Coast, barbed for 18 inches, total length 8 3/4 feet. 2. 4. Head of war spear
of the North Coast, with head of quartz, 6 inches, total length 9 1/2 feet. 5. 6. Two handed
sword of hard wood, North Coast, 3 1/2 feet. 7. Throwing stick of North Coast, 3 feet 1 inch.
8. Throwing stick of North Coast, very pliant, 3-16ths of an inch only thick, 3 feet 6 inches.
9. Broad short throwing stick, 2 feet 2 inches. 10. An ornament of feathers for the neck. 11.
Five Kangaroo teeth in a bunch, worn round the neck. 12. A net waistband or belt, from Murray
River, 8 feet long 6 inches wide. 13. Plume of feathers tied to thin wand, and stuck in the
hair at dances--New South Wales. 14. War club. 15. War club. 16. Bag of close net work. 17.
Band for forehead of Swan's down. 18. Root end of a kind of grass, used as pins for pegging
out skins. 19. Sorcerer's stick. 20. Sorcerer's stick.

VOLUME II

JOURNAL OF EXPEDITIONS IN CENTRAL AND SOUTHERN AUSTRALIA, IN 1840-1.

Glancing hastily around the camp I found it deserted by the two younger native boys, whilst
the scattered fragments of our baggage, which I left carefully piled under the oilskin, lay
thrown about in wild disorder, and at once revealed the cause of the harrowing scene before me.

Upon raising the body of my faithful, but illfated follower, I found that he was beyond all
human aid; he had been shot through the left breast with a ball, the last convulsions of death
were upon him, and he expired almost immediately after our arrival. The frightful, the appalling
truth now burst upon me, that I was alone in the desert. He who had faithfully served me for
many years, who had followed my fortunes in adversity and in prosperity, who had accompanied
me in all my wanderings, and whose attachment to me had been his sole inducement to remain
with me in this last, and to him alas, fatal journey, was now no more. For an instant, I was
almost tempted to wish that it had been my own fate instead of his. The horrors of my situation
glared upon me in such startling reality, as for an instant almost to paralyse the mind.

With such thoughts rapidly passing through my mind, I turned to search for my double-barelled
gun, which I had left covered with an oilskin at the head of my own break wind. It was gone,
as was also the double-barelled gun that had belonged to the overseer. These were the only
weapons at the time that were in serviceable condition, for though there were a brace of pistols
they had been packed away, as there were no cartridges for them, and my rifle was useless,
from having a ball sticking fast in the breech, and which we had in vain endeavoured to extract.
A few days' previous to our leaving the last water, the overseer had attempted to wash out
the rifle not knowing it was loaded, and the consequence was, that the powder became wetted
and partly washed away, so that we could neither fire it off, nor get out the ball; I was,
therefore, temporarily defenceless, and quite at the mercy of the natives, had they at this
time come upon me. Having hastily ripped open the bag in which the pistols had been sewn up,
I got them out, together with my powder flask, and a bag containing a little shot and some
large balls. The rifle I found where it had been left, but the ramrod had been taken out by
the boys to load my double-barelled gun with, its own ramrod being too short for that purpose;
I found it, however, together with several loose cartridges, lying about near the place where
the boys had slept, so that it was evident they had deliberately loaded the fire-arms before
they tried to move away with the things they had stolen; one barrel only of my gun had been
previously loaded, and I believe neither barrels in that of the overseer.

After obtaining possession of all the remaining arms, useless as they were at the moment, with
some ammunition, I made no further examination then, but hurried away from the fearful scene,
accompanied by the King George's Sound native, to search for the horses, knowing that if they
got away now, no chance whatever would remain of saving our lives. Already the wretched animals
had wandered to a considerable distance; and although the night was moonlight, yet the belts
of scrub, intersecting the plains, were so numerous and dense, that for a long time we could
not find them; having succeeded in doing so at last, Wylie and I remained with them, watching
them during the remainder of the night; but they were very restless, and gave us a great deal
of trouble. With an aching heart, and in most painful reflections, I passed this dreadful night.
Every moment appeared to be protracted to an hour, and it seemed as if the daylight would never
appear. About midnight the wind ceased, and the weather became bitterly cold and frosty. I
had nothing on but a shirt and a pair of trowsers, and suffered most acutely from the cold;
to mental anguish was now added intense bodily pain. Suffering and distress had well nigh overwhelmed
me, and life seemed hardly worth the effort necessary to prolong it. Ages can never efface
the horrors of this single night, nor would the wealth of the world ever tempt me to go through
similar ones again.

April 30.--At last, by God's blessing, daylight dawned once more, but sad and heart-rending
was the scene it presented to my view, upon driving the horses to what had been our last night's
camp. The corpse of my poor companion lay extended on the ground, with the eyes open, but cold
and glazed in death. The same stern resolution, and fearless open look, which had characterized
him when living, stamped the expression of his countenance even now. He had fallen upon his
breast four or five yards from where he had been sleeping, and was dressed only in his shirt.
In all probability, the noise made by the natives, in plundering the camp, had awoke him; and
upon his jumping up, with a view of stopping them, they had fired upon and killed him.

Around the camp lay scattered the harness of the horses, and the remains of the stores that
had been the temptation to this fatal deed.

As soon as the horses were caught, and secured, I left Wylie to make a fire, whilst I proceeded
to examine into the state of our baggage, that I might decide upon our future proceedings.
Among the principal things carried off by the natives, were, the whole of our baked bread,
amounting to twenty pounds weight, some mutton, tea and sugar, the overseer's tobacco and pipes,
a one gallon keg full of water, some clothes, two double-barrelled guns, some ammunition, and
a few other small articles.

There were still left forty pounds of flour, a little tea and sugar, and four gallons of water,
besides the arms and ammunition I had secured last night.

From the state of our horses, and the dreadful circumstances we were placed in, I was now obliged
to abandon every thing but the bare necessaries of life. The few books and instruments I had
still left, with many of the specimens I had collected, a saddle, and some other things, were
thrown aside to lighten somewhat more the trifling loads our animals had to carry. A little
bread was then baked, and I endeavoured once more to put the rifle in serviceable condition,
as it was the only weapon we should have to depend upon in any dangers that might beset us.
Unable in any way to take out the breech, or to extract the ball, I determined to melt it out,
and for that purpose took the barrel off the stock, and put the breech in the fire, holding
the muzzle in my hand. Whilst thus engaged, the rifle went off, the ball whizzing close past
my head; the fire, it seems, had dried the powder, which had been wetted, not washed out; and
when the barrel was sufficiently heated, the piece had gone off, to the imminent danger of
my life, from the incautious way in which I held it. The gun, however, was again serviceable;
and after carefully loading it, I felt a degree of confidence and security I had before been
a stranger to.

At eight o'clock we were ready to proceed; there remained but to perform the last sad offices
of humanity towards him, whose career had been cut short in so untimely a manner. This duty
was rendered even more than ordinarily painful, by the nature of the country, where we happened
to have been encamped. We were some miles away from the sea-shore, and even had we been nearer,
could not have got down the cliffs to bury the corpse in the sand. I could only, therefore,
wrap a blanket around the body of the overseer, and leaving it enshrouded where he fell, escape
from the melancholy scene, accompanied by Wylie, under the influence of feelings which neither
time nor circumstances will ever obliterate. A life time was crowded into those few short hours,
and death alone may blot out the impressions they produced.

For some time we travelled slowly and silently onwards. Wylie preceding, leading one of the
horses, myself following behind and driving the others after him, through a country consisting
still of the same alternations of scrub and open intervals as before. The day became very warm,
and at eleven, after travelling ten miles to the west, I determined to halt until the cool
of the evening. After baking some bread and getting our dinners, I questioned Wylie as to what
he knew of the sad occurrence of yesterday. He positively denied all knowledge of it--said
he had been asleep, and was awoke by the report of the gun, and that upon seeing the overseer
lying on the ground he ran off to meet me. He admitted, however, that, after the unsuccessful
attempt to leave us, and proceed alone to King George's Sound, the elder of the other two natives
had proposed to him again to quit the party, and try to go back to Fowler's Bay, to the provisions
buried there. But he had heard or knew nothing, he said, of either robbery or murder being
first contemplated.

My own impression was, that Wylie had agreed with the other two to rob the camp and leave us;--that
he had been cognisant of all their proceedings and preparations, but that when, upon the eve
of their departure, the overseer had unexpectedly awoke and been murdered, he was shocked and
frightened at the deed, and instead of accompanying them, had run down to meet me. My opinion
upon this point received additional confirmation from the subsequent events of this day; but
I never could get Wylie to admit even the slightest knowledge of the fatal occurrence, or that
he had even intended to have united with them in plundering the camp and deserting. He had
now become truly alarmed; and independently of the fear of the consequences which would attach
to the crime, should we ever reach a civilized community again, he had become very apprehensive
that the other natives, who belonged to quite a different part of Australia to himself, and
who spoke a totally different language, would murder him as unhesitatingly as they had done
the white man.

We remained in camp until four o'clock, and were again preparing to advance, when my attention
was called by Wylie to two white objects among the scrub, at no great distance from us, and
I at once recognized the native boys, covered with their blankets only, and advancing towards
us. From Wylie's account of their proposal to go back towards Fowler's Bay, I fully hoped that
they had taken that direction, and left us to pursue our way to the Sound unmolested. I was
therefore surprised, and somewhat alarmed, at finding them so near us. With my rifle and pistols
I felt myself sufficiently a match for them in an open country, or by daylight. Yet I knew
that as long as they followed like bloodhounds on our tracks our lives would be in their power
at any moment that they chose to take them, whilst we were passing through a scrubby country,
or by night. Whatever their intention might be, I knew, that if we travelled in the same direction
with them, our lives could only be safe by their destruction. Although they had taken fully
one-third of the whole stock of our provisions, their appetites were so ravenous, and their
habits so improvident, that this would soon be consumed, and then they must either starve or
plunder us; for they had already tried to subsist themselves in the bush, and had failed.

As these impressions rapidly passed through my mind, there appeared to me but one resource
left, to save my own life and that of the native with me: that was, to shoot the elder of the
two. Painful as this would be, I saw no other alternative, if they still persisted in following
us. After packing up our few things, and putting them upon the horses, I gave the bridles to
Wylie to hold, whilst I advanced alone with my rifle towards the two natives. They were now
tolerably near, each carrying a double-barrelled gun, which was pointed towards me, elevated
across the left arm and held by the right hand. As I attempted to approach nearer they gradually
retreated.

Finding that I was not likely to gain ground upon them in this way, I threw down my weapons,
and advanced unarmed, hoping that if they let me near them I might suddenly close with the
eldest and wrest his gun from him. After advancing about sixty or seventy yards towards them,
I found that they again began to retreat, evidently determined not to let me approach any nearer,
either armed or unarmed. Upon this I halted, and endeavoured to enter into parley with them,
with a view to persuading them to return towards Fowler's Bay, and thus obviate the painful
necessity I should have been under of endeavouring, for my own security, to take away the life
of the eldest whenever I met with him, should they still persist in going the same road as
myself. The distance we were apart was almost too great for parley, and I know not whether
they heard me or not; though they halted, and appeared to listen, they did not reply to what
I said, and plainly wished to avoid all closer contact. They now began to call incessantly
to Wylie, and in answer to my repeated efforts to get them to speak to me, only would say,
"Oh massa, we don't want you, we want Wylie." Thus fully confirming me in the opinion I had
formed, that Wylie had agreed to go with them before the deed of violence was committed. It
was now apparent to me that their only present object in following us had been to look for
Wylie, and get him to join them. In this they were unsuccessful; for he still remained quietly
where I left him holding the horses, and evidently afraid to go near them. There was no use
wasting further time, as I could not get them to listen to me. The sun, too, was fast sinking
in the horizon, we had been four days without finding water, and the probability was we had
very far still to go before we could hope to procure any; every moment, therefore, was precious.

Having returned to Wylie, I made him lead one of the horses in advance, and I followed behind,
driving the rest after him, according to the system of march I had adopted in the morning.
As soon as the two natives saw us moving on, and found Wylie did not join them, they set up
a wild and plaintive cry, still following along the brush parallel to our line of route, and
never ceasing in their importunities to Wylie, until the denseness of the scrub, and the closing
in of night, concealed us from each other.

I was now resolved to make the most of the opportunity afforded me, and by travelling steadily
onwards, to gain so much distance in advance of the two natives as to preclude the possibility
of their again overtaking us until we had reached the water, if indeed we were ever destined
to reach water again. I knew that they would never travel more than a few miles before lying
down, especially if carrying all the bread they had taken, the keg of water, guns, and other
articles. We had, however, seen none of these things with them, except the fire-arms.

Our road was over scrubby and stony undulations, with patches of dry grass here and there;
in other parts, we passed over a very sandy soil of a red colour, and overrun by immense tufts
of prickly grass (spinifex), many of which were three and four yards in diameter. After pushing
on for eighteen miles, I felt satisfied we had left the natives far behind, and finding a patch
of grass for the horses, halted for the remainder of the night. It was quite impossible, after
all we had gone through, to think of watching the horses, and my only means of preventing from
them straying, was to close the chains of their hobbles so tight, that they could not go far;
having thus secured them, we lay down, and for a few hours enjoyed uninterrupted and refreshing
sleep.

Moving on again on the 1st of May, as the sun was above the horizon, we passed through a continuation
of the same kind of country, for sixteen miles, and then halted for a few hours during the
heat of the day. We had passed many recent traces of natives both yesterday and to-day, who
appeared to be travelling to the westward. After dividing a pot of tea between us, we again
pushed on for twelve miles, completing a stage of twenty-eight miles, and halting, with a little
dry grass for the horses.

It was impossible they could endure this much longer, they had already been five days without
water, and I did not expect to meet with any for two days more, a period which I did not think
they could survive. As yet no very great change had taken place in the country; it was still
scrubby and rocky, but the surface stone now consisted of a cream-coloured limestone of a fine
compact character, and full of shells. The cliffs, parallel with which we were travelling,
were still of about the same height, appearance, and formation as before, whilst the inland
country increased in elevation, forming scrubby ridges to the back, with a few open grassy
patches here and there. One circumstance in our route to-day cheered me greatly, and led me
shortly to expect some important and decisive change in the character and formation of the
country. It was the appearance for the first time of the Banksia, a shrub which I had never
before found to the westward of Spencer's Gulf, but which I knew to abound in the vicinity
of King George's Sound, and that description of country generally. Those only who have looked
out with the eagerness and anxiety of a person in my situation, to note any change in the vegetation
or physical appearance of a country, can appreciate the degree of satisfaction with which I
recognised and welcomed the first appearance of the Banksia. Isolated as it was amidst the
scrub, and insignificant as the stunted specimens were that I first met with, they led to an
inference that I could not be mistaken in, and added, in a tenfold degree, to the interest
and expectation with which every mile of our route had now become invested. During the day
the weather had been again cloudy, with the appearance of rain; but the night turned out cold
and frosty, and both I and the native suffered extremely. We had little to protect us from
the severity of the season, never being able to procure firewood of a description that would
keep burning long at once, so that between cold and fatigue, we were rarely able to get more
than a few moments rest at a time; and were always glad when daylight dawned to cheer us, although
it only aroused us to the renewal of our unceasing toil.

May 2.--We again moved away at dawn, through a country which gradually become more scrubby,
hilly, and sandy. The horses crawled on for twenty-one miles, when I halted for an hour to
rest, and to have a little tea from our now scanty stock of water. The change which I had noticed
yesterday in the vegetation of the country, was greater and more cheering every mile we went,
although as yet the country itself was as desolate and inhospitable as ever. The smaller Banksias
now abounded, whilst the Banksia grandis, and many other shrubs common at King George's Sound,
were frequently met with. The natives, whose tracks we had so frequently met with, taking the
same course as ourselves to the westward, seemed now to be behind us; during the morning we
had passed many freshly lit fires, but the people themselves remained concealed; we had now
lost all traces of them, and the country seemed untrodden and untenanted. In the course of
our journey this morning, we met with many holes in the sheets of limestone, which occasionally
coated the surface of the ground; in these holes the natives appeared to procure an abundance
of water after rains, but it was so long since any had fallen, that all were dry and empty
now. In one deep hole only, did we find the least trace of moisture; this had at the bottom
of it, perhaps a couple of wine glasses full of mud and water, and was most carefully blocked
up from the birds with huge stones: it had evidently been visited by natives, not an hour before
we arrived at it, but I suspect they were as much disappointed as we were, upon rolling away
all the stones to find nothing in it.

After our scanty meal, we again moved onwards, but the road became so scrubby and rocky, or
so sandy and hilly, that we could make no progress at all by night, and at eight miles from
where we dined, we were compelled to halt, after a day's journey of twenty-nine miles; but
without a blade even of withered grass for our horses, which was the more grievous, because
for the first time since we left the last water, a very heavy dew fell, and would have enabled
them to feed a little, had there been grass. We had now traversed 138 miles of country from
the last water, and according to my estimate of the distance we had to go, ought to be within
a few miles of the termination of the cliffs of the Great Bight.

May 3.--The seventh day's dawn found us early commencing our journey. The poor horses still
crawled on, though slowly. I was surprised that they were still alive, after the continued
sufferings and privations they had been subject to. As for ourselves, we were both getting
very weak and worn out, as well as lame, and it was with the greatest difficulty I could get
Wylie to move, if he once sat down. I had myself the same kind of apathetic feeling, and would
gladly have laid down and slept for ever. Nothing but a strong sense of duty prevented me from
giving way to this pleasing but fatal indulgence.

The road to-day became worse than ever, being one continued succession of sandy, scrubby and
rocky ridges, and hollows formed on the top of the cliffs along which our course lay. After
travelling two and a half miles, however, we were cheered and encouraged by the sight of sandy
hills, and a low coast stretching beyond the cliffs to the south-west, though they were still
some distance from us. At ten miles from where we had slept, a native road led us down a very
steep part of the cliffs, and we descended to the beach. The wretched horses could scarcely
move, it was with the greatest difficulty we got them down the hill, and now, although within
sight of our goal, I feared two of them would never reach it. By perseverance we still got
them slowly along, for two miles from the base of the cliffs, and then turning in among the
sand-drifts, to our great joy and relief, found a place where the natives had dug for water;
thus at twelve o'clock on the seventh day since leaving the last depot, we were again encamped
at water, after having crossed 150 miles of a rocky, barren, and scrubby table land.

Having at last got fairly beyond all the cliffs bounding the Great Bight, I fully trusted that
we had now overcome the greatest difficulties of the undertaking, and confidently hoped that
there would be no more of those fearful long journeys through the desert without water, but
that the character of the country would be changed, and so far improved as to enable us to
procure it, once at least every thirty or forty miles, if not more frequently.

Relieved from the pressure of immediate toil, and from the anxiety and suspense I had been
in on the subject of water, my mind wandered to the gap created in my little party since we
had last been at water; more than ever, almost, did I feel the loss of my overseer, now that
the last and most difficult of our forced marches had been successfully accomplished, and that
there was every hope of our progress for the future, being both less difficult and more expeditious.
How delighted he would have been had he been with us to participate in the successful termination
of a stage, which he had ever dreaded more than any other during the whole of our journey,
and with what confidence and cheerfulness he would have gone on for the future. Out of five
two only were now present; our little band had been severed never to be reunited; and I could
not but blame myself for yielding to the overseer's solicitation to halt on the evening of
the 29th April, instead of travelling on all night as I had originally intended: had I adhered
to my own judgment all might yet have been well. Vain and bootless, however, now were all regrets
for the irrecoverable past; but the present was so fraught with circumstances calculated to
recal and to make me feel more bitterly the loss I had sustained, that painful as the subject
was, the mind could not help reverting to and dwelling upon it.

Having given each of the horses a bucket of water, Wylie watched them whilst I cooked our dinner
and made some tea, after getting which we again gave the horses another bucket of water a-piece,
hobbled them out for the night, and then lay down ourselves, feeling perfectly secure from
being overtaken by the native boys. We were obliged to place ourselves close to the hole of
water to keep the horses from getting into it, as they were thirsty and restless, and kept
walking round the well nearly the whole night, and feeding very little. We ourselves, too,
although dreadfully tired and weak, were so cold and restless, that we slept but little. I
had also a large swelling on two of the joints of the second finger of the right hand, which
gave me very great pain.

May 4.--After an early breakfast we gave the horses as much water as they chose to drink, and
removing their hobbles gave them full liberty to range where they liked. I then left Wylie
to continue his slumbers, and taking my rifle, walked about three miles among the sand-drifts
to search for grass, but could find none, except the coarse vegetation that grew amongst the
sand-drifts. I found two other places where the natives got water by digging, and have no doubt
that it may be procured almost anywhere in these drifts, which extend for some miles, along
the coast. Some black cockatoos made their appearance near the sand-hills, indicating, in connection
with the change I had noticed in the vegetation, that we were now about entering a different
and less difficult country than any we had yet traversed. These birds I knew never inhabited
that description of country we had been so long travelling through. We had not seen one before,
during our whole journey, and poor Wylie was quite delighted at the idea of our vicinity to
a better region.

During the day a strict look out was kept for the other two natives, and at night, after watering
the horses and concealing the saddles, we took our provisions and arms up among the sand-hills,
and slept there at some distance from the water: that if they travelled onwards by moon-light,
they might not come upon us unawares whilst sleeping. If they had continued their route to
the westward, they would, I knew, both have a severe task to reach the water, and be unable
to go to it without our knowledge; the youngest boy I did not think would prove equal to so
arduous a task, but the elder one I thought might, if his courage and perseverance did not
fail him in travelling so far, without any indications to lead him to hope for final success,
save the fact of our having gone on before. Upon the whole, however, I thought it more than
probable that on finding they could not get Wylie to join them, and that they could not keep
pace with us, they would turn back, and endeavour to put in practice their original intention
of trying to reach Fowler's Bay. Still it was necessary to be cautious and vigilant. A few
days at most would decide whether they were advancing this way or not, and until satisfied
upon this point, I determined to take every precaution in my power to guard against a surprise.
My hand was dreadfully painful at night, and quite deprived me of all rest.

May 5.--Up before day-break, and moved down to the water to breakfast, then examined carefully
round the wells, and between the sand-drifts and the sea, to see if any foot-prints had been
made during the night, but none had. There were many pigeons about, and as I had still some
ammunition left, I felt the loss of my gun severely. During the morning a very large eagle
came and settled near us, and I sent Wylie with the rifle to try to shoot it; he crept within
a very few yards of it, and being a good shot, I felt sure of a hearty meal, but unfortunately
the rifle missed fire, having got damp during the heavy fall of dew a few evenings before.
We lost our dinner, but I received a useful lesson on the necessity of taking better care of
the only gun I had left, and being always certain that it was in a fit and serviceable state;
I immediately set to work, cleaned and oiled it, and in the afternoon made some oil-skin covers
for the lock and muzzle to keep the damp from it at nights. For the last day or two I had been
far from well, whilst my inflamed hand, which was daily getting worse, caused me most excruciating
pain, and quite destroyed my rest at nights. In the evening we again retired among the sand-hills
to sleep.

May 6.--After breakfast we carefully examined the sand-drifts and the sea-shore, to see if
the two boys had passed, but there were no traces of them to be found, and I now felt that
we were secure from all further interruption from them. Three days we had been in camp at the
water, making altogether a period of six since we last saw them. Had they continued their course
to the westward, they must have arrived long before this, and I now felt satisfied that they
had turned back to Fowler's Bay for the sake of the provisions buried there, or else they had
fallen in with the natives, whose traces we had so repeatedly seen, and either joined them,
or been killed by them.

It was now apparent to me beyond all doubt, that in following us on the 30th of April, so far
out of the direction they ought to have taken if they intended to go to the eastward, their
only object had been to get Wylie to accompany them. As he was the eldest of the three, and
a strong full grown man, they would have found him a protection to them from his superior age,
strength and skill. As it was they had but little chance of making their way safely either
to the east or west. At the time I last saw them they were sixty-three miles from the nearest
water in the former direction, and eighty-seven miles from that in the latter. They were tired
and exhausted from previous walking, and in this state would have to carry the guns, the provisions,
and other things they had taken. This would necessarily retard their progress, and lengthen
out the period which must elapse before they could obtain water in any direction. On the night
of the 29th April they must have had one gallon of water with them, but when we saw them on
the 30th, I have no doubt, that with their usual improvidence, they had consumed the whole,
and would thus have to undergo the fatigue of carrying heavy weights, as well as walking for
a protracted period, without any thing to relieve their thirst. Their difficulties and distress
would gradually but certainly increase upon them, and they would then, in all likelihood, throw
away their guns or their provisions, and be left in the desert unarmed, without food or water,
and without skill or energy to direct them successfully to search for either. A dreadful and
lingering death would in all probability terminate the scene, aggravated in all its horrors
by the consciousness that they had brought it entirely upon themselves. Painfully as I had
felt the loss of my unfortunate overseer, and shocked as I was at the ruthless deed having
been committed by these two boys, yet I could not help feeling for their sad condition, the
miseries and sufferings they would have to encounter, and the probable fate that awaited them.

The youngest of the two had been with me for four years, the eldest for two years and a half,
and both had accompanied me in all my travels during these respective periods. Now that the
first and strong impressions naturally resulting from a shock so sudden and violent as that
produced by the occurrences of the 29th April, had yielded, in some measure, to calmer reflections,
I was able maturely to weigh the whole of what had taken place, and to indulge in some considerations
in extenuation of their offence. The two boys knew themselves to be as far from King George's
Sound, as they had already travelled from Fowler's Bay. They were hungry, thirsty, and tired,
and without the prospect of satisfying fully their appetites, or obtaining rest for a long
period of time, they probably thought, that bad and inhospitable as had been the country we
had already traversed, we were daily advancing into one still more so, and that we never could
succeed in forcing a passage through it; and they might have been strengthened in this belief
by the unlucky and incautiously-expressed opinions of the overseer. It was natural enough,
under such circumstances, that they should wish to leave the party. Having come to that determination,
and knowing from previous experience, that they could not subsist upon what they could procure
for themselves in the bush, they had resolved to take with them a portion of the provisions
we had remaining, and which they might look upon, perhaps, as their share by right. Nor would
Europeans, perhaps, have acted better. In desperate circumstances men are ever apt to become
discontented and impatient of restraint, each throwing off the discipline and control he had
been subject to before, and each conceiving himself to have a right to act independently when
the question becomes one of life and death.

Having decided upon leaving the party, and stealing a portion of the provisions, their object
would be to accomplish this as effectually and as safely as they could; and in doing this,
they might, without having had the slightest intention originally, of injuring either myself
or the overseer, have taken such precautions, and made such previous arrangements as led to
the fatal tragedy which occurred. All three of the natives were well aware, that as long as
they were willing to accompany us, they would share with us whatever we had left; or that,
if resolutely bent upon leaving us, no restriction, save that of friendly advice, would be
imposed to prevent their doing so; but at the same time they were aware that we would not have
consented to divide our little stock of food for the purpose of enabling any one portion of
the party to separate from the other, but rather that we would forcibly resist any attempts
to effect such a division, either openly or by stealth. They knew that they never could succeed
in their plans openly, and that to do so by stealth effectually and safely, it would first
be necessary to secure all the fire-arms, that they might incur no risk from our being alarmed
before their purpose was completed. No opportunity had occurred to bring their intentions into
operation until the evening in question, when the scrubby nature of the country, the wildness
of the night, the overseer's sound sleeping, and my own protracted absence, at a distance with
the horses, had all conspired to favour them. I have no doubt, that they first extinguished
the fires, and then possessing themselves of the fire-arms, proceeded to plunder the baggage
and select such things as they required. In doing this they must have come across the ammunition,
and loaded the guns preparatory to their departure, but this might have been without any premeditated
intention of making use of them in the way they did. At this unhappy juncture it would seem
that the overseer must have awoke, and advanced towards them to see what was the matter, or
to put a stop to their proceedings, when they fired on him, to save themselves from being caught
in their act of plunder. That either of the two should have contemplated the committal of a
wilful, barbarous, cold-blooded murder, I cannot bring myself to believe--no object was to
be attained by it; and the fact of the overseer having been pierced through the breast, and
many yards in advance of where he had been sleeping, in a direction towards the sleeping-place
of the natives, clearly indicated that it was not until he had arisen from his sleep, and had
been closely pressing upon them, that they had fired the fatal shot. Such appeared to me to
be the most plausible and rational explanation of this melancholy affair--I would willingly
believe it to be the true one.

Wylie and I moved on in the evening, with the horses for two miles, and again pitched our camp
among the sand-drifts, at a place where the natives were in the habit of digging wells for
water, and where we procured it at a very moderate depth below the surface. Pigeons were here
in great numbers, and Wylie tried several times with the rifle to shoot them, but only killed
one, the grooved barrel not being adapted for throwing shot with effect.

At midnight we arose and moved onwards, following along the beach. I intended to have made
a long stage, as I no longer had any fears about not finding water; but at nine miles one of
the horses knocked up, and could proceed no farther, I was compelled, therefore, to turn in
among the sand-drifts, and halt at five in the morning of the 7th. We were again fortunate
in procuring water by digging only two feet under the sand-hills, which were here very high,
and were a continuation of those in which we had first found water on the 3rd. In the afternoon,
I again tried to advance upon our journey, but after proceeding only four miles, the jaded
horse was again unable to move further, and there was no alternative but to halt and search
for water. This was found among the sand-hills, but we could procure nothing but the coarse
grass growing upon the drifts for the animals to eat.

May 8.--About two hours before daylight, rain began to fall, and continued steadily though
lightly for three hours, so that enough had fallen to deposit water in the ledges or holes
of the rocks. The day was wild and stormy, and we did not start until late. Even then we could
only get the tired horse along for three miles, and were again compelled to halt. Water was
still procured, by digging under the sand-hills, but we had to sink much deeper than we had
lately found occasion to do. It was now plain, that the tired horse would never be able to
keep pace with the others, and that we must either abandon him, or proceed at a rate too slow
for the present state of our commissariat. Taking all things into consideration, it appeared
to me that it would be better to kill him at once for food, and then remain here in camp for
a time, living upon the flesh, whilst the other horses were recruiting, after which I hoped
we might again be able to advance more expeditiously. Upon making this proposal to Wylie, he
was quite delighted at the idea, and told me emphatically that he would sit up and eat the
whole night. Our decision arrived at, the sentence was soon executed. The poor animal was shot,
and Wylie and myself were soon busily employed in skinning him. Leaving me to continue this
operation, Wylie made a fire close to the carcase, and as soon as he could get at a piece of
the flesh he commenced roasting some, and continued alternately, eating, working and cooking.
After cutting off about 100 pounds of the best of the meat, and hanging it in strips upon the
trees until our departure, I handed over to Wylie the residue of the carcase, feet, entrails,
flesh, skeleton, and all, to cook and consume as he pleased, whilst we were in the neighbourhood.
Before dark he had made an oven, and roasted about twenty pounds, to feast upon during the
night. The evening set in stormy, and threatened heavy rain, but a few drops only fell. The
wind then rose very high, and raged fiercely from the south-west. At midnight it lulled, and
the night became intensely cold and frosty, and both Wylie and myself suffered severely, we
could only get small sticks for our fire, which burned out in a few minutes, and required so
frequently renewing, that we were obliged to give it up in despair, and bear the cold in the
best way we could. Wylie, during the night, made a sad and dismal groaning, and complained
of being very ill, from pain in his throat, the effect he said of having to work too hard.
I did not find that his indisposition interfered very greatly with his appetite, for nearly
every time I awoke during the night, I found him up and gnawing away at his meat, he was literally
fulfilling the promise he had made me in the evening, "By and bye, you see, Massa, me 'pta'
(eat) all night."

May 9.--The day was cold and cloudy, and we remained in camp to rest the horses, and diminish
the weight of meat, which was greater than our horses could well carry in their present state.
On getting up the horses to water them at noon, I was grieved to find the foal of my favourite
mare (which died on the 28th March) missing; how we had lost it I could not make out, but as
its tracks were not any where visible near the camp, it was evident that it had never come
there at all. In leaving our last halting place my time and attention had been so taken up
with getting the weak horse along, that I had left it entirely to Wylie to bring up the others,
and had neglected my usual precaution of counting to see if all were there before we moved
away. The little creature must have been lying down behind the sand-hills asleep, when we left,
or otherwise it would never have remained behind the others. Being very desirous not to lose
this foal, which had now accompanied me so far and got through all the worst difficulties,
I saddled the strongest of the horses, and mounting Wylie, I set off myself on foot with him
to search for it. We had not gone far from the camp, when Wylie wished me to go back, offering
to go on by himself; and as I was loth to leave our provisions and ammunition to the mercy
of any native that might chance to go that way, I acceded to his request, and delivering to
him the rifle, returned to the encampment. Wylie had pledged himself to the due execution of
this errand, and I had some confidence that he would not deceive me. Hour after hour passed
away without his return, and I began to be uneasy at his long delay, and half repented that
I had been so foolish as to trust the rifle in his hands. At last, a little after dark, I was
delighted to see him return, followed by the foal, which he had found six miles away and still
travelling backwards in search of the horses. Having given him an extra allowance of bread
as a reward for his good conduct, we took our tea and lay down for the night.

During the day, whilst Wylie was absent, I had employed my time in collecting firewood from
the back of the sand-hills. In this occupation I was pleased to meet with the silver-bark tea-tree,
another change in the vegetation, which still further convinced me that we were rapidly advancing
into a more practicable country.

May 10.--The morning was spent in washing my clothes, cooking meat, and preparing to move on
in the afternoon. Wylie, who knew that this was his last opportunity, was busy with the skeleton
of the horse, and never ceased eating until we moved on in the afternoon. As we took away with
us nearly a hundred pounds of the flesh, the poor horses were heavily laden for the condition
they were in. The scrubby and swampy nature of the country behind the shore compelled us too
to keep the beach, where the sands were loose and heavy. Our progress was slow, and at eight
miles I halted. Here we found a little dry grass not far from the sea, and as the horses did
not require water, they fared tolerably well. This was the first grass we had met with since
we descended the cliffs on the 3rd instant. The horses having entirely subsisted since then
on the wiry vegetation which binds the sand-drifts together. Although we had water in the canteens
for ourselves, and the horses did not require any, I was curious to know whether fresh water
could be procured where we were encamped--a long, low and narrow tongue of sandy land, lying
between the sea on one side and extensive salt swamps on the other, and in no part elevated
more than a few feet above the level of the sea itself. After tea I took the spade and commenced
digging, and to my great surprise at six feet I obtained water, which though brackish was very
palatable. This was very extraordinary, considering the nature of the position we were in,
and that there were not any hills from which the fresh water could drain.

The night was again bitterly cold and frosty, and we suffered severely. Now the winter had
set in, and we were sadly unprepared to meet its inclemency, the cold at nights became so intense
as to occasion me agonies of pain; and the poor native was in the same predicament.

May 11.--Upon moving away this morning, I kept behind the sea shore along the borders of the
salt swamp, steering for some sand-hills which were seen a-head of us. A hill was now visible
in the distance, a little south of west, rising above the level bank behind the shore,--this
was the first hill, properly so called, that we had met with for many hundreds of miles, and
it tended not a little to cheer us and confirm all previous impressions relative to the change
and improvement in the character of the country. Our horses were dreadfully fatigued and moved
along with difficulty, and it was as much as we could do to reach the sand-hills we had seen,
though only seven miles away. In our approach to them we passed through a fine plain full of
grass, and of a much better description than we had met with since leaving Fowler's Bay. Not
only was it long and in the greatest abundance, but there were also mixed with the old grass
many stalks of new and green, the whole forming a rich and luxurious feast for our horses,
such as they had not enjoyed for many a long day. Nearer to the sand-hills we obtained excellent
water by digging, at a depth of five feet, and only half a mile away from the grass. This place
was too favourable not to be made the most of, and I determined to halt for a day or two to
give our horses the benefit of it, and to enable us to diminish the weight of meat they had
to carry. Whilst here I gave Wylie free permission to eat as much as he could,--a privilege
which he was not long in turning to account. Between last night's supper and this morning's
breakfast he had got through six-and-a-half pounds of solid cooked flesh, weighed out and free
from bone, and he then complained, that as he had so little water (the well had fallen in and
he did not like the trouble of cleaning it out again), he could hardly eat at all. On an average
he would consume nine pounds of meat per day. I used myself from two to three when undergoing
very great exertions. After dinner I ascended one of the sand-hills, and set the hill I had
seen in the morning at W. 17 degrees S.

May 12.--I intended this morning to have walked down to the beach, but was suddenly taken ill
with similar symptoms to those I had experienced on the 19th, and 21st of April; and, as formerly,
I attributed the illness entirely to the unwholesome nature of the meat diet. Wylie was ill
too, but not to so great a degree; nor was I surprised at his complaining; indeed, it would
have been wonderful if he had not, considering the enormous quantity of horse flesh that he
daily devoured. After his feasts, he would lie down, and roll and groan, and say he was "mendyt"
(ill) and nothing would induce him to get up, or to do any thing. There were now plenty of
sting-ray fish along the beach again, and I was desirous, if possible, to get one for a change
of diet; my friend, however, had so much to eat, that though he said he should like fish too,
I could not get him to go about a mile to the back of the sand-hills, to cut a stick from the
scrub, to make a spear for catching them.

May 13.--After breakfast, Wylie said he thought he could catch some bandicoots, by firing the
scrub near the sand-hills, and went out for an hour or two to try, but came back as he went.
During his absence, I was employed in repairing my only two pair of socks now left, which were
sadly dilapidated, but of which I was obliged to be very careful, as they were the only security
I had against getting lame. In the afternoon I walked down to the beach, to try to spear sting-ray,
but the sea was rough, and I saw none. In my ramble, I found plenty of the beautiful white
clematis, so common both to the north and south of Sydney.

May 14.--I was again seized with illness, though I had been particularly careful in the quantity
of flesh which I had used. For many hours I suffered most excruciating pains; and after the
violence of the attack was over, I was left very weak, and incapable of exertion. Wylie was
also affected. It was evident that the food we were now living upon, was not wholesome or nutritious.
Day after day we felt ourselves getting weaker and more relaxed, whilst the least change of
weather, or the slightest degree of cold, was most painfully felt by both of us. What we were
to do in the wet weather, which might daily be expected, I knew not, suffering as we did from
the frosts and dews only. In the state we now were in, I do not think that we could have survived
many days' exposure to wet.

May 15.--I intended to have proceeded early on our journey this morning, but was so ill again,
that for some hours I could not stir. The boy was similarly situated. About ten we got a little
better, and packing up our things, moved away, but had scarcely gone more than a couple of
miles along the beach, when I discovered that the horse-hobbles had been left behind. It was
Wylie's duty always to take these off, and strap them round the horses necks, whilst I was
arranging the saddles, and fixing on them our arms, provisions, etc.; he had forgotten to do
this, and had left them lying on the ground. As we could not possibly do without the hobbles,
I sent Wylie back for them, telling him I would drive on the horses slowly for a few miles,
and then halt to wait for him.

After proceeding eleven miles along the coast, I halted, and Wylie came up a little before
dark, bringing the hobbles with him. We were both very hungry; and as we had suffered so much
lately from eating the horse flesh, we indulged to-night in a piece of bread, and a spoonful
of flour boiled into a paste, an extravagance which I knew we should have to make up for by
and bye. I had dug for water, and procured it at a depth of five feet; but it was too brackish
either to drink, or give to our horses; we used it, however, in boiling up our flour into paste.
The afternoon was exceedingly dark and stormy looking, but only a few light showers fell. The
night then set in cold, with a heavy dew.

May 16.--We commenced our journey at daylight, travelling along the beach, which was very heavy
for nine miles, and then halting, at a very low part of the coast, to rest the horses. Whilst
here, I dug for water, and getting it of very fair quality, though with an effluvia very like
Harrowgate water, I decided upon remaining for the day. We were very much fatigued, being weak
and languid, and like our horses, scarcely able to put one foot before the other. From our
present encampment, some islands were visible at a bearing of S. 18 degrees E. The tops of
the hills, also, to the back, were visible above the level bank, which formed the continuation
of the singular table land extending round the Bight, but which was now gradually declining
in elevation, and appeared as if it would very shortly cease altogether, so that we might hope
to have an unobstructed view of the country inland.

A jagged peak, which I named Mount Ragged, bore W. 10 degrees N., and a round topped one W.
30 degrees N. We were now actually beyond those hills; but the level bank, under which we had
been travelling, prevented our seeing more of them than the bare outline of their lofty summits.
The whole of the intervening country, between the level bank and the hills, consisted of heavy
sandy ridges, a good deal covered with scrub; but we now found more grass than we had seen
during the whole journey before. In the night I was taken ill again, with violent pains, accompanied
by cold clammy sweats; and as the air was cold and raw, and a heavy dew falling, I suffered
a great deal.

May 17.--This morning I felt rather better, but very weak, and wishing to give the horses an
opportunity of drinking, which they would not do very early on a cold morning, I did not break
up the camp until late. Upon laying down last night Wylie had left the meat on the ground at
some distance from our fire, instead of putting it up on a bush as I had directed him, the
consequence was that a wild dog had stolen about fourteen pounds of it whilst we slept, and
we were now again reduced to a very limited allowance.

After travelling about five miles we found a great and important change in the basis rock of
the country; it was now a coarse imperfect kind of grey granite, and in many places the low-water
line was occupied by immense sheets of it. Other symptoms of improvement also gradually developed
themselves. Mountain ducks were now, for the first time, seen upon the shore, and the trunk
of a very large tree was found washed up on the beach: it was the only one we had met with
during the whole course of our journey to the westward, and I hailed it with a pleasure which
was only equalled by finding, not far beyond, a few drops of water trickling down a huge graniterock
abutting on the sea-shore. This was the only approximation to running water which we had found
since leaving Streaky Bay, and though it hardly deserved that name, yet it imparted to me as
much hope, and almost as much satisfaction, as if I had found a river. Continuing our course
around a small bay for about five miles, we turned into some sand-drifts behind a rocky point
of the coast, from which the islands we had seen yesterday bore E. 47 degrees S., Cape Pasley,
S. W., Point Malcolm, S. 33 degrees W., and Mount Ragged W. 32 degrees N. Several reefs and
breakers were also seen at no great distance from the shore.

Our stage to-day was only twelve miles, yet some of our horses were nearly knocked up, and
we ourselves in but little better condition. The incessant walking we were subject to, the
low and unwholesome diet we had lived upon, the severe and weakening attacks of illness caused
by that diet, having daily, and sometimes twice a day, to dig for water, to carry all our fire-wood
from a distance upon our backs, to harness, unharness, water, and attend to the horses, besides
other trifling occupations, making up our daily routine, usually so completely exhausted us,
that we had neither spirit nor energy left. Added to all other evils, the nature of the country
behind the sea-coast was as yet so sandy and scrubby that we were still compelled to follow
the beach, frequently travelling on loose heavy sands, that rendered our stages doubly fatiguing:
whilst at nights, after the labours of the day were over, and we stood so much in need of repose,
the intense cold, and the little protection we had against it, more frequently made it a season
of most painful suffering than of rest, and we were glad when the daylight relieved us once
more. On our march we felt generally weak and languid--it was an effort to put one foot before
the other, and there was an indisposition to exertion that it was often very difficult to overcome.
After sitting for a few moments to rest--and we often had to do this--it was always with the
greatest unwillingness we ever moved on again. I felt, on such occasions, that I could have
sat quietly and contentedly, and let the glass of life glide away to its last sand. There was
a dreamy kind of pleasure, which made me forgetful or careless of the circumstances and difficulties
by which I was surrounded, and which I was always indisposed to break in upon. Wylie was even
worse than myself, I had often much difficulty in getting him to move at all, and not unfrequently
was compelled almost forcibly to get him up. Fortunately he was very good tempered, and on
the whole had behaved extremely well under all our troubles since we had been travelling together
alone.

May 18.--THIS morning we had to travel upon a soft heavy beach, and moved slowly and with difficulty
along, and three of the horses were continually attempting to lie down on the road. At twelve
miles, we found some nice green grass, and although we could not procure water here, I determined
to halt for the sake of the horses. The weather was cool and pleasant. From our camp Mount
Ragged bore N. 35 degrees W., and the island we had seen for the last two days, E. 18 degrees
S. Having seen some large kangaroos near our camp, I sent Wylie with the rifle to try and get
one. At dark he returned bringing home a young one, large enough for two good meals; upon this
we feasted at night, and for once Wylie admitted that his belly was full. He commenced by eating
a pound and a half of horse-flesh, and a little bread, he then ate the entrails, paunch, liver,
lights, tail, and two hind legs of the young kangaroo, next followed a penguin, that he had
found dead upon the beach, upon this he forced down the whole of the hide of the kangaroo after
singeing the hair off, and wound up this meal by swallowing the tough skin of the penguin;
he then made a little fire, and laid down to sleep, and dream of the pleasures of eating, nor
do I think he was ever happier in his life than at that moment.

May 19.--The morning set in very cold and showery, with the wind from the southward, making
us shiver terribly as we went along; luckily the country behind the sea-shore was at this place
tolerably open, and we were for once enabled to leave the beach, and keep a little inland.
The soil was light and sandy, but tolerably fertile. In places we found low brush, in others
very handsome clumps of tea-tree scattered at intervals over some grassy tracts of country,
giving a pleasing and park-like appearance we had long been strangers to. The grass was green,
and afforded a most grateful relief to the eye, accustomed heretofore to rest only upon the
naked sands or the gloomy scrubs we had so long been travelling amongst. Anxious if possible
to give our horses a day or two's rest, at such a grassy place, and especially as the many
kangaroos we saw, gave us hope of obtaining food for ourselves also, I twice dug for water,
but did not find any of such quality as we could use. I was compelled therefore to turn in
among the sand-hills of Point Malcolm, where I found excellent water at three and a half feet,
and halted for the day, after a stage of five miles. Unfortunately we were now beyond all grass,
and had to send the horses by a long and difficult road to it, over steep sandy ridges, densely
covered by scrub. Upon halting, one of our horses lay down, appearing to be very ill, for two
hours I could not get him to rise, and was sadly afraid he would die, which would have been
a serious loss to us, for he was the strongest one we had left. A little inside Point Malcolm,
I found traces of Europeans who had slept on shore near the beach, and upon one of the tea-trees,
I found cut "Ship Julian, 1840," "Haws, 1840," "C. W." and some few other letters, which I
did not copy. The forenoon continued very wild and stormy, with occasional showers of rain,
and as we could get neither firewood nor shelter at our camp, and the sand eddied around us
in showers, we were very miserable. After dinner, I sent Wylie out with the rifle, to try to
shoot a kangaroo, whilst I took a walk round, to look for grass, and to ascertain whether water
could not be procured in some place nearer the horses, and better provided with firewood and
shelter. My efforts were without success, nor did I meet with better fortune, in examining
Point Malcolm, to see if there was any place where we could fish from the shore, the point
itself was of granite, but on the sheltered side the water was very shoal, close to the shore,
whilst on the outer side the waves were breaking with frightful violence, and the spray curling
and rising from the rocks in one perpetual and lofty jet. In the evening Wylie returned without
a kangaroo.

The night turned out showery, wild, and cold, making us keenly alive to the bleak, shelterless
position we were encamped in.

May 20.--The sick horse was better to-day, and as they had all found their way back to the
best grass, I determined to remain in camp. Wylie took the rifle, and again went out kangarooing,
whilst I took a long walk to examine the country, and look out for a line of road to proceed
by, when we left our present position. I was anxious, if possible, to give over travelling
along the beach where the sands were so loose and heavy, not only causing great extra fatigue
to the horses, but adding also considerably to the distance we should otherwise have to travel.
For some distance I passed over steep ridges, densely covered with large tea-trees or with
other scrub, after which I emerged upon open sandy downs, covered with low shrubs or bushes,
and frequently having patches of good grass interspersed; the grass-tree was here met with
for the first time, but not very abundantly. This description of country continued between
the coast and the low level bank which still shut out all view of the interior, though it had
greatly decreased in elevation as we advanced to the west, and appeared as if it would soon
merge in the level of the country around. The day was tolerably fine, but windy, and a few
slight showers fell at intervals. At dusk I got up the horses, watered them, and was preparing
to remove the baggage to a more sheltered place, when Wylie made his appearance, with the gratifying
intelligence that he had shot one kangaroo, and wounded another; the dead one he said was too
far away for us to get it to-night, and we, therefore, (very unwillingly,) left it until the
morning, and at present only removed our baggage nearer to the grass, and among thick clumps
of tea-trees where we had shelter and firewood in abundance. The only inconvenience being that
we were obliged to be economical of water, having to bring it all from the sand-drifts, and
our kegs only carrying a few quarts at a time. In the prospect of a supply of kangaroo, we
finished the last of our horse-flesh to-night. It had lasted us tolerably well, and though
we had not gained above sixty-five miles of distance, since we commenced it, yet we had accomplished
this so gradually, that the horses had not suffered so much as might have been expected, and
were improving somewhat in strength and appearance every day. It was much to have got them
to advance at all, considering the dreadful sufferings they had endured previous to our arrival
at water on the 3rd of May.

Getting up one of the horses early on the 21st, we took some water with us and proceeded to
where Wylie had left the kangaroo, to breakfast. Fortunately it had not been molested by the
wild dogs during the night. Though not of a large species, it was a full grown animal, and
furnished us with a grateful supply of wholesome food. Once more Wylie enjoyed as much as he
could eat, and after breakfast, I took the horse back to the camp, carrying with me about thirty-two
pounds weight of the best and most fleshy parts of the kangaroo. Wylie remained behind with
the rifle, to return leisurely and try to shoot another; but early in the afternoon he returned,
not having seen one. The truth, I suspect was, that he had eaten too much to breakfast, and
laid down to sleep when I was gone, coming back to the camp as soon as he felt hungry again.
The rest of the day was taken up in attending to the horses and bringing a supply of water
up for ourselves. The weather was mild and pleasant, and a few slight showers fell at night,
but we were now so well protected among the tea-trees, and had so much firewood, that we were
not inconvenienced by the rain.

As I still intended to remain in camp to recruit the horses, I wished Wylie to go out again
on the 22nd, to try for another kangaroo; but the other not being yet all used, he was very
unwilling to do so, and it was only upon my threatening to move on if he did not, that I could
get him out. As soon as he was gone, I went down to Point Malcolm to try to fish, as the weather
was now so much more moderate. Unfortunately, my tackling was not strong, and after catching
three rock-fish, weighing together three pounds and a half; a large fish got hooked, and took
great part of my line, hook and all, away.

It was very vexing to lose a line when I had not many, but still more so to miss a fine fish
that would have weighed fifteen or sixteen pounds. Being obliged to come back, I spent the
remainder of the afternoon in preparing lines for the morrow.

Towards evening Wylie returned gloomy and sulky, and without having fired a shot; neither had
he brought the horses up with him to water as I had requested him to do, and now it was too
late to go for them, and they would have to be without water for the night. I was vexed at
this, and gave him a good scolding for his negligence, after which I endeavoured to ascertain
what had so thoroughly put him out of humour, for ordinarily he was one of the best tempered
natives I had met with: a single sentence revealed the whole--"The----dogs had eaten the skin."

This observation came from the very bottom of his soul, and at once gave me an idea of the
magnitude of the disappointment he had sustained; the fact was, upon leaving the camp in the
morning he had taken a firestick in his hand, and gone straight back to where we skinned the
kangaroo on the 21st, with the intention of singeing off the hair and eating the skin, which
had been left hanging over a bush. Upon his arrival he found it gone: the wild dogs had been
beforehand with him and deprived him of the meal he expected; hence his gloomy, discontented
look upon his return. As yet I had not told him that I had been fishing; but upon showing him
what I had brought home, and giving him the two largest for supper, his brow again cleared,
and he voluntarily offered to go out again to try to get a kangaroo to-morrow.

May 23.--Leaving Wylie asleep at the camp, I set off early to fish at Point Malcolm. After
catching four rock-fish, weighing five pounds, and losing several hooks, I commenced hunting
about among the rocks for crabs, of which I procured about a dozen They were quite different
from the English crab, being very small, not more than three or four inches in diameter, and
without any meat in the inside of the shell; but the chine and claws afforded very fair pickings.
Upon returning to the camp, I learnt from Wylie with great satisfaction that he had shot another
kangaroo as he went to bring up the horses. The latter were now at the camp; so sending him
to water them, I remained behind to dry my clothes, which had got thoroughly wetted in catching
the crabs.

Upon Wylie's return I mounted him on one of the horses, and accompanying him on foot, proceeded
to where he had left the kangaroo; as it was only one mile and a half away we brought it back
upon the horse, entire, that we might skin it more leisurely at the camp. It was a larger one
than the last, and promised an abundant supply of food for some days; added to this we had
five pounds of fish and a dozen crabs, so that our larder was well and variously stocked. Upon
skinning the kangaroo, Wylie carefully singed, folded up, and put away the skin for another
day, fully determined that this time he would lose no part of the precious prize. Having taken
the paunch and emptied it, he proceeded to make a kind of haggis (rather a dirty one to be
sure), by putting into it the liver, lights, heart, and small intestines, and then tying it
up, thrust it into the fire to be roasted whole. This seemed to be a favourite dish with him,
and he was now as happy as a king, sleeping and eating alternately the whole night long; his
only complaint now being that the water was so far off, and that as we had to carry it all
up from the sand-hills to our camp, he could not drink so much as he should like, and in consequence,
could not eat so much either, for it required no small quantity of liquid to wash down the
enormous masses of meat that he consumed whenever he had an opportunity.

May 24.--Leaving Wylie to continue his feast and attend to the horses, I went down to the beach
to hunt again for crabs, of which I procured about three dozen, but still of the same small
size as before; a few larger ones were seen in the deeper clefts of the rocks, but I could
not get at them; indeed, as it was, I was very nearly terminating my crab hunting and expedition
at the same time. The places where these animals were obtained, were the clefts and holes among
large masses and sheets of rock close to the sea, and which were covered by it at high water;
many of these were like platforms, shelving to the sea, and terminating abruptly in deep water.
Whilst busily engaged upon one of them, in trying to get some crabs out from its clefts, I
did not notice that the surf sometimes washed over where I stood, until whilst stooping, and
in the act of fishing out a crab, a roller came further than usual and dashing over me, threw
me down and took both me and my crabs to some distance, nearly carrying us down the steep into
the sea, from which nothing could have rescued me, as I should soon have been dashed to pieces
by the breakers against the rocks. Having gathered up the crabs I had collected, I set off
homewards in a sad cold uncomfortable plight, with the skin scraped off my hands and one of
my heels, and with my shoes in such a state from scrambling about among the rocks and in the
wet, as strongly to indicate to me the propriety of never attempting to go crab hunting again
with my shoes on, unless I wished to be placed altogether "hors du combat" for walking. Wylie
I found had got up the horses and watered them, and had brought up a supply of water for the
camp, so that we had nothing to do in the afternoon but boil crabs and eat them, at which occupation
I found him wonderfully more skilful than I was, readily getting through two to my one.

On the 25th we still remained in camp to take advantage of the abundant supply of food we had
for ourselves, and by giving the horses a long rest, enable them also to recruit a little upon
the excellent grass which grew in this neighbourhood. Wylie took the rifle out to try to get
another kangaroo, but did not succeed. I remained at home to mend my boots, and prepare for
advancing again to-morrow. In the afternoon we filled our kegs, and brought away the bucket
and spade from the sand-hills, that we might be ready to move without going again to the water.
For the first time since we left Fowler's Bay we were troubled with musquitoes.

May 26.--Up early, and Wylie, who had been eating the whole night, was so thirsty, that he
actually walked all the way through the dew and cold of the morning to the water to drink,
as I could only afford him one pint out of the kegs. We had now been in camp six clear days,
at this most favourable position; we had got an abundant and wholesome supply of provisions
for ourselves, and had been enabled to allow our horses to enjoy a long unbroken interval of
rest, amidst the best of pasturage, and where there was excellent water. Now that we were again
going to continue our route, I found that the horses were so much improved in appearance and
in strength, that I thought we might once again venture, without oppression to the animals,
occasionally to ride; I selected therefore, the strongest from among them for this purpose,
and Wylie and myself walked and rode alternately; after passing the scrubby sand-ridges, and
descending to the open downs behind them, I steered direct for Cape Arid, cutting off Cape
Pasley, and encamping after a stage of eighteen miles, where it bore south-east of us. We halted
for the night upon a ridge timbered with casuarinae, and abounding in grass. Once more we were
in a country where trees were found, and again we were able at night to make our fires of large
logs, which did not incessantly require renewing to prevent their going out. We had now crossed
the level bank which had so long shut out the interior from us; gradually it had declined in
elevation, until at last it had merged in the surrounding country, and we hardly knew where
it commenced, or how it ended. The high bluff and craggy hills, whose tops we had formerly
seen, stood out now in bold relief, with a low level tract of country stretching to their base,
covered with dwarf brush, heathy plants and grass-tree, with many intervals of open grassy
land, and abounding in kangaroos. I named these lofty and abrupt mountain masses the "Russell
Range," after the Right Honourable the Secretary of State for the Colonies--Lord John Russell.
They constitute the first great break in the character and appearance of the country for many
hundreds of miles, and they offer a point of great interest, from which future researches may
hereafter be made towards the interior. Nearer to the coast, and on either side of Cape Pasley
were sand-drifts, in which I have no doubt that water might have been procured. We found none
where we were encamped, but had sufficient in the kegs for our own use, and the horses were
not thirsty; many and recent tracks of natives were observed, but the people themselves were
not seen.

The morning of the 27th was exceedingly cold; and as we left our encampments early, neither
I nor Wylie were inclined to ride for the first few miles; it was as much as we could do to
keep ourselves from shivering whilst walking; the dews were so heavy, that we were soon wet
through by the spangles from the shrubs and grass, whilst the pace at which we travelled was
not sufficiently rapid to promote a quick circulation, and enable us to keep ourselves warm.

At six miles we passed some sand hills, where there was every indication of water, but I did
not think it worth while delaying to try the experiment in digging, and pushed on for four
miles further, round a bight of the coast, encamping on the east side of Cape Arid, where a
small salt water creek entered the bight. The mouth of this was closed by a bar of sand, quite
dry; nor did the salt water continue for any great distance inland. Following it up, in the
hope of finding fresh water near its source, I found that there was none now, but that after
rains considerable streams must be poured into it from the gorges of Cape Arid. The rocks here
were all of granite; and in some of the ledges we were fortunate enough to find abundance of
water deposited by the rains, at which we watered our horses. This being the first time we
had ever been able to do so on our whole journey without making use of the spade and bucket.
After putting the horses out upon the best grass we could find, Wylie and I went to try our
luck at fishing; the sea was boisterous, and we caught none; but in returning, got about eight
or nine crabs a-piece, which, with some of the kangaroo that was still left, enabled us to
make our fare out tolerably.

May 26.--In the latter part of the night the rain set in moderately, but steadily, and both
Wylie and myself were very wet and miserable. The morning still continued showery, and I was
anxious to have remained in camp for the sake of the horses; but as we had consumed at breakfast
the last of our kangaroo, it became necessary to find some means of renewing our resources,
or else lose no time in making the best of our way onwards. Having sent Wylie to try and get
crabs, I went out with the rifle, but could see nothing to shoot; and upon returning to the
camp, I found Wylie had been equally unsuccessful among the rocks, the sea being too rough;
there was no alternative, therefore, but to move on, and having got up the horses, we proceeded
behind Cape Arid for ten miles, at a course of W. 15 degrees N., and encamped at night amid
a clump of tea-trees, and bastard gums, where we got good grass for our horses, but no water.
The day had been intensely cold, and I could not persuade Wylie to ride at all. At night we
had abundance of firewood, and a few of the long narrow yams were also found at this encampment,
the first vegetable food we had yet procured. Grass trees had been abundant on our line of
route to-day, and for the first time we met with the Xamia. In the evening, the kangaroo fly
(a small brown fly) became very troublesome, annoying us in great numbers, and warning us that
rain was about to fall. At night it came in frequent though moderate showers. We got very much
wetted, but our fire was good, and we did not suffer so much from the cold as the damp, which
affected me with cramp in the limbs, and rheumatism.

May 29.--After breakfasting upon a spoonful of flour a-piece, mixed with a little water and
boiled into a paste, we again proceeded. At ten miles we came to a small salt water stream,
running seawards; in passing up it to look for a crossing place, Wylie caught two opossums,
in the tops of some tea-trees, which grew on the banks. As I hoped more might be procured,
and perhaps fresh water, by tracing it higher up, I took the first opportunity of crossing
to the opposite side, and there encamped; Wylie now went out to search for opossums, and I
traced the stream upwards. In my route I passed several very rich patches of land in the valleys,
and on the slopes of the hills enclosing the watercourse. These were very grassy and verdant,
but I could find no fresh water, nor did I observe any timber except the tea-tree. After tracing
the stream until it had ceased running, and merely became a chain of ponds of salt water, I
returned to the camp a good deal fatigued; Wylie came in soon after, but had got nothing but
a few yams. The general character of the country on either side the watercourse, was undulating,
of moderate elevation, and affording a considerable extent of sheep pasturage. The cockatoos
of King George's Sound, (without the yellow crest) were here in great numbers. Kangaroos also
abounded; but the country had not brush enough to enable us to get sufficiently near to shoot them.

During the day Wylie had caught two opossums, and as these were entirely the fruit of his own
labour and skill, I did not interfere in their disposal; I was curious, moreover, to see how
far I could rely upon his kindness and generosity, should circumstances ever compel me to depend
upon him for a share of what he might procure. At night, therefore, I sat philosophically watching
him whilst he proceeded to get supper ready, as yet ignorant whether I was to partake of it
or not. After selecting the largest of the two animals, he prepared and cooked it, and then
put away the other where he intended to sleep. I now saw that he had not the remotest intention
of giving any to me, and asked him what he intended to do with the other one. He replied that
he should be hungry in the morning, and meant to keep it until then. Upon hearing this I told
him that his arrangements were very good, and that for the future I would follow the same system
also; and that each should depend upon his own exertions in procuring food; hinting to him
that as he was so much more skilful than I was, and as we had so very little flour left, I
should be obliged to reserve this entirely for myself, but that I hoped he would have no difficulty
in procuring as much food as he required. I was then about to open the flour-bag and take a
little out for my supper, when he became alarmed at the idea of getting no more, and stopped
me, offering the other opossum, and volunteering to cook it properly for me. Trifling as this
little occurrence was, it read me a lesson of caution, and taught me what value was to be placed
upon the assistance or kindness of my companion, should circumstances ever place me in a situation
to be dependent upon him; I felt a little hurt too, at experiencing so little consideration
from one whom I had treated with the greatest kindness, and who had been clothed and fed upon
my bounty, for the last fifteen months.

May 30.--In commencing our journey this morning, our route took us over undulating hills, devoid
of timber, but having occasionally small patches of very rich land in the valleys and upon
some of the slopes. This continued to a salt-water river, broad, and apparently deep near the
sea. As I was doubtful whether it would have a bar-mouth to seawards, I thought it more prudent
to trace it upwards, for the purpose of crossing. At no very great distance it contracted sufficiently
to enable me to get over to the other side. But in doing so the ground proved soft and boggy,
and I nearly lost one of the horses. Four miles beyond this river we came to another channel
of salt water, but not so large as the last. In valleys sloping down to this watercourse we
met, for the first time, clumps of a tree called by the residents of King George's Sound the
cabbage-tree, and not far from which were native wells of fresh water; there were also several
patches of rich land bordering upon the watercourse.

Travelling for two miles further, we came to a very pretty fresh-water lake, of moderate size,
and surrounded by clumps of tea-tree. It was the first permanent fresh water we had found on
the surface since we commenced our journey from Fowler's Bay--a distance of nearly seven hundred
miles. I would gladly have encamped here for the night, but the country surrounding the lake
was sandy and barren, and destitute of grass. We had only made good a distance of eleven miles
from our last camp, and I felt anxious to get on to Lucky Bay as quickly as I could, in order
that I might again give our horses a rest for a few days, which they now began to require.
From Captain Flinders' account of Lucky Bay I knew we should find fresh water and wood in abundance.
I hoped there would also be grass, and in this case I had made up my mind to remain a week
or ten days, during which I intended to have killed the foal we had with us, now about nine
months old, could we procure food in no other way. After leaving Lucky Bay, as we should only
be about three hundred miles from the Sound, and our horses would be in comparatively fresh
condition, I anticipated we should be able to progress more rapidly. Indeed I fully expected
it would be absolutely necessary for us to do so, through a region which, from Flinders' description
as seen from sea, and from his having named three different hills in it Mount Barrens, we should
find neither very practicable nor fertile.

Six miles beyond the fresh-water lake we came to another salt-water stream, and finding, upon
following up a little way, that it was only brackish, we crossed and halted for the night.
Wylie went out to search for food, but got nothing, whilst I unharnessed and attended to the
horses, which were a good deal fagged, and then prepared the camp and made the fires for the
night: I could get nothing but grass-tree for this purpose, but it was both abundant and dry.
Owing to its very resinous nature, this tree burns with great heat and brilliancy, emitting
a grateful aromatic odour. It is easily lit up, makes a most cheerful fire, and notwithstanding
the fervency with which it burns, does not often require renewing, if the tree be large. Our
whole journey to-day had been over undulations of about three hundred feet in elevation; the
country rose a little inland, and a few occasional bluffs of granite were observed in the distance,
but no timber was seen any where. At night the flies and mosquitoes were very troublesome to us.

May 31.--The morning showery, and bitterly cold, so that, for the first two hours after starting,
we suffered considerably, After travelling for seven miles and a half, through an undulating
and bare country, we came to a salt-water river, with some patches of good land about it. Having
crossed the river a little way up where it became narrower, we again proceeded for five miles
farther, through the same character of country, and were then stopped by another salt stream,
which gave us a great deal of trouble to effect a crossing. We had traced it up to where the
channel was narrow, but the bed was very deep, and the water running strongly between banks
of rich black soil. Our horses would not face this at first, and in forcing them over we were
nearly losing two of them. After travelling only a quarter of a mile beyond this stream I was
chagrined to find we had crossed it just above the junction of two branches, and that we had
still one of them to get over; the second was even more difficult to pass than the first, and
whilst I was on the far side, holding one of the horses by a rope, with Wylie behind driving
him on, the animal made a sudden and violent leap, and coming full upon me, knocked me down
and bruised me considerably. One of his fore legs struck me on the thigh, and I narrowly escaped
having it broken, whilst a hind leg caught me on the shin, and cut me severely.

As soon as we were fairly over I halted for the night, to rest myself and give Wylie an opportunity
of looking for food. The water in both branches of this river was only brackish where we crossed,
and at that which we encamped upon but slightly so.

There were many grass-trees in the vicinity, and as several of these had been broken down and
were dead they were full of the white grubs of which the natives are so fond. From these Wylie
enjoyed a plentiful, and to him, luxurious supper. I could not bring myself to try them, preferring
the root of the broad flag-reed, which, for the first time, we met with at this stream, and
which is an excellent and nutritious article of food. This root being dug up, and roasted in
hot ashes, yields a great quantity of a mealy farinaceous powder interspersed among the fibres;
it is of an agreeable flavour, wholesome, and satisfying to the appetite. In all parts of Australia,
even where other food abounds, the root of this reed is a favourite and staple article of diet
among the aborigines. The proper season of the year for procuring it in full perfection, is
after the floods have receded, and the leaves have died away and been burnt off. It is that
species of reed of which the leaves are used by coopers for closing up crevices between the
staves of their casks.

June 1.--Upon getting up this morning I found myself very stiff and sore from the bruises I
had received yesterday, yet I felt thankful that I had escaped so well; had any of my limbs
been broken, I should have been in a dreadful position, and in all probability must have perished.
After Wylie had dug up some of the flag-roots for breakfast, and a few to take with us, we
proceeded on our journey. I was anxious to have made a long stage, and if possible, to have
reached Thistle Cove by night; but the country we had to pass over was heavy and sandy, and
after travelling fifteen miles, the horses became so jaded, that I was obliged to turn in among
some sand-drifts near the coast, and halt for the night. The course we had been steering for
the last few days towards Lucky Bay, had gradually brought us close to the coast again, and
during a part of our journey this afternoon we were travelling upon the sea-shore. At ten miles
after starting, we crossed a strong stream of fresh water running through some sandy flats
into the sea; a mile and a half beyond this we crossed a second stream; and half a mile further
a third, all running strongly, with narrow channels, into the sea, and quite fresh. Fresh water
was also laying about every where on our road in large pools; a proof of the very heavy rains
that had lately fallen. We were, therefore, enjoying the advantages of a wet season without
having been subject to its inclemency, and which, in our present weak, unprotected state, we
could hardly have endured. The country to the back was sandy and undulating, covered principally
with low shrubs, and rising inland; there were also several granite bluffs at intervals, from
among which, the streams I had crossed, probably took their rise; but there were no trees to
be seen any where, except a few of the tea of cabbage-trees. I do not think that any of the
three fresh-water streams we had crossed would be permanent, their present current being owing
entirely to the recent rains; but when they are running, and the weather is moderately fair,
they afford an admirable opportunity of watering a vessel with very little trouble, the water
being clear and pure to its very junction with the sea.

At night we made our supper of the flag-roots we had brought with us, and a spoonful of flour
a-piece, boiled into a paste. The night was very cold and windy, and having neither shelter
nor fire-wood at the sand-drifts where we were, we spent it miserably.

June 2.--As we had made a shorter stage yesterday than I intended to have done, and the quantity
of flour we had now remaining was very small, I did not dare to make use of any this morning,
and we commenced our journey without breakfast. Being now near Thistle Cove, where I intended
to halt for some time, and kill the little foal for food, whilst the other horses were recruiting,
and as I hoped to get there early this afternoon, I was anxious to husband our little stock
of flour in the hope, that at the little fresh-water lake described by Flinders, as existing
there, we should find abundance of the flag-reed for our support. Keeping a little behind the
shore for the first hour, we crossed over the sandy ridge bounding it, and upon looking towards
the sea, I thought I discovered a boat sailing in the bay. Upon pointing this object out to
Wylie, he was of the same opinion with myself, and we at once descended towards the shore,
but on our arrival were greatly disappointed at not being able again to see the object of our
search. In the course of half an hour, however, whilst resting ourselves and watching the surface
of the ocean, it again became visible, and soon after a second appeared. It was now evident
that both these were boats, and that we had noticed them only when standing off shore, and
the light shone upon their sails, and had lost them when upon the opposite tack. It was equally
apparent they were standing out from the main land for the islands. I imagined them to be sealers,
who having entered the bay to procure water or firewood, were again steering towards the islands
to fish. Having hastily made a fire upon one of the sand-hills, we fired shots, shouted, waved
handkerchiefs, and made every signal we could to attract attention, but in vain. They were
too far away to see, or too busy to look towards us. The hopes we had entertained were as suddenly
disappointed as they had been excited, and we stood silently and sullenly gazing after the
boats as they gradually receded from our view.

Whilst thus occupied and brooding over our disappointment, we were surprised to see both boats
suddenly lower their sails, and apparently commence fishing. Watching them steadily we now
perceived that they were whale boats, and once more our hearts beat with hope, for I felt sure
that they must belong to some vessel whaling in the neighbourhood. We now anxiously scanned
the horizon in every direction, and at last were delighted beyond measure to perceive to the
westward the masts of a large ship, peeping above a rocky island which had heretofore concealed
her from our view. She was apparently about six miles from us, and as far as we could judge
from so great a distance, seemed to be at anchor near the shore.

Poor Wylie's joy now knew no bounds, and he leapt and skipped about with delight as he congratulated
me once more upon the prospect of getting plenty to eat. I was not less pleased than he was,
and almost as absurd, for although the vessel was quietly at anchor so near us, with no sails
loose and her boats away, I could not help fearing that she might disappear before we could
get to her, or attract the notice of those on board. To prevent such a calamity, I mounted
one of the strongest horses and pushed on by myself as rapidly as the heavy nature of the sands
would allow, leaving Wylie at his own especial request to bring on the other horses. In a short
time I arrived upon the summit of a rocky cliff, opposite to a fine large barque lying at anchor
in a well sheltered bay, (which I subsequently named Rossiter Bay, after the captain of the
whaler,) immediately east of Lucky Bay, and at less than a quarter of a mile distant from the
shore. The people on board appeared to be busily engaged in clearing their cables which were
foul, and did not observe me at all. I tied up my horse, therefore, to a bush, and waited for
Wylie, who was not long in coming after me, having driven the poor horses at a pace they had
not been accustomed to for many a long day. I now made a smoke on the rock where I was, and
hailed the vessel, upon which a boat instantly put off, and in a few moments I had the inexpressible
pleasure of being again among civilized beings, and of shaking hands with a fellow-countryman
in the person of Captain Rossiter, commanding the French Whaler "Mississippi."

Our story was soon told, and we were received with the greatest kindness and hospitality by
the captain.

June 2.--AFTER watering the horses at a deposit left by the rains, in the sheets of granite
near us, and turning them loose, we piled up our little baggage, and in less than an hour we
were comfortably domiciled on board the hospitable Mississippi,--a change in our circumstances
so great, so sudden, and so unexpected, that it seemed more like a dream than a reality; from
the solitary loneliness of the wilderness, and its attendant privations, we were at once removed
to all the comforts of a civilised community.

After we had done ample justice to the good cheer set before us, by our worthy host, he kindly
invited us to remain on board as long as we pleased, to recruit our horses, and told us, that
when we felt refreshed sufficiently to renew the journey, he would supply us with such stores
and other articles as we might require. I learnt that the Mississippi had but recently arrived
from France, and that she had only been three weeks upon the ground she had taken up for the
season's whaling. As yet no whales had been seen, and the season was said not to commence before
the end of June or beginning of July. The boats I saw in the morning belonged to her, and had
been out chasing what they thought to be a whale, but which proved to be only a fin-back, a
species which was not thought to repay the trouble of trying out.

Early in the evening the whalers retired to rest, and I had a comfortable berth provided for
me in the cabin, but could not sleep; my thoughts were too much occupied in reflecting upon
the great change which the last few hours had wrought in the position of myself and my attendant.
Sincerely grateful to the Almighty for having guided us through so many difficulties, and for
the inexpressible relief afforded us when so much needed, but so little expected, I felt doubly
thankful for the mercy we experienced, when, as I lay awake, I heard the wind roar, and the
rain drive with unusual wildness, and reflected that by God's blessing, we were now in safety,
and under shelter from the violence of the storm, and the inclemency of the west season, which
appeared to be setting in, but which, under the circumstances we were in but a few short hours
ago, we should have been so little able to cope with, or to endure.

June 3.--I arose at day-break, as I found the whalers breakfasted betimes, to enable them to
send their boats away to look out, at an early hour. In fact, during the season, I was informed,
that it was not unusual to send them to their posts before the break of day, and especially
so, if other vessels were in company, or there was any competition. After breakfast I landed
with the Captain, to get up and inspect the horses; poor animals they had not gone far and
were doubtless glad at not being required to march away to-day. I was only sorry that the country
did not abound more in grass. Plenty of water left by the rains was procurable, in the ledges
of the granite rocks, but the vegetation was scanty, the soil being very sandy, and covered
principally with small shrubs, heathy plants, etc.

Leaving the horses to enjoy their respite from labour, I accompanied the Captain to see a garden
made by the sailors, in which peas and potatoes had already been planted, and appeared to be
growing well. A rich piece of land had been selected on a slope, bordering upon a salt water
creek, which here wound through the level country towards the sea. The water in this creek,
was brackish in the upper part, but seaward it was quite salt, it had a bar mouth of sand,
which was quite dry. Unfortunately, the Captain had no garden seeds but the peas and potatoes,
so that their labours were confined to cultivating these; otherwise during the many months
spent by them in bay whaling, they might have abundantly supplied themselves with a variety
of vegetables, at once an agreeable and wholesome addition to the ordinary diet on board ship.
After dinner I went with the Captain to visit an island near, upon which he kept his live stock,
such as pigs, sheep, and tortoises; the two latter had been procured from the west side of
the island of Madagascar; the sheep were strange looking animals, more like goats than sheep,
of all colours, and with fat tails, like the Cape sheep. Their cost at Madagascar had been
a tumbler full of powder a piece; a bullock would have cost ten bottles full, and other things
could have been procured at proportionable prices. The principal articles in request among
the Madagases, were said to be powder, brass headed trunk nails, muskets, gun-flints, clear
claret bottles, looking-glasses, and cutlery.

The greater part of the day was very cold and showery, and I remained quietly on board, reading
some old English papers. Wylie was as happy as he could be. It was true he did not understand
a word spoken by those around him (for not a soul on board spoke English but the Captain),
but he had as much to eat as he desired; and to do him justice, I believe he made the most
of the opportunity. On the other hand, his capacity for eating entertained the Frenchmen, with
the exception, perhaps, of his first meal on board, and then, I believe, that the immense number
of biscuits he devoured, and the amazing rapidity with which they disappeared, not only astounded,
but absolutely alarmed them. Fish were caught in great numbers from the ship's side, mackarel
and baracoota being obtained every day. Other varieties might have been procured off the rocks
near the shore, from which there were many places well adapted for fishing. Periwinkles abounded,
and crabs were numerous among the crevices of the rocks. Altogether, this seemed to be a most
favourable place; and had we not met with the vessel, it would have held out to us the prospect
of obtaining as abundant a supply of food for ourselves as we had got at Point Malcolm, without
the necessity of destroying the poor foal. The night again set in very wild, cold, and wet.

June 4.--This morning the weather appeared tolerably fine, and I landed with the French doctor
for the purpose of walking across to Thistle Cove. After travelling four miles over a sandy
heathy country, we arrived at the pretty little fresh water lake, so accurately described by
Captain Flinders, and which I had so anxiously looked forward to attaining, that we might halt
to rest, and recruit the horses. There is no timber around the lake, beyond a few xamias, grass
trees, and some stunted tea-trees; neither was there much grass. In other respects, I could
not have pitched upon a more favourable place to have halted at: for near the lake abounded
the flag reed, of which the root was so valuable for food. This one article would have supported
us well during our stay here, whilst the many bluff rocks, with deep calm water close to them,
extending all around the promontory which projected into the sea, and round the bay, held out
great promise that fish could readily have been caught. Ducks were also numerous in the lake,
and kangaroos on shore. The day turned out very bleak and wet, and we both got thoroughly soaked
through before we got back to the vessel, which was not until about two in the afternoon; I
was then obliged to borrow a dry suit from the Captain, whilst my own clothes were drying.

June 5.--From this time until the fourteenth of June I remained on board the Mississippi, enjoying
the hospitality of Captain Rossiter. Wylie went out once or twice to try to shoot a kangaroo
for the ship, but he never succeeded; he had so much to eat on board that he had no stimulus
to exertion, and did not take the trouble necessary to insure success. During almost the whole
of the time that I remained on board the Mississippi, the weather was exceedingly boisterous,
cold, and wet, and I could not but feel truly thankful that I had not been exposed to it on
shore; even on board the ship, with shelter and extra clothing, I felt very sensibly the great
change which had taken place in the temperature.

I regretted greatly that during my stay I had not the opportunity of seeing a whale caught.
There was only once an attempt at a chase. In this instance three boats were sent out, commanded
by the Captain and the two mates, but after a considerable lapse of time, and a long interval
of suspense and anxiety, the fish chased turned out to be a hump-back, and as this was not
deemed worth catching, the boats returned to the ship. The life led by the whalers, as far
as I was able to judge, from the short time I was with them, seemed to be one of regularity,
but of considerable hardship. At half-past six or seven in the evening they invariably went
to bed, but were up at the first dawn of day, and sometimes even before it, the boats were
then usually sent to a distance from the ship to look out for whales, and whether fortunate
or otherwise, they would always have a pretty hard day's work before they returned. They were,
however, well fed, being apparently even better dieted than the generality of merchant-ships;
the bread was of a better quality, and the allowance of butter, cheese, beans, and other little
luxuries much more liberal. In the Mississippi the crew were generally young men, and with
few exceptions all were complete novices at sea; this I was told was in consequence of an expected
war between England and France, and the prohibition of able seamen from leaving their country.
Captain Rossiter assured me that he had not been allowed for a considerable length of time
to sail at all from France, as the war was daily expected to break out. He was still ignorant
as to what had been done in this respect, and naturally felt very anxious at being, as he might
imagine, on an enemy's coast.

During the time I remained on board the vessel, a party of natives once or twice came down
to the beach, and as I was anxious to enter into commucation with them, two were induced to
get into the boat and come on board; as I expected, my boy Wylie fully understood the language
spoken in this part of the country, and could converse with them fluently. Through him I learnt
that they had never seen white people before the Mississippi anchored here, which was somewhat
singular, considering the frankness with which they visited us, and the degree of confidence
they appeared to repose in us. Of the interior I could gain no satisfactory account, they said
that as far inland as they were acquainted with the country, it was similar to what we saw,
that there was an abundance of water in the valleys in small wells, that there was a lake and
fresh water river, but that there was little or no wood anywhere. In turn they were curious
to know where we had come from, or where we were going; but Wylie, who in this respect, at
least, was prudent and cautious, told them that we had come from the eastward to join the ship,
and were now going to remain. Finding I could gain no further useful information, presents
of fish and biscuits were made to them, and they were put on shore, highly pleased with their
visit. During the remainder of my stay, I had no further opportunity of entering into conversation
with these people, as the weather was generally wild, and they could not procure much shelter
or fire-wood on the coast, had they come down to see us.

A few days before I contemplated commencing the renewal of my journey, I requested the Captain
to allow a blacksmith he had on board to shoe my horses, and to this he kindly consented, but
as a scarcity of iron prevailed, some old harpoons and lances had to be worked up for this
purpose. The blacksmith who was a Frenchman, made his shoes and nails in so different, and
apparently in so much more clumsy manner than I was accustomed to, that I was almost afraid
of letting him put them on, and tried hard, but in vain, to get him to imitate the English
shoe and nail in ordinary use.

Finding that I was likely to derive no advantage from my officious interference, I determined
to let him have his own way, and was surprised and delighted to find that he performed his
work well and skilfully, the only unusual part of the operation to me, being the necessity
he appeared to be under, of always having a man to hold up the leg of the horse whilst he put
the shoe on, instead of holding the foot up himself, as an English blacksmith does; such however,
he assured me was the practice always in France, and he appeared to think it the best too.
Having had my horses shod, I got some canvass from the Captain, to make bags for carrying my
provisions, and then giving him a list of stores that I wished to take with me, I commenced
preparations for leaving my hospitable entertainer. Every thing that I wished for, was given
to me with a kindness and liberality beyond what I could have expected; and it gives me unfeigned
pleasure, to have it now in my power to record thus publicly the obligations I was under to
Captain Rossiter.

On the 14th, I landed the stores, to arrange and pack them ready for the journey. They consisted
of forty pounds of flour, six pounds of biscuit, twelve pounds of rice, twenty pounds of beef,
twenty pounds of pork, twelve pounds of sugar, one pound of tea, a Dutch cheese, five pounds
of salt butter, a little salt, two bottles of brandy, and two tin saucepans for cooking; besides
some tobacco and pipes for Wylie, who was a great smoker, and the canteens filled with treacle
for him to eat with rice. The great difficulty was now, how to arrange for the payment of the
various supplies I had been furnished with, as I had no money with me, and it was a matter
of uncertainty, whether the ship would touch at any of the Australian colonies. Captain Rossiter
however, said that he had some intention of calling at King George's Sound, when the Bay whaling
was over, and as that was the place to which I was myself going, I gave him an order upon Mr.
Sherratt, who had previously acted as my agent there in the transaction of some business matters
in 1840. To this day, however, I have never learnt whether Captain Rossiter visited King George's
Sound or not.

In arranging the payment, I could not induce the Captain to receive any thing for the twelve
days' that we had been resident in the ship, nor would he allow me to pay for some very comfortable
warm clothing, which he supplied me with, both for myself and Wylie. Independently too of the
things which I had drawn from the ship's stores, Captain Rossiter generously and earnestly
pressed me to take any thing that I thought would be serviceable to me from his own private
stock of clothes. The attention and hospitality shewn me, during my stay on board the vessel,
and the kindness and liberality which I experienced at my departure, will long be remembered
by me with feelings of gratitude. In the evening I slept on shore, and got every thing ready
for commencing my labours again in the morning.

June 15.--Early this morning the boat came on shore for me, and I went on board to take a farewell
breakfast, in the Mississippi, and to wish good bye to her kind-hearted people. At eight I
landed with the Captain, got up my horses and loaded them, a matter of some little time and
trouble, now my stock of provisions and other things was so greatly augmented; in addition
too to all I had accumulated before, the Captain insisted now upon my taking six bottles of
wine, and a tin of sardines.

Having received a few letters to be posted at Albany for France, I asked the Captain if there
was anything else I could do for him, but he said there was not. The only subject upon which
he was at all anxious, was to ascertain whether a war had broken out between France and England
or not. In the event of this being the case, he wished me not to mention having seen a French
vessel upon the coast, and I promised to comply with his request.

After wishing my kind host good bye, and directing Wylie to lead one of the horses in advance,
I brought up the rear, driving the others before me. Once again we had a long and arduous journey
before us, and were wending our lonely way through the unknown and untrodden wilds. We were,
however, in very different circumstances now, to what we had been in previous to our meeting
with the French ship. The respite we had had from our labours, and the generous living we had
enjoyed, had rendered us comparatively fresh and strong. We had now with us an abundance, not
only of the necessaries, but of the luxuries of life; were better clothed, and provided against
the inclemency of the weather than we had been; and entered upon the continuation of our undertaking
with a spirit, an energy, and a confidence, that we had long been strangers to.

From the great additional weight we had now to carry upon the horses, we were again obliged
to give up riding even in turn, and had both to walk. This was comparatively of little consequence,
however, now we were so well provided with every thing we could require, and the country appeared
to be so well watered, that we could arrange our stages almost according to our own wishes.

Steering to the north-west we passed over a sandy country, covered with low heathy plants,
and grasstrees, and having granite elevations scattered over its surface at intervals. Under
these hills fresh water swamps and native wells were constantly met with, and at one of them
we encamped for the night, after a stage of about four miles.

During the day, we passed a variety of beautiful shrubs, and among them were many different
kind of Banksias, one was quite new to me, and had a scarlet flower, which was very handsome.
The fossil formation still constituted the geological character of the country, most of the
lower ridges of rock intervening between the various hills of granite, exhibiting shells in
great abundance. In the more level parts, the surface was so coated over with sand, that nothing
else could be seen. I have no doubt, however, that the whole of the substrata would have been
found an uninterrupted continuation of the tertiary deposit.

At night I observed native fires about a mile from us, in a direction towards the sea; but
the natives did not come near us, nor was I myself anxious to come into communication with
them whilst my party was so small.

The evening had set in with steady rain, which continuing with little intermission during the
night, wet us considerably.

June 16.--This morning, I found I had caught cold, and was very unwell. Upon leaving the encampment,
we steered N. 30 degrees W. to clear a rocky hill, passing which, on our left at six miles,
we changed the course to W. 10 degrees N. Three miles from the hill, we crossed a small stream
of brackish water running very strongly towards the sea, and then halted for the day upon it,
after a short stage. The country we had traversed in our route, still consisted of the same
sandy plains and undulations, covered with low shrubs, heathy plants, grass and cabbage-trees,
with here and there elevations of granite, and fresh water swamps: in and around which, the
soil was black and very rich; very little wood was to be met with anywhere, and nothing that
deserved the appellation of trees.

The country, inland, appeared to rise gradually, but did not seem to differ in character and
features from that we were traversing.

June 17.--A little before daylight it commenced raining, and continued showery all day, and
though we got wet several times, we experienced great comfort from the warm clothing we had
obtained from Captain Rossiter. Upon ascending the hills, above our camp, which confined the
waters of the little stream we were upon, we could trace its course south-west by south, to
a small lake lying in the same direction, and which it appeared to empty into. A second small
lake was observable to the north-west of the first. Two and a half miles from our camp, we
passed a granite elevation, near which, were many fresh swamps, permanently, I think, abounding
in water and having much rich and grassy land around, of which the soil was a deep black, and
but little mixed with sand. For the next three miles and a half, our route lay over a rich
swampy grassy land, and we were literally walking all the way in water left by the rains; besides
crossing in that distance two fresh water streams, running strongly towards the sea, and both
emptying into small lakes seen under the coast ridges. The largest of these two was one yard
and a half wide and a foot deep, and appeared of a permanent character. We now ascended an
undulating and rather more elevated tract of country of an oolitic limestone formation, most
luxuriantly clothed with the richest grass, and having several lakes interspersed among the
hollows between the ridges. Near this we halted for the night under some of the coast sand-hills,
after a day's stage of twelve miles. We had splendid feed for our horses, but were without
any water for ourselves, being unable to carry any with us, as the canteens were full of treacle.
From our camp, a peak, near Cape le Grand, bore E. 33 degrees S.

June 18.--During the night heavy showers had fallen, and in the oilskins we caught as much
water as sufficed for our tea. After breakfast we proceeded onwards, and at a little more than
three miles came to the borders of a large salt lake, lying southwest and north-east, and being
one of two noted by Captain Flinders as having been copied into his map from a French chart.
Following the borders of the lake for a mile we found abundance of fresh water under the banks
by which it was inclosed, and which, judging from the rushes and grasses about it, and the
many traces of native encampments, I imagine to be permanent. The lake itself was in a hollow
sunk in the fossil formation, which was now very clearly recognisable in the high banks surrounding
the lake, and which varied from sixty to a hundred and fifty feet in elevation, and were generally
pretty steep towards the shore. The day being fine I halted at this place to re-arrange the
loads of the horses and take bearings.

A year had now elapsed since I first entered upon the Northern Expedition. This day twelve
months ago I had left Adelaide to commence the undertaking, cheered by the presence and good
wishes of many friends, and proudly commanding a small but gallant party--alas, where were
they now? Painful and bitter were the thoughts that occupied my mind as I contrasted the circumstances
of my departure then with my position now, and when I reflected that of all whose spirit and
enterprise had led them to engage in the undertaking, two lone wanderers only remained to attempt
its conclusion.

June 19.--The dew was very heavy this morning, and we did not start until rather late, travelling
through a very grassy country, abounding in fresh swamps of a soft peaty soil, and often with
the broad flag-reed growing in them. All these places were boggy and impassable for horses.
In attempting to cross one a horse sunk up to his haunches, and we had much difficulty in extricating
him. At five miles from our camp we ascended some high ridges of an oolitic limestone formation,
which were partially covered by drift-sand, and in the distance looked like the ridge of a
sea shore. From their summit Cape le Grand bore E. 27 degrees S., the peak called by the French
the "Chapeau," E. 23 degrees S., and the head of the salt-water lake E. 10 degrees S. We had
now a succession of barren, sandy and stony ridges for more than three miles, and as there
was but little prospect of our finding permanent water in such a miserable region, I took the
opportunity of halting at a little rain water deposited in a hole of the rocks; here we procured
enough for ourselves, but could not obtain any for the horses. Our camp not being far from
the coast, I walked after dinner to the sand-hills to take bearings. Several islands were visible,
of which the centres were set at S. 10 degrees W., S. 26 degrees W., E. 41 degrees S., E. 44
degrees S. and S. 33 degrees E. respectively; the west point of a bay bore S. 51 degrees W.
the eastern point E. 36 degrees S. Upon digging for water under the sand-hills it was found
to be salt.

June 20.--Rain fell lightly but steadily until one P.M., making it very disagreeable travelling
through the rugged and stony ridges we had to encounter, and which were a good deal covered
with scrub and brush. About four miles from our camp of last night we crossed high stony ridges,
and immediately beyond came to some steep sand-drifts, among the hollows of which I dug for
water, but at five feet was stopped by rock. The scrubby, hilly, and rugged nature of the back
country, generally about three hundred feet above the level of the sea, now compelled me to
keep the beach for five miles, from which I was then again driven by the hills terminating
abruptly towards the sea, and forcing me to scale a steep stony range, which for four miles
and a half kept us incessantly toiling up one rugged ascent after another. We then came to
an extensive hollow, being a partial break in the fossil formation, and having two large lakes
and many smaller ones interspersed over its surface. Around the margins of the lakes we again
found timber--the tea-tree and the bastard gum. The water in the lakes was salt, but some slight
elevations of granite afforded us in their hollows an abundance of water for ourselves and
horses. The traces of natives were numerous and recent, but yet we saw none. Swans, ducks,
and wild fowl of various kinds were in great numbers, and kept up an unceasing noise at night
whilst passing from one lake to the other. Our stage had been twelve miles and a half, but
the hilly and rugged nature of the road had made it severe upon the horses, whilst the wet
overhead and the wet grass under our feet made it equally harassing to ourselves. From our
encampment some white drifts in the coast line bore S. 35 degrees E., and probably were the
"white streak in the sand-hills" of Flinders.

June 21.--We did not get away until late, but the dew had been so heavy during the night that
even then the shrubs and bushes wet us completely through, and made our journey cold and miserable.
After travelling a short distance we lost all symptoms of grass, and the country was again
sandy and barren, and covered with shrubs and heathy plants. In this region we passed two native
women and a boy, within gun-shot of us; but as they were so intent upon their occupation of
digging roots, and did not notice us, I was unwilling to alarm them, and we passed silently
by. At six miles we came to a fine deep hole of excellent water about thirty yards in circumference.
It was situated in a narrow, short, but steep and rocky gorge, and is, I think, permanent.
Four miles beyond this we crossed a chain of salt ponds, trending seawards, towards an apparent
gap in the coast-line; and six miles further another. Upon the latter we halted for the night,
as there was good grass for the horses, and brackish water was procurable a little way up the
stream, where it divided into branches. The constant travelling in the wet for the last few
days began now to affect our limbs considerably, and upon halting at nights we found our feet
always much swollen, and our legs generally stiff and cramped.

June 22.--A very heavy dew fell in the night, and we were again condemned to wade for three
hours up to our middle among the wet brush; after which the day became fine, and we got our
clothes dried. Travelling for two and a half miles, we crossed another small brackish chain
of ponds, and then ascending rather higher ground, obtained a view of a large lake under the
sand-hills, into which the channel we encamped upon last night emptied itself. The lake appeared
as if it were deep, and its dark blue colour led me to imagine there might be a junction with
the sea towards the south-west, where the low appearance of the coast ridge indicated a gap
or opening of some kind. At four miles from our last night's encampment we were stopped by
a large salt-water river, fully a hundred yards wide, and increasing to three or four times
that size as it trended to its junction with the large lake, and which was visible from the
hills above the river. This river was deep where we first struck upon it, but appeared to be
much more so towards the lake, where the water was of a dark blue colour, as was that also
of the lake itself. This confirmed me in my opinion that there must be a junction with the
sea; but unfortunately I was obliged to trace its course upwards, for the purpose of crossing,
and the circumstances under which I was travelling precluded me from delaying, or going so
far back out of my way to examine its mouth. I dared not leave Wylie in charge of the camp
for the time necessary for me to have gone alone; and to take the horses such a distance, and
through a rough or heavy country, on the uncertainty of procuring for them either grass or
water, would have been a risk which, in their condition, I did not think myself justified in
incurring.

After tracing the river northerly for two miles and a half, I found it divided into two branches,
and though these were still of considerable size, yet a ledge of rocks extending across the
channels enabled us to effect a passage to the other side. At the place where we crossed, the
stream running over the rocks was only slightly brackish, and we watered our horses there;
had we traced it a little further it might possibly have been quite fresh, but we had no time
for this, for Wylie having taken charge of the horses but for a few moments, whilst I had been
examining the river for a crossing place, contrived to frighten them all in some way or other,
and set them off at a gallop; the result was, that our baggage was greatly disturbed, and many
things knocked off and damaged, whilst it took us some time again to get our horses and re-arrange
the loads.

The valley through which the river took its course, was rocky, with sheets of granite extending
in many places to the water's edge. There was abundance of good grass, however, and in its
upper branches, probably, there might have been some considerable extent of pasturage. The
trees growing upon the margin, were the paper-barked tea-tree, and the bastard gum.

Leaving the river, and proceeding over an undulating sandy country, without timber, but covered
with shrubs, we passed at six miles between two small lakes, and in three more descended to
a deep valley among granite rocks; here we encamped after a stage of sixteen miles, with plenty
of fresh water in pools, and very fair grass for the horses, about a mile and a half before
we halted, we had obtained a view to seawards, and I set the "Rocky Islets" at a bearing of
S. 25 degrees W.

The character of the country generally, through which we travelled to-day, was very similar
to that we had so long been traversing. Its general elevation above the level of the sea, was
about three hundred feet, and to a distant observer, it seemed to be a perfect table land,
unbroken to the horizon, and destitute of all timber or trees, except occasionally a few cabbage-trees,
grass-trees, or minor shrubs; it was also without grass. Upon crossing this region deep gorges
or valleys are met with, through which flow brackish or salt-water streams, and shading these
are found the tea-tree and the bastard gum. The steep banks which inclose the valleys, through
which the streams take their course, and which until lately we had found of an oolitic limestone,
now exhibited granite, quartz, sandstone or iron-stone.

June 23.--Our horses having rambled some distance back upon our yesterday's tracks, it was
late when they were recovered, and we did not get away until eleven. After travelling a mile
and a half, we crossed a stream of most excellent water running over a bed of granite, in which
were some large deep pools with reeds growing around their margins. A branch of this watercourse
was crossed a little further on, but was quite dry where we passed it.

Nine miles from our last night's camp a view of the "Rocky Islets" was obtained from a hill,
and set at due south. Immediately on descending from the hill we crossed a salt chain of ponds
in a bed of sandstone and ironstone, and nine miles beyond this we came to another, also of
salt water; here we halted for the night as there was tolerable grass for the horses, and we
were fortunate enough to discover fresh water in a granite rock.

In the course of the afternoon I obtained a view of a very distant hill bearing from us W.8
degrees S. This I took to be the east Mount Barren of Flinders; but it was still very far away,
and the intervening country looked barren and unpromising. During the day our route had still
been over the same character of country as before, with this exception, that it was more stony
and barren, with breccia or iron-stone grit covering the surface. The streams were less frequently
met with, and were of a greatly inferior character, consisting now principally of only chains
of small stagnant ponds of salt water, destitute of grass, and without any good soil in the
hollows through which they took their course. Many of these, and especially those we crossed
in the latter part of the day, were quite dry, and appeared to be nothing more than deep gutters
washed by heavy rains between the undulations of the country.

The rock formation, where it was developed, was exclusively sandstone or ironstone, with inferior
granite; and even the higher levels, which had heretofore been of a sandy nature, were now
rugged and stony, and more sterile than before; the grasstrees, which generally accommodate
themselves to any soil, were stunted and diminutive, and by no means so abundant as before.
The general elevation of the country still appeared to be the same. I estimated it at about
three hundred feet.

One circumstance, which struck me as rather singular, with regard to the last forty miles of
country we had traversed, was, that it did not appear to have experienced the same weather
as there had been to the eastward. The little water we found deposited in the rocks, plainly
indicated that the late rains had either not fallen here at all, or in a much less degree than
they had, in the direction we had come from; whilst the dry and withered state of any little
grass that we found, convinced me that the earlier rains had still been more partial, so great
was the contrast between the rich luxuriance of the long green grass we had met with before,
and the few dry withered bunches of last year's growth, which we fell in with now.

June 24.--UPON moving on early this morning, we crossed the bed of a considerable watercourse,
containing large deep pools of brackish water, but unconnected at present by any stream. The
late hour at which we halted last night had prevented us from noticing this larger chain of
ponds, and of which, that we were encamped upon formed only a branch. The country we now passed
through, varied but little in character, except that the shrubs became higher, with a good
deal of the Eucalyptus dumosa intermingled with them, and were entangled together by matted
creepers or vines, which made it extremely difficult and fatiguing to force a way through.
The whole was very sterile, and without grass.

After travelling nine miles, we passed on our right a small lake of fresh water; and two miles
beyond this another, about a mile in circumference, but deep, and evidently of a permanent
character. Close to this fresh water lake was another, divided from it by only a narrow neck
of land, and yet the latter was as salt as the sea. We had only made a short stage as yet;
but as there was a little food for the horses near the lake, I thought it more prudent to halt
there than run the risk of being left without in the wretched looking country before us,

The Mount Barren ranges were observed again, but the weather was cloudy, so that I could make
nothing out distinctly. In the afternoon, Wylie shot three teal, of which there were numbers
on the lake. At night, our baggage and clothes had nearly all been destroyed by fire, a spark
having been carried by the wind to the tarpaulin which covered them, and which, as it had been
but newly tarred, was soon in a blaze. I was fortunate enough, however, to observe the accident
in time to save our other effects.

June 25.--We commenced our journey early, but had not gone far before the rain began to fall,
and continued until ten o'clock. Occasionally the showers came down in perfect torrents, rendering
us very cold and miserable, and giving the whole country the appearance of a large puddle.
We were literally walking in water; and by stooping down, almost any where as we went along,
could have dipped a pint pot half full. It was dreadful work to travel thus in the water, and
with the wet from the long brush soaking our clothes for so many hours; but there was no help
for it, as we could not find a blade of grass for our horses, to enable us to halt sooner.
The surface of the whole country was stony and barren in the extreme. A mile from our camp,
we passed a small salt lake on our left; and at fifteen miles more, came to a valley with some
wiry grass in it. At this I halted, as there was no prospect of getting better grass, and the
water left by the rains was abundant. The latter, though it had only fallen an hour or two,
was in many places quite salt, and the best of it brackish, so thoroughly saline was the nature
of the soil upon which it had been deposited.

As the afternoon proved fine, I traced down the valley we were upon to its junction with a
stream flowing over a granite bed, about a mile from our camp. In this the pools of water were
large, deep, and brackish, but there was plenty of fresh water left by the rains in holes of
the rocks upon its banks. As, however, there did not appear to be better grass upon the larger
channel, than in the valley where we were, I did not think it worth while to remove our camp.

June 26.--I determined to remain in camp today to rest the horses, and to enable me to arrange
their loads, so that Wylie and I might again ride occasionally. We had both walked for the
last eleven days, during which we had made good a distance of 134 miles from Rossiter Bay,
and as I calculated we ought under ordinary circumstances to reach the Sound in ten days more,
I thought that we might occasionally indulge in riding, and relieve ourselves from the great
fatigue we had hitherto been subject to, especially as the horses were daily improving in strength
and condition.

Whilst I was engaged in making the necessary preparations, and throwing away some things which
I thought we could dispense with, such as our bucket, some harness, ammunition, cooking utensils,
and sundry other things, Wylie took the rifle, and went down to the watercourse to shoot. On
his return in the afternoon he produced four teal and a black swan, as the produce of his day's
sport; he had, however, shot away every charge of shot from the belt, which had been filled
on board the Mississippi, and held three pounds and a half, besides three ball cartridges;
how often he fired at the swan before he got it I could never discover, but I heard shot after
shot as fast as he could load and fire for some time, and he himself acknowledged to firing
at it seven times, but I suspect it to have been nearer twice seven.

To-day we were obliged to fetch up what water we required for our own use, from the holes in
the granite rocks near the river, that lying on the ground near our camp being too salt for use.

June 27.--Upon moving on this morning we passed towards the Mount Barren ranges for ten miles
through the same sterile country, and then observing a watercourse coming from the hills, I
became apprehensive I should experience some difficulty in crossing it near the ranges, from
their rocky and precipitous character, and at once turned more southerly to keep between the
sea and a salt lake, into which the stream emptied itself. After getting nearly half round
the lake, our progress was impeded by a dense and most difficult scrub of the Eucalyptus dumosa.
Upon entering it we found the scrub large and strong, and growing very close together, whilst
the fallen trees, dead wood, and sticks lying about in every direction, to the height of a
man's breast, rendered our passage difficult and dangerous to the horses in the extreme. Indeed,
when we were in the midst of it, the poor animals suffered so much, and progressed so little,
that I feared we should hardly get them either through it or back again. By dint of great labour
and perseverance we passed through a mile of it, and then emerging upon the beach followed
it for a short distance, until steep rocky hills coming nearly bluff into the sea, obliged
us to turn up under them, and encamp for the night not far from the lake. Here our horses procured
tolerable grass, whilst we obtained a little fresh water for ourselves among the hollows of
the rocks.

Our stage had been about thirteen miles, and our position was S. 30 degrees E. from East Mount
Barren, the hills under which we were encamped being connected with that range. Most properly
had it been called Mount Barren, for a more wretched aridlooking country never existed than
that around it. The Mount Barren ranges are of quartz or reddish micaceous slate, the rocks
project in sharp rugged masses, and the strata are all perpendicular.

June 28.--Upon getting up this morning we saw the smoke of native fires along the margin of
the lake, at less than a mile from us. They had already noticed our fire, and called out repeatedly
to us, but as I did not wish to come into communication with them at all, I did not reply.
Soon afterwards we saw them in the midst of the lake carrying boughs, and apparently fishing.
Three miles from the lake we crossed a small salt stream, and a mile further another. Four
miles beyond the latter we came to a very deep narrow salt lake, swarming with swans, pelicans,
and ducks. As the passage between the lake and the sea appeared to be scrubby, and very similar
to that we had found so much difficulty in passing yesterday, I turned to the north-west to
head it inland; but had not proceeded far before I found our progress stopped by a large salt-water
stream, which joined the lake, and whose course was through steep precipitous ravines. By following
the river upwards I came to a place where we could descend into its basin, and as the water
there, though brackish, was still drinkable, I halted for the night after a stage of fourteen
miles. The horses were a good deal tired with the rough hilly road they had passed over, and
having been without water last night, stood greatly in need of rest.

In the afternoon Wylie took the rifle to shoot some of the swans and ducks around us, but was
not successful. I remained at the camp, breaking down and clearing a passage amongst the shrubs
and trees which grew in the rocky bed of the watercourse, to enable us to get our horses readily
across to-morrow. Our position bore S. W. from East Mount Barren, E. from a bluff range three
miles from us, and N. 55 degrees E. from some high hills in the direction of Middle Mount Barren.
The course of the stream we were encamped upon being nearly north and south.

June 29.--Having found so much difficulty in keeping between the hills and the sea, I determined
now to keep more inland, and steering W. 20 degrees N., headed all ranges in four miles. From
this point East Mount Barren bore E. 20 degrees N., and as I was now clear of hills in front,
I changed my course to W. 20 degrees S., passing through a barren worthless country for eleven
miles, and encamping upon a deep ravine, in which we procured brackish water. Our horses were
greatly fagged. From our camp West Mount Barren bore S. 41 degrees W.

June 30.--For the first ten miles to-day we had a very bad road, over steep stony ridges and
valleys, covered for the most part with dense gum scrub. The surface was strewed over with
rough pebbles or ironstone grit, and was broken a good deal into steep-faced ridges and deep
hollows, as if formed so by the action of water. The formation of these precipitous banks appeared
to be an ochre of various colours--red and yellow, and of a soft friable description. At ten
miles we crossed a watercourse with many pools of brackish water in it, trending to a lake
visible under the coast ridge. There was good grass near this, and many kangaroos were seen,
but as no fresh water could be obtained, we passed on, and at three miles further came to a
hole of rain-water in a rocky gorge, but here there was not a blade of grass. Hoping to meet
with more success further on, we still advanced for twelve miles, until night compelled us
at last to encamp without either grass or water, both ourselves and our horses being greatly
fatigued.

In the evening we obtained a view of some high rugged and distant ranges, which I at once recognised
as being the mountains immediately behind King George's Sound. At last we could almost say
we were in sight of the termination of our long, harassing, and disastrous journey. Early in
the morning I had told Wylie that I thought we should see the King George's Sound hills before
night, but he at the time appeared rather sceptical; when, however, they did break upon our
view, in picturesque though distant outline, his joy knew no bounds. For the first time on
our journey he believed we should really reach the Sound at last. The cheering and not-to-be-mistaken
view before him had dissipated all his doubts. Once more he gazed upon objects that were familiar
to him; the home of his childhood was before him, and already almost in fancy he was there,
and amongst his friends; he could think, or talk of nothing else, and actually complimented
me upon the successful way in which I had conducted him to the end of his journey. From our
camp the distant ranges bore W. 5 degrees S., and West Mount Barren E. 5 degrees S.

July 1.--After travelling three miles we came to a chain of large ponds of brackish water,
but with excellent grass around them, and as the horses had nothing to eat or drink last night
we halted for three hours. The water was bad, but they drank it, and we were obliged to do
so too, after an ineffectual search for better. At noon we again moved on, and after proceeding
about five miles, came to a large watercourse where the water was excellent, and the feed abundant.
Here we halted for the night, to make our horses amends for the bad fare and hard work of yesterday.
From the hill above our camp West Mount Barren bore E. 8 degrees N., Middle Mount Barren E.
21 degrees N., and Rugged Mountains behind the Sound, W. 4 degrees S. The watercourse we were
upon, like all those we had lately crossed, had perpendicular cliffs abutting upon it, either
on one side or the other, and the channel through which it wound looked almost like a cut made
through the level country above it. A few casuarinae were observed in parts of the valley,
being the first met with since those seen near Cape Arid.

July 2.--Our route to-day lay through a country much covered with gum-scrub, banksias, and
other shrubs, besides occasionally a few patches of stunted gum-trees growing in clumps in
small hollows, where water appeared to lodge after rains. At two miles we crossed a small watercourse,
and at fifteen further, came to a deep valley with fine fresh-water pools in it, and tolerable
feed around; here we halted for the night. The valley we were upon (and one or two others near)
led to a much larger one below, through which appeared to take its course the channel of a
considerable watercourse trending towards a bight in the coast at S. 17 degrees W.

Some high land, seen to the southward and westward of us, I took to be Cape Riche, a point
I should like greatly to have visited, but did not think it prudent to go so far out of my
direct course, in the circumstances I was travelling under.

July 3.--Upon commencing our journey to-day I found our route was much intersected by deep
ravines and gorges, all trending to the larger valley below, and where I had no doubt a large
chain of ponds, and probably much good land, would have been found. After proceeding four miles
and a half, we were stopped by a large salt-water river, which seemed to be very deep below
where we struck it, and trended towards a bight of the coast where it appeared to form a junction
with the sea.

Many oyster and cockle shells were on its shore. This was the largest river we had yet come
to, and it gave us much trouble to cross it, for, wherever it appeared fordable, the bed was
so soft and muddy, that we dared not venture to take our horses into it. By tracing it upwards
for eight miles, we at last found a rocky shelf extending across, by which we were enabled
to get to the other side. At the point where we crossed, it had become only a narrow rocky
channel; but there was a strong stream running, and I have no doubt, higher up, the water might
probably have been quite fresh. Its waters flowed from a direction nearly of west-north-west,
and appeared to emanate from the high rugged ranges behind King George's Sound. The country
about the lower or broad part of this river, as far as I traced it, was rocky and bad; but
higher up, there was a good deal of grass, and the land appeared improving. In the distance,
the hills seemed less rocky and more grassy, and might probably afford fair runs for sheep.
Upon the banks of the river were a few casuarinae and more of the tea-tree, and bastard gum,
than we had seen before upon any other watercourse.

Upon crossing the river, we found the country getting more wooded, with a stunted-looking tree,
apparently of the same species as the stringy bark, with bastard gums, and large banksias,
the intervals being filled up with grass-trees and brush, or shrubs, common at King George's
Sound. At dark we could find no water, and I therefore pushed on by moonlight, making Wylie
lead one of the horses whilst I drove the rest after him. At nine o'clock, we came to a deep
valley with plenty of water and grass in it, and here we halted for the night, after a stage
of full thirty miles. The early part of the morning had been very wet, and it continued to
rain partially for the greatest part of the day, rendering us very cold and uncomfortable.
At night it was a severe frost.

July 4.--Our horses having been a good deal fagged yesterday, I did not disturb them early,
and it was nearly noon when we moved away from our encampment, crossing the main watercourse,
of which the ponds we were upon last night were only a branch. In the larger channel, there
were many fine pools of water, connected by a strongly running stream in a deep narrow bed,
and which wound at a course of E. 25 degrees S. through a valley of soft, spongy, peaty formation,
and over which we had much trouble in getting our horses, one having sunk very deep, and being
with difficulty extricated. After travelling two miles and a half, we obtained a view of Bald
Island, bearing S. 15 degrees W.; and in two miles and a half more, we crossed a fine chain
of ponds, taking its course through narrow valleys between hills of granite; these valleys
and the slopes of the hills were heavily timbered; the soil was very rich, either a reddish
loam, or a light black mixed with sand, and the grass interspersed among the trees was abundant
and luxuriant. After ascending the range, we passed principally over stony hills, and valleys
heavily timbered, and with brush or underwood, filling up the interstices of the trees.

Ten miles from our last night's camp we crossed the tracks of horses, apparently of no very
old date, this being the first symptom we had yet observed of our approach towards the haunts
of civilised man. The day was cold with heavy squalls of rain, and as the night appeared likely
to be worse, I halted early, after a stage of thirteen miles. After dark the rain ceased, and
the night cleared up, but was very cold.

July 5.--Another rainy day, and so excessively cold that we were obliged to walk to keep ourselves
at all warm; we spent a miserable time, splashing through the wet underwood, and at fifteen
miles we passed a fresh water lake, in a valley between some hills. This Wylie recognised as
a place he had once been at before, and told me that he now knew the road well, and would act
as guide, upon which I resigned the post of honour to him, on his promising always to take
us to grass and water at night. Two miles and a half beyond the lake, we came to a fresh water
swamp, and a mile beyond that to another, at which we halted for the night, with plenty of
water, but very little grass. During the day, we had been travelling generally through a very
heavily timbered country.

At night the rain set in again, and continued to fall in torrents at intervals; we got dreadfully
drenched, and suffered greatly from cold and want of rest, being obliged to stand or walk before
the fire, nearly the whole night.

July 6.--The morning still very wet and miserably cold. With Wylie acting as guide, we reached
in eight miles, the Candiup river, a large chain of ponds, connected by a running stream, and
emptying into a wide and deep arm of the sea, with much rich and fertile land upon its banks.
The whole district was heavily timbered, and had good grass growing amongst the trees. From
the very heavy rains that had fallen, we had great trouble in crossing many of the streams,
which were swollen by the floods into perfect torrents. In the Candiup river I had to wade,
cold and chill as I was, seven times through, with the water breast high, and a current that
I with difficulty could keep my feet against, in order to get the horses over in safety; the
only fordable place was at a narrow ledge of rocks, and with so strong a stream, and such deep
water below the ledge, I dared not trust Wylie to lead any of them, but went back, and took
each horse across myself. The day was bitterly cold and rainy, and I began to suffer severely
from the incessant wettings I had been subject to for many days past.

Four miles beyond the Candiup river, we came to King's river, a large salt arm of Oyster Harbour,
here my friend Wylie, who insisted upon it that he knew the proper crossing place, took me
into a large swampy morass, and in endeavouring to take the horses through, three of them got
bogged and were nearly lost, and both myself and Wylie were detained in the water and mud for
a couple of hours, endeavouring to extricate them. At last we succeeded, but the poor animals
were sadly weakened and strained, and we were compelled to return back to the same side of
the river, and encamp for the night, instead of going on to King George's Sound as I had intended!

Fortunately there was tolerable grass, and fresh water lay every where about in great abundance,
so that the horses would fare well, but for ourselves there was a cheerless prospect. For three
days and nights, we had never had our clothes dry, and for the greater part of this time, we
had been enduring in full violence the pitiless storm--whilst wading so constantly through
the cold torrents in the depth of the winter season, and latterly being detained in the water
so long a time at the King's river, had rendered us rheumatic, and painfully sensitive to either
cold or wet. I hoped to have reached Albany this evening, and should have done so, as it was
only six miles distant, if it had not been for the unlucky attempt to cross King's river. Now
we had another night's misery before us, for we had hardly lain down before the rain began
to fall again in torrents. Wearied and worn-out as we were, with the sufferings and fatigues
of the last few days, we could neither sit nor lie down to rest; our only consolation under
the circumstances being, that however bad or inclement the weather might be, it was the last
night we should be exposed to its fury.

July 7.--Getting up the horses early, we proceeded up the King's river, with a view of attempting
to cross, but upon sounding the depths in one or two places, I found the tide, which was rising,
was too high; I had only the alternative, therefore, of waiting for several hours until the
water ebbed, or else of leaving the horses, and proceeding on without them. Under all the circumstances,
I decided upon the latter; the rain was still falling very heavily, and the river before us
was so wide and so dangerous for horses, from its very boggy character, that I did not think
it prudent to attempt to force a passage, or worth while to delay to search for a proper crossing
place. There was good feed for the horses where they were, and plenty of water, so that I knew
they would fare better by remaining than if they were taken on to the Sound; whilst it appeared
to me more than probable that I should have no difficulty, whenever I wished to get them, to
procure a guide to go for and conduct them safely across, at the proper crossing place.

Having turned our horses loose, and piled up our baggage, now again greatly reduced, I took
my journals and charts, and with Wylie forded the river about breast high. We were soon on
the other side, and rapidly advancing towards the termination of our journey; the rain was
falling in torrents, and we had not a dry shred about us, whilst the whole country through
which we passed, had, from the long-continued and excessive rains, become almost an uninterrupted
chain of puddles. For a great part of the way we walked up to our ankles in water. This made
our progress slow, and rendered our last day's march a very cold and disagreeable one. Before
reaching the Sound, we met a native, who at once recognised Wylie, and greeted him most cordially.
From him we learnt that we had been expected at the Sound some months ago, but had long been
given up for lost, whilst Wylie had been mourned for and lamented as dead by his friends and
his tribe. The rain still continued falling heavily as we ascended to the brow of the hill
immediately overlooking the town of Albany--not a soul was to be seen--not an animal of any
kind--the place looked deserted and uninhabited, so completely had the inclemency of the weather
driven both man and beast to seek shelter from the storm.

For a moment I stood gazing at the town below me--that goal I had so long looked forward to,
had so laboriously toiled to attain, was at last before me. A thousand confused images and
reflections crowded through my mind, and the events of the past year were recalled in rapid
succession. The contrast between the circumstances under which I had commenced and terminated
my labours stood in strong relief before me. The gay and gallant cavalcade that accompanied
me on my way at starting--the small but enterprising band that I then commanded, the goodly
array of horses and drays, with all their well-ordered appointments and equipment were conjured
up in all their circumstances of pride and pleasure; and I could not restrain a tear, as I
called to mind the embarrassing difficulties and sad disasters that had broken up my party,
and left myself and Wylie the two sole wanderers remaining at the close of an undertaking entered
upon under such hopeful auspices.

Whilst standing thus upon the brow overlooking the town, and buried in reflection, I was startled
by the loud shrill cry of the native we had met on the road, and who still kept with us: clearly
and powerfully that voice rang through the recesses of the settlement beneath, whilst the blended
name of Wylie told me of the information it conveyed. For an instant there was a silence still
almost as death--then a single repetition of that wild joyous cry, a confused hum of many voices,
a hurrying to and fro of human feet, and the streets which had appeared so shortly before gloomy
and untenanted, were now alive with natives--men, women and children, old and young, rushing
rapidly up the hill, to welcome the wanderer on his return, and to receive their lost one almost
from the grave.

It was an interesting and touching sight to witness the meeting between Wylie and his friends.
Affection's strongest ties could not have produced a more affecting and melting scene--the
wordless weeping pleasure, too deep for utterance, with which he was embraced by his relatives,
the cordial and hearty reception given him by his friends, and the joyous greeting bestowed
upon him by all, might well have put to the blush those heartless calumniators, who, branding
the savage as the creature only of unbridled passions, deny to him any of those better feelings
and affections which are implanted in the breast of all mankind, and which nature has not denied
to any colour or to any race.

Upon entering the town I proceeded direct to Mr. Sherrats', where I had lodged when in King
George's Sound, in 1840. By him and his family I was most hospitably received, and every attention
shewn to me; and in the course of a short time, after taking a glass of hot brandy and water,
performing my ablutions and putting on a clean suit of borrowed clothes, I was enabled once
more to feel comparatively comfortable, and to receive the many kind friends who called upon me.

I feel great pleasure in the opportunity now afforded me of recording the grateful feelings
I entertain towards the residents at Albany for the kindness I experienced upon this occasion.
Wet as the day was, I had hardly been two hours at Mr. Sherrats before I was honoured by a
visit from Lady Spencer, from the Government-resident, Mr. Phillips, and from almost all the
other residents and visitors at the settlement,--all vying with each other in their kind attentions
and congratulations, and in every offer of assistance or accommodation which it was in their
power to render.

Finding that a vessel would shortly sail for Adelaide, I at once engaged my passage, and proceeded
to make arrangements for leaving King George's Sound.

To the Governor of the Colony, Mr. Hutt, I wrote a brief report of my journey, which was forwarded,
with a copy both of my own and Wylie's depositions, relative to the melancholy loss of my overseer
on the 29th April. I then had my horses got up from the King's river, and left them in the
care of Mr. Phillips, who had in the most friendly manner offered to take charge of them until
they recovered their condition and could be sold.

Wylie was to remain at the Sound with his friends, and to receive from the Government a weekly
allowance of provisions, [Note 29: This was confirmed by Governor Hutt.] by order of Mr. Phillips;
who promised to recommend that it should be permanently continued, as a reward for the fidelity
and good conduct he had displayed whilst accompanying me in the desert.

On the 13th July I wished my friends good bye, and in the afternoon went on board the Truelove
to sail for Adelaide; whilst working out of harbour we were accompanied as long as any of the
shore boats remained, by some of the natives of the place, who were most anxious to have gone
with me to Adelaide. Wylie had given them so flattering an account of South Australia and its
pleasures, that he had excited the envy and curiosity of the whole tribe; dozens applied to
me to take them, and I really think I could have filled the ship had I been disposed; one or
two, more persevering than the rest, would not be denied, and stuck close to the vessel to
the last, in the hope that I might relent and take them with me before the pilot boat left,
but upon this occurring, to their great discomforture, they were compelled to return disappointed.

On the afternoon of the 26th of July I arrived in Adelaide, after an absence of one year and
twenty-six days.

Chapter VI.

CONCLUDING REMARKS.

Having now brought to a close the narrative of my explorations in 1840-1, it may not be out
of place to take a brief and cursory review of the whole, and to state generally what have
been the results effected. In making this summary, I have no important rivers to enumerate,
no fertile regions to point out for the future spread of colonization and civilization, or
no noble ranges to describe from which are washed the debris that might form a rich and fertile
district beneath them; on the contrary, all has been arid and barren in the extreme.

Such, indeed, has been the sterile and desolate character of the wilderness I have traversed,
and so great have been the difficulties thereby entailed upon me, that throughout by far the
greater portion of it, I have never been able to delay a moment in my route, or to deviate
in any way from the line I was pursuing, to reconnoitre or examine what may haply be beyond.
Even in the latter part of my travels, when within the colony of Western Australia, and when
the occasionally meeting with tracts of a better soil, or with watercourses appearing to have
an outlet to the ocean, rendered the country one of much greater interest, I was quite unable,
from the circumstances under which I was placed, the reduced and worn-out state of my horses,
and the solitary manner in which I was travelling, ever to deviate from my direct line of route,
either to examine more satisfactorily the character of the country, or to determine whether
the watercourses, some of which occasionally bore the character of rivers (though of only short
course), had embouchures opening to the sea or not.

In a geographical point of view, I would hope the result of my labours has not been either
uninteresting, or incommensurate with the nature of the expedition placed under my command,
and the character of the country I had to explore. By including in the summary I am now making,
the journeys I undertook in 1839, as well as those of 1840-1 (for a considerable portion of
the country then examined was recrossed by the Northern Expedition), it will be seen that I
have discovered and examined a tract of country to the north of Adelaide, which was previously
unknown, of about 270 miles in length, extending between the parallels of 33 degrees 40 minutes
and 29 degrees S. latitude. In longitude, that part of my route which was before unknown, extends
between the parallels of 138 degrees E., and 118 degrees 40 minutes E., or about 1060 miles
of direct distance. These being connected with the previously known portions of South-western,
South-eastern, and part of Southern Australia, complete the examination of the whole of the
south line of the coast of this continent. Indeed, I have myself (at various times) crossed
over the whole of this distance from east to west, from Sydney to Swan River. In the early
part of the Expedition, 1840, the continuation of Flinders range, from Mount Arden, was traced
and laid down to its termination, near the parallel of 29 degrees S. It was ascertained to
be hemmed in by an impassable barrier, consisting of the basin of an immense lake, which I
named Lake Torrens, and which, commencing from the head of Spencer's Gulf, increased in width
as it swept to the north-west, but subsequently bent round again to the north-east, east and
south-east, in correspondence with the trend of Flinders range, the northern extremity of which
it completely surrounded in the form of a horse-shoe. The shores of this lake I visited to
the westward of Flinders range, at three different points, from eighty to ninety miles apart
from each other, and on all these occasions I found the basin to consist, as far as I could
penetrate, of a mass of mud and sand, coated on the surface with a crust of salt, but having
water mixed with it beneath. At the most north-westerly point attained by me, water was found
in an arm of the main lake, about two feet deep, clear, and salt as the sea; it did not extend,
however, more than two or three hundred yards, nor did it continue to the bed of the main lake,
which appeared, from a rise that I ascended near the arm, to be of the same character and consistency
as before. The whole course of the lake, to the farthest point visited by me, was bounded by
a steep, continuous, sandy ridge, exactly like a sea-shore ridge; those parts of its course
to the north, and to the east of Flinders range, which I did not go down to, were seen and
laid down from various heights in that mountain chain. Altogether, the outline of this extraordinary
feature, as thus observed and traced, could not have extended over a circuit of less than 400
miles.

It is singular enough that all the springs found near the termination of Flinders range should
have been salt, and that these were very nearly in the same latitude in which Captain Sturt
had found brine springs in the bed of the Darling in 1829, although our two positions were
so far separated in longitude. My furthest position to the north-west was also in about the
same latitude, as the most inland point gained by any previous exploring party, viz. that of
Sir Thomas Mitchell's in 1832, about the parallel of 149 degrees E. longitude; but by my being
about 600 miles more to the westward, I was consequently much nearer to the centre of New Holland.
It is, to say the least, remarkable that from both our positions, so far apart as they are,
the country should present the same low and sterile aspect to the west and north-west. Since
my return from the expedition, a party has been sent out under Captain Frome, the Surveyor-General,
in South Australia, to examine the south-east extremity of Lake Torrens; the following is the
report made by that officer upon his return.

"The most northern point at which I found water last year, was near the top of a deep ravine
of the Black Rock Hills, in lat. 32 degrees 45 minutes 25 seconds, where I left the dray and
the larger portion of my party on the 20th July, taking on only a light spring cart, the bottom
filled entirely with kegs containing sufficient water for our horses for nearly three days,
and provisions for one month, which was as much as the cart would contain.

"My object being to ascertain the boundaries of the southern termination of the eastern branch
of Lake Torrens, as laid down by Mr. Eyre, and also the nature of the country between Flinders
range, as high as the parallel of Mount Hopeless, and the meridian of 141 degrees, (the eastern
limits of the province), I kept at first a course as near N.N.E. as the nature of the ground
would admit, to ensure my not passing to the east of this extremity of the lake; from whence
I intended, if possible, to pursue a line nearly north-east, as far as my time and the means
at my disposal would allow me, hoping to reach the high land laid down by Sir Thomas Mitchell,
on the right banks of the Darling, to the north of Mount Lyell, and thus ascertain if any reasonable
hope existed of penetrating at some future time towards the interior from thence. The continued
heavy rains which had fallen for more than three weeks before my departure from Adelaide, on
the 8th July, and for nearly a fortnight afterwards, had left the surface water in pools on
the scrubby plains, and in some of the ravines; but on proceeding north, it was evident that
these rains had not been there so general or so heavy, though by steering from point to point
of the hills, after crossing the Black Rock Range at Rowe's Creek, I was able to find sufficient
water for the horses, and to replenish the kegs every second or third day. From this spot,
the plains, as well as the higher land, appeared evidently to dip away to the north-east, the
barren hills all diminishing in elevation, and the deep watercourses from Flinders range all
crossing the plains in that direction. In one of these watercourses, the Siccus (lat. about
31 degrees 55 minutes), whose section nearly equals that of the Murray, there were indications
of not very remote floods having risen to between twenty and thirty feet above its bed, plainly
marked by large gum-trees lodged in the forks of the standing trees, and lying high up on its
banks, on one of which I remarked dead leaves still on the branches; and in another creek (Pasmore
River), lat. 31 degrees 29 minutes, a strong current was running at the spot where we struck
it (owing, I suppose, to recent heavy rains among the hills from whence it has its source),
but below this point the bed was like that of all the other creeks, as dry as if no rain had
ever fallen, and with occasional patches of various shrubs, and salt water tea-tree growing
in it. After crossing the low ridge above Prewitt's Springs, lat. 31 degrees 45 minutes, forming
the left bank of the basin of the Siccus, the plain extended between the north and east as
far as the eye could reach, and the lurid glare of the horizon, as we advanced northward, plainly
indicated the approach of Lake Torrens, which, from the direction I had followed, I expected
to turn about this point. I was obliged, however, to continue a northerly course for the sake
of water, which I could only hope to find in the ravines of the hills on our left, as high
as the parallel of 30 degrees 59 minutes, where the lake was visible within fifteen or sixteen
miles, and appeared from the high land to be covered with water, studded with islands, and
backed on the east by a bold rocky shore. These appearances were, however, all deceptive, being
caused solely by the extraordinary refraction, as on riding to the spot the following day,
not a drop of water was to be seen in any direction. The islands turned out to be mere low
sandy ridges, very scantily clothed with stunted scrub on their summits, and no distant land
appeared any where between the north and south-east, though from the hills above our camp of
the previous night, I could discern, with the aid of a very powerful telescope, a ridge of
low land, either on the eastern side of the lake, or rising out of it, distant at least seventy
miles, rendered visible at that distance by the excessive refractive power of the atmosphere
on the horizon. A salt crust was seen at intervals on the surface of the sand at the margin
of the lake, or as it might more properly be called, the Desert; but this appearance might
either be caused by water brought down by the Siccus, and other large watercourses spreading
over the saline soil in times of flood, or by rain, and appeared to me no proof of its ever
being covered with water for any period of time. A few pieces of what appeared drift timber
were also lying about its surface. The sand, as we advanced farther east, became more loose
and drifting, and not a blade of grass, or any species of vegetation, was visible, rendering
hopeless any attempt to cross it with horses. This point of the lake shore, being by Mr. Eyre's
chart about thirty miles to the westward of where I found it, I thought it advisable to push
further north, in the direction of the highest point of the range, which I imagined was probably
his Mount Serle; for though it was not to be expected that Mr. Eyre, whose principal and almost
sole object was to discover a road to the interior, would, at the same time, have been able
to lay down the position of his route with the same accuracy that might have been expected
from a surveyor; this difference of longitude prevented my being certain of the identity of
the spot, or that the range on our left, might not after all, be another long promontory running
to the north, similar to that on the western side of which was Mr. Eyre's course. The appearance
of the country, however, from the hills close under Mount Serle (for the perpendicular cliffs
on the east side of this range of hills prevented my ascending to their summit without turning
them among the ranges, for which I had not time), convinced me at once, from its perfect accordance
with the description given by Mr. Eyre, that his eastern arm of Lake Torrens was the sandy
desert I had left, its surface being about three hundred feet above the level of the sea; and
our two converging lines having thus met at Mount Serle, I knew it was useless to advance further
in the same direction to a spot which he had named, from the impossibility of proceeding beyond
it, "Mount Hopeless."

"I was thus forced to return to Pasmore River, as the nearest point from whence I could cross
to the low hills to the eastward, south of Lake Torrens; and from thence I sent back to the
depot two men of the party, and three horses--the former for the sake of their rations, and
the latter on account of the probable difficulty I should have in procuring water--taking on
with me only Mr. Henderson and Mr. Hawker on foot, with the light cart and one policeman. The
second evening I made the most northern of these hills, but could not find a drop of water
in any of them; and having unluckily lost the policeman, who had crossed in front of the dray
and got entangled in the dense scrub, I was detained three days riding upon his tracks, until
I had traced them to our dray tracks from the depot at the Black Rock Hill, which he reached
in safety, after being out five days without food. The cart, in the mean time, had been obliged
to leave the spot where I left it, for want of water--having been out six days without obtaining
any but what we carried in the kegs; and when I overtook it, we had not sufficient provisions
for another attempt, the period of one month, for which they were intended to last, having
already nearly expired.

"I very much regret not having been able to reach, at all events, within sight of Mount Lyell;
but where I turned I could plainly see the whole country within fifty or sixty miles of the
boundaries of the province, and can speak with almost as much confidence of its absolute sterility
as if I had actually ridden over it. It would certainly be possible in the wet season to take
a small party from Prewitt's Springs across to this hill of Sir Thomas Mitchell (distant about
one hundred and sixty miles), by carrying on water for eight or ten days; but no further supply
might be found short of the Darling (eighty miles beyond Mount Lyell), on which river it would
be madness to attempt anything without a considerable force, on account of the natives; and
the same point might be reached in nearly as short a time, and with much more certainty, with
any number of men that might be considered necessary, by ascending the Murray as high as the
Laidley Ponds, and proceeding north from thence.

"On returning to the depot, I moved the party down to Mount Bryan, and made another attempt
on the 25th August, with Mr. Henderson, and one man leading a pack-horse, to the north-east,
hoping, from the heavy rains which had fallen during the past two months, to find sufficient
water in the ravines to enable me to push on for several days. The second day, I crossed the
high range I had observed from the Black Rock Hills and Mount Bryan, for the southern termination
of which Colonel Gawler steered when he left the northern bend of the Murray in December, 1839;
but though these hills had an elevation of twelve hundred or fourteen hundred feet above the
plain, there was no indication of rain having fallen there since the deluge. This want of water
prevented my proceeding further to the north-east; but from the summit of the highest of these
hills (Mount Porcupine,) I had a clear view of the horizon in every direction, and a more barren,
sterile country, cannot be imagined.

"The direction of the dividing ridge between the basin of the Murray and the interior desert
plain was generally about north-east from the Black Rock Hills (the highest point north of
Mount Bryan,) gradually decreasing in elevation, and, if possible, increasing in barrenness.
The summits of those hills I found invariably rock--generally sandstone--the lower slopes covered
with dense brush, and the valleys with low scrub, with occasional small patches of thin wiry
grass. I was obliged to return on the third day, and reached the foot of Mount Bryan on the
fourth evening, at the southern extremity of which hill the horses were nearly bogged in the
soft ground, though only fifty miles distant from land where the dust was flying as if in the
midst of summer.

"It appears to me certain, from the result of these different attempts, that there is no country
eastward of the high land extending north from Mount Bryan, as far as Mount Hopeless, a distance
of about three hundred miles, as far as the meridian of 141 degrees (and probably much beyond
it), available for either agricultural or pastoral purposes; and that, though there may be
occasional spots of good land at the base of the main range on the sources of the numerous
creeks flowing from thence towards the inland desert, these must be too limited in extent to
be of any present value.

"The nature of the formation of the main range I found generally iron-stone, conglomerate and
quartz, with sandstone and slate at the lower elevation. At the points of highest elevation
from Mount Bryan northward, igneous rocks of basaltic character protruded from below, forming
rugged and fantastic outlines.

"At one spot, particularly, about 30 degrees, there were marked indications of volcanic action,
and several hollows resembling small craters of extinct volcanoes, near one of which we found
a small spring of water, maintaining always a temperature of about 76 degrees Farenheit, when
the thermometer standing in water in the kegs stood at 52 degrees, and in the atmosphere at
54 degrees.

"The accompanying sketch of the country from Mount Bryan northwards, will probably explain
its character better than any written description. The altitudes marked at the different spots
where they were observed, were obtained by the temperature of boiling water, as observed by
two thermometers; but as they were not graduated with sufficient minuteness for such purposes,
the results can only be considered approximate."

E. C. FROME, Capt. Royal Engineers, Surveyor-General. September 14th, 1843.

In the above report it will be observed, that there are some apparent discrepancies between
my account and Captain Frome's. First, with respect to the position of the south-east extremity
of Lake Torrens. Captain Frome states that he found that point thirty miles more to the east
than I had placed it in my chart. Now the only sketch of my course under Flinders range, and
that a rough one, which I furnished to the Colonial Government, was sent from Port Lincoln,
and is the same which was subsequently published with other papers, relative to South Australia,
for the House of Commons, in 1843. This sketch was put together hastily for his Excellency
the Governor, that I might not lose the opportunity of forwarding it when I sent from Port
Lincoln to Adelaide for supplies early in October, 1840. It was constructed entirely, after
I found myself compelled to return from the northern interior, and could only be attended to,
in a hurried and imperfect manner, during the brief intervals I could snatch from other duties,
whilst travelling back from the north to Port Lincoln (nearly 400 miles,) during which time
my movements were very rapid, and many arrangements, consequent upon dividing my party at Baxter's
range, had to be attended to; added to this were the difficulties and embarrassments of conducting
myself one division of the party to Port Lincoln, through 200 miles of a desert country which
had never been explored before, and which, from its arid and sterile character, presented impediments
of no ordinary kind.

Upon my return to Adelaide in 1841, after the Expedition had terminated, other duties engrossed
my time, and it was only after the publication of Captain Frome's report, that my attention
was again called to the subject. Upon comparing my notes and bearings with the original sketch
I had made, I found that in the hurry and confusion of preparing it, whilst travelling, I had
laid down all the bearings and courses magnetic, without allowing for the variation; nor can
this error, perhaps, be wondered at, considering the circumstances under which the sketch was
constructed.

At Mount Hopeless the variation was 4 degrees E., at Mount Arden it was 7 degrees 24 minutes
E. Now if this variation be applied proportionably to all the courses and bearings as marked
down in the original chart, commencing from Mount Arden, it will be found that Mount Serle
will be brought by my map very nearly in longitude to where Captain Frome places it. [Note
30 at end of para.] Our latitudes appear to agree exactly. The second point upon which some
difference appears to exist between Captain Frome's report and mine is the character of Lake
Torrens itself, which Captain Frome thought might more properly be called a desert. This, it
will be observed, is with reference to its south-east extremity--a point I never visited, and
which I only saw once from Mount Serle; a point, too, which from the view I then had of it,
distant although it was, even at that time seemed to me to be "apparently dry," and is marked
as such in Arrowsmith's chart, published from the sketch alluded to.

[Note 30: This has been done by Arrowsmith in the map which accompanies these volumes;--to
which Mr. Arrowsmith has also added Captain Frome's route from the original tracings.]

There is, however, a still greater, and more singular difference alluded to in Captain Frome's
report, which it is necessary to remark; I mean that of the elevation of the country. On the
west side of Flinders range, for 200 miles that I traced the course of Lake Torrens, it was,
as I have observed, girded in its whole course by a steep ridge, like a sea-shore, from which
you descended into a basin, certainly not above the level of the sea, possibly even below it
(I had no instruments with me to enable me to ascertain this,) the whole bed consisted of mud
and water, and I found it impossible to advance far into it from its boggy nature. Now, by
referring to Captain Frome's chart and report, it appears that the place thus described was
nearly thirty miles south of Mount Serle, and consequently twenty miles south of that part
of the bed of Lake Torrens which I had seen from that hill. It is further evident, that Captain
Frome had not reached the basin of Lake Torrens, and I cannot help thinking, that if he had
gone further to the north-east, he would have come to nearly the same level that I had been
at on the western side of the hills. There are several reasons for arriving at this conclusion.
First, the manner in which the drainage is thrown off from the east side of Flinders range,
and the direction which the watercourses take to the north-east or north; secondly, because
an apparent connection was traceable in the course of the lake, from the heights in Flinders
range, nearly all the way round it; thirdly, because the loose sands and low sandy ridges crowned
with scrub, described by Captain Frome, were very similar to what I met with near Lake Torrens
in the west side, before I reached its basin.

After the Northern Expedition had been compelled to return south, (being unable to cross Lake
Torrens,) the peninsula of Port Lincoln was examined, and traversed completely round, in all
the three sides of the triangle formed by its east and west coasts, and a line from Mount Arden
to Streaky Bay. A road overland from Mount Arden was forced through the scrub for a dray; but
the country travelled through was of so inhospitable a character as to hold out no prospect
of its being generally available for overland communication. One unfortunate individual has
since made an attempt to take over a few head of cattle by this route, but was unable to accomplish
it, and miserably perished with his whole party from want of water. [Note 32: Vide note to
page 154, Vol. I. (Note 11)]

On the northern side of the triangle I have alluded to, or on the line between Mount Arden
and Streaky Bay, a singularly high and barren range, named the Gawler Range after His Excellency
the Governor, was found consisting of porphoritic granite, extending nearly all the way across,
and then stretching out to the north-west in lofty rugged outline as far as the eye could reach;
the most remarkable fact connected with this range, was the arid and sterile character of the
country in which it was situated, as well as of the range itself, which consisted entirely
of rugged barren rocks, without timber or vegetation. There was not a stream or a watercourse
of any kind emanating from it; we could find neither spring nor permanent fresh water, and
the only supply we procured for ourselves was from the deposits left by very recent rains,
and which in a few days more, would have been quite dried up. The soil was in many places saline,
and wherever water had lodged in any quantity (as in lakes of which there were several) it
was quite salt.

[Note 33: A small exploring party, under a Mr. Darke, was sent from Port Lincoln in August,
1844, but after getting as far as the Gawler Range were compelled by the inhospitable nature
of the country to return. The unfortunate leader was murdered by the natives on his route homewards.]

Continuing the line of coast to the westward, the expedition passed through the most wretched
and desolate country imaginable, consisting almost entirely of a table-land, or of undulating
ridges, covered for the most part with dense scrubs, and almost wholly without either grass
or water. The general elevation of this country was from three to five hundred feet, and all
of the tertiary deposit, with primary rocks protruding at intervals.

The first permanent fresh water met with on the surface was a small fresh-water lake, beyond
the parallel of 123 degrees E.; but from Mount Arden to that point, a distance of fully 800
miles in a direct line, none whatever was found on the surface (if I except a solitary small
spring sunk in the rock at Streaky Bay). During the whole of this vast distance, not a watercourse,
not a hollow of any kind was crossed; the only water to be obtained was by digging close to
the sea-shore, or the sand-hills of the coast, and even by that means it frequently could not
be procured for distances of 150 to 160 miles together. With the exception of the Gawler Range,
which lies between Streaky Bay and Mount Arden, this dreary waste was one almost uniform table-land
of fossil formation, with an elevation of from three to five hundred feet, covered for the
most part by dense impenetrable scrubs, and varied only on its surface by occasional sandy
or rocky undulations.

What then can be the nature of that mysterious interior, bounded as it is by a table-land without
river or lakes, without watercourses or drainage of any kind, for so vast a distance? Can it
be that the whole is one immense interminable desert, or an alternation of deserts and shallow
salt lakes like Lake Torrens? Conjecture is set at defiance by the impenetrable arrangements
of nature; where, the more we pry into her secrets, the more bewildered and uncertain become
all our speculations.

It has been a common and a popular theory to imagine the existence of an inland sea, and this
theory has been strengthened and confirmed by the opinion of so talented, so experienced, and
so enterprising a traveller as my friend Captain Sturt, in its favour. That gentleman, with
the noble and disinterested enthusiasm by which he has ever been characterised, has once more
sacrificed the pleasure and quiet of domestic happiness, at the shrine of enterprise and science.
With the ardour of youth, and the perseverance and judgment of riper years, he is even now
traversing the trackless wilds, and seeking to lift up that veil which has hitherto hung over
their recesses. May he be successful to the utmost of his wishes, and may he again rejoin in
health and safety his many friends, to forget in their approbation and admiration the toils
he has encountered, and to enjoy the rewards and laurels which will have been so hardly earned,
and so well deserved.

It was in August, 1844, that Captain Sturt set out upon his arduous undertaking, with a numerous
and well equipped party, and having provisions calculated to last them for eighteen months.
I had the pleasure of accompanying the expedition as far as the Rufus (about 240 miles from
Adelaide), to render what assistance I could, in passing up, on friendly terms among the more
distant natives of the Murray. Since my return, Captain Sturt has been twice communicated with,
and twice heard from, up to the time I left the Colony, on the 21st December, 1844. The last
official communication addressed to the Colonial Government will be found in Chapter IX. of
Notes on the Aborigines. The following is a copy of a private letter to John Morphett, Esq
M.C., and published in the Adelaide Observer of the 9th November, 1844:--

"14th October, 1844.

"I left Lake Victoria, as I told you in a former letter, on the 18th of September, and again
cut across the country to the Murray. As we travelled along we saw numerous tracks of wild
cattle leading from the marshes to the river, and we encamped at the junction of the river
and a lagoon (one of the most beautiful spots you ever saw), just where these tracks were most
numerous. In the night therefore we were surrounded by lowing herds, coming to the green pastures
of which we had taken possession. In the morning I sent Messrs. Poole and Brown, with Flood
my stockman, and Mark to drive in some bullocks, as I was anxious to secure one or two workers.
The brush however was too thick, and in galloping through it after a bull, Flood's carbine
exploded, and blew off three of the fingers of his right hand. This accident obliged me to
remain stationary for two days, notwithstanding my anxiety to get up to the lagoon at Williorara,
to ascertain the truth or otherwise of the report I had heard of the massacre of a party of
overlanders there.

"On the 23rd I reached the junction of the Ana branch with the Murray, discovered by Eyre,
and then turned northwards. Running this Ana branch up, I crossed it where the water ceased,
and went to the Darling, striking it about fifteen miles above its junction with the Murray.
The unlooked-for course of the Darling however kept me longer on its banks than I had anticipated;
but you can form no idea of the luxuriant verdure of its flats. They far surpass those of the
Murray, both in quantity and quality of soil; and extended for many miles at a stretch along
the river side. We have run up it at a very favourable season, and seen the commencement of
its floods; for, two days after we reached it, and found it with scarcely any water in its
bed, we observed a fresh in it, indicated by a stronger current. The next morning to our surprise
the waters were half-bank high. They had risen six feet during the night, and were carrying
everything before them; now they are full sixteen feet above their level, and a most beautiful
river it is. Over this said mysterious river, as Major Mitchell calls it, the trees drooped
like willows, or grew in dark clusters at each turn; the sloping banks were of a vivid green,
the flats lightly timbered, and the aspect of the whole neighbourhood cheerful.

"I had hoped that we should have been able to approach the ranges pretty closely along the
line of Laidley's Ponds; but fancy our disappointment when we arrived on its banks to find
that instead of a mountain stream it was a paltry creek, connecting a lake, now dry, with the
river, and that its banks were quite bare. I was therefore obliged to fall back upon the Darling,
and have been unable to stir for the last four days by reason of heavy rain.

"On Tuesday I despatched Mr. Poole to the ranges, which are forty miles distant from us, to
ascertain if there is water or feed under them; but I have no hope of good tidings, and believe
I shall ultimately be obliged to establish myself on the Darling.

"You will be glad to hear, and so ought every body, that we have maintained a most satisfactory
intercourse with the natives. The report we had heard referred to Major Mitchell's affray with
them, and you will not be surprised at their reverting to it, when I tell you that several
old men immediately recognized me as having gone down the Murray in a boat, although they could
have seen me for an hour or two only, and fifteen years have now elapsed since I went down
the river. I suppose we misunderstood the story; but most assuredly I fully anticipated we
should, sooner or later, come on some dreadful acene or other, and I came up fully prepared
to act; but the natives have been exceedingly quiet, nor have we seen a weapon in the hands
of any of them: in truth I have been quite astonished at the change in the blacks; for instead
of collecting in a body, they have visited us with their wives and children, and have behaved
in the most quiet manner. We may attribute this in part to our own treatment of the natives,
and in part to Eyre's influence over them, which is very extensive, and has been productive
of great good. The account the natives give of the distant interior is very discouraging. It
is nothing more however than what I expected. They say that beyond the hills it is all sand
and rocks; that there is neither grass or water, or wood; and that it is awfully hot. This
last feature appears to terrify them. They say that they are obliged to take wood to the hills
for fire, and that they clamber up the rocks on the hills; that when there is water there,
it is in deep holes from which they are obliged to sponge it up and squeeze it out to drink.
I do not in truth think that any of the natives have been beyond the hills, and that the country
is perfectly impracticable.

"We are now not more than two hundred and fifteen feet above the sea, with a declining country
to the north-west, and the general dip of the continent to the south-west. What is the natural
inference where there is not a single river emptying itself upon the coast, but that there
is an internal basin? Such a country can only be penetrated by cool calculation and determined
perseverance. I have sat down before it as a besieger before a fortress, to make my approaches
with the same systematic regularity. I must cut hay and send forage and water in advance, as
far as I can. I have the means of taking sixteen days' water and feed for two horses and three
men; and if I can throw my supplies one hundred miles in advance, I shall be able to go two
hundred miles more beyond that point, at the rate of thirty miles a-day, one of us walking
whilst two rode. Surely at such a distance some new feature will open to reward our efforts!
My own opinion is, that an inland sea will bring us up ere long--then how shall we get the
boat upon it? 'Why,' you will say, 'necessity is the mother of invention.' You will find some
means or other, no doubt; and so we will. However, under any circumstances, depend upon it
I will either lift up or tear down the curtain which hides the interior from us, so look out
for the next accounts from me as of the most interesting kind, as solving this great problem,
or shutting the door to discovery from this side the continent for ever.

From this communication, Captain Sturt appears to be sanguine of having realized the long hoped
for sea, and at last of having found a key to the centre of the continent. Most sincerely do
I hope that this may be the case, and that the next accounts may more than confirm such satisfactory
intelligence.

My own impressions were always decidedly opposed to the idea of an inland sea, nor have I changed
them in the least, now that circumstances amounting almost to proof, seem to favour that opinion.

Entertaining, as I do, the highest respect for the opinion of one so every way capable of forming
a correct judgment as Captain Sturt, it is with considerable diffidence that I advance any
conjectures in opposition to his, and especially so, as I may be thought presumptuous in doing
so in the face of the accounts received. Until these accounts, however, are further confirmed,
the question still remains as it was; and it may perhaps not be out of place to allude to some
of the reasons which have led me to form an opinion somewhat different from that entertained
by Captain Sturt, and which I have been compelled to arrive at after a long personal experience,
a closer approach to the interior, and a more extensive personal examination of the continent,
than any other traveller has hitherto made. In the course of that experience, I have never
met with the slightest circumstance to lead me to imagine that there should be an inland sea,
still less a deep navigable one, and having an outer communication with the ocean. I can readily
suppose, and, in fact, I do so believe, that a considerable portion of the interior consists
of the beds or basins of salt lakes or swamps, as Lake Torrens, and some of which might be
of great extent. I think, also, that these alternate, with sandy deserts, and that probably
at intervals, there are many isolated ranges, like the Gawler range, and which, perhaps, even
in some places may form a connection of links across the continent, could any favourable point
be obtained for commencing the examination.

It is very possible that among these ranges, intervals of a better or even of a rich and fertile
country might be met with.

The suggestion thrown out by Captain Sturt a few years ago, that Australia might formerly have
been an Archipelago of islands, appears to me to have been a happy idea, and to afford the
most rational and satisfactory way of accounting for many of the peculiarities observable upon
its surface or in its structure. That it has only recently (compared with other countries)
obtained its present elevation, is often forcibly impressed upon the traveller, by the appearance
of the country he is traversing, but no where have I found this to be the case in a greater
degree, than whilst exploring that part of it, north of Spencer's Gulf, where a great portion
of the low lands intervening, between the base of Flinders range, and the bed of Lake Torrens,
presents the appearance of a succession of rounded undulations of sand or pebbles washed perfectly
smooth and even, looking like waves of the sea, and seeming as if they had not been very many
centuries deserted by the element that had moulded them into their present form. In this singular
district I found scattered at intervals throughout the whole area inclosed by, but south of,
Lake Torrens, many steep-sided fragments of a table land, [Note 34 at end of para.] which had
evidently been washed to pieces by the violent action of water, and which appeared to have
been originally, of nearly the same general elevation as the table lands to the westward. It
seems to me, that these table lands have formerly been the bed of the ocean, and this opinion
is fully borne out by the many marine remains, fossil shells, and banks of oyster shells, [Note
35 at end of para.] which are frequently to be met with embedded in them. What are now the
ranges of the continent would therefore formerly have been but rocks or islands, and if this
supposition be true, there are still hopes that some other islands are scattered over the immense
space occupied by Australia, and which may be of as rich and fertile a character, as any that
are yet known. Thus if the intervening extent of desert lying between any of the known portions
of Australia, and what may be considered as having been the next island, can be ascertained
and crossed over, new and valuable regions may yet be offered for the extension of the pastoral
interest of our Colonies, and for the general spread of civilization and improvement.

[Note 34: "An hundred miles above this, I passed a curious feature, called the "Square Hills"
(plate 123 ). I landed my canoe and went ashore, and to their tops to examine them. Though
they appeared to be near the river, I found it half a day's journey to travel to and from them;
they being several miles from the river. On ascending them I found them to be two or three
hundred feet high, and rising on their sides at an angle of 45 deg. and on their tops, in some
places for half a mile in length perfectly level, with a green turf, and corresponding exactly
with the tabular hills spoken of above the Mandans, in plate 39, vol. 1. I therein said that
I should visit these hills on my way down the river; and I am fully convinced from close examination,
that they are a part of the same original superstratum, which I therein described, though 7
or 800 miles separated from them. They agree exactly in character, and also in the materials
of which they are composed; and I believe that some unaccountable gorge of waters has swept
away the intervening earth, leaving these solitary and isolated, though incontrovertible evidences,
that the summit level of all this great valley, has at one time been where the level surface
of these hills now is, two or three hundred feet above what is now denominated the summit level."--Catlin's
American Indians, Vol. 2. pp. 11 and 12.]

[Note 35: Similar banks of fossil shells and oyster beds, are found in the Arkansas.--Vide
Catlin, Vol. 2. p. 85. At page 86, Mr. Catlin describes banks of gypsum and salt, extending
through a considerable extent of country, and which apparently was of a very similar formation
to some of the localities I was in to the north of Spencer's Gulf.]

I have already observed that several circumstances connected with my own personal experience
have led me to the conclusion, that there is no inland sea now occupying the centre of New
Holland; it will be sufficient to name three of the most important of these.

First. I may mention the hot winds which in South Australia, or opposite the centre of the
continent, always blow from the north, to those, who have experienced the oppressive and scorching
influence of these winds, which can only be compared to the fiery and withering blasts from
a heated furnace, I need hardly point out that there is little probability that such winds
can have been wafted over a large expanse of water.

Secondly. I may state that between the Darling river and the head of the Great Australian Bight,
I have at various points come into friendly communication with the Aborigines inhabiting the
outskirts of the interior, and from them I have invariably learnt that they know of no large
body of water inland, fresh or salt; that there were neither trees nor ranges, but that all
was an arid waste so far as they were accustomed to travel.

Thirdly. I infer the non-existence of an inland sea, from the coincidence observable in the
physical appearance, customs, character, and pursuits of the Aborigines at opposite points
of the continent, whilst no such coincidence exists along the intervening lines of coast connecting
those points.

With respect to the first consideration, it is unnecessary to add further remark; as regards
the second, I may state, that although I may sometimes not have met with natives at those precise
spots which might have been best suited for making inquiry, or although I may sometimes have
had a difficulty in explaining myself to, or in understanding a people whose language I did
not comprehend; yet such has not always been the case, and on many occasions I have had intercourse
with natives at favourable positions, and have been able, quite intelligibly, to carry on any
inquiries. One of these opportunities occurred in the very neighbourhood of the hill from which
Mr. Poole is said to have seen the inland sea, as described in Captain Sturt's despatch.

There are several reasons for supposing Mr. Poole to have been deceived in forming an opinion
of the objects which he saw before him from that elevation: first, I know, from experience,
the extraordinary and deceptive appearances that are produced in such a country as Mr. Poole
was in, by mirage and refration combined. I have often myself been very similarly deceived
by the semblance of hills, islands, and water, where none such existed in reality. Secondly,
in December 1843, I was within twenty-five miles of the very spot from which Mr. Poole thought
he looked upon a sea, and I was then accompanied by natives, and able, by means of an interpreter,
to communicate with those who were acquainted with the country to the north-west. My inquiries
upon this point were particular; but they knew of no sea. They asserted that there was mud
out in that direction, and that a party would be unable to travel; from which I inferred either
that some branch of the Darling spread out its waters there in time of flood, or that Lake
Torrens itself was stretching out in the direction indicated. Thirdly, I hold it physically
impossible that a sea can exist in the place assigned to it, in as much as during an expedition,
undertaken by the Surveyor-general of the Colony, in September, 1843, that officer had attained
a position which would place himself and Mr. Poole at two opposite points, upon nearly the
same parallel of latitude; but about 130 miles of longitude apart, in a low level country,
and in which, therefore, the ranges of their respective vision from elevations would cross
each other, and if there was a sea, Captain Frome must have seen it as well as Mr. Poole; again,
I myself had an extensive and distant view to the north-east and east from Mount Hopeless,
a low hill, about ninety miles further north than Captain Frome's position, but a little more
east; yet there was nothing like a sea to be seen from thence, the dry and glazed-looking bed
of Lake Torrens alone interrupting the monotony of the desert.

There are still some few points connected with our knowledge of the outskirts of the interior
which leave great room for speculation, and might lead to the opinion that it is not altogether
a low or a desert region. The facts which have more immediately come under my own observation,
are connected, first with the presence of birds belonging to a higher and better country in
the midst of a desert region, and secondly, with the line of route taken by the Aborigines
in spreading over the continent, as deduced from a coincidence or dissimilarity of the manners,
customs, or languages of tribes remotely apart from one another.

With respect to the presence of birds in a region such as they do not usually frequent, I may
state that at Mount Arden, near the head of Spencer's Gulf, swans were seen taking their flight
high in the air, to the north, as if making for some river or lake they were accustomed to
feed at. At the Frome river, where it spreads into the plains to the north of Flinders range;
four white cockatoos were found flying about among the trees, although those birds had not
been met with for 200 miles before I attained that point. [Note 36: Vide Vol. I. July 4, Aug
31, and March 19.] And about longitude 128 degrees 20 minutes E., when crossing over towards
King George's Sound, large parrots were found coming from the north-east, to feed upon the
berries of a shrub growing on the sea coast, although no parrots were seen for two or three
hundred miles on either side, either to the east or to the west, they must, therefore, have
come from the interior. Now the parrot is a bird that often frequents a mountainous country,
and always inhabits one having timber of a better description and larger growth than the miserable
shrubs met with along the coast; it is a bird too that always lives within reach of permanent
fresh-water, as rivers, lakes, creeks, pools, etc. Can there then be such in the interior,
with so barren and arid a region, bounding it? and how are we to commence an examination with
so many difficulties and embarrassments attending the very outset?

The second series of facts which have attracted my attention, relate to the Aborigines. It
is a well known circumstance that the dialects, customs, and pursuits in use among them in
the various parts of the continent, differ very much from each other in some particulars, and
yet that there is such a general similarity in the aggregate as to leave no room to doubt that
all the Aborigines of Australia have had one common origin, and are in reality one and the
same race. [Note 37 at end of para.] I believe that the idea of attempting to deduce the character
of the continent, and the most probable line for crossing it, from the circumstances and habits
of the natives inhabiting the coast line is quite a novel one. It appears to me, however, to
be worth consideration; and if it is true that the natives have all one common origin, and
have spread over the continent from one first point, I think it may reasonably be inferred
that there is a practicable route across the centre of New Holland, and that this line lies
between the 125th and 135th degrees of east longitude. It further appears that there must still
be a second route, other than the coast line, in the direction between Port Jackson in New
South Wales and the south-east corner of the Gulf of Carpentaria on the north coast.

[Note 37: Vide Chapter VII. of Notes on the Aborigines, where this subject will be found fully
discussed, and the reasons given for supposing the conclusions here assumed.]

If then we have reasonable grounds for believing that such lines of route actually do exist,
it becomes a matter of much interest and importance to determine the most favourable point
from which to explore them. My own experience has pointed out the dreadful nature of the southern
coast, and the very great and almost insuperable difficulties that beset the traveller at the
very commencement--in his efforts even to establish a single depot from which to enter upon
his researches. The northern coast may, probably, afford greater facilities, but in a tropical
climate, where the heat and other circumstances render ordinary difficulties and impediments
still more embarrassing and dangerous, it is a matter of deep moment that the expedition for
interior exploration should commence at the right point, and this can only be ascertained by
a previous examination.

I have myself always been most anxious to attempt to cross from Moreton Bay on the N. E. coast
to Port Essington on the N. W. I believe that this journey is quite practicable, and I have
no doubt that if judiciously conducted, and the country to the south of the line of route always
examined, as far as that could be done, it would completely develop, in connection with what
is already known, the character and formation of Australia, and would at once point out the
most proper place from which subsequent expeditions ought to start in order finally to accomplish
the passage across its interior--from the north to the south.

Upon bringing to a close the narrative of an Expedition of Discovery in Australia, during the
progress of which an extensive portion of the previously unknown parts of that continent were
explored, I have thought it might not be uninteresting to introduce a few pages on the subject
of the Aborigines of the country.

It would afford me much gratification to see an interest excited on their behalf proportioned
to the claims of a people who have hitherto been misjudged or misrepresented.

For the last twelve years I have been personally resident in one or other of the Australian
Colonies, and have always been in frequent intercourse with the aboriginal tribes that were
near, rarely being without some of them constantly with me as domestics.

To the advantages of private opportunities of acquiring a knowledge of their character were
added, latterly, the facilities afforded by my holding a public appointment in South Australia,
in the midst of a district more densely populated by natives than any in that Colony, where
no settler had ventured to locate, and where, prior to my arrival in October 1841, frightful
scenes of bloodshed, rapine, and hostility between the natives and parties coming overland
with stock, had been of frequent and very recent occurrence.

As Resident Magistrate of the Murray District, I may almost say, that for the last three years
I have lived with the natives. My duties have frequently taken me to very great distances up
the Murray or the Darling rivers, when I was generally accompanied only by a single European,
or at most two, and where, if attacked, there was no possibility of my receiving any human
aid. I have gone almost alone among hordes of those fierce and blood-thirsty savages, as they
were then considered, and have stood singly amongst them in the remote and trackless wilds,
when hundreds were congregated around, without ever receiving the least injury or insult.

In my first visits to the more distant tribes I found them shy, alarmed, and suspicious, but
soon learning that I had no wish to injure them, they met me with readiness and confidence.
My wishes became their law; they conceded points to me that they would not have done to their
own people, and on many occasions cheerfully underwent hunger, thirst, and fatigue to serve me.

Former habits and prejudices in some respects gave way to the influence I acquired. Tribes
that never met or heard of one another before were brought to mingle in friendly intercourse.
Single individuals traversed over immense distances and through many intervening tribes, which
formerly they never could have attempted to pass, and in accomplishing this the white man's
name alone was the talisman that proved their safe-guard and protection.

During the whole of the three years I was Resident at Moorunde, not a single case of serious
injury or aggression ever took place on the part of the natives against the Europeans; and
a district, once considered the wildest and most dangerous, was, when I left it in November
1844, looked upon as one of the most peaceable and orderly in the province.

Independently of my own personal experience, on the subject of the Aborigines, I have much
pleasure in acknowledging the obligations I am under to M. Moorhouse, Esq. Protector of Aborigines
in Adelaide, for his valuable assistance, in comparing and discussing the results of our respective
observations, on matters connected with the natives, and for the obliging manner in which he
has furnished me with many of his own important and well-arranged notes on various points of
interest in their history.

By this aid, I am enabled, in the following pages, to combine my own observations and experience
with those of Mr. Moorhouse, especially on points connected with the Adelaide Tribes. In some
cases, extracts from Mr. Moorhouse's notes, will be copied in his own words, but in most I
found an alteration or rearrangement to be indispensable to enable me to connect and amplify
the subjects: I wish it to be particularly understood, however, that with any deductions, inferences,
remarks, or suggestions, that may incidentally be introduced, Mr. Moorhouse is totally unconnected,
that gentleman's notes refer exclusively to abstract matters of fact, relating to the habits,
customs, or peculiarities of the people treated of, and are generally confined to the Adelaide
Tribes.

[Note 38: Some few of these notes were printed in the Colony, in a detached form, as Reports
to the Colonial Government, or in the Vocabularies of the Missionaries, and since my return
to England I find others have been published in papers, ordered to be printed by the House
of Commons, in August 1844. From the necessity, however, of altering in some measure the phraseology,
to combine Mr. Moorhouse's remarks with my own, and to preserve a uniformity in the descriptions,
it has not been practicable or desirable in all cases, to separate or distinguish by inverted
commas, those observations which I have adopted. I have, therefore, preferred making a general
acknowledgment of the use I have made of the notes that were supplied to me by Mr. Moorhouse.]

In the descriptions given in the following pages, although there may occasionally be introduced,
accounts of the habits, manners, or customs of some of the tribes inhabiting different parts
of Australia I have visited, yet there are others which are exclusively peculiar to the natives
of South Australia. I wish it, therefore, to be understood, that unless mention is made of
other tribes, or other parts of the continent, the details given are intended to apply to that
province generally, and particularly to the tribes in it, belonging to the districts of Adelaide
and the Murray river.

As far as has yet been ascertained, the whole of the aboriginal inhabitants of this continent,
scattered as they are over an immense extent of country, bear so striking a resemblance in
physical appearance and structure to each other; and their general habits, customs, and pursuits,
are also so very similar, though modified in some respects by local circumstances or climate,
that little doubt can be entertained that all have originally sprung from the same stock. The
principal points of difference, observable between various tribes, appear to consist chiefly
in some of their ceremonial observances, and in the variations of dialect in the language they
speak; the latter are, indeed, frequently so great, that even to a person thoroughly acquainted
with any one dialect, there is not the slightest clue by which he can understand what is said
by a tribe speaking a different one.

The only account I have yet met with, which professed to give any particular description of
the Aborigines of New Holland, is that contained in the able papers upon this subject, by Captain
Grey, in the second volume of his travels. When it is considered, that the material for that
purpose was collected by the author, during a few months interval between his two expeditions,
which he spent at Swan River, and a short time subsequently passed at King George's Sound,
whilst holding the appointment of Government Resident there; it is perfectly surprising that
the amount of information amassed should be so great, and so generally correct, on subjects
where so many mistakes are liable to be made, in all first inquiries, when we are ignorant
of the character and habits of the people of whom information is to be sought, and unacquainted
with the language they speak.

The subject, however, upon a portion of which Captain Grey so successfully entered, is very
extensive, and one which no single individual, except by the devotion of a life-time, could
hope fully to discuss. The Continent of Australia is so vast, and the dialects, customs, and
ceremonies of its inhabitants so varied in detail, though so similar in general outline and
character, that it will require the lapse of years, and the labours of many individuals, to
detect and exhibit the links which form the chain of connection in the habits and history of
tribes so remotely separated; and it will be long before any one can attempt to give to the
world a complete and well-drawn outline of the whole.

It is not therefore to satisfy curiosity, or to interrupt the course of inquiry, that I enter
upon the present work; I neither profess, nor could I attempt to give a full or matured account
of the Aborigines of New Holland. Captain Grey's descriptions on this subject are limited to
the races of South-western, as mine are principally directed to those of Southern Australia,
with occasionally some remarks or anecdotes relating to tribes in other parts of the Continent
with whom I have come in contact.

The character of the Australian native has been so constantly misrepresented and traduced,
that by the world at large he is looked upon as the lowest and most degraded of the human species,
and is generally considered as ranking but little above the members of the brute creation.
Savages have always many vices, but I do not think that these are worse in the New Hollanders,
than in many other aboriginal races. It is said, indeed, that the Australian is an irreclaimable,
unteachable being; that he is cruel, blood-thirsty, revengeful, and treacherous; and in support
of such assertions, references are made to the total failure of all missionary and scholastic
efforts hitherto made on his behalf, and to many deeds of violence or aggression committed
by him upon the settler.

[Note 39: I cannot adduce a stronger proof in support of the position I assume, in favour of
the natives, than by quoting the clear and just conclusions at which the Right Honourable Lord
Stanley, the present Secretary of State for the Colonies, arrived, when considering the case
of some collisions with the natives on the Ovens River, and after a full consideration of the
various circumstances connected with the occurrence. In a despatch to Governor Sir G. Gipps,
dated 5th October, 1841, Lord Stanley says, "Contrasting the accounts of the Aborigines given
by Mr. Docker with those given by Mr. Mackay, and the different terms on which those gentlemen
appear to be with them in the same vicinity, I cannot divest myself of the apprehension that
the fault in this case lies with the colonists rather than with the natives. It was natural,
that conduct so harsh and intemperate as that of the Messrs. Mackay should be signally visited
on them, and probably also on wholly unoffending persons, by a race of uninstructed and ignorant
savages. At the same time the case of Mr. Docker affords a most satisfactory instance of natives
entering into permanent service with white men, and working, as they appear to do, steadily
for wages."]

With respect to the first point, I consider that an intimate knowledge of the peculiar habits,
laws, and traditions, by which this people are governed, is absolutely necessary, before any
just opinion can be formed as to how far the means hitherto pursued, have been suitable, or
adapted to counteract the influence of custom and the force of prejudice. Until this knowledge
is attained, we have no right to brand them as either irreclaimable, or unteachable. My own
impression, after long experience, and an attentive consideration of the subject, is, that
in the present anomalous state of our relations with the Aborigines, our measures are neither
comprehensive enough for, nor is our system sufficiently adapted to, the singular circumstances
they are in, to enable us successfully to contend with the difficulties and impediments in
the way of their rising in the scale of civilization.

Upon the second point it is also necessary to make many inquiries before we arrive at our conclusions;
and I have no doubt, if this be done with calmness, and without prejudice, it will be generally
found that there are many extenuating circumstances which may be brought to modify our judgment.
I am anxious, if possible, to place a few of these before the public, in the hope, that by
lessening in some degree the unfavourable opinion heretofore entertained of the Aborigines,
they may be considered for the future as more deserving our sympathy and benevolence.

Without assuming for the native a freedom from vice, or in any way attempting to palliate the
many brutalising habits that pollute his character, I would still contend that, if stained
with the excesses of unrestrained passions, he is still sometimes sensible to the better emotions
of humanity. Many of the worst traits in his character are the result of necessity, or the
force of custom--the better ones are implanted in him as a part of his nature. With capabilities
for receiving, and an aptness for acquiring instruction, I believe he has also the capacity
for appreciating the rational enjoyments of life.

Even in his present low and debased condition, and viewed under every disadvantages, I do not
imagine that his vices would usually be found greater, or his passions more malignant than
those of a very large proportion of men ordinarily denominated civilised. On the contrary,
I believe were Europeans placed under the same circumstances, equally wronged, and equally
shut out from redress, they would not exhibit half the moderation or forbearance that these
poor untutored children of impulse have invariably shewn.

It is true that occasionally many crimes have been committed by them, and robberies and murders
have too often occurred; but who can tell what were the provocations which led to, what the
feelings which impelled such deeds? Neither have they been the only or the first aggressors,
nor has their race escaped unscathed in the contest. Could blood answer blood, perhaps for
every drop of European's shed by natives, a torrent of their, by European hands, would crimson
the earth.

[Note 40: "The whites were generally the aggressors. He had been informed that a petition had
been presented to the Governor, containing a list of nineteen murders committed by the blacks.
He could, if it were necessary, make out a list of five hundred blacks who had been slaughtered
by the whites, and that within a short time."--Extract from speech of Mr. Threlkeld to the
Auxiliary Aborigines' Protection Society in New South Wales. Abstract of a "Return of the number
of homicides committed respectively by blacks and whites, within the limits of the northwestern
district (of Port Phillip), since its first occupation by settlers--"

"Total number of white people killed by Aborigines   8 "Total number of Aborigines killed by
white people  43."

This is only in one district, and only embraces such cases as came to the knowledge of Mr.
Protector Parker. For particulars vide Papers on Aborigines of Australian Colonies, printed
for the House of Commons, August 1844, p. 318.]

Let us now inquire a little, upon whose side right and justice are arrayed in palliation (if
any such there can be) of deeds of violence or aggression on the part of either.

It is an undeniable fact, that wherever European colonies have been established in Australia,
the native races in that neighbourhood are rapidly decreasing, and already in some of the elder
settlements, have totally disappeared. It is equally indisputable that the presence of the
white man has been the sole agent in producing so lamentable an effect; that the evil is still
going on, increased in a ratio proportioned to the number of new settlements formed, or the
rapidity with which the settlers overrun new districts. The natural, the inevitable, but the
no less melancholy result must be, that in the course of a few years more, if nothing be done
to check it, the whole of the aboriginal tribes of Australia will be swept away from the face
of the earth. A people who, by their numbers, have spread around the whole of this immense
continent, and have probably penetrated into and occupied its inmost recesses, will become
quite extinct, their name forgotten, their very existence but a record of history.

It is a popular, but an unfair and unwarranted assumption, that these consequences are the
result of the natural course of events; that they are ordained by Providence, unavoidable,
and not to be impeded. Let us at least ascertain how far they are chargeable upon ourselves.

Without entering upon the abstract question concerning the right of one race of people to wrest
from another their possessions, simply because they happen to be more powerful than the original
inhabitants, or because they imagine that they can, by their superior skill or acquirements,
enable the soil to support a denser population, I think it will be conceded by every candid
and right-thinking mind, that no one can justly take that which is not his own, without giving
some equivalent in return, or deprive a people of their ordinary means of support, and not
provide them with any other instead. Yet such is exactly the position we are in with regard
to the inhabitants of Australia.

[Note 41: "The invasion of those ancient rights (of the natives) by survey and land appropriations
of any kind, is justifiable only on the ground, that we should at the same time reserve for
the natives an AMPLE SUFFICIENCY for THEIR PRESENT and future use and comfort, under the new
style of things into which they are thrown; a state in which we hope they will be led to live
in greater comfort, on a small space, than they enjoyed before it occurred, on their extensive
original possessions."--Reply of His Excellency Colonel Gawler, to the gentlemen who objected
to sections of land being appropriated for the natives, before the public were allowed to select.]

Without laying claim to this country by right of conquest, without pleading even the mockery
of cession, or the cheatery of sale, we have unhesitatingly entered upon, occupied, and disposed
of its lands, spreading forth a new population over its surface, and driving before us the
original inhabitants.

To sanction this aggression, we have not, in the abstract, the slightest shadow of either right
or justice--we have not even the extenuation of endeavouring to compensate those we have injured,
or the merit of attempting to mitigate the sufferings our presence inflicts.

It is often argued, that we merely have taken what the natives did not require, or were making
no use of; that we have no wish to interfere with them if they do not interfere with us, but
rather that we are disposed to treat them with kindness and conciliation, if they are willing
to be friends with us. What, however, are the actual facts of the case; and what is the position
of a tribe of natives, when their country is first taken possession of by Europeans.

It is true that they do not cultivate the ground; but have they, therefore, no interest in
its productions? Does it not supply grass for the sustenance of the wild animals upon which
in a great measure they are dependent for their subsistence?--does it not afford roots and
vegetables to appease their hunger?--water to satisfy their thirst, and wood to make their
fire?--or are these necessaries left to them by the white man when he comes to take possession
of their soil? Alas, it is not so! all are in turn taken away from the original possessors.
The game of the wilds that the European does not destroy for his amusement are driven away
by his flocks and herds. [Note 42 at end of para.] The waters are occupied and enclosed, and
access to them in frequently forbidden. The fields are fenced in, and the natives are no longerat
liberty to dig up roots--the white man claims the timber, and the very firewood itself is occasion
ally denied to them. Do they pass by the habitation of the intruder, they are probably chased
away or bitten by his dogs, and for this they can get no redress. [Note 43 at end of para.]
Have they dogs of their own, they are unhesitatingly shot or worried because they are an annoyance
to the domestic animals of the Europeans. Daily and hourly do their wrongs multiply upon them.
The more numerous the white population becomes, and the more advanced the stage of civilization
to which the settlement progresses, the greater are the hardships that fall to their lot and
the more completely are they cut off from the privileges of their birthright. All that they
have is in succession taken away from them--their amusements, their enjoyments, their possessions,
their freedom--and all that they receive in return is obloquy, and contempt, and degradation,
and oppression. [Note 44 appears after note 43, below]

[Note 42: "But directly an European settles down in the country, his constant residence in
one spot soon sends the animals away from it, and although he may in no other way interfere
with the natives, the mere circumstance of his residing there, does the man on whose land he
settles the injury of depriving him of his ordinary means of subsistence."--GREY'S TRAVELS,
vol. ii. p. 298.

"The great question was, were we to give them no equivalent for that which we had taken from
them? Had we deprived them of nothing? Was it nothing that they were driven from the lands
where their fathers lived, where they were born and which were endeared to them by associations
equally strong with the associations of more civilsed people? He believed that their affections
were as warm as the Europeans." "Perhaps he obtained his subsistence by fishing, and occupied
a slip of land on the banks of a river or the margin of a lake. Was he to be turned off as
soon as the land was required, without any consideration whatever?" "Had any proper attempt
been made for their civilization? They had not yet had fair play--they had been courted by
the missionaries with the Bible on the one hand, and had at the sametime been driven away and
destroyed by the stock-keepers on the other. He thought that they might be reclaimed if the
proper course was adopted."--EXTRACTS FROM THE SPEECH OF SYDNEY STEPHEN, ESQ., AT A MEETING
ON BEHALF OF THE ABORIGINES IN SYDNEY, OCTOBER 19, 1838.

I have myself repeatedly seen the natives driven off private lands in the vicinity of Adelaide,
and their huts burned, even in cold wet weather. The records of the Police Office will shew
that they have been driven off the Park lands, or those belonging to Government, or at least
that they have been brought up and punished for cutting wood from the trees there. What are
they to do, when there is not a stick or a tree within miles of Adelaide that they can legally
take?]

[Note 43: I have known repeated instances of natives in Adelaide being bitten severely by savage
dogs rushing out at them from the yards of their owners, as they were peaceably passing along
the street. On the other hand I have known a native imprisoned for throwing his waddy at, and
injuring a pig, which was eating a melon he had laid down for a moment in the street, and when
the pig ought not to have been in the street at all. In February 1842, a dog belonging to a
native was shot by order of Mr. Gouger, the then Colonial Secretary, and the owner as soon
as he became aware of the circumstance, speared his wife for not taking better care of it,
although she could not possibly have helped the occurrence. If natives then revenge so severely
such apparently trivial offences among themselves, can we wonder that they should sometimes
retaliate upon us for more aggravated ones.]

[Note 44: The following are extracts from an address to a jury, when trying some aboriginal
natives, by Judge Willis. They at least shew some of the BLESSINGS the Aborigines experience
from being made British subjects, and placed under British laws:--"I have, on a recent occasion,
stated my opinion, which I still entertain, that the proprietor of a run, or, in other words,
one who holds a lease or license from the Crown to depasture certain Crown lands, may take
all lawful means to prevent either natives or others from entering or remaining upon it." "The
aboriginals of Van Diemen's Land were strictly commanded, by Governor Arthur's proclamation
of the 15th of April 1828 (a proclamation of which His Majesty King George the Fourth, through
the Right honourable the then Secretary of State, by a dispatch of the 2nd of February, 1829,
under the circumstances, signified his approval,) "to retire and depart from, and for no reason,
and no pretence, save as therein provided, (viz. travelling annually to the sea coast in quest
of shellfish, under certain regulations,) to re-enter the settled districts of Van Diemen's
Land, or any portions of land cultivated and occupied by any person whomsoever, under the authority
of Her Majesty's Government, on pain of forcible expulsion therefrom, and such consequences
as might be necessarily attendant on it, and all magistrates and other persons by them authorized
and deputed, were required to conform themselves to the directions and instructions of this
proclamation, in effecting the retirement and expulsion of the Aborigines from the settled
districts of that territory."]

What are they to do under such circumstances, or how support a life so bereft of its wonted
supplies? Can we wonder that they should still remain the same low abject and degraded creatures
that they are, loitering about the white man's house, and cringing, and pandering to the lowest
menial for that food they can no longer procure for themselves? or that wandering in misery
through a country, now no longer their own, their lives should be curtailed by want, exposure,
or disease? If, on the other hand, upon the first appearance of Europeans, the natives become
alarmed, and retire from their presence, they must give up all the haunts they had been accustomed
to frequent, and must either live in a starving condition, in the back country, ill supplied
with game, and often wanting water, or they must trespass upon the territory of another tribe,
in a district perhaps little calculated to support an additional population, even should they
be fortunate enough to escape being forced into one belonging to an enemy.

Under any circumstances, however, they have but little respite from inconvenience and want.
The white man rapidly spreads himself over the country, and without the power of retiring any
further, they are overtaken, and beset by all the evils from which they had previously fled.

Such are some of the blessings held out to the savage by civilization, and they are only some
of them. The picture is neither fanciful nor overdrawn; there is no trait in it that I have
not personally witnessed, or that might not have been enlarged upon; and there are often other
circumstances of greater injury and aggression, which, if dwelt upon, would have cast a still
darker shade upon the prospects and condition of the native.

Enough has, however, perhaps been said to indicate the degree of injury our presence unavoidably
inflicts. I would hope, also, to point out the justice, as well as the expediency of appropriating
a considerable portion of the money obtained, by the sales of land, towards alleviating the
miseries our occupation of their country has occasioned to the original owners.

[Note 44a: "That it appears to memorialists that the original occupants of the soil have an
irresistible claim on the Government of this country for support, inasmuch as the presence
of the colonists abridges their means of subsistence, whilst it furnishes to the public treasury
a large revenue in the shape of fees for licences and assessments on stock, together with the
very large sums paid for land seized by the Crown, and alienated to private individuals.

"That it appears to memorialists that the interests at once of the natives and the colonists
would be most effectually promoted by the government reserving suitable portions of land within
the territorial limits of the respective tribes, with the view of weaning them from their erratic
habits, forming thereon depots for supplying them with provisions and clothing, under the charge
of individuals of exemplary moral character, taking at the same time an interest in their welfare,
and who would endeavour to instruct them in agricultural and other useful arts."--Extract from
Memorial of the Settlers of the County of Grant, in the district of Port Phillip, to His Excellency
Sir G. Gipps, in 1840.]

Surely if we acknowledge the first principles of justice, or if we admit the slightest claims
of humanity on behalf of these debased, but harshly treated people, we are bound, in honour
and in equity, to afford them that subsistence which we have deprived them of the power of
providing for themselves.

It may, perhaps, be replied, and at first it might seem, with some appearance of speciousness,
that all is done that can be done for them, that each of the Colonial Governments annually
devotes a portion of its revenue to the improvement, instruction, and maintenance of the natives.
So far this is very praiseworthy, but does it in any degree compensate for the evil inflicted?

The money usually voted by the councils of Government, towards defraying expenses incurred
on behalf of the Aborigines of Australia, is but a very small per centage upon the sums that
have been received for the sales of lands, and is principally expended in defraying the salaries
of protectors, in supporting schools, providing food or clothing for one or two head stations,
and perhaps supplying a few blankets once in the year to some of the outstations. Little is
expended in the daily provisioning of the natives generally, and especially in the more distant
country districts least populated by Europeans, but most densely occupied by natives, and where
the very thinness of the European inhabitants precludes the Aborigines from resorting to the
same sources to supply their wants, that are open to them in a town, or more thickly inhabited
district. Such are those afforded by the charity of individuals, by the rewards received for
performing trifling services of work, by the obtaining vast quantities of offal, or of broken
victuals, which are always abundant in a country where animal food is used in excess, and where
the heat of the climate daily renders much of it unfit for consumption in the family, and by
others of a similar nature.

Such resources, however humiliating and pernicious they are in their effects, are not open
to the tribes living in a district almost exclusively occupied by the sheep or cattle of the
settler, and where the very numbers of the stock only more completely drive away the original
game upon which the native had been accustomed to subsist, and hold out a greater temptation
to him to supply his wants from the superabundance which he sees around him, belonging to those
by whom he has been dispossessed. The following appropriate remarks are an extract from Report
of Aborigines' Protection Society, of March, 1841, (published in the South Australian Register,
4th December, 1841.)

"Under that system it is obvious to every coloured man, even the least intelligent, that the
extending settlements of the Europeans involve a sentence of banishment, and eventual extermination,
upon his tribe and race. Major Mitchell, in his travels, refers to this apprehension on the
part of the Aborigines--"White man come, Kangaroo go away"--from which as an inevitable consequence
follows--"black man famished away." If, then, this appears a necessary result of the unjust,
barbarous, unchristian mode of colonization pursued in New Holland, over-looking the other
incidental, and more pointedly aggravating provocations, to the coloured man, associated with
that system, how natural, in his case, is an enmity which occasionally visits some of the usurping
race with death! We call the offence in him MURDER; but let the occasion be only examined,
and we must discover that, in so designating it, we are imposing geographical, or national
restrictions, upon the virtue of patriotism; or that in the mani-festations of that principle,
we make no allowances for the influence on its features of the relative degradation or elevation
of those among whom it is met.

"Our present colonization system renders the native and the colonizing races from necessity
belligerents; and there can be no real peace, no real amity, no mutual security, so long as
that system is not substituted by one reconciling the interest of both races. Colonists will
fall before the spears and the waddies of incensed Aborigines, and they in return will be made
the victims of 'summary justice.'

"In cases of executive difficulty, the force of popular prejudice will be apt to be too strong
for the best intentioned Governor to withstand it; Europeans will have sustained injury; the
strict forms of legal justice may be found of difficult application to a race outcast or degraded,
although ORIGINALLY in a condition fitted to appreciate them, to benefit by them, and reflect
their benefits upon others; impatient at this difficulty, the delay it may occasion, and the
shelter from ultimate punishment, the temptation will ever be strong to revert to summary methods
of proceeding; and thus, as in a circle, injustice will be found to flow reciprocal injury,
and from injury injustice again, in another form. The source of all these evils, and of all
this injustice, is the unreserved appropriation of native lands, and the denial, in the first
instance of colonization, of equal civil rights. To the removal of those evils, so far as they
can be removed in the older settlements, to their prevention in new colonies, the friends of
the Aborigines are invoked to direct their energy; to be pacified with the attainment of nothing
less; for nothing less will really suffice."

Can it be deemed surprising that a rude, uncivilized being, driven from his home, deprived
of all his ordinary means of subsistence [Note 45 at end of para.], and pressed perhaps by
a hostile tribe from behind, should occasionally be guilty of aggressions or injuries towards
his oppressors? The wonder rather is, not that these things do sometimes occur, but that they
occur so rarely.

[Note 45: "If you can still be generous to the conquered, relieve the hunger which drives us
in despair to slaughter your flocks and the men who guard them. Our fields and forests, which
once furnished us with abundance of vegetable and animal food, now yield us no more; they and
their produce are yours; you prosper on our native soil, and we are famishing." --STRZELECKI'S
N. S. WALES, p. 356.]

In addition to the many other inconsistencies in our conduct towards the Aborigines, not the
least extraordinary is that of placing them, on the plea of protection, under the influence
of our laws, and of making them British subjects. Strange anomaly, which by the former makes
amenable to penalties they are ignorant of, for crimes which they do not consider as such,
or which they may even have been driven to commit by our own injustice; and by the latter but
mocks them with an empty sound, since the very laws under which we profess to place them, by
their nature and construction are inoperative in affording redress to the injured.

[Note 46: "To subject savage tribes to the penalties of laws with which they are unacquainted,
for offences which they, very possibly, regard as acts of justifiable retaliation for invaded
rights, is a proceeding indefensible, except under circumstances of urgent and extreme necessity."--Fourth
Report of the Colonization Commissioners, presented to the House of Commons, 29th July, 1840.

"The late act, declaring them naturalized as British subjects, has only rendered them legally
amenable to the English criminal law, and added one more anomaly to all the other enactments
affecting them. This naturalization excludes them from sitting on a jury, or appearing as witnesses,
and entails a most confused form of judicial proceedings; all which, taken together, has made
of the Aborigines of Australia a nondescript caste, who, to use their own phraseology, are
'neither black nor white.'"--Strzelecki's N. S. Wales.]

If, in addition to the many evils and disadvantages the natives must necessarily be subject
to from our presence, we take still further into account the wrongs they are exposed to from
the ill feeling towards them which has sometimes existed among the settlers, or their servants,
on the outskirts of the country; the annoyances they are harassed by, even where this feeling
does not exist, in being driven away from their usual haunts and pursuits (and this is a practice
often adopted by the remote grazier as a mere matter of policy to avoid trouble or the risk
of a collision); we shall find upon the whole that they have often just causes of offence,
and that there are many circumstances connected with their crimes which, from the peculiar
position they are placed in, may well require from us some mitigation of the punishment that
would be exacted from Europeans for the same misdeeds.

Captain Grey has already remarked the strong prejudice and recklessness of human life which
frequently exist on the part of the settlers with regard to the natives. Nor has this feeling
been confined to Western Australia alone. In all the colonies, that I have been in, I have
myself observed that a harsh and unjust tone has occasionally been adopted in speaking of the
Aborigines; and that where a feeling of prejudice does not exist against them, there is too
often a great indifference manifested as to their fate. I do not wish it to be understood that
such is always the case; on the contrary, I know that the better, and right thinking part of
the community, in all the colonies, not only disavow such feelings, but are most anxious, as
far as lies in their power, to promote the interests and welfare of the natives. Still, there
are always some, in every settlement, whose passions, prejudices, interests, or fears, obliterate
their sense of right and wrong, and by whom these poor wanderers of the woods are looked upon
as intruders in their own country, or as vermin that infest the land, and whose blood may be
shed with as little compunction as that of the wild animals they are compared to.

By those who have heard the dreadful accounts current in Western Australia, and New South Wales,
of the slaughter formerly committed by military parties, or by the servants [Note 47 at end
of para.] of the settlers upon the Aborigines, in which it is stated that men, women, and children
have been surprised, surrounded and shot down indiscriminately, at their camps at night; or
who have heard such deeds, or other similar ones, justified or boasted of, it will readily
be believed to what an extent the feeling I have alluded to has occasionally been carried,
and to what excesses it has led. [Note 48 appears after Note 47, below]

[Note 47: The following extract from a reply of his Honour the Superintendent of Port Phillip
to the representation made to his Honour by the settlers and inhabitants of the district of
Port Fairy, in March 1842, shews that these frightful atrocities against the natives had not
even then ceased.

"That the presence of a protector in your district, and other means of prevention hitherto
employed, have not succeeded better than they have done in repressing aggression or retaliation,
and have failed to establish a good understanding between the natives and the European settlers,
is greatly to be deplored.

"As far as the local government has power, every practicable extension of these arrangements
shall be made without delay; but, gentlemen, however harsh, a plain truth must be told, the
destruction of European property, and even the occasional sacrifice of European life, by the
hands of the savage tribes, among whom you live, if unprovoked and unrevenged, may justly claim
sympathy and pity; but the feeling of abhorrence which one act of savage retaliation or cruelty
on your part will rouse, must weaken, if not altogether obliterate every other, in the minds
of most men; and I regret to state, that I have before me a statement presented in a form which
I dare not discredit, shewing that such acts are perpetrated among you.

"It reveals a nightly attack upon a small number of natives, by a party of the white inhabitants
of your district, and the murder of no fewer than three defenceless aboriginal women and a
child, in their sleeping place; and this at the very time your memorial was in the act of signature,
and in the immediate vicinity of the station of two of the parties who have signed it. Will
not the commission of such crimes call down the wrath of God, and do more to check the prosperity
of your district, and to ruin your prospects, than all the difficulties and losses under which
you labour?" Mr. Sievewright's letter gives an account of this infamous transaction.

"WESTERN ABORIGINAL ESTABLISHMENT, THOLOR, 26TH FEBRUARY, 1842.

"Sir,--I have the honour to report that on the afternoon of the 24th instant, two aboriginal
natives, named Pwe-bin-gan-nai, Calangamite, returned to this encampment, which they had left
with their families on the 22nd, and reported 'that late on the previous evening, while they
with their wives, two other females, and two children, were asleep at a tea-tree scrub, called
One-one-derang, a party of eight white people on horseback surrounded them, dismounted, and
fired upon them with pistols; that three women and a child had been thus killed, and the other
female so severely wounded as to be unable to stand or be removed by them;' they had saved
themselves and the child, named 'Uni bicqui-ang,' by flight, who was brought to this place
upon their shoulders.

"At daybreak yesterday I proceeded to the spot indicated, and there found the dead bodies of
three women, and a male child about three years of age; and also found a fourth woman dangerously
wounded by gunshot wounds, and severely scorched on the limbs by the discharge of fire-arms.

"Having proceeded to the station of the Messrs. Osbrey and Smith, distant about 700 yards from
where the bodies were found, and requested the presence of those gentlemen as witnesses, I
proceeded to view the bodies, upon which were found the wounds as set forth in the accompanying
report.

"All knowledge of this barbarous transaction is denied by the proprietors, overseer, and servants
at the home station, so near to which the bodies were found, nor have I as yet obtained any
information which may lead to the discovery of the perpetrators of these murders.

"I have, etc. (Signed) "C. W. SIEVEWRIGHT." James Croke, Esq., Crown Prosecutor," etc. etc. etc.

Description of Gun-shot Wounds upon the bodies of three Aboriginal Women and One Male Child
found dead, and an Aboriginal Woman found wounded in a tea-tree scrub, near the Station of
Messrs. Osbrey and Smith, Portland District, upon the 25th of February, 1842, by Assistant-Protector
Sievewright.

"No. 1. Recognised by the assistant-protector as 'Wooi-goning,' wife of an Aboriginal native
'Pui-bui-gannei;' one gun-shot wound through the chest (a ball), and right thigh broken by
a gun-shot wound (a ball).

"No. 2. Child (male); one gun-shot wound through the chest (a bullet), left thigh lacerated
by some animal.

"No. 3. Woman big with child; one gun-shot wound through the chest (a bullet), left side scorched.

"No. 4. Woman; gun-shot wound through abdomen (a bullet), by right hip; gun-shot wound, left
arm broken, (a bullet.)

"No. 5. Woman wounded; gun-shot wound in back (a ball), gun-shot through right hand (a ball).

"(Signed) "C. W. SIEVEWRIGHT."]

[Note 48: The belief on the part of the Home authorities that such deeds did occur, and their
opinion, so many years ago, regarding them, may be gathered from the following extract from
a despatch from Lord Glenelg to Governor Sir James Stirling, dated 23rd of July, 1835. "I perceive,
with deep concern, that collisions still exist between the colonists and the natives.

"It is impossible, however, to regard such conflicts without regret and anxiety, when we recollect
how fatal, in too many instances, our colonial settlements have proved to the natives of the
places where they have been formed.

"It will be your duty to impress upon the settlers that it is the determination of the Government
to visit any act of injustice or violence on the natives, with the utmost severity, and that
in no case will those convicted of them, remain unpunished. Nor will it be sufficient simply
to punish the guilty, but ample compensation must be made to the injured party, for the wrong
received. You will make it imperative upon the officers of police never to allow any injustice
or insult in regard to the natives to pass by unnoticed, as being of too trifling a character;
and they should be charged to report to you, with punctuality, every instance of aggression
or misconduct. Every neglect of this point of duty you will mark with the highest displeasure."

Such were the benevolent views entertained by the Government in England towards the Aborigines
ten years ago, and it might be readily proved from many despatches of subsequent Secretaries
of State to the different Governors, that such have been their feelings since, and yet how
little has been done in ten years to give a practical effect to their good intentions towards
the natives.]

Were other evidence necessary to substantiate this point, it would be only requisite to refer
to the tone in which the natives are so often spoken of by the Colonial newspapers, to the
fact that a large number of colonists in New South Wales, including many wealthy landed proprietors
and magistrates, petitioned the Local Government on behalf of a party of convicts, found guilty
on the clearest testimony of having committed one of the most wholesale, cold-blooded, and
atrocious butcheries of the Aborigines ever recorded [Note 49 at end of para.], and to the
acts of the Colonial Governments themselves, who have found it necessary, sometimes, to prohibit
fire-arms at out-stations, and have been compelled to take away the assigned servants, or withdraw
the depasturing licences of individuals, because they have been guilty of aggression upon the
Aborigines.

[Note 49: Seven men were hanged for this offence, on the 18th of December, 1838. In the Sydney
Monitor, published on the 24th or next issue after the occurrence, is the following paragraph:--

"The following conversation between two gentlemen took place in the military barrack square,
on Tuesday, just after the execution of the seven murderers of the native blacks, and while
General O'Connell was reviewing the troops of the garrison.

"COUNTRY GENTLEMAN.--So I find they have hanged these men.
"TOWN GENTLEMAN.   --They have."
"COUNTRY GENTLEMAN.--Ah! hem, we are going on a safer game now.
"TOWN GENTLEMAN.   --Safer game! how do you mean?"
"COUNTRY GENTLEMAN.--Why, we are poisoning the blacks; which is much
                     better, and serve them right too!"

"We vouch for the truth of this conversation, and for the very words; and will prove our statement,
if public justice should, in our opinion require it."

The following letter from His Honour the Superintendent of Port Philip shews, that even in
1843, suspicions were entertained in the colony, that this most horrible and inhuman cruelty
towards the Aborigines had lately been practised there.

"Melbourne, 17th March, 1843.

"SIR,--I have the honour to report, for his Excellency's information, that in the month of
December last, I received a letter from the Chief Protector, enclosing a communication received
from Dr. Wotton, the gentleman in charge of the Aboriginal station at Mount Rouse, stating
that a rumour had reached him that a considerable number of Aborigines had been poisoned at
the station of Dr. Kilgour, near Port Fairy.

"I delayed communicating this circumstance at the time, as I expected the Chief Protector and
his assistants would find it practicable to bring the crime home to the parties accused of
having perpetrated it; but I regret to state, that every attempt to discover the guilty parties
has hitherto proved ineffectual, and that although there may be strong grounds of suspicion
that such a deed had been perpetrated, and that certain known parties in this district were
the perpetrators, yet it seems nearly impossible to obtain any legal proof to bear on either
one point or the other.

"I beg leave to enclose copies of two communications which I have received from Mr. Robinson
on the subject.

"I have, etc. "(Signed) "C. J. LATROBE." "The Honourable the Colonial Secretary, etc. etc. etc."

Rumours of another similar occurrence existed in the settlements north of Sydney, about the
same time. To the inquiries made on the subject, by the Government, the following letters refer.

"Moreton Bay, Zion's Hill, 14th January 1843.

"Sir,--In reply to your inquiry respecting the grounds on which I made mention in my journal,
kept during a visit to the Bunga Bunga country, of a considerable number of blacks having been
poisoned in the northern part of this district, I beg leave to state, that having returned
from Sydney in the month of March 1842, I learnt, first, by my coadjutor, the Rev. Mr. Epper,
that such a rumour was spreading, of which I have good reason to believe also his Excellency
the Governor was informed during his stay at Moreton Bay. I learnt, secondly, by the lay missionaries,
Messrs. Nique and Rode, who returned from an excursion to "Umpie-boang" in the first week of
April, that natives of different tribes, who were collecting from the north for a fight, had
related the same thing to them as a fact. Messrs. Nique and Rode have made this statement also
in their diary, which is laid before our committee in Sydney. I learnt, thirdly, by the runaway
Davis, when collecting words and phrases of the northern dialect from him, previous to my expedition
to the Bunga Bunga country, that there was not the least doubt but such a deed had been done,
and moreover that the relatives of the poisoned blacks, being in great fury, were going to
revenge themselves. Davis considered it, therefore, exceedingly dangerous for us to proceed
to the north, mentioning at the same time, that two white men had already been killed by blacks
in consequence of poisoning. I ascertained likewise from him the number, 50 or 60.

"When inquiring of him whether he had not reported this fact to yourself, he replied, that
both he, himself, and Bracewell, the other runaway, whom Mr. Petrie had brought back from the
Wide Bay, had done so, and that you had stated it fully in your report to his Excellency the
Governor, respecting himself and Bracewell.

"4. The natives who had carried our provisions up to Mr. Archer's station, made the same statement
to us, as a reason why they would not accompany us any farther to the Bunga Bunga country.

"When writing down, therefore, my journal, I considered it unnecessary to make a full statement
of all that had come to my knowledge since the month of March, concerning that most horrid
event, or even to relate it as something new, as it was not only known several months since
to the respective authorities, but also as almost every one at Moreton Bay supposed that an
investigation would take place without delay.

"I have, etc. "(signed) "WILLIAM SCHMIDT, "Missionary."

"S. Simpson, Esq., "Commissioner of Crown Lands, "Eagle Farm."

"WOOGAROO, MORETON BAY, 6TH MAY, 1843.

"Sir,--I have the honour to report, for the information of his Excellency, that during my excursion
to the Bunga country, I have taken every opportunity of instituting an inquiry as to the truth
of the alleged poisoning of some Aborigines at a sheep station in the north of this district.
A report of the kind certainly exists among the two tribes I fell in with, namely, the Dallambarah
and Coccombraral tribes, but as neither of them were present at the time, they could give me
no circumstantial information whatever on the subject. The Giggabarah tribe, the one said to
have suffered, I was unable to meet with. Upon inquiry at the stations to the north, I could
learn nothing further than that they had been using arsenic very extensively for the cure of
the scab, in which operation sheep are occasionally destroyed by some of the fluid getting
down their throats; and as the men employed frequently neglect to bury the carcases, it is
very possible that the Aborigines may have devoured them, particularly the entrails, which
they are very fond of, and that hence some accident of the kind alluded to may have occurred
without their knowledge.

"I have, etc. "(signed) S. SIMPSON, "Commissioner of Crown Lands."

"The Honourable E. D. Thomson, "Colonial Secretary."

For the sake of humanity I would hope that such unheard of atrocities cannot really have existed.
That the bare suspicion even of such crimes should have originated and gained currency in more
than one district of Australia, is of itself a fearful indication of the feeling among the
lowest classes in the colonies, and of the harrowing deeds to which that might lead.

Extract from South Australian Register, 10th of July, 1841, after the return of Major O'Halloran
and a party of sixty-eight individuals, sent up the Murray to try and rescue property stolen
by blacks. "In the mean time we cannot but think that the DISAPPOINTMENT SO GENERALLY EXPRESSED,
because Major O'Halloran has returned 'WITHOUT FIRING A SHOT,' is somewhat unreasonable, seeing
that in his presence the natives DID NOTHING TO WARRANT AN EXTREME MEASURE, and that there
were no means of identifying either the robbers of Mr. Inman, or the murderers of Mr. Langhorne's
servants. It is quite clear that a legally authorised English force could not be permitted
to fire indiscriminately upon the natives AS SOME PERSONS THINK they ought to have done, or
to fire at all, save when attacked, or under circumstances in which any white subject of the
Queen might be shot at. We KNOW that many overland parties HAVE NOT HESITATED TO FIRE AT THE
NATIVES WHEREVER THEY APPEARED; and it is possible that the tribes now hostilely disposed may
have received some provocation."

The following extract from a letter addressed by the Chief Protector of the Port Phillip district,
Mr. Robinson, to his Honour the Superintendent at Melbourne, shews that officer's opinion of
the feeling of the lower class of the settlers' servants, with regard to the Aborigines in
Australia Felix.

"Anterior to my last expedition I had seen a large portion of this province; I have now seen
nearly the entire, and, in addition, have made myself thoroughly acquainted with the character
of its inhabitants.

"The settlers are, for the most part, a highly respectable body of men, many, to my knowledge,
deeply commiserating the condition of the natives; a few have been engaged in the work of their
amelioration; these, however, are but isolated instances; the majority are averse to having
the natives, and drive them from their runs.

"Nothing could afford me greater pleasure than to see a reciprocity of interest established
between the settler and aborigine, and it would delight me to see the settlers engaged in the
great work of their amelioration; and though on the part of the settlers, a large majority
would readily engage, I nevertheless feel persuaded that, until a better class of peasantry
be introduced, and a code of judicature suited to the condition of the natives, its practicability,
as a general principle, is unattainable.

"In the course of my wanderings through the distant interior, I found it necessary, in order
to arrive at a correct judgment, to observe the relative character of both classes, i. e. the
European and the Aborigine. The difficulty on the part of the Aborigine by proper management
can be overcome; but the difficulty on the part of the depraved white man is of far different
character, and such as to require that either their place should be supplied by a more honest
and industrious peasantry, or that a more suitable code of judicature be established, to restrain
their nefarious proceedings with reference to the aboriginal natives.

"I found, on my last expedition, that a large majority of the white servants employed at the
stock stations in the distant interior were, for the most part, men of depraved character;
and it was with deep regret that I observed that they were all armed; and in the estimation
of some of these characters, with whom I conversed, I found that the life of a native was considered
to be of no more value than that of a wild dog. The settlers complained generally of the bad
character of their men. The saying is common among them, 'That the men and not we are the masters.'
The kind of treatment evinced towards the aboriginal natives in remote parts of the interior
by this class of persons, may be easily imagined; but as I shall have occasion more fully to
advert to this topic in the report I am about to transmit to the Government, I shall defer
for the present offering further observations.

"The bad character of the white servants is a reason assigned by many settlers for keeping
the natives from their stations. At a few establishments, viz. Norman M'Leod's, Baillie's,
Campbell's, Lenton's, and Urquhart's, an amicable and friendly relation has been maintained
for several years; the Aborigines are employed and found useful. I visited these stations;
and the proprietors assured me the natives had never done them any injury; the natives also
spoke in high terms of these parties. There are other settlers also who have rendered assistance
in improving the condition of the natives, and to whom I shall advert in my next report.

"Whether the proprietors of these establishments devote more attention, or whether their white
servants are of less nefarious character than others, I am not prepared to say; but the facts
I have stated are incontrovertible, and are sufficient to shew the reclaimability of the natives,
when proper persons are engaged, and suitable means had recourse to. I cannot but accede to
the proposition, namely, that of holding out inducements to all who engage in the amelioration
of the aboriginal natives. Those who have had experience, who have been tried and found useful,
ought to have such inducements held out to them as would ensure a continuance of their appointments,
the more especially as it has always been found difficult to obtain suitable persons for this
hazardous and peculiar service."

The following extract from another letter, also addressed to his Honour the Superintendent,
shews the opinions and feelings of the writer, a Magistrate of the Colony, and a Commissioner
of Crown Lands, in the Geelong district.

"In offering my candid opinion, I submissively beg leave to state, that for the last three
years, on all occasions, I have been a friend to the natives; but from my general knowledge
of their habits of idleness, extreme cunning, vice, and villany, that it is out of the power
of all exertion that can be bestowed on them to do good by them; and I further beg leave to
state, that I can plainly see the general conduct of the native growing worse, and, if possible,
more useless, and daily more daring. One and all appear to consider that no punishment awaits
them. This idea has latterly been instilled into their minds with, I should think, considerable
pains, and also that the white men should be punished for the least offence.

"In reply to the latter part of your letter, I beg leave to bring to your notice that, at considerable
risk, two years ago, I apprehended a native for the murder of one of Mr. Learmonth's men, near
Bunengang. He was committed to Sydney gaol, and at the expiration of a year he was returned
to Melbourne to be liberated, and is now at large. In the case of Mr. Thomson's, that I apprehended
two, and both identified by the men who so fortunately escaped. It is a difficult thing to
apprehend natives, and with great risk of life on both sides. On the Grange, and many parts
of the country, it would be impossible to take them; AND IN MY OPINION, the only plan to bring
them to a fit and proper state is to insist on the gentlemen in the country to protect their
property, AND TO DEAL WITH SUCH USELESS SAVAGES ON THE SPOT."

Captain Grey bears testimony to similar feelings and occurrences in Western Australia. In speaking
of capturing some natives, he says, vol. 2. p. 351. "It was necessary that I should proceed
with great caution, in order not to alarm the guilty parties when they saw us approaching,
in which case, I should have had no chance of apprehending them, and I did not intend to adopt
the popular system of shooting them when they ran away." And again, at page 356, he says, "It
was better that I, an impartial person, should see that they were properly punished for theft,
than that the Europeans should fire indiscriminately upon them, as had lately been done, in
another quarter."

Even in South Australia, where the Colonists have generally been more concentrated, and where
it might naturally be supposed there would be less likelihood of offenders of this kind escaping
detection and punishment, there are not wanting instances of unnecessary and unprovoked, and
sometimes of wanton injury upon the natives. In almost all cases of this description, it is
quite impracticable from the inadmissibility of native evidence, or from some other circumstances,
to bring home conviction to the guilty. [Note 50 at end of para.] On the other hand, where
natives commit offences against Europeans, if they can be caught, the punishment is certain
and severe. Already since the establishment of South Australia as a colony, six natives have
been tried and hung, for crimes against Europeans, and many others have been shot or wounded,
by the police and military in their attempts to capture or prevent their escape. No European
has, however, yet paid the penalties of the law, for aggressions upon the Aborigines, though
many have deserved to do so. The difficulty consists in legally bringing home the offence,
or in refuting the absurd stories that are generally made up in justification of it.

[Note 50: Vide Chapter 9, of Notes on the Aborigines.]

A single instance or two will be sufficient, in illustration of the impunity which generally
attends these acts of violence. On the 25th January, 1843, the sheep at a station of Mr. Hughes,
upon the Hutt river, had been scattered during the night, and some of them were missing. It
was concluded the natives had been there, and taken them, as the tracks of naked feet were
said to have been found near the folds. Upon these grounds two of Mr. Hughes' men, and one
belonging to Mr. Jacobs, another settler in the neighbourhood, took arms, and went out to search
for the natives. About a mile from the station they met with one native and his wife, whom
they asked to accompany them back to the station, promising bread and flour for so doing. They
consented to go, but were then escorted AS PRISONERS, the two men of Mr. Hughes' guarding the
male native, and Mr. Jacobs' servant (a person named Gregory) the female. Naturally alarmed
at the predicament they were in, the man ran off, pursued by his two guards, but escaped. The
woman took another direction, pursued by Gregory, who recaptured her, and she was said to have
then seized Gregory's gun, and to have struck at him several blows with a heavy stick, upon
which, being afraid that he would be overcome, HE SHOT HER. Mr. Hughes, the owner of the lost
sheep, came up a few moments after the woman was shot, and heard Gregory's story concerning
it, but no marks of his receiving any blows were shewn. On the 23rd of March, he was tried
for the offence of manslaughter; there did not appear the slightest extenuating circumstances
beyond his own story, and his master giving him a good character, and yet the jury, without
retiring, returned a verdict of Not Guilty!

At the very next sittings of the Supreme Court Criminal Sessions, another and somewhat analogous
case appeared. The following remarks were made by His Honour Judge Cooper, to the Grand Jury
respecting it: "There was also a case of manslaughter to be tried, and he called their attention
to this, because it did not appear in the Calendar. The person charged was named Skelton, and
as appeared from the depositions, was in custody of some sheep, when an alarm of the rushing
of the sheep being given, he looked and saw something climbing over the fence, and subsequently
something crawling along the ground, upon which he fired off his piece, and hit the object,
which upon examination turned out to be a native. The night was dark, and the native was brought
into the hut, where he died the next day. He could not help observing, that cases of this kind
were much more frequent than was creditable to the reputation of the Colony. Last Sessions
a man was tried and acquitted of the charge of killing a native woman. That verdict was a very
merciful one, but not so merciful, he trusted, as to countenance the idea that the lives of
the natives are held too cheaply. The only observation that he would make upon this case was,
that it was ONE OF GREAT SUSPICION."

[Note 51: I believe this case was not brought to trial.]

Other cases have occurred in which some of the circumstances have come under my own notice,
and when Europeans have committed wanton aggressions on the Aborigines, and have then made
up a plausible story to account for what had taken place, but where, from obvious circumstances,
it was quite impossible to disprove or rebut their tale, however improbable it might be. In
the Port Phillip District in 1841, Mr. Chief Protector thus writes to the local Government.

"Already appalling collisions have happened between the white and aboriginal inhabitants, and,
although instances, it is possible, have transpired when natives have been the aggressors,
yet it will be found that the largest majority originated with the Europeans. The lives of
aboriginal natives known to have been destroyed are many, and if the testimony of natives be
admissible, the amount would be great indeed; but even in cases where the Aborigines are said
to be the aggressors, who can tell what latent provocation existed for perpetrating it? Of
the numerous cases that could be cited, the following from a recent journal of an assistant
protector, Mr. Parker, of the Lodden, will suffice to shew the insurmountable difficulty, I
may add the impossibility, of bringing the guilty parties to justice, for in nine cases, I
may say, out of ten, where natives are concerned, the only evidence that can be adduced is
that of the Aborigines.

"This evidence is not admissible. Indeed the want of a code, suited to the Aborigines, is now
so strongly felt, and of such vital importance to the welfare and existence of the natives,
that I earnestly trust that this important subject may be brought under the early consideration
and notice of Her Majesty's Government.

"The following is the extract from Mr. Parker's journal referred to: 'On the 8th of March 1841,
I proceeded to the Pyrenees to investigate the circumstances connected with the slaughter of
several Aborigines, by a Mr. Frances. On the 9th and 10th I fell in with different parties
of natives. From the last of these I obtained some distressing statements, as to the slaughter
of the blacks; they gave me the names of seven individuals shot by Mr. Frances within the last
six months. I found, however, no legal evidence attainable. The only persons present in the
last and most serious affair with the Aborigines, which took place in December of last year,
were Frances, a person named Downes, and a stock-keeper in Melbourne. No other admissible evidence
of the death of these poor people can be obtained than what Frances's written statement conveys.
In that he reports that he and the person before named WENT OUT IN CONSEQUENCE OF SEEING THE
BUSH ON FIRE, AND FELL IN SUDDENLY WITH SOME NATIVES, ON WHOM THEY FIRED AND KILLED FOUR. The
natives say six were slain, and their information on that point is more to be depended on.
Owing to the legal disabilities of the Aborigines, this case must be added with many others
which have passed without judicial notice. I cannot, however, but wish that squatting licenses
were withheld from persons who manifest such an utter disregard of human life as Mr. Frances,
even on his own shewing, has done.'

"And in this latter sentiment, under existing circumstances, I most cordially agree. In Frances'
case, the PERPETRATOR ADMITS his having SHOT FOUR ABORIGINES, and for aught that is shewn to
the contrary, it was AN UNPROVOKED AGGRESSION. The natives, whose testimony Mr. Parker states,
can be relied upon, affirm that six were slain, and these within the brief period of six months.

"In my last expedition I visited the country of the 'Barconedeets,' the tribe attacked by Frances;
of these I found a few sojourning with the 'Portbullucs,' a people inhabiting the country near
Mount Zero, the northernmost point of the Grampians. These persons complained greatly of the
treatment they had received, and confirmed the statement made to the sub-protector by the other
natives. The following are a few of the collisions, from authentic documents brought under
the notice of this department, that have happened between settlers and Aborigines, and are
respectfully submitted for the information of the Government.

"CASES.--CHARLES WEDGE AND OTHERS.--Five natives killed and others wounded at the Grampians.

"AYLWARD AND OTHERS.--Several natives killed and others wounded at the Grampians. In this case
Aylward deposed, 'that there must have been a great many wounded and several killed, as he
saw blood upon the grass, and in the tea-tree two or three dead bodies.'

"MESSRS. WHYTE'S FIRST COLLISION.--William Whyte deposed that 30 natives were present, and
they were all killed but two, and one of these it is reported died an hour after of his wounds.

"DARLOT.--One native shot. Two natives shot near Portland Bay by the servants of the Messrs. Henty.

"HUTTON AND MOUNTED POLICE.--The written report of this case states, 'that the party overtook
the aborigines at the junction of the 'Campaspee;' they fired, and it is stated, that to the
best of the belief of the party, five or six were killed.' In the opinion of the sub-protector
a greater number were slain.

"MESSRS. WINTER AND OTHERS.--On this occasion five natives were killed.

"One black shot by Frances.

"MUNROE AND POLICE.--Two blacks shot and others wounded.

"The following from Lloyd's deposition:--'We fired on them; I have no doubt some were killed;
there were between forty and fifty natives.'

"BY PERSONS UNKNOWN.--A native of the Coligan tribe killed by white persons.

"MESSRS. WEDGE AND OTHERS.--Three natives killed and others wounded.

"Names of Taylor and Lloyd are mentioned as having shot a black at Lake Colac.

"WHYTE'S SECOND COLLISION.--ALLAN'S CASE.--Two natives shot.

"Taylor was overseer of a sheep station in the Western district, and was notorious for killing
natives. No legal evidence could be obtained against this nefarious individual. The last transaction
in which he was concerned, was of so atrocious a nature, that he thought fit to abscond, and
he has not been heard of since. No legal evidence was attainable in this latter case. There
is no doubt the charges preferred were true, for in the course of my inquiries on my late expedition,
I found a tribe, a section of the Jarcoorts, totally extinct, and it was affirmed by the natives
that Taylor had destroyed them. The tribes are rapidly diminishing. The 'Coligans,' once a
numerous and powerful people, inhabiting the fertile region of Lake 'Colac,' are now reduced,
all ages and sexes, under forty, and these are still on the decay. The Jarcoorts, inhabiting
the country to the west of the great lake 'Carangermite,' once a very numerous and powerful
people, are now reduced to under sixty. But time would fail, and I fear it would be deemed
too prolix, were I to attempt to particularise in ever so small a degree, the previous state,
condition, and declension of the original inhabitants of so extensive a province."

Upon the same subject, His Honour the Superintendent of Port Phillip thus writes:--

"On this subject, I beg leave to remark that great impediments evidently do interpose themselves
in the way of instituting proper judicial inquiry into the causes and consequences of the frequent
acts of collision between the settlers and the aboriginal natives, and into the conduct of
the settlers on such occasions. I am quite ready to lament with the Protectors, that numerous
as the cases have unfortunately been in which the lives of the Aborigines have been taken in
this district, IN NO SINGLE INSTANCE HAS THE SETTLER BEEN BROUGHT BEFORE THE PROPER TRIBUNAL."

Many similar instances might be adduced to shew the little chance there is of evidence enough
being procurable, even to cause the aggressor to be put upon his trial, still less to produce
his conviction.

Independently of the instances of wanton outrage, which sometimes are perpetrated on the outskirts
of the settled districts by the lowest and most abandoned of our countrymen, there are occasions
also, when equal injuries are inflicted unintentionally, from inexperience or indiscretion,
on the part of those whose duty it is to protect rather than destroy, when the innocent have
been punished instead of the guilty [Note 52 at end of para.], and thus the very efforts made
to preserve peace and good order, have inadvertently become the means of subverting them.

[Note 52: Upon collisions of this character, Lord John Russell remarks in his despatch, 21st
December, 1839, to Sir G. Gipps: "In the case now before me the object of capturing offenders
was entirely lost sight of, and shots were fired at men who were apparently only guilty of
jumping into the water to escape from an armed pursuit. I am, however, happy to acknowledge
that you appear to have made every practicable exertion for the prevention of similar calamities
in future, and I approve the measures adopted by you for that purpose. You cannot overrate
the solicitude of Her Majesty's Government on the subject of the Aborigines of New Holland.
It is impossible to contemplate the condition and the prospects of that unfortunate race without
the deepest commiseration. I am well aware of the many difficulties which oppose themselves
to the effectual protection of these people, and especially of those which must originate from
the exasperation of the settlers, on account of aggressions on their property, which are not
the less irritating, because they are nothing else than the natural results of the pernicious
examples held out to the Aborigines, and of the many wrongs of which they have been the victims.
Still it is impossible that the Government should forget that the original aggression was our
own; and that we have never yet performed the sacred duty of making any systematic or considerable
attempt to impart to the former occupiers of New South Wales, the blessings of Christianity,
or the knowledge of the arts and advantages of civilized life."]

Several very lamentable instances of this kind, have occurred in Port Lincoln. The following
is one among others. Soon after the murder of Messrs. Biddle and Brown, a party of soldiers
was sent over to try and capture the aggressors. In one of their attempts a native guide was
procured from the Eastern tribe, who promised to conduct them to where the murderers were.
The party consisting of the military and their officer, the police, a settler, and the missionary,
in all twelve or fourteen persons, set off towards Coffin's Bay, following as they supposed
upon the track of the murders. Upon reaching the coast some natives were seen fishing in the
water, and the party was at once spread out in a kind of semicircle, among the scrub, to close
upon and capture them; the officer, missionary, and guide, being stationed near the centre.
As the party advanced nearer, the guide saw that he was mistaken in the group before him, and
that they were not the guilty parties, but friends. The officer called out not to fire, but
unfortunately from the distance the men were at, and the scrubby nature of the country, he
was not heard or attended to. A shot was fired, one of the natives sprung up convulsively in
the water, walked on shore and fell down, exclaiming whilst dying, "me Kopler, me good man,"
and such indeed it proved. He was one of a friendly tribe, and a particular protege of the
missionary's, having taken the name of Kopler from his German servant who was so called.

The other natives at once came forward to their dying friend, scornfully motioning away his
murderers, fearless alike of the foes around them, and regardless of their ill-timed attempts
to explain the fatal mistake. Will it be credited, that at such a scene as this the soldiers
were indulging in coarse remarks, or brutal jests, upon the melancholy catastrophe; and comparing
the last convulsive spring of the dying man to a salmon leaping in the water. Yet this I was
assured was the case by the Government Resident at Port Lincoln, from when I received this account.

Another melancholy and unfortunate case of the same nature occurred at Port Lincoln, on the
11th of April, 1844, where a native was shot by a policeman, for attempting to escape from
custody, when taken in charge on suspicion of being implicated in robbing a stranded vessel.
An investigation was made into this case by the Commissioner of Police, when it was stated
in the depositions, that attempts at rescue were made by the other natives. Upon these grounds,
I believe, it was considered that the policeman was justified in what he did.

The following extract relating to this subject, is from a letter addressed to a gentleman in
Adelaide, by the Rev. C. Schurmann, one of the German Missionaries, who has for some years
past been stationed among the Port Lincoln natives, and is intimately acquainted with their
language.

[Note 53: Without adopting the tone of this letter, and which in some respects I cannot approve
of, I believe the writer to be deeply interested in the welfare of the Aborigines, and strongly
impressed with a conviction of the evils and injuries to which they are subject from our anomalous
position with regard to them. I have quoted it, therefore, not for the purpose of casting imputations
on the Government, but to shew how powerless they are, and how frequently, under the existing
system in force with respect to the Aborigines, those very measures which were conceived and
entered upon with the best intentions, produce in their result the most unmitigated evils.]

"You will probably recollect, that some time ago (I think it was in the month of May) the Adelaide
newspapers contained a short notice of a Port Lincoln native having been shot by the police
in self-defence, and a letter in the 'Observer,' mentioned another as being shot by Mr.----,
but as the charitable correspondent added, 'Unfortunately only in the arm, instead of through
the body.' From these statements one would infer that the parties concerned in these transactions
were without blame, being perfectly justified--the one to protect his life, and the other his
property. However, since my return to Port Lincoln, I have learned that both tales run very
differently when told according to truth. I address myself, therefore, to you, with the true
facts of the transactions, as I have learned them, partly from the settlers themselves, partly
from the natives. My motive for so doing is to case my own mind, and to gratify the interest
which I know you take in the Aborigines of this country.

"The man shot by the police was named Padlalta, and was of so mild and inoffensive a disposition,
that he was generally noticed by the settlers on that very account, several of whom I have
heard say since, it was a pity that some other native had not been hit in his stead. The same
man was captured last year by Major O'llalloran's party, but was set at liberty as soon as
I came up and testified his innocence, for which the poor fellow kissed my hand near a dozen times.

"The day before he met his death he was as usual in the town, doing little jobs for the inhabitants,
to get bread or other food. On the evening when he was killed, he had encamped with about half
a dozen other natives on the northern side of Happy Valley, a short mile from the town. The
police who were sent by the Government Resident to see what number of natives were at the camp
state, that while searching the man's wallet, he seized hold of one gun, and when the other
policeman came up to wrest it from him, he the native grasped the other gun too. In the scuffle
that ensued, one of the guns went off, when the other natives who had fled returned and presented
their spears. They then shot the native who held the gun.

"Now this statement is a very strange one, when it is considered that the native was a very
spare and weak man, so that either of the police ought to have been able to keep him at arm's
length; but to say that he seized both their guns is beyond all credibility. The natives were
sitting down when the police arrived. How they could therefore find a wallet upon the murdered
man, I cannot conceive; since the natives never have their wallets slung, except when moving;
and it certainly is not probable, that the man, in spite of the fright he is admitted to have
been in, should have thought of taking up his wallet.

"The wallet is said to have contained some sovereigns, taken from the cutter Kate, which was
wrecked some time previous to this affair, about forty miles up the coast, and to have been
one of those marked by the police, at a native camp near the wreck from which the natives had
been scared away, leaving all their things behind. But if the murdered native had taken the
sovereigns, why were they not then in his wallet, or why was the wallet not examined the day
before when he was in town? [Note 54 at end of para.] I think that there is little doubt that
the police found no wallet at all upon the native, and that they coined away one of those found
at the camp upon him, with a view to incriminate him."

[Note 54: There cannot be a greater act of injustice towards the natives than that of applying
the English law to them with respect to stolen property. Any one who knows any thing of their
habits, and the custom prevalent amongst them, of giving any European clothing, or other articles
they may acquire, from one to another, must be fully aware how little the fact of their being
found in possession of stolen property is just evidence against them. Articles such as I have
mentioned, often pass, in a very short time, through the hands of three or four individuals,
and perhaps even through as many tribes.]

"Another native, Charley, who was present when the said affair took place, tells me, that the
police sneaked upon, and fired at them, while sitting round the fire; [Note 55 at end of para.]
that he jumped up, and endeavoured to make himself known, as a friendly native, by saying,
"Yarri (that is the name the natives have given to one of the police), Yarri, I Charley, I
Charley,"--but that the effect produced had been the pointing of a gun at him, when of course
he ran away. That any of the natives returned, and poised their spears, he firmly denies; but
accounts for the murder, by supposing that the dead man made resistance, and offered to spear
his assailants. He moreover says, that Padlalta would not have died in consequence of the first
shot, but that the police fired repeatedly, which agrees with the settlers, who say they heard
three shots. When the bloody deed had been committed (a ball had passed right through his body),
the cruel perpetrators ran home, leaving the murdered man helpless."

[Note 55: There must, I think, be some mistake here in the phrascology. I cannot think any
of the police would fire upon a small party of friendly natives whilst unresisting. The probability
is, that they surrounded the natives to make prisoners, and fired upon being resisted. This
must generally occur if the police have positive orders to make captures. Natives, not very
much in contact with Europeans, will almost always resist an attempt to make prisoners of them,
or will try to escape. Very many have, at various times, met their death under such circumstances;
and too often it has occurred, that the innocent have been the suffering parties. This shews
the absurdity of applying European customs and laws to a people situated as the Australian
natives are. It shews, too, the necessity of altering our present system and policy towards
them, to one that will exercise sufficient influence over them to induce them to give up offenders
themselves. I believe such a system may be devised.--Vide Chapter IX.]

"Some time after, a party of three settlers went to the spot, one of whom he recognized, and
claimed his acquaintance, and perhaps assistance, by mentioning the party's Christian name;
but, alas! no good Samaritan was found amongst these three; they all passed by on the other
side, without alleviating his pain, moistening his parched lips, warming his shivering limbs,
or aiding him in any way whatever. There he lay a whole cold and long winter night, without
a fire to warm him, or a soul to talk to him. Next morning he was found still alive, but died
on the way into town, where he was buried in the jail yard, like a condemned felon.

"What awful and melancholy reflections crowd upon one's mind in thinking on this transaction.
But what conclusians must a poor people, whom a Christian and civilized nation calls savages,
arrive at, with such facts before them.

"The other native, wounded by Mr.--in the arm, was doubtless of the party who attacked the
flock; but it must have been some hours after that he was shot, for the shepherd had to come
home with the flock to inform him of the occurrence, and then search and pursuit had to be
made, during which he was overtaken. He is a stupid idiotic sort of man, so that the natives
have not deemed him worthy of receiving the honours of their ceremonies, and still call him
a boy, or youth, although he is an oldish man.

"On another occasion, when an uninhabited hut, with some wheat in it, had been broken into
by some unknown natives, a party went in search of the offenders. It was night when they came
on a camp, on the opposite side of the lake to where the hut stands; the natives, acting upon
the first impulse, and warned by frequent examples, ran away, when two of the party snapped
their pieces, but providentially both guns missed fire. The natives, however, soon took confidence,
and returned, when it was found that two of the most orderly and useful men would have been
shot if the guns had gone off. The party took upon themselves to make one of them prisoner,
but of course did not venture to bring him before the magistrate.

"These facts incontestably prove, that, notwithstanding the Aborigines are called British subjects,
and in spite of the so-called protection system, there is no shadow of protection for them,
while they are debarred from the first and most important of all liberties, namely, that of
being heard in a Court of civil Justice.

"Several instances have occurred during my residence in this district, in which natives have
been arraigned before the administrators of the law, although I was morally convinced of their
innocence; in other cases, they have sought redress through me, for wanton attacks on their
person and lives, without being listened to.

"Only a few weeks ago a native was very nearly being taken up, on the charge of having thrown
a spear at Mr. Smith's shepherd, without, however, any felonious intent, the distance being
too great. This circumstance saved the man, or else he would, no doubt, have been tried and
found guilty on the shepherd's evidence, who would not allow that he could be mistaken in the
individual, although the accused native came boldly into town and court (a circumstance that
has never before occurred since I have known these natives), although he was an intimate friend
of the shepherd and his wife; and although all the other natives could prove where he had been
at the time of the attack on the flock, and state who were the guilty parties.

"For those who have had an opportunity of observing the Aborigines in their original state,
it is not very difficult to distinguish the guilty from the innocent, for they are a simple-minded
race, little skilled in the arts of dissimulation.

"It is bad enough that a great part of the colonists are inimical to the natives; it is worse
that the law, as it stands at present, does not extend its protection to them; but it is too
bad when the press lends its influence to their destruction. Such, however, is undoubtedly
the case. When Messrs. Biddle and Brown were murdered, the newspapers entertained their readers
week after week with the details of the bloody massacre, heaping a profusion of vile epithets
upon the perpetrators. But of the slaughter by the soldiers, (who killed no less than four
innocent natives, while they captured not one guilty party), among the tribes who had had nothing
to do with the murders--of the treachery of attacking in the darkness of the night, a tribe
who had the day before been hunting kangaroo with their informers, when one of the former guides
to the magistrates' pursuing party was killed amongst others; of the wanton outrage on the
mutilated body of one of the victims;--of these things the press was as silent as the grave."

Without attempting to enlarge more fully upon the subjects entered upon in the preceding pages,
I trust that I have sufficiently shewn that the character of the Australian natives has been
greatly misrepresented and maligned, that they are not naturally more irreclaimably vicious,
revengeful, or treacherous than other nations, but on the contrary, that their position with
regard to Europeans, places them under so many disadvantages, subjects them to so many injuries,
irritates them with so many annoyances, and tempts them with so many provocations, that it
is a matter of surprise, not that they sometimes are guilty of crime, but that they commit
it so rarely.

If I have in the least degree succeeded in establishing that such is the case, it must be evident
that it is incumbent upon us not only to make allowances when pronouncing an opinion on the
character or the crimes of the Aborigines; but what is of far greater and more vital importance,
as far as they are concerned, to endeavour to revise and improve such parts of our system and
policy towards them as are defective, and by better adapting these to the peculiar circumstances
of this people, at once place them upon juster and more equal terms, and thus excite a reasonable
hope that some eventual amelioration may be produced, both in their moral and physical condition.

[Note 56: "We say distinctly and deliberately that nothing comparatively has yet been done--that
the natives have hitherto acquired nothing of European civilization, but European vices and
diseases, and that the speedy extinction of the whole race is inevitable, save by the introduction
of means for their civilization on a scale much more comprehensive and effectual than any yet
adopted."--Leading Article in South Australian Register, 1st August, 1840.]

I shall now proceed to give an account of the appearance, habits, mode of life, means of subsistance,
social relations, government, ceremonies, superstitions, numbers, languages, etc. etc. of the
natives of Australia, so as to afford some insight into the character and circumstances of
this peculiar race, to exhibit the means hitherto adopted for, and the progress made in attempting,
their civilization, and to shew the effects produced upon them by a contact with Europeans.

The Aborigines of Australia, with whom Europeans have come in contact, present a striking similarity
to each other in physical appearance and structure; and also in their general character, habits,
and pursuits. Any difference that is found to exist is only the consequence of local circumstances
or influences, and such as might naturally be expected to be met with among a people spread
over such an immense extent of country. Compared with other aboriginal races, scattered over
the face of the globe, the New Hollander appears to stand alone.

The male is well built and muscular, averaging from five to six feet in height, with proportionate
upper and lower extremities. The anterior lobes of the brain are fairly developed, so as to
give a facial angle, far from being one of the most acute to be found amongst the black races.
The eyes are sunk, the nose is flattened, and the mouth wide. The lips are rather thick, and
the teeth generally very perfect and beautiful, though the dental arrangement is sometimes
singular, as no difference exists in many between the incisor and canine teeth. The neck is
short, and sometimes thick, and the heel resembles that of Europeans. The ankles and wrists
are frequently small, as are also the hands and feet. The latter are well formed and expanded,
but the calves of the legs are generally deficient. Some of the natives in the upper districts
of the Murray, are, however, well formed in this respect. In a few instances, natives attain
to a considerable corpulency. The men have fine broad and deep chests, indicating great bodily
strength, and are remarkably erect and upright in their carriage, with much natural grace and
dignity of demeanour. The eye is generally large, black, and expressive, with the eye-lashes long.

When met with for the first time in his native wilds there is frequently a fearless intrepidity
of manner, an ingenuous openness of look, and a propriety of behaviour about the aboriginal
inhabitant of Australia, which makes his appearance peculiarly prepossessing.

In the female the average height is about five feet, or perhaps a little under. The anterior
part of the brain is more limited than in the male; the apex of the head is carried further
back; the facial angle is more acute; and the extremities are more attenuated. The latter circumstance
may probably be accounted for from the fact, that the females have to endure, from a very early
age, a great degree of hardship, privation, and ill-treatment. Like most other savages the
Australian looks upon his wife as a slave. To her belongs the duty of collecting and preparing
the daily food, of making the camp or hut for the night, of gathering and bringing in firewood,
and of procuring water. She must also attend to the children; and in travelling carry all the
moveable property and frequently the weapons of her husband. Yet under all these disadvantages
this deficiency does not always exist.

The colour of the skin, both in the male and female, is generally black, or very darkly tinged.
The hair is either straight or curly, but never approaching to the woolliness of the negro.
It is usually worn short by both sexes, and is variously ornamented at different periods of
life. Sometimes it is smeared with red ochre and grease; at other times adorned with tufts
of feathers, the tail of the native dog, kangaroo teeth, and bandages or nets of different kinds.

[Note 57: The same fondness for red paint, ornaments of skins, tufts of feathers, etc., is
noticed by Catlin as prevalent among the American Indians, and by Dieffenbach as existing among
the New Zealanders.]

When the head of the native is washed clean, and purified from the odour of the filthy pigment
with which it is bedaubed, the crop of hair is very abundant, and the appearance of it beautiful,
being a silken, glossy, and curly black. Great pains are, however, used to destroy or mar this
striking ornament of nature.

Without the slightest pride of appearance, so far as neatness or cleanliness is concerned,
the natives are yet very vain of their own rude decorations, which are all worn for EFFECT.
A few feathers or teeth, a belt or band, a necklace made of the hollow stem of some plant,
with a few coarse daubs of red or white paint, and a smearing of grease, complete the toilette
of the boudoir or the ball-room. Like the scenery of a panorama, they are then seen to most
advantage at a distance; for if approached too closely, they forcibly remind us of the truth
of the expression of the poet, that "nature unadorned is adorned the most."

The body dress is simple; consisting of the skins of the opossum, the kangaroo, or the wallabie,
when they can be procured. A single garment only is used, made in the form of an oblong cloak,
or coverlet; by the skins being stretched out and dried in the sun, and then sewn together
with the sinews of the emu, etc. The size of the cloak varies according to the industry of
the maker, or the season of the year. The largest sized ones are about six feet square, but
the natives frequently content themselves with one not half this size, and in many cases are
without it altogether. The cloak is worn with the fur side outwards, and is thrown over the
back and left shoulder, and pinned on in front with a little wooden peg; the open part is opposite
the right side, so as to leave the right arm and shoulder quite unconfined, in the male; the
female throws it over the back and left shoulder, and brings it round under the right arm-pit,
and when tied in front by a string passing round the cloak and the back, a pouch is formed
behind, in which the child is always carried. [Note 58 at end of para.] In either if the skin
be a handsome one, the dress is very pretty and becoming.

[Note 58: A similar custom prevails among the women of the American Indians.--CATLIN. vol.
ii. p. 132.]

On the sea coast, where the country is barren, and the skins of animals cannot readily be procured,
sea-weed or rushes are manufactured into garments, with considerable ingenuity. In all cases
the garments worn by day constitute the only covering at night, as the luxury of variety in
dress is not known to, or appreciated by, the Aborigines.

No covering is worn upon the head, although they are continually exposed to the rays of an
almost tropical sun. In extreme seasons of heat, and 'when they are travelling, they sometimes
gather a few green bunches or wet weeds and place upon their heads; but this does not frequently
occur.

The character of the Australian natives is frank, open, and confiding. In a short intercourse
they are easily made friends, and when such terms are once established, they associate with
strangers with a freedom and fearlessness, that would give little countenance to the impression
so generally entertained of their treachery. On many occasions where I have met these wanderers
in the wild, far removed from the abodes of civilization, and when I have been accompanied
only by a single native boy, I have been received by them in the kindest and most friendly
manner, had presents made to me of fish, kangaroo, or fruit, had them accompany me for miles
to point out where water was to be procured, and been assisted by them in getting at it, if
from the nature of the soil and my own inexperience. I had any difficulty in doing so myself.

I have ever found them of a lively, cheerful disposition [Note 59 at end of para.], patiently
putting up with inconveniences and privations, and never losing that natural good temper which
so strongly characterizes them. On the occasion of my second visit from Moorunde, to the Rufus
natives in 1841, when I had so far overcome the ill-feelings and dread, engendered by the transactions
in that quarter, in 1840, as to induce a large body of them to accompany me back to the station,
they had to walk a distance of 150 miles, making daily the same stages that the horses did,
and unprovided with any food but what they could procure along the road as they passed, and
this from the rapidity with which they had to travel, and the distance they had to go in a
day, was necessarily limited in quantity, and very far from sufficient to appease even the
cravings of hunger, yet tired, foot-sore, and hungry as they were, and in company with strangers,
whose countrymen had slain them in scores, but a few months before, they were always merry
at their camps at nights, and kept singing, laughing, and joking, to a late hour.

[Note 59: Such appears usually to be the characteristic of Nature's children, than whom no
race appears more thoroughly to enjoy life.--Vide character of the American Indians, by Catlin,
vol. 1. p. 84.]

On falling in with them in larger numbers, when I have been travelling in the interior with
my party, I have still found the same disposition to meet me on terms of amity and kindness.
Nor can a more interesting sight well be imagined, than that of a hundred or two hundred natives
advancing in line to meet you, unarmed, shouting and waving green boughs in both hands, men,
women, and children, the old and the young, all joining in expressing their good feelings and
pacific intentions. On such occasions I have been often astonished at the facility with which
large bodies, have by a little kindness and forbearance been managed, and kept from being troublesome
or annoying, by a party of only six or seven Europeans. I have occasionally had upwards of
150 natives sitting in a long line, where I placed them, and as orderly and obedient almost
as a file of soldiers.

At other times, when riding with only a native boy over the plains of the interior, I have
seen the blue smoke of the native fires, curling up through the distant line of trees, which
marked some yet unvisited watercourse, and upon making towards it, have come suddenly upon
a party encamped in the hollow, beneath the banks upon which I stood. Here I have remained,
observing them for a few moments, unseen and unthought of. A single call would arouse their
attention, and as they looked up, would draw from them a wild exclamation of dismay, accompanied
by a look of indescribable horror and affright, at beholding the strange, and to them incomprehensible
beings who stood before them. Weapons would hastily be seized, baggage gathered up, and the
party so lately buried in repose and security, would at once be ready either to fight or to
evacuate their camps, as circumstances might seem to render most expedient. A few friendly
gestures and a peaceable demeanour would however soon dissipate their terror, and in a few
moments their weapons would be thrown aside, and both invaders and invaded be upon intimate
and confiding terms.

I have always found the natives ready to barter their nets, weapons, or other implements, for
European articles, and sometimes they will give them unsolicited, and without any equivalent;
amongst themselves they constantly do this.

In their intercourse with each other, natives of different tribes are exceedingly punctilious
and polite, the most endearing epithets are passed between those who never met before; almost
every thing that is said is prefaced by the appellation of father, son, brother, mother, sister,
or some other similar term, corresponding to that degree of relationship which would have been
most in accordance with their relative ages and circumstances. In many instances, too, these
titles are even accompanied by the still more insinuating addition of "dear," to say nothing
of the hugs and embraces which they mutually give and receive.

The natives are very fond of the children they rear, and often play with, and fondle them;
but husbands rarely shew much affection for their wives.

[Note 60: For the existence of similar customs amongst the American Indians, vide Catlin, vol.
i. p. 56.]

Upon meeting children after a long absence, I have seen parents "fall upon their necks, and
weep" bitterly. It is a mistaken idea, as well as an unjust one, that supposes the natives
to be without sensibility of feeling. It may often be repressed from pride or policy, but it
will sometimes break forth uncontrolled, and reveal, that the best and genuine feelings of
the heart are participated in by savage in common with civilized man. The following is an instance
in point:--A fine intelligent young boy, was, by his father's consent, living with me at the
Murray for many weeks; but upon the old man's going into Adelaide, he took his son away to
accompany him. Whilst there, the boy died, and for nearly a year I never saw any thing more
of the father, although he occasionally had been within a few miles of my neighbourhood. One
day, however, I was out shooting about three miles from home, and accidentally fell in with
him. Upon seeing me he immediately burst into tears, and was unable to speak. It was the first
time he had met me since his son's death, and my presence forcibly reminded him of his loss.
The same circumstance occurred when he accompanied me to the house, where every thing he saw
recalled the memory of his child.

Innate propriety of behaviour is also frequently exhibited by the Aborigines in their natural
state, in the modest unassuming manner in which they take their positions to observe what is
going on, and in a total absence of any thing that is rude or offensive. It is true that the
reverse of this is also often to be met with; but I think it will usually be found that it
is among natives who have before been in contact with Europeans, or where familiarities have
been used with them first, or an injudicious system of treatment has been adopted towards them.

DELICACY of feeling is not often laid to the charge of the Aborigines, and yet I was witness
to a singular instance of it at King George's Sound. I was looking one evening at the natives
dancing, and who were, as they always are on these occasions, in a state of complete nudity.
In the midst of the performance, one of the natives standing by a spectator, mentioned that
a white woman was passing up the road; and although this was some little distance away, and
the night was tolerably dark, they all with one accord crossed over to the bushes where their
cloaks were, put them on, and resumed their amusement.

It has been said, and is generally believed, that the natives are not courageous. There could
not be a greater mistake, at least as far as they are themselves concerned, nor do I hold it
to be any proof that they are cowards, because they dread or give way before Europeans and
their fire-arms. So unequal a match is no criterion of bravery, and yet even thus, among natives,
who were labouring under the feelings, naturally produced by seeing a race they were unacquainted
with, and weapons that dealt death as if by magic, I have seen many instances of an open manly
intrepidity of manner and bearing, and a proud unquailing glance of eye, which instinctively
stamped upon my mind the conviction that the individuals before me were very brave men.

In travelling about from one place to another, I have always made it a point, if possible,
to be accompanied by one or more natives, and I have often found great advantage from it. Attached
to an exploring party they are frequently invaluable, as their perceptive powers are very great,
and enable them both to see and hear anything at a much greater distance than a European. In
tracking stray animals, and keeping on indistinct paths, they display a degree of perseverance
and skill that is really wonderful. They are useful also in cutting bark canoes to cross a
river, should such impede the progress of the party, and in diving for anything that may be
lost in the water, etc. etc. The Aborigines generally, and almost always those living near
large bodies of water, are admirable swimmers and divers, and are almost as much at home in
the water as on dry land. I have known them even saw a small log or root at the bottom of a
deep river. In a locality, however, which is badly watered, it sometimes happens that they
cannot swim. At Meerkap, in Western Australia, while crossing with some friends, from the Sound
to Swan River, we met with some who were in this predicament, and who seemed a good deal astonished
at our venturing into the small ponds at that place. I have been told that the natives at the
Sound could not swim before that settlement was occupied by Europeans--this seems hardly probable,
however, upon the sea-coast; at all events, be this as it may, they all swim now.

In habit they are truly nomadic, seldom remaining many weeks in one locality, and frequently
not many days. The number travelling together depends, in a great measure, upon the period
of the year, and the description of food that may be in season. If there is any particular
variety more abundant than another, or procurable only in certain localities, the whole tribe
generally congregate to partake of it. Should this not be the case, then they are probably
scattered over their district in detached groups, or separate families.

At certain seasons of the year, usually in the spring or summer, when food is most abundant,
several tribes meet together in each other's territory for the purpose of festivity or war,
or to barter and exchange such food, clothing, implements, weapons, or other commodities as
they respectively possess; or to assist in the initiatory ceremonies by which young persons
enter into the different grades of distinction amongst them. The manner and formalities of
meeting depend upon the cause for which they assemble. If the tribes have been long apart,
many deaths may have occurred in the interim; and as the natives do not often admit that the
young or the strong can die from natural causes, they ascribe the event to the agency of sorcery,
employed by individuals of neighbouring tribes. This must of course be expiated in some way
when they meet, but the satisfaction required is regulated by the desire of the injured tribe
to preserve amicable relations with the other, or the reverse.

The following is an account of a meeting which I witnessed, between the natives of Moorunde
(comprising portions of several of the neighbouring tribes) and the Nar-wij-jerook, or Lake
Bonney tribe, accompanied also by many of their friends. This meeting had been pre-arranged,
as meetings of large bodies of natives never take place accidentally, for even when a distant
tribe approaches the territory of another unexpectedly, messengers are always sent on in advance,
to give the necessary warning. The object of the meeting in question was to perform the initiatory
ceremonies upon a number of young men belonging to both of the tribes. In the Murray district,
when one tribe desires another to come from a distance to perform these ceremonies, young men
are sent off with messages of invitation, carrying with them as their credentials, long narrow
news, made of string manufactured from the rush. These nets are left with the tribe they are
sent to, and brought back again when the invitation is responded to.

Notice having been given on the previous evening to the Moorunde natives of the approach of
the Nar-wij-jerook tribe, they assembled at an early hour after sunrise, in as clear and open
a place as they could find. Here they sat down in a long row to await the coming of their friends.
The men were painted, and carried their weapons, as if for war. The women and children were
in detached groups, a little behind them, or on one side, whilst the young men, on whom the
ceremonies were to be performed, sat shivering with cold and apprehension in a row to the rear
of the men, perfectly naked, smeared over from head to foot with grease and red-ochre, and
without weapons. The Nar-wij-jerook tribe was now seen approaching. The men were in a body,
armed and painted, and the women and children accompanying them a little on one side. They
occasionally halted, and entered into consultation, and then, slackening their pace, gradually
advanced until within a hundred yards of the Moorunde tribe. Here the men came to a full stop,
whilst several of the women singled out from the rest, and marched into the space between the
two parties, having their heads coated over with lime, and raising a loud and melancholy wail,
until they came to a spot about equi-distant from both, when they threw down their cloaks with
violence, and the bags which they carried on their backs, and which contained all their worldly
effects. The bags were then opened, and pieces of glass and shells taken out, with which they
lacerated their thighs, backs, and breasts, in a most frightful manner, whilst the blood kept
pouring out of the wounds in streams; and in this plight, continuing their wild and piercing
lamentations, they moved up towards the Moorunde tribe, who sat silently and immoveably in
the place at first occupied. One of the women then went up to a strange native, who was on
a visit to the Moorunde tribe and who stood neutral in the affair of the meeting, and by violent
language and frantic gesticulations endeavoured to incite him to revenge the death of some
relation or friend. But he could not be induced to lift his spear against the people amongst
whom he was sojourning. After some time had been spent in mourning, the women took up their
bundles again, and retiring, placed themselves in the rear of their own party. An elderly man
then advanced, and after a short colloquy with the seated tribe, went back, and beckoned his
own people to come forward, which they did slowly and in good order, exhibiting in front three
uplifted spears, to which were attached the little nets left with them by the envoys of the
opposite tribe, and which were the emblems of the duty they had come to perform, after the
ordinary expiations had been accomplished.

In advancing, the Nar-wij-jerooks again commenced the death wail, and one of the men, who had
probably sustained the greatest loss since the tribes had last met, occasionally in alternations
of anger and sorrow addressed his own people. When near the Moorunde tribe a few words were
addressed to them, and they at once rose simultaneously, with a suppressed shout. The opposite
party then raised their spears, and closing upon the line of the other tribe, speared about
fifteen or sixteen of them in the left arm, a little below the shoulder. This is the generally
understood order of revenge; for the persons who were to receive the wounds, as soon as they
saw the weapons of their assailants poised, at once put out the left foot, to steady themselves,
and presented the left shoulder for the blow, frequently uttering the word "Leipa" (spear),
as the others appeared to hesitate.

Whilst this was going on, the influential men of each tribe were violently talking to each
other, and apparently accusing one another of being accessory to the death of some of their
people. Disclaimers passed on each side, and the blame was imputed to other and more distant
tribes. The manes of the dead having been appeased, the honour of each party was left unsullied,
and the Nar-wij-jerooks retired about a hundred yards, and sat down, ready to enter upon the
ceremonies of the day, which will be described in another place. [Note 61: Chapter V.]

If the meeting of the tribes be for the purpose of war, a favourable situation is selected
by one of the parties, and notice is sent to the other, who then proceed to the place of meeting,
where both draw out their forces in opposing parallel lines. Day-break, or nearly about sunset
in the evening, are the times preferred for these engagements, as the softened light at those
hours does not so much affect the eyesight, and the spears are more easily seen and avoided.
Both parties are fully armed with spears, shields, and other weapons, and the fight sometimes
lasts for three or four hours, during which scarcely a word is spoken, and but little noise
of any kind is heard, excepting a shrill cry now and then, when some one is wounded or has
a narrow escape. Many are injured generally on both sides, and some severely so; but it rarely
happens that more than one or two are killed, though hundreds may have been engaged.

The fights are sometimes witnessed by men who are not concerned in them, by the women and the
children. The presence of the females may be supposed probably to inspire the belligerents
with courage and incite them to deeds of daring.

The most dangerous and fatal affrays in which the natives engage are those which occur suddenly
amongst tribes who have been encamped near one another on amicable terms, and between whom
some cause of difference has arisen, probably in relation to their females, or some recent
death, which it is imagined the sorcerers have been instrumental in producing. In the former
case a kind of melee sometimes takes place at night, when fire-brands are thrown about, spears
launched, and bwirris [Note 62 at end of para.] bran-dished in indescribable confusion. In
the latter case the affray usually occurs immediately after the body is buried, and is more
of a hand-to-hand fight, in which bwirris are used rather than spears, and in which tremendous
blows are struck and frightful wounds inflicted.

[Note 62: A short, heavy, wooden stick, with a knob at one end.]

In wars males are always obliged to join their relatives by blood and their own tribe. Women
frequently excite the men to engage in these affrays to revenge injuries or deaths, and sometimes
they assist themselves by carrying spears or other weapons for their husbands. I am not aware
that women or children are ever butchered after a battle is over, and I believe such is never
the case. Single camps are sometimes treacherously surprised when the parties are asleep, and
the males barbarously killed in cold blood. This generally takes place just before the morning
dawns, when the native is most drowsy, and least likely to give his attention to any thing
he might hear. In these cases the attack is generally made under the belief that the individual
is a desperate sorcerer, and has worked innumerable mischiefs to their tribe. In their attacks
upon European parties I believe the natives generally advance in a line or crescent, beating
their weapons together, throwing dust in the air, spitting, biting their beards, or using some
other similar act of defiance and hostility. I have never witnessed any such collision myself,
but am told that the attack is always accompanied by that peculiar savage sound produced by
the suppressed guttural shout of many voices in unison, which they use in conflicts amongst
themselves, and which is continued to the moment of collision, and renewed in triumph whenever
a weapon strikes an opponent.

When hostilely disposed from either fear or from having been previously ill-treated, I have
seen the natives, without actually proceeding to extremities, resort to all the symptoms of
defiance I have mentioned, or at other times, run about with fire-brands in their hands, lighting
the bushes and the grass, either as a charm, or in the hope of burning out the intruders. When
much alarmed and rather closely pressed, they have run up the trees like monkeys, and concealed
themselves among the boughs, evidently thinking they were secure from pursuit there.

If tribes meet simply for the purpose of festivity, and have no deaths to avenge on either
side, although they appear in warlike attitude, painted and bearing spear and shield, yet when
they approach each other, they all become seated upon the ground. After which, the strangers,
should there be any, undergo a formal introduction, and have their country and lineage described
by the older men. At these meetings all occurrences of interest are narrated, information is
given as to the localities in which food is most abundant, and invitations are issued by the
proprietors of these districts, to their relations and friends to accompany them thither.

The position of one tribe towards another, whether on friendly terms or otherwise, is talked
about, and consultations are held on the existing state of affairs, whether hostilities shall
be continued or withdrawn, and future plans of operation are marked out.

Whilst the men are occupied in discussing these matters, the females engage in a narration
of family occurrences, such as births of children, marriages, deaths, etc., not omitting a
sprinkling of gossip and scandal, from which, even these ebon sisters of a fairer race, are
not altogether exempt.

In the evening, the huts of the different tribes are built as near to each other as practicable,
each tribe locating itself in the direction from whence it came. The size and character of
the huts, with the number of their occupants, vary according to the state of the weather, and
the local circumstances of their position. In fine weather, one hut will contain from two to
five families, in wet weather more, each family however having a separate fire.

The amusements of the natives are various, but they generally have a reference to their future
occupations or pursuits. Boys who are very young, have small reed spears made for them by their
parents, the ends of which are padded with grass, to prevent them from hurting each other.
They then stand at a little distance, and engage in a mimic fight; and by this means acquire
early that skill in the use of this weapon, for which, in after life, they are so much celebrated.
At other times round pieces of bark are rolled along the ground, to represent an animal in
the act of running, at which the spears are thrown for the sake of practice.

Another favourite amusement among the children, is to practise the dances and songs of the
adults, and a boy is very proud if he attains sufficient skill in these, to be allowed to take
part in the exhibitions that are made before other tribes.

String puzzles are another species of amusement with them. In these a European would be surprised
to see the ingenuity they display, and the varied and singular figures which they produce.
Our juvenile attempts in this way, are very meagre and uninteresting compared to them. [Note
63: An amusement of the New Zealand children.--Dieffenbach, vol. 2. p. 32.]

Other gratifications enjoyed by children, consist in learning the occupations and pursuits
of after life, as to make twine, and weapons; to ascend trees; to procure food; to guide the
canoe, and many other things, which enter into the pursuits of a savage.

The elder boys engage more extensively in similar occupations, as they are more particularly
interested in them, and by their exertions have to provide chiefly for their own support. Mock
combats frequently take place amongst them, in which they are encouraged by the adults, that
they may acquire the dexterities of warfare, in which they are soon to be more seriously engaged.
[Note 64: For an account of a similar practise among the American Indians, vide Catlin, vol.
1. p. 131.]

An amusement of the adults, is a large bunch of emu feathers tied together, (fig. 1. Pl. 1.)
which is held out and shaken as if in defiance, by some individual, whilst the others advance
to try to take it out of his hands. This occasions an amusing struggle before the prize is
gained, in which it is not uncommon to see from ten to twenty strong and lusty men rolling
in a heap together. This is a sort of athletic exercise amongst them, for the purpose of testing
each other's strength. On such an occasion they are all unarmed and naked.

At nights, dances or plays are performed by the different tribes in turn, the figures and scenes
of which are extensively varied, but all are accompanied by songs, and a rude kind of music
produced by beating two sticks together, or by the action of the hand upon a cloak of skins
rolled tightly together, so as to imitate the sound of a drum. In some of the dances only are
the women allowed to take a part; but they have dances of their own, in which the men do not
join. At all times they are the chief musicians, vocal and instrumental. Sometimes, however,
they have an old man to lead the band and pitch the tunes; and at others they are assisted
by the old and young men indiscriminately.

The natives have not any war-dance, properly so called, though sometimes they are decorated
in all the pomp and circumstance of war. Being excellent mimies, they imitate in many of their
dances the habits and movements of animals. They also represent the mode of hunting, fighting,
love-making, etc. New figures and new songs are constantly introduced, and are as much applauded
and encored, as more refined productions of a similar kind in civilized communities; being
sometimes passed from tribe to tribe for a considerable distance. I have often seen dances
performed to songs with which I was acquainted, and which I knew to belong to distant parts
of the country where a different dialect was spoken, and which consequently could not be understood
where I heard them. Many of the natives cannot even give an interpretation of the songs of
their own districts [Note 65 at end of para.], and most of the explanations they do give are,
I am inclined to think, generally very imperfect, as the measures or quantities of the syllables
appear to be more attended to than the sense.

[Note 65: "Not one in ten of the young men who are dancing and singing it, know the meaning
of the song they are chaunting over."--Catlin, vol. 1. p. 126. Also the case in New Zealand,
with respect to some of the songs.--Vide Dieffenbach, vol. 2. p. 57.]

Of these amusements the natives are passionately fond; and when once they have so far overcome
their naturally indolent disposition as to be induced to engage in them there is no knowing
when they will give over. Dances are sometimes held during the day, but these are of rare occurrence,
and seem to be in some way connected with their ceremonial observances or superstitions, since
rude figures, and lofty branches of trees, decorated with tufts of feathers, emu plumes, swan's
down and red ochre, occupy a prominent part in the exhibition, although never met with in the
dances by night.

The dances vary a great deal among the different tribes, both as to figures and music; the
painting or decoration of their persons, their use of weapons, and the participation of the
females in them. Throughout the entire continent, as far as it is known, there are many points
of resemblance in the dances of all the Aborigines, such as the practice of painting the body
with white and red ochre, carrying boughs in their hands, or tying them round their limbs;
adorning the head with feathers or down, bearing bunches of feathers, tied in tufts in their
hands, the women singing and beating time upon folded skins, the men beating time upon sticks
or some of their smaller weapons, an old man acting as leader of the band, and giving the time
and tune to the others; the dances representing the actions of animals, the circumstances of
the chase, of war, or of love; and the singular and extraordinary quivering motion of the thighs
when the legs are distended, a peculiarity probably confined to the natives of the continent
of Australia.

The most interesting dances are those which take place at the meeting of different tribes.
Each tribe performs in turn, and as there is much rivalry, there is a corresponding stimulus
to exertion. The dances usually commence an hour or two after dark, and are frequently kept
up the greater part of the night, the performers becoming so much excited that, notwithstanding
the violent exercise required to sustain all their evolutions, they are unwilling to leave
off. It is sometimes difficult to induce them to commence a dance; but if they once begin,
and enter into the spirit of it, it is still more difficult to induce them to break up.

The females of the tribe exhibiting, generally sit down in front of the performers, either
irregularly, in a line, or a semicircle, folding up their skin cloaks into a hard ball, and
then beating them upon their laps with the palm of their hand, and accompanying the noise thus
produced with their voices. It is surprising to see the perfect time that is kept in this way,
and the admirable manner in which the motions of the dancers accord with the music. There is
no confusion, irregularity, or mistake. Each person is conversant with his part; and all exhibit
a degree of elasticity and gracefulness in their movements which, in some of the dances, is
very striking and beautiful.

In many of the figures, weapons are carried, such as the waddy, the shield, the spear, etc.
and in these it is amazing to behold the facility and skill with which they form in close array,
spread into open rank, change places, and thread through the mazes of the dance, without ever
deranging their plans, or coming in contact with each other.

The tribes who are not engaged in dancing, are seated in a large semicircle as spectators,
occasionally giving a rapturous exclamation of delight, as any part of the performance is well
gone through or any remarkable feat of activity exhibited. Where natives have not much acquaintance
with Europeans, so as to give up, in some measure, their original habits, if there is any degree
of jealousy between the respective tribes, they are sometimes partitioned off from each other
by boughs of trees, whilst they look at the dance. On one occasion I saw five tribes met together,
and the evening was of course spent in dancing. Each tribe danced in turn, about forty being
engaged at once, besides sixteen females, eight of whom were at each corner of the male performers.
The men were naked, painted in various devices with red and white, and had their heads adorned
with feathers. The women wore their opossum cloaks, and had bands of white down round their
foreheads, with the long feathers of the cockatoo sticking up in front like horns. In the dance
the men and women did not intermingle; but the two sets of women who were dancing at the corners
of the line, occasionally changed places with each other, passing in this transit, at the back
of the men. All sung, and the men beat time upon their smaller weapons whilst dancing, the
whole making up a wild and piercing noise, most deafening and ungrateful to the ears.

The natives of the Rufus and Lake Victoria (Tar-ru) have a great variety of dances and figures.
One of these, which I witnessed, representing the character, habits, and chase of the kangaroo
was admirably performed, and would have drawn down thunders of applause at any theatre in Europe.
One part of this figure, where the whole of the dancers successively drop down from a standing
to a crouching posture, and then hop off in this position with outstretched arms and legs,
was excellently executed. The contrast of their sable skins with the broad white stripes painted
down their legs; their peculiar attitudes, and the order and regularity with which these were
kept, as they moved in a large semicircle, in the softening light of the fire, produced a striking
effect; and in connection with the wild and inspiriting song, which gave an impulse to their
gesticulation, led me almost to believe that the scene was unearthly.

In some of the dances the music varies rapidly from slow to quick, and the movements alter
accordingly. In some they are altogether measured and monotonous, in others very lively and
quick, keeping the performers almost constantly at a double quick march, moving in advance
and retreat, crossing past or threading through the ranks, and using a kind of motion with
the feet in unison with the music, that bears a strong resemblance to the European mode of
dancing. At particular points the figures terminate by some simultaneous motion of the whole
performers, accompanied by a deep, gutteral "Waugh," [Note 66 at end of para.] uttered by all
together; at others by the actors closing in a dense circle, and raising and pointing their
weapons upwards with the same exclamation.

[Note 66: This very peculiar sound appears to be common among the American Indians, and to
be used in a similar manner.--Vide Catlin, vol. 2. p.136.]

The "Paritke," or natives inhabiting the scrub north-west of Moorunde, have quite a different
form of dancing from the river natives. They are painted or decorated with feathers in a similar
way; but each dancer ties bunches of green boughs round the leg, above the knees, whilst the
mode of dancing consists in stamping with the foot and uttering at each motion a deep ventral
intonation, the boughs round the knees making a loud rustling noise in keeping with the time
of the music. One person, who directs the others in the movements of this dance, holds in his
hands an instrument in the form of a diamond, made of two slight sticks, from two and a half
to three feet long, crossed and tied in the middle, round this a string, made of the hair of
the opposum, is pressed from corner to corner, and continued successively towards the centre
until there is only room left for the hand to hold the instrument. At each corner is appended
a bunch of cockatoo feathers. With this the chief performer keeps a little in advance of the
dancers, and whisking it up and down to the time of the music, regulates their movements.

In another dance, in which women are the chief performers, their bodies are painted with white
streaks, and their hair adorned with cockatoo feathers. They carry large sticks in their hands,
and place themselves in a row in front, whilst the men with their spears stand in a line behind
them. They then all commence their movements, but without intermingling, the males and females
dancing by themselves. There is little variety or life in this dance, yet it seems to be a
favourite one with the natives.

The women have occasionally another mode of dancing, by joining the hands together over the
head, closing the feet, and bringing the knees into contact. The legs are then thrown outwards
from the knee, whilst the feet and hands are kept in their original position, and being drawn
quickly in again a sharp sound is produced by the collision. This is either practised alone
by young girls, or by several together for their own amusement. It is adopted also when a single
woman is placed in front of a row of male dancers to excite their passions; for many of the
native dances are of a grossly licentious character. In another figure they keep the feet close
together, without lifting them from the ground, and by a peculiar motion of the limbs advance
onwards, describing a short semicircle. This amusement is almost exclusively confined to young
females among themselves.

It has already been remarked, that the natives, on particular occasions, have dances which
they perform in the day-time, which are different from others, and seem to have some connection
with their ceremonial observances or superstitions. I have only witnessed one of these. It
took place at Moorunde, in March 1844, on the occasion of a large number of distant natives
coming to visit the place; and the visitors were the performers. The Moorunde natives were
seated upon the brow of a sand-bank; the strangers, consisting of two tribes, down in a hollow
a little way off, among a few bushes. When ready, they advanced in a line towards the others,
dancing and singing, being painted and decorated as usual, some having tufts of feathers placed
upon their heads like cockades and others carrying them in their hands tied to short sticks.
Nearly all the males carried bunches of green boughs, which they waved and shook to the time
of the song. The women were also painted, and danced in a line with the men, those of each
tribe stationing themselves at opposite ends of the line. Dancing for a while, they retired
again towards the hollow, and after a short interval advanced as before, but with a person
in the centre carrying a curious, rude-looking figure, raised up in the air. This singular
object consisted of a large bundle of grass and reeds bound together, enveloped in a kangaroo
skin, with the flesh side outwards, and painted all over in small white circles. From the top
of this projected a thin stick, with a large tuft of feathers at the end to represent the head,
and sticks were stuck out laterally from the sides for the arms, terminating in tufts of feathers
stained red to represent the hands. From the front, a small stick about six inches long was
projected, ending with a thick knob, formed of grass, around which a piece of old cloth was
tied. This was painted white and represented the navel. The figure was about eight feet long,
and was evidently intended to symbolise a man. It was kept in its elevated position by the
person who carried it, and who advanced and retired with the movements of the dancers. The
position of the latter was alternately erect and crouching, whilst they sang and beat time
with the green boughs. Sometimes they stretched out their right arms simultaneously, and at
other times their left, apparently for the purpose of marking the time at particular parts
of the song. After dancing for a while in this way, they again retired to the hollow, and for
a few moments there was another pause; after which they again advanced as before, but without
the image. In the place of this two standards were exhibited, made of poles, about twelve feet
long, and borne by two persons. These were perfectly straight, and for the first eight feet
free from boughs; above this nine branches were left upon each pole, having at their ends each
a bunch of feathers of the hawk or owl. On the top of one of the standards was a bunch of emu
feathers. The branches were stripped of all their smaller twigs and leaves, and of their bark.
They were painted white, and wound round with the white down of the black swan, twisted into
a rope. This also extended for a considerable distance down the pole, below the undermost branch.

Having again retired towards the hollow, they remained there for a few minutes, and then advanced
for the third time. On this occasion, however, instead of the image or standards, they all
carried their spears. After dancing with these for some time, they went forward towards the
Moorunde natives, who sprang upon their feet, and seizing their weapons, speared two or three
of the strangers in the shoulder, and all was over. I was anxious to have got hold of the rude
figure to have a drawing made of it, but it had been instantly destroyed. The standards I procured.

This dance took place between nine and ten in the morning, and was quite unlike any thing I
had seen before. A stranger might have supposed it to be a religious ceremony, and the image
the object of worship. Such, however, I am convinced was not the case, although I believe it
to have had some connection with their superstitions, and that it was regarded in the light
of a charm.

Before the country was occupied by Europeans, the natives say that this dance was frequently
celebrated, but that latterly it has not been much in use. No other instance of it ever came
under my own observation in any part of New Holland.

The songs of the natives are of a very rude and unmeaning character, rarely consisting of more
than one or two ideas, which are continually repeated over and over again. They are chiefly
made on the spur of the moment, and refer to something that has struck the attention at the
time. The measure of the song varies according to circumstances. It is gay and lively, for
the dance; slow and solemn for the enchanter; and wild and pathetic for the mourner. The music
is sometimes not unharmonious; and when heard in the stillness of the night and mellowed by
distance, is often soothing and pleasing. I have frequently laid awake, after retiring to rest,
to listen to it. Europeans, their property, presence, and habits, are frequently the subject
of these songs; and as the natives possess great powers of mimicry, and are acute in the observation
of anything that appears to them absurd or ludicrous, the white man often becomes the object
of their jests or quizzing. I have heard songs of this kind sung at the dances in a kind of
comic medley, where different speakers take up parts during the breaks in the song, and where
a sentence or two of English is aptly introduced, or a quotation made from some native dialect,
other than that of the performers. It is usually conducted in the form of question and answer,
and the respective speakers use the language of the persons they are supposed to represent.
The chorus is, however, still the same repetition of one or two words.

The following specimens, taken from a vocabulary published by Messrs. Teichelmann, and Schurmann,
German Missionaries to the Aborigines, will give an idea of the nature of the songs of the
Adelaide tribe.

KADLITPIKO PALTI. Pindi mai birkibirki parrato, parrato. (DE CAPO BIS.)

CAPTAIN JACK'S SONG. The European food, the pease, I wished to eat, I wished to eat.

MULLAWIRRABURKARNA PALTI. Natta ngai padlo ngaityarniappi; watteyernaurlo tappandi ngaityo
parni tatti. (DA CAPO.)

KING JOHN'S SONG. Now it (viz. the road or track) has tired me; throughout Yerna there is here
unto me a continuous road.

WILTONGARROLO kundando Strike (him, viz. the dog) with the tuft of eagle feathers.

Kadlottikurrelo paltando Strike (him) with the girdle

Mangakurrelo paltando Strike (him) with the string round the head

Worrikarrolo paltando Strike (him) with the blood of circumcision

Turtikarrolo paltando Strike (him) with the blood of the arm, etc. etc.

Kartipaltapaltarlo padlara kundando

Wodliparrele kadlondo

Kanyamirarlo kadlondo

Karkopurrelo kadlondo

"This curse or imprecation is used in hunting a wild dog, which, by the mysterious effects
of those words, is induced to lie down securely to sleep, when the natives steal upon and easily
kill him. The first word in each line denotes things sacred or secret, which the females and
children are never allowed to see.

* * *

KAWEMUKKA minnurappindo Durtikarro minnurappindo Tarralye minnurappindo  Wimmari minnurappindi
Kirki minurappindo      Wattetarpirri minnurappindo Worrikarro minurappindo

"These sentences are used in hunting opossums, to prevent their escape, when the natives set
fire to hollow trees in which the opossums are living.

* * *

KARRO karro wimmari     Karra yernka makkitia Karro karro kauwemukka  Makkitia mulyeria Karro
karro makkitia

"These words are rapidly repeated to the NGULTAS, while undergoing the painful operation of
tattooing; they are believed to be so powerful as to soothe the pain, and prevent fatal consequences
of that barbarous operation."

Another specimen may be given from the Vocabulary published by Mr. Meyer, another of the German
Missionaries at Encounter Bay.

"Miny-el-ity yarluke an-ambe what is it road me for Aly-..el-..arr' yerk-in yangaiak-ar! here
are they standing up hill . . .

What a fine road is this for me winding between the hills!

"The above words compose one of the native songs. It refers to the road between Encounter Bay
and Willunga. All their songs appear to be of the same description, consisting of a few words
which are continually repeated. This specimen, it will be observed, consists of two regular verses:

-u|--|u-|u-u -u|--|u-|u-u

"This may, however, be accidental."

I have not thought it worth while to give any specimens of the songs I have collected myself,
because I could not be quite certain that I should give the original words with strict accuracy,
neither could I be satisfied about the translations.

The assemblage of several tribes at one place for any of the objects I have described, rarely
continues uninterrupted for any great length of time, for even where it has taken place for
the most pacific purposes, it seldom terminates as it began; and the greater the number of
natives present, the less likelihood is there that they will remain very long in a state of
quiescence.

If not soon compelled to separate by the scarcity of food, or a desire to follow some favourite
pursuit, for which the season of the year is favourable, they are generally driven to it by
discord and disagreements amongst themselves, which their habits and superstitions are calculated
to foment.

Chapter III.

FOOD--HOW PROCURED--HOW PREPARED--LIMITATION AS TO AGE, ETC., ETC.

The food of the Aborigines of Australia embraces an endless variety of articles, derived both
from the animal and vegetable kingdom. The different kinds in use depend in a great measure
upon the season of the year and local circumstances. Every district has in it something peculiar
to itself. The soil and climate of the continent vary greatly in their character and afford
a corresponding variety of productions to the Aborigines. As far as it is yet known there are
no localities on its coast, no recesses in its interior, however sterile and inhospitable they
may appear to the traveller, that do not hold out some inducements to the bordering savage
to visit them, or at proper seasons of the year provide him with the means of sustenance. Captain
Grey remarks, in volume 2, of his travels, page 261--

"Generally speaking, the natives live well; in some districts there may at particular seasons
of the year be a deficiency of food, but if such is the case, these tracts are, at those times,
deserted. It is, however, utterly impossible for a traveller or even for a strange native to
judge whether a district affords an abundance of food, or the contrary; for in traversing extensive
parts of Australia, I have found the sorts of food vary from latitude to latitude, so that
the vegetable productions used by the Aborigines in one are totally different to those in another;
if, therefore, a stranger has no one to point out to him the vegetable productions, the soil
beneath his feet may teem with food, whilst he starves. The same rule holds good with regard
to animal productions; for example, in the southern parts of the continent the Xanthorrea affords
an inexhaustible supply of fragrant grubs, which an epicure would delight in, when once he
has so far conquered his prejudices as to taste them; whilst in proceeding to the northward,
these trees decline in health and growth, until about the parallel of Gantheaume Bay they totally
disappear, and even a native finds himself cut off from his ordinary supplies of insects; the
same circumstances taking place with regard to the roots and other kinds of food at the same
time, the traveller necessarily finds himself reduced to cruel extremities. A native from the
plains, taken into an elevated mountainous district near his own country, for the first time,
is equally at fault.

"But in his own district a native is very differently situated; he knows exactly what it produces,
the proper time at which the several articles are in season, and the readiest means of procuring
them. According to these circumstances he regulates his visits to the different portions of
his hunting ground; and I can only state that I have always found the greatest abundance in
their huts."

It is evident therefore that a European or even a stranger native would perish in a district
capable of supplying the necessaries of life, simply because he had not the experience necessary
to direct him where to search for food, or judgment to inform him what article might be in
season at the particular time of his visit. It is equally the same with respect to procuring
water. The native inhabiting a scrubby and an arid district has, from his knowledge of the
country and from a long residence and practical experience in the desert, many resources at
command to supply his wants, where the white man would faint or perish from thirst.

The very densest brushes, which to the latter are so formidable and forbidding, hold out to
the former advantages and inducements to resort to them of more than ordinary temptation. Abounding
in wild animals of various kinds, they offer to the natives who frequent them an unlimited
supply of food: a facility for obtaining firewood, a grateful shade from the heat, an effectual
screen from the cold, and it has already been shewn that they afford the means of satisfying
their thirst by a process but little known, and which from a difference in habits and temperament
would be but little available to the European.[Note 67 at end of para.] In judging, therefore,
of the character of any country, from the mere fact of natives being seen there, or even of
their being numerous, we must take all these circumstances into consideration; and, in estimating
the facility with which a native can remain for a long time in a country, apparently arid and
inhospitable, we must not omit to take into account his education and experience, and the general
nature of his habits. The two former have accustomed him from infancy to feel at home and at
ease, where a European sees only dread and danger: he has thus the advantage over the European
in the desert, that a swimmer has in the water over the man who cannot swim; conscious of his
own powers and resources, he feels not the least apprehension, whilst the very terrors of the
other but augment his danger. On the other hand, the general habits, mode of life, and almost
temperament of the savage, give him an equally great advantage. Indolent by disposition and
indulgence, he makes very short stages in his ordinary travels, rarely moving more than from
eight to twelve miles in the day, and this he does so leisurely and quietly, that he neither
becomes excited nor heated, and consequently does not experience that excessive thirst, which
is produced by the active exertions or violent exercise of the European, and which in the latter
is at the same time so greatly augmented, by his want of confidence and anxiety.

[Note 67: Vide vol. I. p.349 (March 26.)]

Another very great advantage on the part of the natives is, the intimate knowledge they have
of every nook and corner of the country they inhabit; does a shower of rain fall, they know
the very rock where a little water is most likely to be collected, the very hole where it is
the longest retained, and by repairing straight to the place they fill their skins, and thus
obtain a supply that lasts them many days. Are there heavy dews at night, they know where the
longest grass grows, from which they may collect the spangles, and water is sometimes procured
thus in very great abundance. [Note 68 at end of para.] Should there be neither rains nor dews,
their experience at once points out to them the lowest levels where the gumscrub grows, and
where they are sure of getting water from its roots, with the least possible amount of labour
that the method admits of, and with the surest prospect of success.

[Note 69: Vide vol. I. p.349 (March 27.)]

[Note 68: Vide vol. I. p.361 (March 30.)]

Another very important circumstance in favour of the native, and one which results in a measure
from some of the above-mentioned considerations, is the fact, that the native sets to work
to procure his supply calmly and collectedly, and before he requires it; whilst the European,
even if acquainted with the method of obtaining it, would not resort to it until the last extremity,
when the body was fatigued and heated by previous exertion, the mouth dry and parched by thirst,
and the mind excited and anxious from apprehension. The natural consequence of such a very
different combination of circumstances would be, that the native would obtain an abundant and
satisfying supply, whilst the European would never be able to procure a sufficiency to appease
his thirst, but would rather fatigue and exhaust his strength the more, from his want of skill
and experience, and from his body and mind being both in an unfit state for this particular
kind of exertion. Such at least, on many various occasions, I have found to be the case both
with myself, and with natives with me who have not been accustomed to the scrub, or to this
method of procuring water. The difficulty and labour of finding and digging out the roots,
our want of skill in selecting proper ones, the great dust arising from the loose, powdery
soil in which they were, and our own previously excited and exhausted state, have invariably
prevented us from deriving the full advantage we expected from our efforts.

In cases of extreme thirst, where the throat is dry and parched, or life at all in danger,
the toil of digging for the roots would be well repaid by the relief afforded. I have myself,
in such cases, found that though I could by no means satiate my thirst, I could always succeed
in keeping my mouth cool and moist, and so far in rendering myself equal to exertions I could
not otherwise have made. Indeed, I hold it impossible that a person, acquainted with this means
of procuring water, and in a district where the gum-scrub grew, could ever perish from thirst
in any moderate lapse of time, if he had with him food to eat, and was not physically incapable
of exertion. Under such circumstances, the moisture he would be able to procure from the roots,
would, I think, be quite sufficient to enable him to eat his food, and to sustain his strength
for a considerable time, under such short stages as would gradually conduct him free from his
embarrassments.

In addition to the value of the gum-scrub to the native, as a source from whence to obtain
his supply of water, it is equally important to him as affording an article of food, when his
other resources have failed. To procure this, the lateral roots are still made use of, but
the smaller ones generally are selected, such as vary in diameter from an inch downwards. The
roots being dug up, the bark is peeled off and roasted crisp in hot ashes; it is then pounded
between two stones, and has a pleasant farinaceous taste, strongly resembling that of malt.
I have often seen the natives eating this, and have frequently eaten it myself in small quantities.
How far it alone would support life, or sustain a man in strength, I have of course no means
of forming an opinion; but it is, probably, only resorted to when other food is scarce. Several
of the roots of other shrubs are also used for food, and some of them are mucilaginous and
very palatable.

Throughout the greater portion of New Holland, where there do not happen to be European settlers,
and invariably where fresh water can be permanently procured upon the surface, the native experiences
no difficulty whatever in procuring food in abundance all the year round. It is true that the
character of his diet varies with the changing seasons, and the formation of the country he
inhabits; but it rarely happens that any season of the year, or any description of country
does not yield him both animal and vegetable food. Amongst the almost unlimited catalogue of
edible articles used by the natives of Australia, the following may be classed as the chief:--all
salt and fresh-water fish and shell-fish, of which, in the larger rivers, there are vast numbers
and many species; freshwater turtle; frogs of different kinds; rats and mice; lizards, and
most kinds of snakes and reptiles; grubs of all kinds; moths of several varieties; fungi, and
many sorts of roots; the leaves and tops of a variety of plants; the leaf and fruit of the
mesembryanthemum; various kinds of fruits and berries; the bark from the roots of many trees
and shrubs; the seeds of leguminous plants; gum from several species of acacia; different sorts
of manna; honey from the native bee, and also from the flowers of the Banksia, by soaking them
in water; the tender leaves of the grass-tree; the larvae of insects; white ants; eggs of birds;
turtles or lizards; many kinds of kangaroo; opossums; squirrels, sloths, and wallabies; ducks;
geese; teal; cockatoos; parrots; wild dogs and wombats; the native companion; the wild turkey;
the swan; the pelican; the leipoa, and an endless variety of water-fowl, and other descriptions
of birds.

Of these articles, many are not only procurable in abundance, but in such vast quantities at
the proper seasons, as to afford for a considerable length of time an ample means of subsistence
to many hundreds of natives congregated in one place; and these are generally the kinds of
food of which the natives are particularly fond. On many parts of the coast, and in the larger
inland rivers, fish are obtained of a very fine description, and in great abundance. At Lake
Victoria, which is filled with the back waters of the Murray, I have seen six hundred natives
encamped together, all of whom were living at the time upon fish procured from the lake, with
the addition, perhaps, of the leaves of the mesembryanthemum. When I went amongst them I never
perceived any scarcity in their camps. The fish were caught in nets.

At Moorunde, when the Murray annually inundates the flats, fresh-water cray-fish make their
way to the surface of the ground from holes where they have been buried during the year, in
such vast numbers that I have seen four hundred natives live upon them for weeks together,
whilst the numbers spoiled or thrown away would have sustained four hundred more. This fish
is an excellent and nutritious article of food, and would be highly prized by the epicure.
It is caught by the women who wade into the water in a long close line, stooping down and walking
backwards, whilst they grope with their hands and feet, presenting a singular, and to the uninitiated,
an incomprehensible spectacle, as they thus move slowly backwards, but keep the line regular
and well preserved, as all generally occupy the same position at one time. When a cray-fish
is caught the large claws are torn off to prevent the animal from biting, and both claws and
body are put into a small net suspended from the neck for that purpose. In two or three hours
a woman will procure as many fish as will last her family for a day. The men are too lazy to
do anything when food is so abundant, and lie basking under the trees in luxurious indolence,
whilst their wives, mothers, or sisters are engaged in cooking for them.

An unlimited supply of fish is also procurable at the Murray about the beginning of December,
when the floods, having attained their greatest height, begin again to recede; and when the
waters, which had been thrown by the back water channels of the river into the flats behind
its banks, begin again to reflow through them into the river as it falls in height. At this
time the natives repair to these channels, and making a weir across them with stakes and grass
interwoven, leave only one or two small openings for the stream to pass through. To these they
attach bag nets, which receive all the fish that attempt to re-enter the river. The number
procured in this way in a few hours is incredible. Large bodies of natives depend upon these
weirs for their sole subsistence, for some time after the waters have commenced to recede.

Another very favourite article of food, and equally abundant at a particular season of the
year, in the eastern portion of the continent, is a species of moth which the natives procure
from the cavities and hollows of the mountains in certain localities. This, when roasted, has
something of the appearance and flavour of an almond badly peeled. It is called in the dialect
of the district, where I met with it, Booguon. The natives are never so well conditioned in
that part of the country, as at the season of the year when they return from feasting upon
this moth; and their dogs partake equally of the general improvement.

The tops, leaves, and stalks of a kind of cress, gathered at the proper season of the year,
tied up in bunches, and afterwards steamed in an oven, furnish a favourite, and inexhaustible
supply of food for an unlimited number of natives. When prepared, this food has a savoury and
an agreeable smell, and in taste is not unlike a boiled cabbage. In some of its varieties it
is in season for a great length of time, and is procured in the flats of rivers, on the borders
of lagoons, at the Murray, and in many other parts of New Holland.

There are many other articles of food among the natives, equally abundant and valuable as those
I have enumerated: such as various kinds of berries, or fruits, the bulbous roots of a reed
called the belillah, certain kinds of fungi dug out of the ground, fresh-water muscles, and
roots of several kinds, etc. Indeed, were I to go through the list of articles seriatim, and
enter upon the varieties and subdivisions of each class, with the seasons of the year at which
they were procurable, it would at once be apparent that the natives of Australia, in their
natural state, are not subject to much inconvenience for want of the necessaries of life. In
almost every part of the continent which I have visited, where the presence of Europeans, or
their stock, has not limited, or destroyed their original means of subsistence, I have found
that the natives could usually, in three or four hours, procure as much food as would last
for the day, and that without fatigue or labour. They are not provident in their provision
for the future, but a sufficiency of food is commonly laid by at the camp for the morning meal.
In travelling, they sometimes husband, with great care and abstinence, the stock they have
prepared for the journey; and though both fatigued and hungry, they will eat sparingly, and
share their morsel with their friends, without encroaching too much upon their store, until
some reasonable prospect appears of getting it replenished.

In wet weather the natives suffer the most, as they are then indisposed to leave their camps
to look for food, and experience the inconveniences both of cold and hunger. If food, at all
tainted, is offered to a native by Europeans, it is generally rejected with disgust. In their
natural state, however, they frequently eat either fish or animals almost in a state of putridity.

Cannibalism is not common, though there is reason to believe, that it is occasionally practised
by some tribes, but under what circumstances it is difficult to say. Native sorcerers are said
to acquire their magic influence by eating human flesh, but this is only done once in a life-time.

[Note 70: The only authentic and detailed account of any instance of cannibalism, that I am
acquainted with, is found in Parliamentary Papers on Australian Aborigines, published August,
1844, in a report of Mr. Protector Sievewright, from Lake Tarong, in one of the Port Phillip
districts.

"On going out I found the whole of the men of the different tribes (amounting to upwards of
100) engaged hand to hand in one general melee.

"On being directed by some of the women, who had likewise sought shelter near my tent, to the
huts of the Bolaghers, I there found a young woman, supported in the arms of some of her tribe,
quite insensible, and bleeding from two severe wounds upon the right side of the face; she
continued in the same state of insensibility till about 11 o'clock, when she expired.

"After fighting for nearly an hour, the men of the Bolagher tribe returned to their huts, when
finding that every means I had used to restore the young woman was in vain, they gave vent
to the most frantic expressions of grief and rage, and were employed till daylight in preparing
themselves and weapons to renew the combat.

"Shortly before sunrise they again rushed towards the Targurt and Elengermite tribes, who,
with about a dozen of Wamambool natives, were encamped together, when a most severe struggle
took place between them, and very few escaped on either side without serious fractures or dangerous
spear wounds. Although the Targurt tribe were supported by the Elengermite and Wamambool natives,
and were consequently much superior in number, they were, after two hours hard fighting, driven
off the ground and pursued for about four miles, to where their women and children had retired;
when one of the former, named Mootinewhannong, was selected, and fell, pierced by about 20
spears of the pursuers.

"The body of this female was shortly afterwards burned to ashes by her own people, and the
Bolagher natives returned to their encampment, apparently satisfied with the revenge they had
taken, and remained silently and sullenly watching the almost inanimate body of the wounded female.

"When death took place, they again expressed the most violent and extravagant grief; they threw
themselves upon the ground, weeping and screaming at the height of their voices, lacerating
their bodies and inflicting upon themselves wounds upon their heads, from blows which they
gave themselves with the leangville. About an hour after the death of the young woman, the
body was removed a few hundred yards into the bush by the father and brother of the deceased;
the remainder of the tribe following by one at a time, until they had all joined what I imagined
to be the usual funeral party. Having accompanied the body when it was removed, I was then
requested to return to my tent, which request I took no notice of. In a few minutes I was again
desired, rather sternly, and by impatient signs to go. I endeavoured to make them understand
that I wished to remain, and I sat down upon a tree close to where the body lay. The father
of the deceased then came close up to me, and pointed with his finger to his mouth, and then
to the dead body. I was at this moment closely and intensely scrutinized by the whole party.
I at once guessed their meaning, and signified my intention to remain, and, with as much indifference
as I could assume, stretched myself upon the tree, and narrowly watched their proceedings.

"With a flint they made an incision upon the breast, when a simultaneous shriek was given by
the party, and the same violent signs of grief were again evinced. After a short time the operation
was again commenced, and in a few minutes the body disembowelled.

"The scene which now took place was of the most revolting description; horror-stricken and
utterly disgusted, while obliged to preserve that equanimity of demeanour upon which I imagined
the development of this tragedy to depend, I witnessed the most fearful scene of ferocious
cannibalism.

"The bowels and entire viscera having been disengaged from the body, were at first portioned
out; but from the impatience of some of the women to get at the liver, a general scramble took
place for it, and it was snatched in pieces, and, without the slightest process of cooking,
was devoured with an eagerness and avidity, a keen, fiendish expression of impatience for more,
from which scene, a memory too tenacious upon this subject will not allow me to escape; the
kidneys and heart were in like manner immediately consumed, and as a climax to these revolting
orgies, when the whole viscera were removed, a quantity of blood and serum which had collected
in the cavity of the chest, was eagerly collected in handsful, and drunk by the old man who
had dissected the body; the flesh was entirely cut off the ribs and back, the arms and legs
were wrenched and twisted from the shoulder and hip joints, and their teeth employed to dissever
the reeking tendons, when they would not immediately yield to their impatience. The limbs were
now doubled up and put aside in their baskets; and on putting a portion of the flesh upon a
fire which had previously been lit, they seemed to remember that I was of the party; something
was said to one of the women, who cut off a foot from the leg she had in her possession, and
offered it to me; I thought it prudent to accept of it, and wrapping it in my handkerchief,
and pointing to my tent, they nodded assent, and I joyfully availed myself of their permission
to retire. They shortly afterwards returned to their huts with the debris of the feast, and
during the day, to the horror and annoyance of my two boys, and those belonging to the establishment,
they brought another part, and some half-picked bones, and offered them to us. The head was
struck off with a tomahawk and placed between hot stones in the hollow of a tree, where it
has undergone a process of baking, and it is still left there otherwise untouched."]

Many methods of obtaining the various articles of food, are resorted to by the natives, some
of these are very simple; some exceedingly ingenious; whilst others require great tact and
skill; and not a few exercise to their fullest extent those qualities, which they possess so
greatly, and prize so highly, such as quickness of sight, readiness of hand, caution in arranging
plans, judgment in directing them, patience in waiting for the result, endurance in pursuing,
and strength in holding fast.

Fish are procured in different ways. They are caught with weirs or dams, as already described;
and also with large seines made of string manufactured from the rush, and buoyed up with dry
reeds, bound into bundles, and weighted by stones tied to the bottom. This is used just in
the same way as the European seine, being either shot from a canoe, or set by swimming or wading,
according to the depth of the water. Great numbers of fish of various kinds, and often of a
large size, are caught in this way. Fresh water turtles, varying in weight from three to twelve
pounds, are also taken in the same way, and are excellent eating.

Another kind of net (ngail-le) used in fishing is made of slender twine, and has a large mesh.
It is long, but not more than from two to three feet deep. A string is passed through the loops
of the upper part, and is then stretched across a lagoon, or any other sheet of still water,
the upper part being nearly level with the surface of the water, and the lower part dangling
loose below, without weight. In setting it each extremity is fastened to a pole or spear, stuck
firmly in the mud to keep it in its place, whilst a third pole is occasionally put in the middle.
A few dry reeds are sometimes fastened at intervals to the line, running through the upper
part to prevent the net from sinking too low. When set, the native either remains by it to
take the fish out as they are caught, or leaves it there all night. The fish swimming about
the lagoon, or sporting near the surface, strike against the net, and get their heads fast
in the meshes. The net swinging loose, yields to their pressure, and entangles them the more
as they struggle to extricate themselves from it. This is a most destructive mode of catching
fish, and generally secures the finest and largest.

Fish are sometimes taken in another way. A party of natives proceed to a lagoon, or lake of
still water, each carrying in his hand a small net (ken-de-ran-ko) of a semi-oval shape, about
twenty inches long, from seven to nine inches across, and from five to seven inches deep. This
net is kept in shape by a thin hoop of wood running round it in the upper part. With this the
native dives to the bottom, and searches among the weeds until he sees a fish; he then cautiously
places the net under it, and, rising suddenly to the surface, holds his victim at arm's length
above his head; and then biting it to kill it, he throws it on the shore and dives down again
for another.

The natives are very skilful in this mode of fishing, and it is an interesting sight to see
several of them in the water diving together, and exerting themselves against each other in
their efforts to catch the best fish, whilst the affrighted inhabitants of the water swim wildly
and confusedly about, seeking shelter in the mud and weeds, only to become an easier prey.
I have even seen natives dive down in the river, without net or implement of any kind, and
bring up good-sized fish, which they had caught with their hands at the bottom.

Another method of diving with the net is conducted on a larger scale. The net itself is made
of strong twine, from six to eight feet long, oval at the top, about two feet across, and two
deep. It is looped to a wooden hoop or bow, with a strong string drawn tightly across the two
ends of the bow, and passed through the loops of the straight side of the net. With this two
natives dive together under the cliffs which confine the waters of the Murray, each holding
one end of the bow. They then place it before any hole or cavity there may be in the rocks
beneath the surface, with the size, shape, and position of which they have by previous experience
become well acquainted; the terrified fish is then driven into the net and secured. Fishes
varying from twenty to seventy pounds are caught in this way. It is only, however, at particular
seasons of the year, when the female fish are seeking for a place to deposit their spawn that
this mode of fishing can be adopted.

Other kinds of hoop-nets are used for catching fish in shallow waters, or for taking the shrimp,
and a small fish like the white-bait, but they need not be particularly described.

The next principal mode of procuring fish is by spearing them, and even this is performed in
a variety of ways, according to the season of the year, the description of fish to be taken,
and the peculiarities of the place where they are found. In the shallow waters upon the sea-coast
the native wades with his spear and throwing-stick, and follows the windings of the fish with
singular rapidity and skill, rarely missing his aim where he has an opportunity of striking.

In the larger rivers, when the waters are low and clear, a party of natives varying in numbers
from five to forty plunge in with their spears, which for the purpose are made of hard wood,
with smooth, sharp points, and about six feet long. Forming themselves into a large semicircle
in the water, they all dive down, simultaneously, with their weapons, accompanied sometimes
by a young man, a few yards in advance of the middle of the party, and without a spear. For
a considerable time they remain under water, and then, if successful, gradually emerge, and
deliver the fish that have been speared, to their friends on the shore. If unsuccessful they
swim a few yards further down, and dive again with their weapons. And thus they frequently
go on for a mile or two, until they are either tired or satisfied with their success. I have
known a party of thirty natives kill seven or eight fish in the course of an hour, none of
which were under fifteen pounds, whilst some of them were much larger.

The regularity with which they keep their relative positions, notwithstanding the current of
the river, and the dexterity and order with which they dive under the water, are truly surprising
to a person who witnesses them for the first time.

At the period of floods, and when they have nearly attained their height, and the young reeds
and rushes begin to shew themselves above the surface of the water, near the bank of rivers
or of lagoons formed by the floods in the alluvial flats behind, another method of spearing
fish is practised from a canoe (mun) made out of a solid sheet of the bark of the gum-tree
(eucalyptus).

To these reeds the fish are very fond of resorting, probably to feed upon the insects that
are found upon the tender leaves; in moving about from one place to another they strike against
the reeds, and produce a vibration in the tops above the water; this indicates to the native,
who is sailing stealthily along in his canoe, the exact place where they are passing, and suddenly
raising his arm with great energy he strikes forcibly among the reeds with his spear, without
letting it go out of his hand. If the first blow does not succeed, it is rapidly repeated,
and seldom fails in securing a prize. When a large fish is speared, it is pressed downwards
to the ground, and the native leaps out of his canoe and dives to the bottom to secure it.
The spear (moo-ar-roo) used in this method of fishing varies from ten to sixteen feet in length,
and is made of pine, pliant, and of nearly a uniform thickness; it is about an inch and a half
in diameter, and has two short pointed pieces of hard wood lashed to one end, projecting about
five or six inches, and set a little apart, so as to form a kind of prongs or grains. This
instrument is also used for propelling the canoe.

It is used too for spearing fish by night, which is by far the most interesting method of any.

Having previously prepared his canoe, straightened his spear, and hardened and sharpened the
points of the prongs, the native breaks up his fire-wood in small pieces, and loads his canoe
with a stock calculated to last the time he intends to be absent. An oval piece of bark, about
three feet long and two broad, is then coated over with wet mud and placed in the stern of
the canoe, on a framework of sticks. One or two sticks are stuck upright in the mud, and others
placed around them in the form of a cone. A fire is then put underneath, and the native, stepping
into the bow of his canoe, pushes steadily into the stream, and commences his nocturnal employment.
The wood of which the fire is made is of a particular kind, and, as only one description of
tree will answer, it has frequently to be brought from a considerable distance. It is obtained
among the brush of the table-land stretching behind the valley of the Murray, on either side,
and its peculiarities are that it is light, brittle, and resinous, emitting when burning a
most agreeable fragrance and a powerful and brilliant light, almost wholly free from smoke.

Two men usually accompany each canoe, one to attend to the fire, and keep it always burning
brightly, and the other to guide the canoe and spear the fish. As soon as the fire begins to
blaze up the scene becomes most beautiful. The low black looking piece of bark floats noiselessly
down the middle of the stream, or stealthily glides under the frowning cliffs, now lit up by
a brilliant light. In the bow is seen the dark, naked, but graceful form of the savage, standing
firm and erect, and scarcely seeming to move, as with the slightest motion of his arms he guides
the frail canoe. His spear is grasped in his hand, whilst his whole attitude and appearance
denote the most intense vigilance and attention. Suddenly you see his arm uplifted, and the
weapon descending with the rapidity of thought, a splash is seen, a struggle heard, and a fish
is slowly and cautiously drawn towards the canoe pierced through with the spear. If it is a
large one, the native at once plunges into the water, still retaining his hold of the spear,
and soon reappears with the trophy in his arms.

Among the rocks under the cliffs, or among logs or roots of trees, or on a clayey bottom, large
fresh-water lobsters (poo-ta-ron-ko) are procured in the same way, weighing from two to four
pounds each, and of a most delicate and excellent flavour. I have frequently been out with
a single native, and seen him spear from ten to sixteen of these in an hour or two.

It has a singular and powerful effect upon the imagination, to witness at midnight a fleet
of these canoes, gliding about in the distance like so many balls of fire, imparting a still
deeper shade to the gloom of darkness which surrounds the spectator, and throwing an air of
romance on the whole scene. Occasionally in travelling at night, and coming suddenly upon the
river from the scrub behind, I have been dazzled and enchanted with the fairy sight that has
burst upon me. The waters have been alive with brilliant fires, moving to and fro in every
direction, like meteors from a marsh, and like those too, rapidly and inexplicably disappearing
when the footsteps of strangers are heard approaching.

A few other methods of catching fish are sometimes resorted to, such as stirring up the mud
in stagnant ponds, and taking the fish when they come up almost choked to the surface. Groping
with their hands or with boughs, etc. etc.

There is also a particular season of the year (about September), when in the larger rivers
the fish become ill or diseased, and lie floating on the surface unable to descend, or drift
down dead with the current. Fishes weighing nearly eighty pounds are sometimes taken in this
way. The natives are always looking out for opportunities of procuring food so easily, and
never hesitate to eat any fish, although they may have been dead for some time.

I have never seen the natives use hooks in fishing of their own manufacture, nor do I believe
that they ever make any, though they are glad enough to get them from Europeans.

The large fresh-water lobster is sometimes procured by diving, in which case the females are
generally employed, as the weather is cold, and night is the best time to procure them. It
is extraordinary to see a party of women plunge into the water on a cold dark night, and swim
and dive about amongst logs, stumps, roots, and weeds without ever hurting themselves, and
seldom failing to obtai the object of their search.

Turtle are procured in the same way, but generally by the men, and in the day time.

Muscles of a very large kind are also got by diving. The women whose duty it is to collect
these, go into the water with small nets (len-ko) hung round their necks, and diving to the
bottom pick up as many as they can, put them into their bags, and rise to the surface for fresh
air, repeating the operation until their bags have been filled. They have the power of remaining
for a long time under the water, and when they rise to the surface for air, the head and sometimes
the mouth only is exposed. A stranger suddenly coming to the river when they were all below,
would be puzzled to make out what the black objects were, so frequently appearing and disappearing
in the water.

Cray-fish of the small kind (u-kod-ko) weighing from four to six ounces are obtained by the
women wading into the water as already described, or by men wading and using a large bow-net,
called a "wharro," which is dragged along by two or three of them close to the bottom where
the water is not too deep.

Frogs are dug out of the ground by the women, or caught in the marshes, and used in every stage
from the tadpole upwards.

Rats are also dug out of the ground, but they are procured in the greatest numbers and with
the utmost facility when the approach of the floods in the river flats compels them to evacuate
their domiciles. A variety is procured among the scrubs under a singular pile or nest which
they make of sticks, in the shape of a hay-cock, three or four feet high and many feet in circumference.
A great many occupy the same pile and are killed with sticks as they run out.

Snakes, lizards and other reptiles are procured among the rocks or in the scrubs. Grubs are
got out of the gum-tree into which they eat their way, as also out of the roots of the mimosa,
the leaves of the zamia, the trunk of the xanthorra, and a variety of other plants and shrubs.

One particularly large white grub, and a great bon-bouche to the natives, is procured out of
the ground. It is about four inches long and half an inch in thickness, and is obtained by
attaching a thin narrow hook of hard wood to the long, wiry shoots of the polygonum, and then
pushing this gently down the hole through which the grub has burrowed into the earth until
it is hooked. Grubs are procured at a depth of seven feet in this way without the delay or
trouble of digging.

Moths are procured as before described; or the larger varieties are caught at nights whilst
flying about.

Fungi are abundant, and of great variety. Some are obtained from the surface of the ground,
others below it, and others again from the trunks and boughs of trees.

Roots of all kinds are procured by digging, one of the most important being that of the flag
or cooper's reed, which grows in marshes or alluvial soils that are subject to periodical inundations.
This is used more or less at all seasons of the year, but is best after the floods have retired
and the tops have become decayed and been burnt off. The root is roasted in hot ashes, and
chewed, when it affords a nutritious and pleasant farinaceous food.

The belillah is another important bulbous root, which also grows on lands subject to floods.
It is about the size of a walnut, of a hard and oily nature, and is prepared by being roasted
and pounded into a thin cake between two stones. Immense tracts of country are covered with
this plant on the flats of the Murray, which in the distance look like the most beautiful and
luxuriant meadows. After the floods have retired I have seen several hundreds of acres, with
the stems of the plant six or seven feet high, and growing so closely together as to render
it very difficult to penetrate far amongst them.

The thick pulpy leaf of the mesembryanthemum is in general use in all parts of Australia which
I have visited, and is eaten as a sort of relish with almost every other kind of food. That
which grows upon the elevated table lands is preferred to that which is found in the valleys.
It is selected when the full vigour of the plant begins to decline and the tips of the leaves
become red, but before the leaf is at all withered. The fruit is used both when first ripe
and also after it has become dried up and apparently withered. In each case it has an agreeable
flavour and is much prized by the natives.

Many other descriptions of fruits and berries are made use of in different parts of the continent,
the chief of which, so far as their use has come under my own observation, are--

1. A kind of fruit called in the Moorunde dialect "ketango," about the size and shape of a
Siberian crab, but rounder. When this is ripe, it is of a deep red colour, and consists of
a solid mealy substance, about the eighth of an inch in thickness, enclosing a large round
stone, which, upon being broken, yields a well-flavoured kernel. The edible part of the fruit
has an agreeable acid taste, and makes excellent puddings or preserves, for which purpose it
is now extensively used by Europeans. The shrub on which this grows, is very elegant and graceful,
and varies from four to twelve feet in height. [Note 71: A species of fusanus.] When in full
bearing, nothing can exceed its beauty, drooping beneath its crimson load.

Another shrub found in the scrubs, may sometimes be mistaken for this, as it bears in appearance
a similar fruit; but on being tasted, it is bitter and nauseous. This in the Murray dialect
is called "netting." The natives prepare it by baking it in an oven, which takes the bitter
taste away. The "netting" is earlier in season than the "ketango."

2. A berry about the size and shape of a large sloe, but with a smaller stone; conical in shape,
and rounded at the large end. This fruit is juicy and saline, though not disagreeable in taste.
There are several varieties of it, which when ripe are of a black, red, or yellow colour. The
black is the best. The bush upon which it grows is a salsolaceous bramble [Note 72: Nitraria
Australis], and is found in large quantities on the saline flats, bordering some parts of the
Murrumbidgee and Murray rivers; and along the low parts of the southern coast, immediately
behind the ridges bounding the sea shore. It is a staple article of food in its season, among
the natives of those districts where it abounds, and is eaten by them raw, stone and all.

3. A small berry or currant, called by the natives of Moorunde "eertapko," about the size of
No. 2. shot. When ripe it is red, and of an agreeable acid flavour. It grows upon a low creeping
tap-rooted plant, of a salsolaceous character, found in the alluvial flats of the Murray, among
the polygonum brushes, and in many other places. A single plant will spread over an area of
many yards in diameter, covering the dry and arid ground with a close, soft, and velvety carpet
in the heat of summer, at which time the fruit is in perfection. To collect so small a berry
with facility, and in abundance, the natives cut a rounded tray of thin bark, two or three
feet long, and six or eight inches wide, over this they lift up the plant, upon which the fruit
grows, and shake the berries into it. When a sufficiency has been collected, the berries are
skilfully tossed into the air, and separated from the leaves and dirt. The natives are very
fond of this fruit, which affords them an inexhaustible resource for many weeks. In an hour
a native could collect more than he could use in a day.

The other sorts of fruits and berries are numerous and varied, but do not merit particular
description.

[Note 73: Mr. Simpson gives the following account of the Bunya Bunya, a fruit-bearing tree
lately discovered on the N.E. coast of New Holland.

"Ascending a steep hill, some four miles further on, we passed through a bunya scrub, and for
the first time had an opportunity of examining this noble tree more closely. It raises its
majestic head above every other tree in the forest, and must, therefore, frequently reach the
height of 250 feet; the trunk is beautifully formed, being as straight as an arrow, and perfectly
branchless for above two-thirds of its height; branches then strike off, nearly at right angles
from the trunk, forming circles which gradually diminish in diameter till they reach the summit,
which terminates in a single shoot; the foliage shining, dark green, the leaves acutely pointed
and lanceolate, with large green cones, the size of a child's head, hanging from the terminal
branches in the fruiting season (January). It is, too, very remarkable that the bunya tree,
according to the natives, is nowhere to be met with but in these parts; it is, however, there
is no doubt, a species of the araucaria genus, well known in South America; the timber, when
green, is white, fine grained and very tough, but whether it retains these qualities when dry,
has not yet been determined. The Aborigines are particularly fond of the bunya nuts, which
are as large as a full sized almond, including the shell, and, in good seasons, come from a
distance of 100 or 200 miles to feast upon them."]

Bark from the roots of trees and shrubs is roasted, and then pounded between two stones for use.

Gums exude from the trees on which they are procured. These are generally varieties of the Mimosa.

Manna exudes in great abundance from the tree already mentioned, as constituting the firewood
which the natives use in fishing by night. It is of a mottled red or brown colour, of a firm
consistency and sweet taste, resembling exactly in appearance, flavour, and colour, the manna
used medicinally in Europe.

Another variety is yielded by the Eucalyptus mannifera and is found early in the morning under
the tree, scattered on the ground. This is beautifully white and delicate, resembling flakes
of snow.

Honey is procured by steeping the cones of the Banksia or other melliferous flowers in water.
It is procured pure from the hives of the native bees, found in cavities of rocks, and the
hollow branches of trees. The method of discovering the hive is ingenious. Having caught one
of the honey bees, which in size exceeds very little the common house fly, the native sticks
a piece of feather or white down to it with gum, and then letting it go, sets off after it
as fast as he can: keeping his eye steadily fixed upon the insect, he rushes along like a madman,
tumbling over trees and bushes that lie in his way, but rarely losing sight of his object,
until conducted to its well-filled store, he is amply paid for all his trouble. The honey is
not so firm as that of the English bee, but is of very fine flavour and quality.

White ants are dug in great numbers out of their nests in the ground, which are generally found
in the scrubs. They are a favourite food of the natives in the spring of the year. The females
only are used, and at a time just before depositing their eggs. They are separated from the
dirt that is taken up with them, by being thrown into the air, and caught again upon a trough
of bark.

The eggs of birds are extensively eaten by the natives, being chiefly confined to those kinds
that leave the nest at birth, as the leipoa, the emu, the swan, the goose, the duck, etc. But
of others, where the young remain some time in the nest after being hatched, the eggs are usually
left, and the young taken before they can fly. The eggs of the leipoa, or native pheasant,
are found in singular-looking mounds of sand, thrown up by the bird in the midst of the scrubs,
and often measuring several yards in circumference. The egg is about the size of the goose
egg, but the shell is extremely thin and fragile. The young are hatched by the heat of the
sand and leaves, with which the eggs are covered. Each egg is deposited separately, and the
number found in one nest varies from one to ten.

One nest that I examined, and that only a small one, was twelve yards in circumference, eighteen
inches high, and shaped like a dome. It was formed entirely of sand scraped up by the bird
with its feet. Under the centre of the dome, and below the level of the surrounding ground
was an irregular oval hole, about eighteen inches deep, and twelve in diameter. In this, the
eggs were deposited in different layers among sand and leaves; on the lower tier was only one
egg, on the next two, at a depth of four or five inches from the ground. All the eggs were
placed upon their smaller ends, and standing upright. The colour of the egg is a dark reddish
pink; its length, three inches six-tenths; breadth, two inches two-tenths; circumference, lengthwise,
ten inches, and across, seven inches two-tenths. The eggs appear to be deposited at considerable
intervals. In the nest alluded to, two eggs had only been laid sixteen days after it was discovered,
at which time there had been one previously deposited. The bird is shaped like a hen pheasant,
of a brownish colour, barred with black, and its weight is about four pounds and a half.

The eggs of the emu are rather smaller than those of the ostrich. They are of a dark green
colour and the shell is very thick. They are deposited by the bird almost upon the ground,
in the vicinity of a few bushes, or tufts of grass, and usually in a country that is tolerably
open; a great many eggs are found in one nest, so that it is generally looked upon by the natives
as a great prize.

Eggs are eaten in all stages. I have even seen rotten ones roasted, and devoured with great relish.

Kangaroos are speared, netted, or caught in pit falls. Four methods of spearing them are practised.
1st. A native travelling with his family through the woods, when he sees a kangaroo feeding
or sleeping, will steal silently and cautiously upon it, keeping, as he advances, a tree or
shrub between himself and the animal, or holding up before him, if he be in an open place,
a large branch of a tree, until sufficiently near to throw the fatal weapon. 2ndly. Two natives
get upon the track of a kangaroo, which they follow up perseveringly even for two or three
days, sleeping upon it at night, and renewing their pursuit in the morning, until, at last,
the wearied animal, fairly tired out by its relentless pursuers, is no longer able to fly before
them, and at last becomes a prize to the perseverance of the hunters. 3rdly. A small hut of
reeds is made near the springs, or water holes, in those districts, where water is scarce;
and in this, or in the top of a tree, if there be one near, the native carefully conceals himself,
and patiently waits until his game comes to drink, when he is almost sure to strike it with
his spear, seldom quitting his lurking place without an ample remuneration for his confinement.
4thly. A large party of men go out early in the morning, generally armed with barbed spears,
and take their stations upon ground that has been previously fixed upon in a large semicircle.
The women and children, with a few men, then beat up, and fire the country for a considerable
extent, driving the game before them in the direction of the persons who are lying in wait,
and who gradually contract the space they had been spread over, until they meet the other party,
and then closing their ranks in a ring upon the devoted animals, with wild cries and shouts
they drive them back to the centre as they attempt to escape, until, at last, in the conflict,
many of them are slaughtered. At other times, the ground is so selected as to enable them to
drive the game over a precipice, or into a river, where it is easily taken. Netting the kangaroo
does not require so large a party; it is done by simply setting a strong net (mugn-ko) across
the path, which the animal is accustomed to frequent, and keeping it in its place by long sticks,
with a fork upon the top. A few natives then shew themselves in a direction opposite to that
of the net, and the kangaroo being alarmed, takes to his usual path, gets entangled in the
meshes, and is soon despatched by persons who have been lying in wait to pounce upon him.

Pitfalls are also dug to catch the kangaroo around the springs, or pools of water they are
accustomed to frequent. These are covered lightly over with small sticks, boughs, etc. and
the animal going to drink, hops upon them, and falls into the pit without being able to get
out again. I have only known this method of taking the kangaroo practised in Western Australia,
between Swan River and King George's Sound,

The emu is taken similarly to the kangaroo. It is speared in the first, third, and fourth methods
I have described. It is also netted like the kangaroo, indeed with the same net, only that
the places selected for setting it are near the entrance to creeks, ravines, flats bounded
by steep banks, and any other place where the ground is such as to hold out the hope, that
by driving up the game it may be compelled, by surrounding scouts, to pass the place where
the net is set. When caught the old men hasten up, and clasping the bird firmly round the neck
with their arms, hold it or throw it on the ground, whilst others come to their assistance
and despatch it. This is, however, a dangerous feat, and I have known a native severely wounded
in attempting it; a kick from an emu would break a person's leg, though the natives generally
keep so close to the bird as to prevent it from doing them much harm.

The emu is frequently netted by night through a peculiarity in the habits of the bird, that
is well-known to the natives, and which is, that it generally comes back every night to sleep
on one spot for a long time together. Having ascertained where the sleeping place is, the natives
set the net at some little distance away, and then supplying themselves with fire-sticks, form
a line from each end of the net, diverging in the distance. The party may now be considered
as forming two sides of a triangle, with the net at the apex and the game about the middle
of the base; as soon as the sides are formed, other natives arrange themselves in a line at
the base, and put the bird up. The emu finding only one course free from fire-sticks, viz.
that towards the net or apex of the triangle, takes that direction, and becomes ensnared.

Opossums are of various kinds and sizes. They inhabit the hollows of trees, or sometimes the
tops, where they make a house for themselves with boughs. They are also found in the holes
of rocks. They are hunted both in the day-time and by moon-light. During the day the native,
as he passes along, examines minutely the bark of the trees, to see whether any marks have
been left by the claws of the animal in climbing on the previous night. If he finds any he
is sure that an opossum is concealed, either in that tree or one adjoining. The way he distinguishes
whether the marks are recently made or otherwise is, by examining the appearance of the bark
where the wound is, if fresh it is white, has rough edges, or has grains of sand adhering to
it; if otherwise it is dry and brown, and free from loose particles. Having ascertained that
an opossum has recently been there, he then ascends the tree to look for it; this, if the tree
be in a leaning position, or has a rough bark, is not difficult to him, and he rarely requires
any other aid than his hands and feet; but if the bark be smooth, and the tree straight, or
of very large dimensions, he requires the assistance of his stone hatchet, or of a strong sharp-pointed
stick, flattened on one side near the point (called in the Adelaide dialect, "Wadna," in that
of Moorunde "Ngakko,"); with this instrument a notch is made in the bark about two feet above
the ground. In this the small toes of the left foot are placed, the left arm is employed in
clasping the trunk of the tree, and the right in cutting another notch for the right foot,
about two feet above the first; but a little to one side of it, the wadna or ngakko is now
stuck firmly in the bark above, and serves to enable him to raise the body whilst gaining the
second notch, into which the ball of the great toe of the right foot is placed, and the implement
liberated to make a third step on the left side, and so on successively until the tree is ascended.
The descent is made in the same manner, by clasping the tree, and supporting the feet in the
notches. The principle of climbing in the way described, appears to consist in always having
three points of contact with the tree, either two arms and one leg, or two legs and one arm.

Having got up the tree, the native proceeds to search for any holes there may be in its trunk,
or among the boughs; these vary from one foot to nine, or more, in depth, for the whole trunk
itself is sometimes hollow. To ascertain in which hole the opossum is, the native drops in
a pebble or a piece of bark, or a broken bit of stick, and then applying his ear to the outside,
listens for the rustling motion made by the animal in shifting its position, when disturbed
by what has been dropped upon it. A stick is sometimes made use of, if the hole be not very
deep, for the same purpose, after inserting it in the hole, and twisting the rough end round
and withdrawing it, he looks to see if any fur is left on the point, if so, the animal is there,
but if the point of the stick shews no fur, he goes to the next hole or tree, and so on until
he finds it.

If not very far in the hole the native puts in his arm, and draws it out by the tail, striking
its head violently against the tree to prevent its biting him, as soon as it is clear of the
orifice; if the hole be deep, the furthest point to which the animal can recede is ascertained,
and an opening made near it with whatever implement he may be using. If the whole trunk of
the tree, or a large portion of it be hollow, a fire is made in the lower opening, which soon
drives out the game.

When opossums are hunted by moonlight, the native dog is useful in scenting them along the
ground where they sometimes feed, and in guiding the native to the tree they have ascended,
when alarmed at his approach. They are then either knocked down with sticks or the tree is
ascended as in the day time.

Flying squirrels are procured in the same way as opossums. The sloth, which is an animal as
large as a good sized monkey, is also caught among the branches of the larger scrub-trees,
among which it hides itself; but it is never found in holes.

Wallabies are of many kinds, and are killed in various ways. By hunting with bwirris, by nets,
by digging out of the ground; the larger sorts, as rock wallabies, by spearing, and several
kinds by making runs, into which they are driven. In hunting with bwirris (a short heavy stick
with a knob at one end) a party of natives go out into the scrub and beat the bushes in line,
if any game gets up, the native who sees it, gives a peculiar "whir-rr" as a signal for the
others to look out, and the animal is at once chased and bwirris thrown at him in all directions,
the peculiar sound of the "whir-rr" always guiding them to the direction he has taken. It rarely
happens that an animal escapes if the party of natives be at all numerous.

In netting the wallabies, a party of seven or eight men go in advance, with each a net of from
twenty to forty feet long, and when they arrive near the runs, usually made use of by these
animals, a favourable spot is selected, and the nets set generally in a line and nearly together,
each native concealing himself near his own net. The women and children who, in the mean time
had been making a considerable circuit, now begin to beat amongst the bushes with the wind,
shouting and driving the wallabies before them towards the nets, where they are caught and killed.

Other species of the wallabie burrow in the ground like rabbits, and are dug out. The large
rock-wallabies are speared by the natives creeping upon them stealthily among the rugged rocks
which they frequent, on the summits of precipitous heights which have craggy or overhanging cliffs.

In making runs for taking the wallabie, the natives break the branches from the bushes, and
laying them one upon another, form, through the scrubs, two lines of bush fence, diverging
from an apex sometimes to the extent of several miles, and having at intervals large angles
formed by the fence diverging. At the principal apex and at all the angles or corners the bushes
are tied up, and a hole in the fence left like the run of a hare. At each of these a native
is stationed with his bwirris, and the women then beating up the country, from the base of
the triangle drive up the game, which finding themselves stopped by the bush fence on either
side, run along in search of an opening until the first angle presents itself, when they try
to escape by the run, and are knocked on the head by the native guarding it.

Native companions and swans are sometimes speared or killed with bwirris; the latter are also
caught easily in the water holes or lakes when moulting, as they are then unable to fly. Pelicans
are caught in nets or whilst asleep in the water, by natives wading in and seizing them by
the legs.

Wild dogs are speared, but young ones are often kept and tamed, to assist in hunting, in which
they are very useful. The wombat is driven to his hole with dogs at night, and a fire being
lighted inside, the mouth is closed with stones and earth. The animal being by this means suffocated,
is dug out at convenience.

Birds are killed on the wing, with bwirris, or whilst resting on the ground, or in the water,
or upon branches of trees. They are also taken by spearing, by snaring, by noosing, and by
netting. In spearing them the natives make use of a very light reed spear (kiko), which is
pointed with hard wood, and projected when used, with the nga-waonk or throwing stick. They
resort to the lagoons or river flats, when flooded, and either wading or in canoes, chase and
spear the wild fowl. The kiko is thrown to a very great distance, with amazing rapidity and
precision, so that a native is frequently very successful by this method, particularly so when
the young broods of duck and other wild fowl are nearly full grown, but still unable to fly
far. Getting into his canoe, the native paddles along with extraordinary celerity after his
game, chasing them from one side of the lagoon to the other, until he loads himself with spoil.

Ducks and teal are caught by snaring, which is practised in the following manner. After ascertaining
where there is a shelving bank to any of the lagoons, which is frequented by these birds, and
upon which there is grass, or other food that they like near the edges, the natives get a number
of strong reeds, bend them in the middle, and force the two ends of each into the ground, about
seven inches apart, forming a number of triangles, with their uppermost extremities about five
or six inches from the ground. From these, strings are suspended with slip nooses, and when
a sufficient number are set, the natives go away, to let the ducks come up to feed. This they
soon do; and whilst poking their heads about in every direction a great many push them through
the snares and get hung.

Noosing waterfowl is another general and very successful mode of taking them. It is performed
by a native, with a tat-tat-ko, or long rod, tapering like a fishing rod, but longer, and having
a piece of string at the end, with a slip noose working over the pliant twig which forms the
last joint of the rod. [Note 74: Plate 4, fig. 1. (not reproduced in this etext)] This being
prepared, and it having been ascertained where the birds are, the native binds a quantity of
grass or weeds around his head, and then taking his long instrument, plunges into the water
and swims slowly and cautiously towards them, whilst they see nothing but a tuft of grass or
weeds coming floating towards them, of which they take no notice, until coming close upon them
he gently raises the tapering end of the instrument, and carefully putting the noose over the
head of the bird, draws it under water towards him. After taking it out of the noose, he tucks
its head in his belt, or lets it float on the water, whilst he proceeds to catch another, or
as many more as he can before the birds take the alarm at the struggles of their companions,
and fly away. A windy day is generally selected for this employment, when the water is ruffled
by waves. On such occasions a skilful native will secure a great many birds.

Netting birds remains to be described, and is the most destructive mode of taking them of any
that is practised. Geese, ducks, teal, widgeons, shags, pelicans, pigeons, and others are procured
in this way. The method adopted is as follows:--a large square or oblong net, (kue-rad-ko)
from thirty to sixty feet broad, and from twenty to forty deep, is formed by lacing together
pieces of old fishing nets, or any others, made of light twine, that they may have. A strong
cord is then passed through the meshes of one end, and tied at both extremes of the net. The
natives then go down to a lagoon of moderate width, where two tall trees may be standing opposite
to each other on different sides, or they select an opening of a similar kind among the trees
on the bank of the river, through which the ducks, or other birds, are in the habit of passing
when flying between the river and the lagoons. An old man ascends each of the trees, and over
the topmost branch of both lowers the end of a strong cord passing through the net. The other
end is tied near the root of each tree, and serves for the native, who is stationed there,
to raise or lower the net as it may be required. When set, the ropes are hauled tight, and
the net dangles in the air between the two trees, hanging over the lagoon, or dry passage,
as the case may be. All being ready, a native is left holding each end of the rope, and others
are stationed at convenient places near, with little round pieces of bark in their hands to
throw at the birds, and drive them onwards as they approach the net. The women are then sent
to put the birds up, and they come flying through the open space towards the net, not dreaming
of the evil that awaits them; as they approach nearer, the two natives at the trees utter a
shrill whistle, resembling the note of the hawk, upon which the flock, which usually consists
of ducks, lower their flight at once, and proceeding onwards, strike full against the net,
which is instantly lowered by the men attending to it, and the birds are left struggling in
the water, or on the ground, entangled in its meshes, whilst the natives are busy paddling
in their canoes, or scampering towards the net on the ground, to wring their necks off, and
get the instrument of destruction raised again, to be ready for the next flight that may come.
Should the birds fly too high, or be inclined to take any other direction, little pieces of
bark are thrown above them, or across their path, by the natives stationed for that purpose.
These circling through the air, make a whirring noise like the swoop of the eagle when darting
on his prey, and the birds fancying their enemy upon them, recede from the pieces of bark,
and lowering their flight, become entangled in the net. Early in the morning, late in the evening,
and occasionally in the night, this work is conducted, with the greatest success, though many
are caught sometimes in the day.

As many as fifty birds are taken in a single haul. I have myself, with the aid of a native,
caught thirty-three, and many more would have been got, but that the net was old, and the birds
broke through it before they could be all killed. On other occasions, I have been out with
the natives, where a party of five or six have procured from twenty to thirty ducks, on an
average, daily, for many days successively. In these occupations the natives make use of a
peculiar shrill whistle to frighten down the birds; it is produced by pulling out the under
lip with the fore-finger and thumb, and pressing it together, whilst the tongue is placed against
the groove, or hollow thus formed, and the breath strongly forced through. Whistling is also
practised in a variety of other ways, and has peculiar sounds well known to the natives, which
indicate the object of the call. It is used to call attention, to point out that game is near,
to make each other aware of their respective positions in a wooded country, or to put another
on his guard that an enemy is near, etc., etc.

Such is an outline of some of the kinds of food used by the natives, and the modes of procuring
it as practised in various parts of Australia where I have been. There is an endless variety
of other articles, and an infinite number of minute differences in the ways of procuring them,
which it is unnecessary to enter upon in a work which professes to give only a general account
of the Aborigines, their manners, habits, and customs, and not a full or complete history,
which could only be compiled after the observation of many years devoted exclusively to so
comprehensive a subject.

In the preparation and cooking of their food, and in the extent to which this is carried, there
are almost as many differences as there are varieties of food. Having no vessels capable of
resisting the action of fire, the natives are unacquainted with the simple process of boiling.
Their culinary operations are therefore confined to broiling on the hot coals, baking in hot
ashes, and roasting, or steaming in ovens. The native oven is made by digging a circular hole
in the ground, of a size corresponding to the quantity of food to be cooked. It is then lined
with stones in the bottom, and a strong fire made over them, so as to heat them thoroughly,
and dry the hole. As soon as the stones are judged to be sufficiently hot, the fire is removed,
and a few of the stones taken, and put inside the animal to be roasted if it be a large one.
A few leaves, or a handful of grass, are then sprinkled over the stones in the bottom of the
oven, on which the animal is deposited, generally whole, with hot stones, which had been kept
for that purpose, laid upon the top of it. It is covered with grass, or leaves, and then thickly
coated over with earth, which effectually prevents the heat from escaping. Bark is sometimes
used to cover the meat, instead of grass or leaves, and is in some respects better adapted
for that purpose, being less liable to let dirt into the oven. I have seen meat cooked by the
natives in this manner, which, when taken out, looked as clean and nicely roasted as any I
ever saw from the best managed kitchen.

If the oven is required for steaming food, a process principally applied to vegetables and
some kinds of fruits, the fire is in the same way removed from the heated stones, but instead
of putting on dry grass or leaves, wet grass or water weeds are spread over them. The vegetables
tied up in small bundles are piled over this in the central part of the oven, wet grass being
placed above them again, dry grass or weeds upon the wet, and earth over all. In putting the
earth over the heap, the natives commence around the base, gradually filling it upwards. When
about two-thirds covered up all round, they force a strong sharp-pointed stick in three or
four different places through the whole mass of grass weeds and vegetables, to the bottom of
the oven. Upon withdrawing the stick, water is poured through the holes thus made upon the
hissing stones below, the top grass is hastily closed over the apertures and the whole pile
as rapidly covered up as possible to keep in the steam. The gathering vegetable food, and in
fact the cooking and preparing of food generally, devolves upon the women, except in the case
of an emu or a kangaroo, or some of the larger and more valuable animals, when the men take
this duty upon themselves.

In cooking vegetables, a single oven will suffice for three or four families, each woman receiving
the same bundles of food when cooked, which she had put in. The smaller kinds of fish and shell-fish,
birds and animals, frogs, turtle, eggs, reptiles, gums, etc., are usually broiled upon the
embers. Roots, bark of trees, etc., are cooked in the hot ashes. Fungi are either eaten raw
or are roasted. The white ant is always eaten raw. The larvae of insects and the leaves of
plants are either eaten raw or in a cooked state. The larger animals, as the kangaroo, emu,
native dog, etc. and the larger fishes, are usually roasted in the oven.

In preparing the food for the cooking process a variety of forms are observed. In most animals,
as the opossum, wallabie, dog, kangaroo, etc. the the bones of the legs are invariably broken,
and the fur is singed off; a small aperture is made in the belly, the entrails withdrawn, and
the hole closed with a wooden skewer, to keep in the gravy whilst roasting. The entrails of
all animals, birds, and fishes, are made use of, and are frequently eaten whilst the animal
itself is being prepared. Most birds have the feathers pulled or singed off, they are then
thrown on the fire for a moment or two and when warm are withdrawn, skinned and the skin eaten.
The meat is now separated on each side of the breast bone, the limbs are disjointed and thrown
back, and the bird is placed upon the fire, and soon cooked, from the previous dissection it
had undergone, and from hot coals being put above it.

The smaller fish and reptiles are simply thrown upon the fire, sometimes gutted, at other times
not. The larger fish are divided into three pieces, in the following manner. The fish is laid
on its side, and a longitudinal cut made from the head to within three or four inches of the
tail, just above where the ribs are joined to the back bone, these are separated by a sharp
pointed stick, and the same done on the other side; a transverse incision is then made near
the root of the tail, the gills are separated from the head, the fleshy part covering the back
dissected from one to two inches thick, over the whole surface left between the longitudinal
cuts that had been made in the sides, and extending from the head to the transverse incision
near the tail. The divisions then consist of three pieces, one comprising the head, backbone,
and tail, another the fleshy part that covered the back, and the third the belly and sides.
The last is the most prized of the three. This method of dividing the fish is well adapted
for ensuring rapid preparation in the process of cooking; it is also well suited for satisfying
the respective owners and claimants; the three pieces being, if not quite equal in size, sufficiently
so for the purpose of partition.

There are many usages in force among the natives respecting the particular kinds of food allowed
to be eaten at different ages; restrictions and limitations of many kinds are placed upon both
sexes at different stages of life. What is proper to be eaten at one period, is disallowed
at another, and vice versa. And although laws of this nature appear to be in force throughout
the whole continent, there appear to be occasional differences of custom as to restriction
in regard to both food and age. It also appears that there are more restrictions placed upon
the females, until past the age of child-bearing, than upon the males.

Infants are not often weaned until between two and three years old; but during this time any
food is given to them which they can eat, except those kind of vegetables which are likely
to disagree with them. No restrictions are placed upon very young children of either sex, a
portion being given to them of whatever food their parents may have. About nine or ten years
appears to be the age at which limitations commence. Boys are now forbidden to eat the red
kangaroo, or the female or the young ones of the other kinds; the musk duck, the white crane,
the bandicoot, the native pheasant, (leipoa, meracco), the native companion, some kinds of
fungi, the old male and female opossum, a kind of wallabie (linkara), three kinds of fish (toor-rue,
toitchock, and boolye-a), the black duck, widgeon, whistling duck, shag (yarrilla), eagle,
female water-mole (nee-witke), two kinds of turtles (rinka and tung-kanka), and some other
varieties of food. Fish that are taken by the men diving under the cliffs, and which are always
females about to deposit their spawn, are also forbidden to the native women.

Old men and women are allowed to eat anything, and there are very few things that they do not
eat. Among the few exceptions are a species of toad, and the young of the wombat, when very
small, and before the hair is well developed.

It has generally been imagined, but with great injustice, as well as incorrectness, that the
natives have no idea of property in land, or proprietary rights connected with it. Nothing
can be further from the truth than this assumption, although men of high character and standing,
and who are otherwise benevolently disposed towards the natives, have distinctly denied this
right, and maintained that the natives were not entitled to have any choice of land reserved
for them out of their own possessions, and in their respective districts.

In the public journals of the colonies the question has often been discussed, and the same
unjust assertion put forth. A single quotation will be sufficient to illustrate the spirit
prevailing upon this point. It is from a letter on the subject published in South Australian
Register of the 1st August, 1840:--"It would be difficult to define what conceivable proprietary
rights were ever enjoyed by the miserable savages of South Australia, who never cultivated
an inch of the soil, and whose ideas of the value of its direct produce never extended beyond
obtaining a sufficiency of pieces of white chalk and red ochre wherewith to bedaub their bodies
for their filthy corrobberies." Many similar proofs might be given of the general feeling entertained
respecting the rights of the Aborigines, arising out of their original possession of the soil.
It is a feeling, however, that can only have originated in an entire ignorance of the habits,
customs, and ideas of this people. As far as my own observation has extended, I have found
that particular districts, having a radius perhaps of from ten to twenty miles, or in other
cases varying according to local circumstances, are considered generally as being the property
and hunting-grounds of the tribes who frequent them. These districts are again parcelled out
among the individual members of the tribe. Every male has some portion of land, of which he
can always point out the exact boundaries. These properties are subdivided by a father among
his sons during his own lifetime, and descend in almost hereditary succession. A man can dispose
of or barter his land to others; but a female never inherits, nor has primogeniture among the
sons any peculiar rights or advantages. Tribes can only come into each other's districts by
permission, or invitation, in which case, strangers or visitors are always well treated. The
following extract from Captain Grey's work gives the result of that gentlemen's observations
in Western Australia, corroborated by Dr. Lang's experience of the practice among the natives
of New South Wales, (vol. ii. p. 232 to 236.)

"TRADITIONAL LAWS RELATIVE TO LANDED PROPERTY.--Landed property does not belong to a tribe,
or to several families, but to a single male; and the limits of his property are so accurately
defined that every native knows those of his own land, and can point out the various objects
which mark his boundary. I cannot establish the fact and the universality of this institution
better than by the following letter addressed by Dr. Lang, the Principal of Sydney College,
New South Wales, to Dr. Hodgkin, the zealous advocate of the Aboriginal Races:

"LIVERPOOL, 15th Nov. 1840.

"My Dear Friend,--In reply to the question which you proposed to me some time ago, in the course
of conversation in London, and of which you have reminded me in the letter I had the pleasure
of receiving from you yesterday, with the pamphlets and letters for America, viz.--'Whether
the Aborigines of the Australian continent have any idea of property in land,' I beg to answer
most decidedly in the affirmative. It is well known that these Aborigines in no instance cultivate
the soil, but subsist entirely by hunting and fishing, and on the wild roots they find in certain
localities (especially the common fern), with occasionally a little wild honey; indigenous
fruits being exceedingly rare. The whole race is divided into tribes, more or less numerous,
according to circumstances, and designated from the localities they inhabit; for although universally
a wandering race with respect to places of habitation, their wanderings are circumscribed by
certain well-defined limits, beyond which they seldom pass, except for purposes of war or festivity.
In short, every tribe has its own district, the boundaries of which are well known to the natives
generally; and within that district all the wild animals are considered as much the property
of the tribe inhabiting, or rather ranging on, its whole extent, as the flocks of sheep and
herds of cattle, that have been introduced into the country by adventurous Europeans, are held
by European law and usage the property of their respective owners. In fact, as the country
is occupied chiefly for pastoral purposes, the difference between the Aboriginal and the European
ideas of property in the soil is more imaginary than real, the native grass affording subsistence
to the kangaroos of the natives, as well as to the wild cattle of the Europeans, and the only
difference indeed being, that the former are not branded with a particular mark like the latter,
and are somewhat wilder and more difficult to catch. Nay, as the European regards the intrusion
of any other white man upon the CATTLE-RUN, of which European law and usage have made him the
possessor, and gets it punished as a trespass, the Aborigines of the particular tribe inhabiting
a particular district, regard the intrusion of any other tribe of Aborigines upon that district,
for the purposes of kangaroo hunting, etc. as an intrusion, to be resisted and punished by
force of arms. In short, this is the frequent cause of Aboriginal, as it is of European wars;
man, in his natural state, being very much alike in all conditions--jealous of his rights,
and exceedingly pugnacious. It is true, the European intruders pay no respect to these Aboriginal
divisions of the territory, the black native being often hunted off his own ground, or destroyed
by European violence, dissipation, or disease, just as his kangaroos are driven off that ground
by the European's black cattle; but this surely does not alter the case as to the right of
the Aborigines.

"But particular districts are not merely the property of particular tribes; particular sections
or portions of these districts are universally recognised by the natives as the property of
individual members of these tribes; and when the owner of such a section or portion of territory
(as I ascertained was the case at King George's Island) has determined on burning off the grass
on his land, which is done for the double purpose of enabling the natives to take the older
animals more easily, and to provide a new crop of sweeter grass for the rising generation of
the forest, not only all the other individuals of his own tribe, but whole tribes from other
districts are invited to the hunting party, and the feast and dance, or corrobory that ensue;
the wild animals on the ground being all considered the property of the owner of the land.
I have often heard natives myself tell me, in answer to my questions on the subject, who were
the Aboriginal owners of particular tracts of land now held by Europeans; and indeed this idea
of property in the soil, FOR HUNTING PURPOSES, is universal among the Aborigines. They seldom
complain of the intrusion of Europeans; on the contrary, they are pleased at their SITTING
DOWN, as they call it, on their land: they do not perceive that their own circumstances are
thereby sadly altered for the worse in most cases; that their means of subsistence are gradually
more and more limited, and their numbers rapidly diminished: in short, in the simplicity of
their hearts, they take the frozen adder in their bosom, and it stings them to death. They
look for a benefit or blessing from European intercourse, and it becomes their ruin.

"If I had a little more leisure I would have written more at length, and in a style more worthy
of your perusal; but you may take it as certain, at all events, that the Aborigines of Australia
HAVE an idea of property in the soil in their native and original state, and that that idea
is, in reality, not very different from that of the European proprietors of sheep and cattle,
by whom they have, in so many instances, been dispossessed, without the slightest consideration
of their rights or feelings.

"Indeed, the infinity of the native names of places, all of which are descriptive and appropriate,
is of itself a PRIMA FACIE evidence of their having strong ideas of property in the soil; for
it is only where such ideas are entertained and acted on, that we find, as is certainly the
case in Australia, NULLUM SINE NOMINE SAXUM.

"I am, my dear Friend, "Your's very sincerely, "JOHN DUNMORE LANG.

"To Dr. Hodgkin."

The dwellings of the Aborigines are simple, of a very temporary character, and requiring but
little skill or labour to construct them. In the summer season, or when the weather is fine,
they consist of little more than a few bushes laid one upon the other, in the form of a semicircle,
as a protection from the wind, for the head, which is laid usually close up to this slight
fence. In the winter, or in cold or wet weather, the semicircular form is still preserved,
but the back and sides are sheltered by branches raised upon one end, meeting at the top in
an arch, and supported by props in front, the convex part being always exposed to the wind.
The sizes of these huts depends upon the facilities that may be afforded for making them, the
number of natives, and the state of the weather.

[Note 75: "Travelled northerly for 20 miles; at evening encamped at Tarcone, adjacent to the
station (then being formed) of Drs. Bernard and Kilgour. The greater part of the servants at
this establishment had been convicts, they were in a state of great insubordination. My native
attendants pointed out an extensive weir, 200 feet long and five feet high; they said it was
the property of a family, and emphatically remarked, "that white men had stolen it and their
country;" the Yow-ew-nil-lurns were the original inhabitants. "Tapoe," the Mount Napier of
Mitchell, is an isolated hill of volcanic formation; the crater is broken down on the west
side to its base. The great swamp is skirted by low hills and well grassed open forest land;
the natives are still the undisputed occupants, no white men having been there to dispossess
them. The people who occupy the country have fixed residences; at one village were 13 large
huts, they are warm and well constructed, in shape of a cupola or "kraal;" a strong frame of
wood is first made, and the whole covered with thick turf, with the grass inwards; there are
several varieties; those like a kraal are sometimes double, having two entrances, others are
demicircular; some are made with boughs and grass, and last are the temporary screens; one
hut measured 10 feet diameter by five feet high, and sufficiently strong for a man on horseback
to ride over.

"Left early, attended by Pevay, to reconnoitre the country. In the marshes numerous trenches
were again met with; these resembled more the works of civilized than of savage men; they were
of considerable extent; one continuous treble line measured 500 yards in length, two feet in
width, and from 18 inches to two feet in depth; these treble dikes led to extensive ramified
watercourses; the whole covered an area of at least ten acres, and must have been done at great
cost of labour to the Aborigines, a convincing proof of their persevering industry. These are
the most interesting specimens of native art I had seen; thousands of yards had been accomplished;
the mountain streams were made to pass through them. In fishing, the natives use the arabine
or eel-pot of platted grass, from nine to twelve feet in length. On the elevated ground were
some of the largest ash-hills I had seen, and must have been the work of generations; one measured
31 yards in length, 29 in width, and two in height, with hollow cavities for the natives' bivouacs
and camping places."--"Extract from Mr. Robinson's Letter, copied from papers relative to Australian
Aborigines, printed for the House of Commons, August 1844, p. 240."]

Sometimes each married man will have a hut for himself, his wives, and family, including perhaps
occasionally his mother, or some other near relative. At other times, large long huts are constructed,
in which, from five to ten families reside, each having their own separate fire. Young unmarried
men frequently unite in parties of six or eight, and make a hut for themselves. The materials
of which the huts are composed, are generally small branches or boughs of trees, covered in
wet weather with grass, or other similar material. At other times, and especially if large,
or made in wet weather, they are formed of thick solid logs of wood, piled and arranged much
in the same way as the lighter material, but presenting an appearance of durability that the
others do not possess. In this case they are generally well covered over with grass, creeping
plants, or whatever else may appear likely to render them waterproof. In travelling through
the country, I have found that where bushes or shrubs abounded, I could at any time in an hour
or two, by working hard, make myself a hut in which I could lie down, perfectly secure from
any rain. The natives, of course, have much less difficulty in doing this, from their great
skill and constant practice. In many parts of New Holland that I have been in, bark is almost
exclusively used by the natives, for their huts; where it can be procured good it is better
than any thing else. I have frequently seen sheets of bark twelve feet long, and eight or ten
feet wide, without a single crack or flaw, in such cases one sheet would form a large and good
hut; but even where it is of a far inferior description, it answers, by a little system in
the arrangement, better than almost any thing else. Projecting, or overhanging rocks, caverns,
hollows of trees, etc. etc., are also frequently made use of by the natives for lodging houses
in cold or wet weather. When hostile parties are supposed to be in the neighbourhood, the natives
are very cautious in selecting secret and retired places to sleep. They go up on the high grounds,
back among scrubs, or encamp in the hollows of watercourses, or where there are dense bushes
of polygonum, or close belts of reeds; the fires are very small on these occasions, and sometimes
none are made; you may thus have a large body of natives encamped very near you without being
conscious of it. I have been taken by a native to a camp of about twenty people in a dense
belt of reeds, which I had gone close by without being aware of their presence, although I
could not have been more than three or four yards from some of them when I passed.

It has already been remarked, that where many natives meet together, the arrangements of their
respective huts depends upon the direction they have come from. In their natural state many
customs and restrictions exist, which are often broken through, when they congregate in the
neighbourhood of European settlements. Strangers are by another similar rule always required
to get to their own proper place at the camp, by going behind and not in front of the huts.
In the same way, if young males meet a party of women going out to look for food, they are
obliged to take a circuit to avoid going near them. It is often amusing to witness the dilemma
in which a young native finds himself when living with Europeans, and brought by them into
a position at variance with his prejudices on this point. All the buildings of the natives
are necessarily from their habits of a very temporary character, seldom being intended for
more than a few weeks' occupation, and frequently only for a few days. By this time food is
likely to become scarce, or the immediate neighbourhood unclean, and a change of locality is
absolutely unavoidable. When the huts are constructed, the ground is made level within, any
little stumps of bushes, or plants, stones, or other things being removed, and grass, reeds,
or leaves of trees frequently gathered and spread over the bottom, to form a dry and soft bed;
this and their opossum cloak constitute the greatest degree of luxury to which they aspire.
Occasionally native men, in very cold weather, are both without huts and clothing of any kind.
In this case, many small fires are made (for the natives never make a large one), by which
they keep themselves warm. I have often seen single natives sleep with a fire at their head,
another at their feet, and one on either side, and as close as ever they could make them without
burning themselves; indeed, sometimes within a very few inches of their bodies.

The weapons of the natives are simple and rudimental in character, but varied in their kind
and make, according to the purposes for which they may be required, or the local circumstances
of the district in which they are used. The spear, which is the chief weapon of offence over
all the known parts of the continent, is of two kinds, one kind is used with the throwing stick,
and the other is thrown out of the hand; of each there are four varieties that I am acquainted
with. Of those launched with the throwing stick there are--1, the kiko, or reed spear, pointed
with hard wood; 2, the kiero, or hard wood spear, with about two feet of the flower-stem of
the grass-tree jointed to the upper end; 3, a similar weapon, with five or six jags cut in
the solid wood of the point upon one side; and 4, the light hard wood spear of Port Lincoln,
and the coast to the eastward, where a single barb is spliced on at the extreme point with
the sinew of the emu or the kangaroo: each spear averages from six to eight feet in length,
and is thrown with facility and precision to distances, varying from thirty to one hundred
yards, according to the kind made use of, and the skill of the native in using it.

Of the large spear there is--1, the karkuroo, or smooth heavy spear, made of the gum-scrub;
2, the same description of weapon, barbed with fragments of flint or quartz; 3, another variety,
having five or six jags cut at the point, upon one side; and 4, a similar weapon, with the
same number of barbs cut upon both sides of the point: each of them is from twelve to fourteen
feet long, and is thrown with most deadly force and accuracy to distances of from thirty to
forty feet. The fishing spear has already been described. The Nga-wa-onk, or throwing stick
is from twenty to twenty-six inches in length, and is of a very similar character throughout
the continent, varying a little in width or shape according to the fashion of particular districts.
It consists of a piece of hard wood, broad about the middle, flattened and sometimes hollowed
on the inside, and tapering to either extremity; at the point the tooth of a kangaroo is tied
and gummed on, turning downwards like a hook; the opposite end has a lump of pitch with a flint
set in it, moulded round so as to form a knob, which prevents the hand from slipping whilst
it is being used, or it is wound round with string made of the fur of the opossum for the same
purpose. In either case it is held by the lower part in the palm of the hand, clasped firmly
by the three lower fingers, with its upper part resting between the fore-finger and the next;
the head of the spear, in which is a small hole, is fitted to the kangaroo tooth, and then
coming down between the fore-finger and thumb, is firmly grasped for throwing; the arm is then
drawn back, the weapon levelled to the eye, a quivering motion given to it to steady it, and
it is hurled with a rapidity, force, and precision quite incredible.

The Wangn or wangno (the boomerang of Eastern and kiley of Western Australia) is another simple
but destructive weapon, in the hands of the native. It consists of a thin, flat, curved piece
of hard wood, about two feet long, made out of the acacia pendula or gum-scrub, the raspberry-jam
wood, or any other of a similar character, a branch or limb is selected which has naturally
the requisite curve (an angle from one hundred to one hundred and thirty degrees) and is dressed
down to a proper shape and thickness, and rounded somewhat at the bend, those whose angles
are slightly obtuse, are usually thrown with the sharp edge against the wind, and go circling
through the air with amazing velocity, and to a great height and distance, describing nearly
a parabola and descending again at the foot of the person who throws them; those which have
the largest obtuse angle are thrown generally against the ground from which they bound up to
a great height, and with much force. With both, the natives are able to hit distant objects
with accuracy, either in hunting or in war; in the latter case this weapon is particularly
dangerous, as it is almost impossible, even when it is seen in the air, to tell which way it
will go, or where descend. I once nearly had my arm broken by a wangno, whilst standing within
a yard of the native who threw it, and looking out purposely for it.

The (katta twirris) or two-edged sword is a formidable weapon, used among the tribes to the
north of Adelaide, exclusively for war; another weapon, common among the same tribes, is the
katta, a round chisel-pointed stick, about three feet long, and used principally in pitched
battles between two individuals.

Another weapon is an angular piece of hard wood, pointed and shaped very much like a miner's
pick, the longer or handle-end being rounded and carved, to give a firmer grasp; another dreadful
weapon, intended for close combat, is made out of hard wood, from two to three feet long, straight
and with the handle rounded and carved for the grasp, which has an immense pointed knob at
the end; the bwirri, is also a weapon of hard wood about two feet long, rather slight and merely
smoothed in the handle, with a round knob at the extremity, it is principally thrown, and with
very great precision; but is more generally used after game than in warfare.

The shield (tar-ram) is made out of the bark or wood of the gum-tree, and varies in shape and
device, the ordinary shield is about two or two and a half feet long, from eight to eighteen
inches across, and tapering from the middle towards the extremities, two holes are made near
the centre, through which a piece of wood is bent for a handle; shields are always carved and
painted in time of war.

The implements made use of by the natives are not very numerous, and their general characteristics
are nearly the same all over the continent. The native hatchet is made of a very hard greenish-looking
stone, rubbed to an edge on either side; it is fixed in the cleft of a stick, or a branch is
doubled round it, and either tied or gummed to prevent its slipping. The throwing sticks have
generally a sharp piece of quartz or flint gummed on at the lower end, which is used as a knife
or chisel; flints or muscle shells are used for skinning animals, dissecting food, cutting
hair, etc.

The ngak-ko, a strong chisel-pointed stick, from three to four feet long, is used for dissecting
the larger animals and fish, for digging grubs out of the trees, for making holes to get out
opossums, etc., for stripping bark, ascending trees, for cutting bark canoes, and a variety
of other useful purposes. The rod for noosing ducks, (tat-tat-ko) and other wild fowl, is about
sixteen feet long, and consists, in its lower part, for the first ten feet, of hard wood, tapering
like an ordinary spear, to this is cemented with resin, a joint of tolerably strong reed about
sixteen inches long, at the upper end of this is inserted and cemented with wax, a tapering
rod of hard wood, three feet long and very similar to the top joint of a fly-fishing rod, to
this is spliced a fine springy and strong top, of about eighteen inches in length, at the end
of which is bound a piece of fine strong cord, which works with a running noose upon the tapering
end of the instrument. Needles are made from the fibula of the emu or kangaroo, and are pointed
at one end by being rubbed on a stone, they are used in sewing as we use a shoemaker's awl,
the hole is bored and the thread put through with the hand; the thread is made of the sinews
of the emu and kangaroo. The netting needle is a little round bit of stick or reed, about the
size of a lead pencil, round which the string is wound, no mesh is used, the eye and hand enabling
the native to net with the utmost regularity, speed, and neatness.

The nets for hunting, for carrying their effects or food, for making belts for the waist, or
bandages for the head, are all made from the tendons or fur of animals, or from the fibres
of plants. In the former, the sinews of the kangaroo or emu, and the fur of opossums and other
similar animals, are used; in the latter, a species of rush, the fibres of the root of the
mallow, the fibres of the root of the broad flag-reed, etc. and in some parts of the continent,
the fibrous bark of trees. The materials are prepared for use by being soaked in water and
carded with the teeth and hands, or by being chewed or rubbed.

String is made by the fibres being twisted, and rubbed with the palm of the hand over the naked
thighs, and is often as neatly executed as English whip-cord, though never consisting of more
than two strands,--the strands being increased in thickness according to the size of the cord
that may be required. Nets vary in size and strength according to the purposes for which they
are required; the duck net (kew-rad-ko) has already been described, as also the kenderanko,
or small net for diving for fish, and the taendilly net, for diving with under the rocks for
the larger fish; the kenyinki is a net with very small meshes, and set out with a wooden bow,
for catching shrimps and other very small fish. There are also, a wharro, a large hoop-net
for catching small cray-fish; a lenko, or small net for hanging round the neck, to put muscles,
cray-fish, frogs, etc. in; a rocko, or large net bag, used by the women for carrying their
worldly effects about with them; the kaar-ge-rum, or net for the waistband; the rad-ko, or
fishing net, which is a regular seine for catching fish, about fifty or sixty feet in length,
and varying in depth according to the place where it is to be used; the emu or kangaroo net
(nunko) is very strong, with meshes from five to six inches square; it is made of cord as thick
as a large quill, and its length is from a hundred to a hundred and thirty feet, and depth
about five feet when set. The wallabie net is about thirty feet long, of strong cord, and when
set about eighteen inches high. The size of the meshes of all the nets depends upon the game
to be taken; generally they are small. Neat, and variously striped baskets and mats are made
by the women of certain tribes, from rushes, or a broad-leaved description of grass. The kallater
is a round basket, wide at the base, and tapering upwards; its size varies. The poola-danooko
is a very pretty looking, flat, oval basket, adapted for laying against the back. The poneed-ke
is a large, flat, circular mat, worn over the back and shoulders, and when tied by a band round
the waist affords a lodging for an infant. Large bags or wallets are also made of kangaroo
skins, with the fur outside, and small ones of the skins of lesser animals with the fur inside.
Skins are prepared for making cloaks by pegging them tight out upon the ground soon after they
are taken off the animal, when dry, cold ashes or dust are thrown in, to absorb any grease
that may have exuded. If the weather is damp, or the native is in a hurry, they are pegged
out near the fire; after drying, the smaller skins are rubbed with stones to make them flexible,
or are scored or ornamented with various devices, cut with a flint or shell on the skin side;
the larger skins have their inner layers shaved off by flints, shells, or implements of wood.
Opossums, wallabies, young kangaroos, etc. are skinned sometimes by simply making a slit about
the head, through which the rest of the body is made to pass; the skins are turned inside out,
and the ends of the legs tied up, and are then ready for holding water, and always form part
of the baggage of natives who travel much about, or go into badly watered districts. I have
seen these skins (lukomb) capable of holding from two to three gallons of water: the fur is
always inside. The karko is a small spade of wood, used by the natives north of Adelaide for
digging up grubs from the ground. The canoe or "mun" is a large sheet of bark cut from the
gum-tree, carefully lowered to the ground, and then heated with fire until it becomes soft
and pliable, and can be moulded into form, it is then supported by wooden props, to keep it
in shape, until it becomes hard and set, which is in about twenty-four hours, though it is
frequently used sooner. On its being launched, sticks or stretchers are placed across each
end and in the middle, to prevent the bark from contracting or curling up with exposure to
the air. A large canoe will hold seven or eight people easily; it is often twenty feet long.
The following is a description of an ordinary one for fishing:--length fifteen feet, width
three feet, depth eight inches, formed out of a single sheet of bark, with one end a little
narrower than the other and pointing upwards. This end is paddled first; the bottom is nearly
flat, and the canoe is so firm, that a person can take hold of one side, and climb into it
from the water without upsetting it. It is paddled along with the long pine-spear moo-aroo,
described as being used in fishing at night by firelight. In propelling it the native stands
near the centre, pushing his moo-aroo against the water, first on one side and then on the
other; in shallow water one end of the moo-aroo is placed on the bottom, and the canoe so pushed
along. The natives are well acquainted with the use of fire, for hardening the points of their
weapons or softening the wood to enable them to bend them. In the former case, the point is
charred in the fire, and scraped with a shell or flint to the precise shape required; in the
latter, their spears, and other similar weapons, are placed upon hot ashes, and bent into form
by pressure. It is a common practice among many of the tribes to grease their weapons and implements
with human fat, taken from the omentum, either of enemies who have been killed, or of relations
who have died. Spears, and other offensive arms, are supposed to possess additional powers
if thus treated; and nets and other implements for procuring game are imagined to become much
more effectual in ensnaring prey. In setting nets, too, the natives have a practice of taking
up a handful of water to the mouth, and then squirting it out over the net, in a shower of
spray, this they think is a powerful charm to ensure the fish being caught.

There can hardly be said to be any form of government existing among a people who recognize
no authority, and where every member of the community is at liberty to act as he likes, except,
in so far as he may be influenced by the general opinions or wishes of the tribe, or by that
feeling which prompts men, whether in civilised or savage communities to bend to the will of
some one or two persons who may have taken a more prominent and leading part than the rest
in the duties and avocations of life. Among none of the tribes yet known have chiefs ever been
found to be acknowledged, though in all there are always some men who take the lead, and whose
opinions and wishes have great weight with the others.

Other things being equal, a man's authority and influence increase among his tribe in proportion
to his years. To each stage of life through which he passes is given some additional knowledge
or power, and he is privileged to carry an additional number of implements and weapons, as
he advances in life. An old grey-headed man generally carries the principal implements and
weapons, either for war or sorcery; many of the latter the women and children are never allowed
to see, such as pieces of rock-crystal, by which the sorcerer can produce rain, cause blindness,
or impart to the waters the power of destroying life, etc.; sacred daggers for causing the
death of their enemies by enchantment; the moor-y-um-karr or flat oval piece of wood which
is whirled round the camp at nights, and many others of a similar nature.

I have not, however, found that age is invariably productive of influence, unless the individual
has previously signalized himself among his people, and taken up a commanding position when
youth and strength enabled him to support his pretensions, and unless he be still in full possession
of vigour of mind and energy of character, though no longer endowed with personal strength.
The grey-head appears to be usually treated with respect as long as the owner is no incumbrance
to those around him, but the moment he becomes a drag, every tie is broken, and he is at once
cast off to perish. Among many tribes with which I have been acquainted, I have often noticed
that though the leading men were generally elderly men from forty-five to sixty years old,
they were not always the oldest; they were still in full vigour of body and mind, and men who
could take a prominent part in acting as well as counselling. I am inclined, therefore, to
think that the degree of estimation in which any native is held by his fellows, or the amount
of deference that may be paid to his opinions, will in a great measure depend upon his personal
strength, courage, energy, prudence, skill, and other similar qualifications, influenced, perhaps,
collaterally by his family connections and the power which they possess.

Each father of a family rules absolutely over his own circle. In his movements and arrangements
he is uncontrolled, yet, as a matter of policy, he always informs his fellows where he is going,
what he is going to do, how long he will be absent, when he will meet them again, etc. It thus
happens that, although a tribe may be dispersed all over their own district in single groups,
or some even visiting neighbouring tribes, yet if you meet with any one family they can at
once tell you where you will find any other, though the parties themselves may not have met
for weeks. Some one or other is always moving about, and thus the news of each other's locality
gets rapidly spread among the rest. The principal occupation, indeed, of parties when they
meet, is to give and receive information relative to neighbouring families or tribes. In cases
of sudden danger or emergency, the scattered groups are rapidly warned or collected by sending
young men as messengers, or by raising signal smokes in prominent positions.

In an assembly of the tribe, matters of importance are generally discussed and decided upon,
by the elder men, apart from the others. It not unfrequently happens, however, that some discontented
individual will loudly and violently harangue the whole tribe; this usually occurs in the evening,
and frequently continues for hours together; his object being generally either to reverse some
decision that has been come to, to excite them to something they are unwilling to do, or to
abuse some one who is absent. Occasionally he is replied to by others, but more frequently
allowed uninterruptedly to wear himself out, when from sheer exhaustion he is compelled to
sit down.

Occasionally the tribe is addressed by its most influential members in the language of admonition
or advice, and though at such times a loud tone and strong expressions are made use of, there
is rarely any thing amounting to an order or command; the subject is explained, reasons are
given for what is advanced, and the result of an opposite course to that suggested, fully pointed
out; after this the various members are left to form their own judgments, and to act as they
think proper.

In their domestic relations with one another polygamy is practised in its fullest extent. An
old man having usually from one to four wives, or as many as he can procure. Female children
are betrothed usually from early infancy, and such arrangements are usually adhered to; still
in many cases circumstances occur frequently to cause an alteration; but if not, the girls
generally go to live with their husbands about the age of twelve, and sometimes even before
that. Relatives nearer than cousins are not allowed to marry, and this alliance does not generally
take place. Female orphans belong to the nearest male relative, as also does a widow, instead
of to the nearest male relative of the husband, as was found to be the case in Western Australia
by Captain Grey. Two or three months generally elapse before the widow goes to another husband;
but if the wife dies, the man takes another as soon as he can get one. If a woman, having young
children, join another tribe, the children go with her; but I am not aware whether they would
remain permanently attached to that tribe or not. Brothers often barter their sisters for wives
for themselves, but it can only be done with the parents' consent, or after their death. If
a wife be stolen, war is always continued until she is given up, or another female in her place.

There is no ceremony connected with the undertaking of marriage. Marriage is not looked upon
as any pledge of chastity, indeed no such virtue is recognised. Advenis ex longinquo accedentibus
foeminas ad tempus dare hospitis esse boni judicatur. Viduis et foeminis jam senescentibus
saepe in id traditis, quandoque etiam invitis et insciis cognatis, adolescentes utuntur. Puellae
tenerae a decimo primum anno, et pueri a decimo tertio vel quarto, inter se miscentur. Senioribus
mos est, si forte gentium plurium castra appropinquant, viros noctu huic inde transeuntes,
uxoribus alienis uti et in sua castra ex utraque parte mane redire. Parentes saepe infantum,
viri uxorum quaestum corporum faciunt. In urbe Adelaide panis praemio parvi aut paucorum denariorum
meretrices fieri eas libenter cogunt. Facile potest intelligi, amorem inter nuptos vix posse
esse grandem, quum omnia quae ad foeminas attinent, hominum arbitrio ordinentur et tanta sexuum
societati laxitas, et adolescentes quibus ita multae ardoris explendi dantur occasiones, haud
magnopere uxores, nisi ut servas desideraturos. When the natives were gone, the girl was removed
to the mission station, to receive medical attendance, but eventually died. In the same year
an old woman who broke her thigh was left to die, as the tribe did not like the trouble of
carrying her about. Parents are treated in the same manner when helpless and infirm. [Note
77 at end of para.] In 1839 I found an aged man left to die, without fire or food, upon a high
bare hill beyond the Broughton. In 1843 I found two old women, who had been abandoned in the
same way, at the Murray, and although they were taken every care of when discovered, they both
died in about a week afterwards. No age is prescribed for matrimony, but young men under twenty-five
years of age do not often obtain wives, there are exceptions, however, to this: I have seen
occasionally young men of seventeen or eighteen possessing them.

[Note 77: "Practised by the American Indians."--Catlin, vol. i. p. 216. No one takes the part
of the weak or the injured, or ever attempts to interfere with the infliction of such severe
punishments.

Few women will be found, upon examination, to be free from frightful scars upon the head, or
the marks of spear-wounds about the body. I have seen a young woman, who, from the number of
these marks, appeared to have been almost riddled with spear wounds. Upon this point Captain
Grey remarks, vol. ii. p. 249.

The menses commence to flow among the native females at an earlier age than among Europeans,
frequently beginning at about twelve; they are also subject to many irregularities in their
periodical return, arising probably from the kind of life they lead and the nature of the diet
upon which they live. I have known cases where this irregularity has extended to three months.
Child-bearing does not commence often before the age of sixteen, nor have I ever noticed pregnant
women under that age. In inquiries conducted by Mr. Moorhouse among the natives of Adelaide,
that gentleman ascertained, that as many as nine children have occasionally been born to one
woman; that the average number is about five; but that each mother only reared an average of
two. At childbirth, the placenta, which is considered as sacred, is carefully put away from
the reach of the dogs as soon as thrown off from the uterus, and the female is up and following
her usual avocations a very few hours after the accouchement. Instances have occurred of women
sitting up, and asking for food an hour after confinement, though wet with rain, and having
very little fire. Two days after it, I have seen a woman walking two or three miles, and going
out to look for food in her usual manner. The first three or four are often killed; no distinction
appears to be made in this case between male or female children. Half-castes appear to be always
destroyed.

The nomenclature of the natives is a subject of considerable difficulty, and is at present
involved in much obscurity and uncertainty, so many different practices obtaining, and so many
changes of name occurring to some individuals during the course of their life. In the Adelaide
district, and among the tribes to the north, Mr. Moorhouse has found that numerical names are
given to children when first born, in the order of birth, a variation in the termination constituting
the distinction of name for male or female, thus:--

                                  IF MALE.   IF FEMALE.
The 1st child would be called     Kertameru  Kertanya
2nd child would be called         Warritya   Warriarto
3rd child would be called         Kudnutya   Kudnarto
4th child would be called         Monaitya   Monarto
5th child would be called         Milaitya   Milarto
6th child would be called         Marrutya   Marruarto
7th child would be called         Wangutya   Wangwarto
8th child would be called         Ngarlaitya Ngarlarto
9th child would be called         Pouarna    Ngarlarto

These are given at birth; but a short time after another name is added, which is derived from
some object in nature, as a plant, animal, or insect. This name continues until after marriage
and the birth of the first child, upon which the father takes the name of this child, and has
the word binna or spinna, (an adult,) affixed, as Kadli; name of a child, Kadlitpinna, the
father of Kadli; the mother is called Kadli ngangki, or mother of Kadli, from ngangki, a female
or woman. The names of the father and mother are changed at the birth of every child in the
same manner.

At Moorunde, and among many other tribes, I have not found any numerical names to be given
at birth, the first name usually being that derived from some object in nature. This is occasionally
changed after marriage and the birth of a child; as among the Adelaide or northern natives,
the father taking the name of the child with the affix of imbe or nimbe (implying father),
as Kartul, a child's name, Kartulnimbe the father of Kartul, Memparne, a child's name, Memparnimbe
the father of Memparne. This paidronymic is not, however, always adhered to in preference to
the original name; thus Memparnimbe is as often called by his former name of Tenberry as his
paidronymic; he is also called occasionally Worrammo, from his being left-handed. Neither have
I found the name of the parent change at the birth of every child; thus Memparnimbe has other
children, younger than Memparne, as Warrulan, Timarro, etc. yet he is never called Warrulanimbe,
Timarronimbe, etc. The mother's name, similarly to that of the father, is also occasionally
altered to that of the child, with the affix of arwer, or emarwer, as Kartulemarwer, the mother
of Kartul, Memparnemarwer, the mother of Memparne, yet is the original name of the mother as
often used as the paidronymic. Old men are frequently called by the name of the place which
belongs to them, with the affix of bookola thus Mooroondooyo Bookola is the old man who owns
Mooroonde, etc.

At other times nicknames are given to natives, and so generally made use of by the others that
the proper or original name becomes almost lost. Thus a native named Marloo, from a habit he
had of looking about him and saying, "I see, I see," is called Nairkinimbe, or the father of
seeing. Another named Ngalle-ngalle is called Eukonimbe, the father of eukodko, from his being
very fond of the crayfish of that name, and so on. Other local appellations are given referring
to some peculiarity of personal appearance, Parn-gang-gapko, the baldheaded, Towang Makkeroo,
the broken-thighed, etc. Others again refer to family bereavements, as Roo ptootarap, a father
without children, Parntomakker, a childless mother, Parnko, an orphan, Wirrang, one who has
lost a brother, Rockootarap, one whose wife is dead, Thaltarlpipke, an unmarried man, Rartchilock,
one who owns a wife, Rang, a widow, Waukerow, an unmarried woman, etc. These are all distinctions,
which though readily discoverable by a person tolerably well versed in the dialect, or long
resident among the same natives, present many difficulties, and lead to many mistakes, amongst
casual inquirers, or those whose pursuits do not keep them long at the place of their inquiries.
There are others which are still more difficult to be understood, from the almost utter impossibility
of learning (with any reasonable sacrifice of time) the language with sufficient accuracy to
enable the inquirer thoroughly to comprehend the meanings of the proper names, and deduce the
roots from which they are derived.

Even among the Adelaide tribes, where there appears to be a greater uniformity in the system
of nomenclature than I have met with any where else, and where Mr. Moorhouse has devoted more
time and attention to the subject than perhaps any other person, there are still difficulties
and uncertainties. Thus an Adelaide boy about the age of ten, is called by the name of Koar
(the crow), from early infancy, but between ten and twelve, after undergoing one of their ceremonies,
the name was changed to Mannara, (which I believe means the crow's nest). According, however,
to the usual system adopted, this boy's name ought to have remained Koar, until, by becoming
a married man and a father, it gave way to a paidronymic.

There is another subject somewhat analogous to that of nomenclature, and about which still
less is known;--that of every native adopting some object in creation as his crest, or tiende.
The same thing is noticed by Captain Grey in his narrative (vol. ii. p. 228).

"But as each family adopts some animal or vegetable, as their crest or sign, or KOBONG as they
call it, I imagine it more likely, that these have been named after the families, than that
the families have been named after them.

From the foregoing quotation, it is apparent that very little difference exists in the custom
as practised in Western and Southern Australia. In the former, however, there appears to be
an unwillingness to destroy the object represented by the kobong or tiende that I have never
observed in the latter. But very little appears to be known on this subject at present, as
far as regards the reason for assuming the tiende, or its connection with the individual or
family it may represent. The same tiende seems to descend from a father to his children; but
I have been told occasionally of instances where such has not been the case. There are several
striking differences between the customs and habits of the Aborigines of Western Australia,
narrated by Captain Grey, and those in force among the tribes I have myself been best acquainted
with in Southern or South-eastern Australia. One singular peculiarity is described by Captain Grey.

"One of the most remarkable facts connected with the natives, is that they are divided into
certain great families, all the members of which bear the same names, as a family or second
name: the principal branches of these families, so far as I have been able to ascertain, are the

   Ballaroke
   Tdondarup
   Ngotak
   Nagarnook
   Nogonyuk
   Mongalung
   Narrangur.

"But in different districts the members of these families give a local name to the one to which
they belong, which is understood in that district, to indicate some particular branch of the
principal family. The most common local names are,

   Didaroke
   Gwerrinjoke
   Maleoke
   Waddaroke
   Djekoke
   Kotejumeno
   Namyungo
   Yungaree.

"These family names are common over a great portion of the continent; for instance, on the
Western coast, in a tract of country extending between four and five hundred miles in latitude,
members of all these families are found. In South Australia, I met a man who said that he belonged
to one of them, and Captain Flinders mentions Yungaree, as the name of a native in the Gulf
of Carpentaria.

"These family names are perpetuated, and spread through the country, by the operation of two
remarkable laws:--

"1st. That children of either sex, always take the family name of their mother.

"2nd. That a man cannot marry a woman of his own family name."

From this it appears that the natives of that part of the country have in addition to their
other ordinary names a family or surname, which is perpetuated through successive generations
on the mother's side. This is not the case as far as my observations and inquiries have enabled
me to ascertain among the numerous tribes frequenting the Murray river, and Mr. Moorhouse assures
me that he has been equally unable to detect any coincidence of the kind among the tribes frequenting
the district of Adelaide.

The division, numbers, and names of the various tribes are also subjects of difficulty and
uncertainty. As far as my researches have yet extended upon this point, it appears to me, first,
that groups of natives have a distinctive or a local appellation, derived from the particular
place they belong to, as Barmerara maru, the natives frequenting the lake called Barmera: Moolyoolpero
maru, the natives frequenting the lagoon called Moolyoolko, and so on. Secondly, a general
or tribal name, as Narwijjerook, a native of the tribe so called, which includes the natives
of Barmera and various others in that neighbourhood. Karn-brickolenbola, a native of the tribe
so called, and which includes various groups around Mooroonde. Thirdly, it appears that wherever
a change occurs in the name of the tribes to which contiguous groups of natives may belong,
there is a corresponding change in the dialect or language spoken; thus the Narwij-jerook speak
a dialect called Narwijjong, the Karn-brickolenbola tribe the Aiawong dialect, and so on.

In many of these dialects there appears to be little more difference than exists among the
counties in England. Such is the case up the course of the Murray from Lake Alexandrina to
the Darling; and such Captain Grey found to be the case throughout a great part of Western
Australia. In others the dialects are so totally unlike one another, that natives, meeting
upon opposite sides of a river, cannot speak to or understand a word of what each other say,
except through the medium of a third language, namely that spoken by the natives of the river
itself, and which is totally unlike either of the other two.

This is the case at Moorunde, where three different dialects meet, the Yakkumban, or dialect
spoken by the Paritke tribe, or natives inhabiting the scrub to the west and north-west of
the Murray. The Boraipar or language of the Arkatko tribe, who inhabit the scrub to the east
of the Murray, and the Aiawong or river dialect, extending, with slight variations, from the
junction of the Murray and Lake Alexandrina to the Darling. Almost all the tribes impose initiatory
rites upon the young, through which they must pass from one stage of life to another, until
admitted to the privileges and rights of manhood. These observances differ greatly in different
parts of the continent, independently of local or distinctive variations indicative of the
tribe to which a native may belong.

Thus at the Gulf of Carpentaria, the rite of circumcision is performed; at Swan River, King
George's Sound, and nearly three hundred miles to the eastward of the latter place, no such
rite exists. Round the head of the Great Australian Bight, and throughout the Port Lincoln
Peninsula, not only is this rite performed, but a still more extraordinary one conjoined with
it. [Note 78: "Finditur usque ad urethram a parte inferaa penis."] Descending the east side
of Spencer's and St. Vincent's Gulf, and around the district of Adelaide, the simple rite of
circumcision is retained. Proceeding but a little farther to the banks of the Murray, and its
neighbourhood, no such ceremony exists, nor have I ever heard of its having been observed any
where on the southeastern, or eastern parts of the continent.

So also with respect to tattooing; in one part of the continent it is adopted, in another it
is rejected; when it is practised, there are many varieties in the form, number, or arrangement
of the scars, distinguishing the different tribes, so that one stranger meeting with another
any where in the woods, can at once tell, from the manner in which he is tattooed, the country
and tribe to which he belongs, if not very remote. In the Adelaide district, Mr. Moorhouse
has observed, that there are five stages to be passed through, before the native attains the
rank of a bourka, or full grown man. The first is, that from birth to the tenth year, when
he is initiated into the second, or Wilya kundarti, by being covered with blood, drawn from
the arm of an adult; he is then allowed to carry a wirri for killing birds, and a small wooden
spade (karko) for digging grubs out of the ground. At from twelve to fourteen, the third stage
is entered, by having the ceremony of circumcision performed, which takes place in the following
manner. Early in the morning, the boys to be circumcised are seized from behind, and a bandage
is fastened over the eyes of each; they are then led away from the presence of the women and
children to a distance of half a mile, when they are laid on the ground, and covered with a
cloak, or skin, so as not to see what is passing amongst the adults, who proceed with the ceremony.
Three of them now commence limping, and making a peculiar groaning noise, until they arrive
opposite one of the boys, upon whom they seize. The individual laid hold of, jumps up, and
runs off at full speed, as if he intended to escape; the three, before occupied in limping
and groaning, run with him to prevent this, and after three or four races, all four run over
the place where the boys are covered up, and the boy, who had been trying to escape, is caught,
and laid down near the other boys, and covered with dust. He is now supposed to be in a state
of enchantment, from which he is aroused by being lifted up by the ears, at the same time that
loud noises are made into them. All the men now, except the sick, form themselves into a circle,
and keep walking round in single file, the first individual having a katto, or long stick held
down his back. After a few circles this is given to another; a short rest is taken, and then
the whole party rise, except the sick, the inspired men, or sorcerers, and those upon whom
the operation is to be performed, and proceed to a short distance, the man with the katto down
his back leading. When assembled, they form into a line, and at word of command commence the
peculiar stamping and groaning, beginning at the far end of the line, and gradually advancing
towards the other. During several rounds of this noise, they advance at each, a little nearer
to the boys, who when they are very near, have their eyes uncovered that they may see the men
approaching. The first man who held the katto, fastens it in the ground, and all the others
coming up, take hold of it, and fall down into a heap. The boys are then thrown upon the heap
of men, and the operation is performed by men who are supposed to be inspired, or sorcerers.
Immediately after the operation, the boys are taken away from the presence of all females,
and kept upon a vegetable diet until recovered from its effects. The head is covered with grease,
and red ochre, with a bandage passed round it, and is ornamented with tufts of feathers. The
Yudna, or pubic covering, is worn by the circumcised for some months after the operation.

The fourth stage (Wilyaru) is entered about the age of twenty, when the back, shoulders, arms
and chest, are tattooed. He is called ngulte, at the time of the operation; yellambambettu,
when the incisions have begun to discharge pus; tarkange, when the sores are just healed; mangkauitya,
at the time the cuts begin to rise; and bartamu, when the scars are at their highest elevation.
Each tribe has a distinctive mode of making their incisions. Some have scars running completely
across the chest, from one axillar to the other, whilst others have merely dotted lines; some
have circles and semicircles formed on the apex of the shoulder, others small dots only.

The fifth stage is bourka or full man, and is only attained when the individual is getting
grey-headed.

Among the Murray natives and contiguous tribes, instead of the rite of circumcision, a ceremony
called wharepin, is performed upon youths from fourteen to sixteen. Early in the morning some
of the male friends of the boy about to be operated upon, go behind him to seize him, upon
which he sets off running as hard as he can, as if to escape; but being followed by his pursuers
is soon captured and thrown down; he is then raised up and surrounded by several natives, who
hold him and smear him from head to foot, with red ochre and grease; during this part of the
ceremony, a band of elderly women, generally the mother and other near relatives, surround
the group, crying or lamenting, and lacerating their thighs and backs with shells or flints,
until the blood streams down. When well ochred all over, the novice is led away by another
native, apart from the rest of the tribe, or if there are more than one, they stand together
linked hand in hand, and when tired sit down upon bunches of green boughs brought for that
purpose, for they are neither allowed to sit on the ground, nor to have any clothing on; and
when they move about they always carry a bunch of green boughs in each hand.

They are now ready for the ceremony, which is usually performed by influential natives of distant
tribes, and which generally takes place at the meetings of these tribes, as in the case of
the meeting of the Moorunde natives, and the Nar-wij-jerook tribe described in Chapter II.P.220.
On that occasion, there were three Moorunde natives to be operated upon. As soon as the ceremonial
of the meeting of the tribes had been gone through, as already described, the Nar-wij-jerook
natives retired about a hundred yards, and sat down on the ground, the Moorunde people remaining
standing. The three spears which had little nets attached to them, and which had been brought
down by the Nar-wij-jerooks, were now advanced in front of that tribe, still seated and stuck
in a row in the ground. Three men then got up and seated themselves at the foot of the three
spears, with their legs crossed. Two other natives then went over to the Moorunde people, to
where the three novices stood shaking and trembling, like criminals waiting for their punishment,
seizing them by the legs and shoulders, and carefully lifting them from the ground, they carried
each in turn, and laid them on their backs at full length upon green boughs, spread upon the
ground in front of the three men sitting by the spears, so that the head of each rested on
the lap of one of the three. From the moment of their being seized, they resolutely closed
their eyes, and pretended to be in a deep trance until the whole was over. When all three novices
had been laid in their proper position, cloaks were thrown over them, but leaving the face
exposed, and a Nar-wij-jerook coming to the side of each, carefully lifted up a portion of
the covering and commenced plucking the hair from the pubes. At intervals, the operators were
relieved by others of both sexes, and of various ages; little children under ten, were sometimes
but not frequently officiating. When all the hair had been pulled out, that belonging to each
native was carefully rolled up in green boughs, the three lots being put together, and given
to one of the wise or inspired men to be put properly away; bunches of green boughs were now
placed under each arm of the boys as also in their hands, after which several natives took
hold of them, and raised them suddenly and simultaneously to their feet, whilst a loud gutteral
Whaugh was uttered by the other natives around. They were then disenchanted and the ceremony
was over, but for some time afterwards, the initiated are obliged to sleep away from the camp,
and are not allowed to see the women; their heads and bodies are kept smeared with red ochre
and grease, and tufts of feathers and kangaroo teeth are worn tied to the hair in front. One
of the most singular circumstances connected with this ceremony, is that the natives who have
officiated never afterwards mention the name of the young men, nor do the latter ever mention
the names of the individuals who have operated upon them; should the name of either be accidentally
mentioned in the presence of the other, they are greatly annoyed, and at once put the hand
up to the mouth to signify that it must not be spoken. It is thus often very difficult to find
out the names of particular natives, and strangers would make many mistakes, imagining that
they were putting down the name, when in reality they were marking some phrase, signifying
that his name could not be mentioned by the one applied to. They have no objection to meet
each other after the ceremony, nor do they decline speaking, but there is this peculiarity
in their conduct that if one gives food, or any thing else to the other, it is either laid
on the ground for him to take, or is given through the intervention of a third person, in the
gentlest and mildest manner possible, whereas to another native it would be jerked, perhaps
much in the same way that a bone is thrown to a dog. There are other instances in which the
names of natives are never allowed to be spoken, as those of a father or mother-in-law, of
a son-in-law and some cases arising from a connection with each other's wives. In speaking,
therefore, of one another, or introducing persons to distant natives, a very round about way
of describing them has often to be adopted, yet so intimately are neighbouring tribes acquainted
with the peculiar relations subsisting between the members of each, that there is rarely any
difficulty in comprehending who the individual is that is alluded to. Among the Adelaide tribes,
there is no circumstance but death that makes them unwilling to mention the name of any of
their acquaintances, and this cause of unwillingness I believe extends equally all over the
continent.

The ceremony of tattooing is practised among the tribes of the Murray and its neighbourhood
with great circumstantial variety. Some are tattooed all over the back or breast in rows, some
only one half of each or of one, some are only dotted, others have rings or semicircles round
the upper part of the arms and some are tattooed on the belly, etc.

Many tribes I have met with in different parts of Australia, have no tattooing at all, others
are marked on the breast by singular looking scars, occupying a space of six or eight inches
each way upon the chest, these are called "renditch" in the Murray dialect, and are made by
fire; but I have never been able to obtain any satisfactory information respecting them. These
scars are confined to particular tribes whom I have only met with occasionally, and for a period
which did not allow me the opportunity of making much inquiry into their origin.

At Encounter Bay, instead of plucking out the hair of the pubes, the incipient beard is pulled
out by the roots, and the youth, as at the Murray, is smeared from head to foot with red ochre
and grease.

Among the females the only ceremony of importance that I am aware of is that of tattooing the
back, a long and very painful operation. [Note 79 at end of para.] The method of performing
the operation is as follows: the person whose back is to be tattooed is taken out early in
the morning and squatted on the ground with her back towards the operator (always a male),
and her head bent down between the knees of a strong old woman who is sitting on the ground
for that purpose; the back is thus presented in the best position to the operator, and the
girl, as long as her head is kept firmly in its position, cannot possibly arise until all is
over. The man who performs the ceremony then commences by taking hold of a fold of the flesh
on the girl's right side, just above the breech, with his left hand, whilst with his right
he holds a piece of flint or shell, and cuts perpendicular gashes an inch long, three-sixteenths
of an inch deep, and about half an inch apart, in horizontal lines from right to left quite
across the back, the rows being half an inch or three-quarters distant from each other.

[Note 79: Hoc plerumque menstruis jam primum venientibus factum est: saepe autem puellis propter
timorem statum suam celantibus, aut aliqua alia ex causa, opus quod tempore menstruali fieri
prorsus necessarium est, in proxima differtur.]

This is carried up the whole way from where he commences to the shoulders, and when freshly
done, presents one of the most dreadful spectacles imaginable, the blood gushes out in torrents,
and though frequently wiped away with grass by some of the women present, is scarcely removed
before the crimson stream flows as profusely as ever. During the time of the ceremony the mother
and other female relations lament and mourn, whilst they lacerate their bodies with shells.
When the incisions are all made, grass or boughs are warmed at the fire, to wipe off the blood.
The whole scene is most revolting and disgusting; the ground near where the poor creature sits
is saturated with blood, and the whole back is one mass of coagulated gore. In one case, where
I saw this operation performed upon a girl belonging to the Paritke tribe, she seemed to suffer
much pain. At first, until nearly a row of scars had been made across the lower part of the
back, she bore the operation well, but as it proceeded, her cries were piteous and unceasing,
and before it was concluded, they became the most heart-rending screams of agony. From the
position in which she was held, however, by the old woman on the ground (and who, by the way,
was her mother,) it was impossible for her to stir or escape; indeed, had she attempted it,
she would probably have been most cruelly beaten in addition.

The ceremony occupied three-quarters of an hour, but it was two hours before the wounds had
ceased to bleed, and even then, the dried blood was not washed off. Two kangaroo teeth, and
a tuft of emu feathers were tied to the girl's hair, and she was smeared over with grease and
red ochre, but was still forbidden to touch food until the morning.

Many weeks elapse before the wounds heal, and the inconveniences attending them are removed.

In another case that I saw, the girl bore the operation most stoically, until about two-thirds
over, when she could stand it no longer, but screaming out in agony, applied her teeth and
nails with such good effect to the thighs of the old lady who held her down, that the latter
was compelled to release her grasp, and the poor girl got up, vowing she would not have another
incision made. Of course all resistance would have been futile, or probably have only brought
down a fearful chastisement upon her if she had been alone with her tribe in the bush; but
she took advantage of my presence, and escaped with nearly one-third of the incisions deficient.
At this ceremony many other natives of both sexes, and of all ages were standing looking on;
but so little did they commiserate the poor creature's sufferings, that the degree of her pain
only seemed to be the measure of their laughter and merriment.

The girls, however, are always anxious to have this ceremony performed, as a well tattooed
back is considered a great addition to their other charms, and whenever I have offered to protect
them from the cruelty of their tribe for refusing to submit to it, they have invariably preferred
submitting to the operation.

The only other ceremonies undergone by the females, are those of having the belly or arms tattooed,
and of having the hair plucked from the pubes after the death of a child, and sometimes from
other causes.

In the mode of disposing of the dead, and the ceremonials attending it, there is a difference
in almost every tribe. Among the Adelaide natives as soon as a person dies, a loud wailing
cry is raised by the relations and friends. The body is immediately wrapped up in the skin
or clothing worn during life, and in the course of a day or two, it is placed upon the wirkatti
or bier, which is made of branches crossed so as to form the radii of a circle, an examination
is then entered upon as to the cause of death, in the following manner. The bier is carried
upon the shoulders of five or six persons, over places where the deceased had been living;
whilst this is going on, a person is placed under the bier, professedly in conversation with
the deceased. He asks, what person killed you? If the corpse say no one, the inquest ceases;
but if it states that some person has, the bier moves round, the corpse is said to produce
the motion, influenced by kuingo (a fabulous personification of death). If the alleged murderer
be present, the bier is carried round by this influence, and one of the branches made to touch
him. Upon this a battle is sure to ensue either immediately, or in the course of a day or two.

At the time of burial the body is removed from the bier, and deposited, with the head to the
west, in a grave from four to six feet deep. Children under four years are not buried for some
months after death. They are carefully wrapped up, carried upon the back of the mother by day,
and used as a pillow by night, until they become quite dry and mummy-like, after which they
are buried, but the ceremony is not known to Mr. Moorhouse.

In the Encounter Bay neighbourhood, four modes of disposing of the dead obtain, according to
Mr. Meyer:--old persons are buried; middle-aged persons are placed in a tree, the hands and
knees being brought nearly to the chin, all the openings of the body, as mouth, nose, ears,
etc. being previously sewn up, and the corpse covered with mats, pieces of old cloth, nets,
etc. The corpse being placed in the tree, a fire is made underneath, around which the friends
and relatives of the deceased sit, and make lamentations. In this situation the body remains,
unless removed by some hostile tribe, until the flesh is completely wasted away, after which
the skull is taken by the nearest relative for a drinking cup.

The third mode is to place the corpse in a sitting posture, without any covering, the face
being turned to the eastward, until dried by the sun, after which it is placed in a tree. This
mode is adopted with those to whose memory it is intended to shew some respect. The fourth
method is to burn the body; but this is only practised in the case of still-born children,
or such as die shortly after birth.

Another method practised upon Lake Alexandrina, is to construct a platform [Note 80 at end
of para.], or bier upon high poles of pine, put upright in the ground upon which the body is
placed, bandages being first put round the forehead, and over the eyes, and tied behind. A
bone is stuck through the nose, the fingers are folded in the palm of the hand, and the fist
is tied with nets, the ends of which are fastened about a yard from the hands; the legs are
put crossing each other.

[Note 80: "They often deposit their dead on trees and on scaffolds." --Catlin's AMERICAN INDIANS,
vol. ii. p. 10--vide also vol. i. p. 89]

The lamentations are raised by the natives around, fires are made below, so that the smoke
may ascend over the corpse, and the mourners usually remain encamped about the place for a
great length of time, or until the body is thoroughly dry, after which they leave it. Mr. Schurman
says, "At Port Lincoln, after the body is put in a grave, and a little earth is thrown on it;
the natives place a number of sticks across its mouth, over which they spread grass or bushes
to prevent the remaining earth from falling down, so that an empty space of about three feet
in depth is left between the body and the top earth."

At the Flinders river (Gulf of Carpentaria), Captain Stokes observes, "At the upper part of
Flinders river, a corpse was found lodged in the branches of a tree, some twenty feet high
from the ground; it had three coverings, first, one of bark, then a net, and outside of all
a layer of sticks."

On the Murray river, and among the contiguous tribes, many differences occur in the forms of
burial adopted by the various tribes. Still-born children are buried immediately. Infants not
weaned are carried about by the mother for some months, well wrapped up, and when thoroughly
dry, are put into nets or bags, and deposited in the hollows of trees, or buried. Children
and young people are buried as soon as practicable after death, and a spearing match generally
ensues.

Old people are also buried without unnecessary delay. I have even seen a man in the prime of
life all ready placed upon the bier before he was dead, and the mourners and others waiting
to convey him to his long home, as soon as the breath departed.

In the case of a middle-aged, or an old man, the spearing and fighting contingent upon a death
is always greater than for younger natives. The burial rites in some tribes assimilate to those
practised near Adelaide; in others I have witnessed the following ceremony:--The grave being
dug, the body was laid out near it, on a triangular bier (birri), stretched straight on the
back, enveloped in cloths and skins, rolled round and corded close, and with the head to the
eastward; around the bier were many women, relations of the deceased, wailing and lamenting
bitterly, and lacerating their thighs, backs, and breasts, with shells or flint, until the
blood flowed copiously from the gashes. The males of the tribe were standing around in a circle,
with their weapons in their hands, and the stranger tribes near them, in a similar position,
imparting to the whole a solemn and military kind of appearance. After this had continued for
some time, the male relatives closed in around the bier, the mourning women renewed their lamentations
in a louder tone, and two male relatives stepped up to the bier, and stood across the body,
one at the head, and one at the foot, facing each other.

Having cut above the abdomen the strings binding the cloths which were wound round the body,
they proceeded to cut a slit of about ten inches long, through the swathing cloths above the
belly; through this opening, they removed the arms, which appeared to have been crossed there,
laying them down by the sides, inside the wrappings (for no part was unwound); having warmed
a handful of green boughs over a fire, they thrust them in through the opening in the cloths,
upon the naked belly of the corpse; after a little while these were removed, and one of their
sorcerers made an incision of about eight inches long in the abdomen. Having pulled out the
entrails and peritoneum, they were turned over, and carefully examined, whilst the women kept
wailing and cutting [Note 81 at end of para.] themselves more violently than before, and even
the men themselves lamented aloud. When this had been continued for some time, a portion of
the omentum was cut off, wrapped in green leaves, and then put carefully away in a bag. The
entrails were now replaced, a handful or two of green leaves thrust in above them, the cloths
replaced, and the body again bound up ready for interment.

[Note 81: Also an American custom.--Catlin, vol. i. p. 90. Lacerating the flesh at death was
expressly forbidden in the Jewish dispensation. It is practised also in New Zealand.--Vide
Dieffenbach.]

A relative of the deceased now jumped up, with his weapons, violently excited, and apparently
with the intention of spearing some one; but he was at once restrained by his friends, who
informed me that the investigation had satisfied them that the man had not died through the
agency of sorcery; if he had, it is imagined that a cicatrice would have been found upon the
omentum. Two men now got into the grave, spread a cloth in the bottom, and over that green
boughs. Other natives turned the bier round, and lifting up the body, gave it to the two in
the grave to lay in its proper position, which was quite horizontal, and with the head to the
west [Note 82 at end of para.], the grave being dug east and west: green boughs were now thrown
thickly into it, and earth was pushed in by the bystanders with their feet, until a mound had
been raised some height above the ground. All was now over, and the natives began to disperse,
upon which the wild and piercing wail of the mourners became redoubled.

[Note 82: This appears to be a very general custom, and to be of Eastern origin. Catlin describes
it as always being attended to at the disposal of the dead by the American Indians. In South
Africa, however, Moffat states (p. 307), "that the corpse is put exactly facing the north."]

Upon the mounds, or tumuli, over the graves, huts of bark, or boughs, are generally erected
to shelter the dead from the rain; they are also frequently wound round with netting. Many
graves being usually in one vicinity, and an elevated dry place being selected, the cemeteries
often present a picturesque appearance. Graves are frequently visited by the women at intervals,
for some months, and at such times the wail is renewed, and their bodies lacerated as at the
interment. At Boga Lake, I saw a grave with a very neat hut of reeds made over it, surmounted
by netting, and having a long curious serpentine double trench, of a few inches deep, surrounding
it; possibly it might have been the burial place of the native mentioned by Major Mitchell,
as having been shot by his black, Piper, at that lake.

Nets, but not implements, are sometimes buried with the natives; nor do the survivors ever
like to use a net that has belonged to a man who is dead.

There are not any ceremonies attending the burial of young children; and the male relatives
often neglect to attend at all, leaving it altogether to the women.

The natives have not much dread of going near to graves, and care little for keeping them in
order, or preventing the bones of their friends from being scattered on the surface of the earth.

I have frequently seen them handling them, or kicking them with the foot with great indifference.
On one occasion when out with an old native looking for horses before it was daylight, I came
to a grave of no very old date, and where the boughs and bushes built over in the form of a
hut were still remaining undisturbed; the weather was extremely cold, and the old man did not
hesitate to ask me to pull down the boughs to make a fire, but would not do it himself.

On another occasion when a poor old woman had been deserted by the natives of Moorunde, and
died a few days after being brought up to the station, I had great difficulty in getting the
other natives to bury her, they would on no account touch the body; but after digging a hole,
they got a long wiry branch of a tree, and one man taking hold of each end they bent the middle
round the old woman's neck, and thus dragged her along the ground and threw her into the pit
like a dog, all the time violently and continually spitting out in every direction to ward
off, as they said, the infection.

[Note 83: "He tied a thong to her leg, avoiding the touch of that form which gave him birth,
dragged the corpse to some bushes, and left the thong because it had been in contact with the
body of his mother." --Moffat's South Africa, p. 306.]

Sometimes it happens that when a death occurs, the nearest grown up male relative, whose duty
it would be to take the principal part in the ceremonies, or inflict punishment if evil agency
is suspected to have caused the death, may be absent. In this case he would have to discharge
these duties upon the first occasion of his meeting with the supposed aggressors. The following
is an instance which I witnessed.

A relative of Tenberry, one of the principal natives of the Murray, had died when he was absent,
and the son of the deceased was too young to revenge the sorcery which it was imagined had
caused his father's death, it therefore became Tenberry's duty to do this upon the first occasion
that offered. I was with him when the parties first came into the neighbourhood, and I witnessed
the proceedings. Notice having been sent by Tenberry the evening before, to warn them to be
ready, I accompanied him early in the morning towards the encampment of the natives, situated
in a hollow near the water; when within about a hundred yards we saw from the rise all the
natives seated below us in the valley. Tenberry now halted, and having taken a hasty survey
of the group hung down his head upon his breast and raised a low mournful lamentation; after
a time it ceased, and the wail was at once replied to and continued by women's voices in the
camp: he now hastily went down to the camp still uttering his lamentations, and the whole body
rose at his approach, and formed a large open circle around him. The natives who were supposed
to have caused the death of his friend, formed a part of the circle and were armed with spears;
behind them stood the orphan son of the deceased, probably in the light of an accuser; and
behind the son were the widows, wailing and lamenting bitterly.

After taking the centre of the circle, Tenberry called for a spear, but no one offered one,
he therefore took a long one from a native in the ring, who had evidently brought it for that
purpose and yielded it unresistingly. Pacing with this weapon furiously up and down the circle,
he advanced and retreated before the accused, brandishing the spear at them, and alternately
threatening and wailing. No one replied, but the melancholy dirge was still kept up by the
widows in the rear.

After sufficiently exciting himself in this manner for some time, he advanced with uplifted
spear, and successively repeating his blows speared four or five persons among the accused
natives in the left arm, each of them pushing forward his arm unflinchingly for the blow as
he advanced upon them. Tenberry now again hung down his head and took up his lamentation for
a short time, after which he paced about rapidly, vehemently haranguing, and violently gesticulating,
and concluded by ordering all the natives present to separate their camps, and each tribe to
make their own apart.

Mourning is performed by the men by cutting their beards [Note 84 at end of para.] and hair,
and daubing the head and breast with a white pigment; among the women, by cutting and burning
the hair close off [Note 85 at end of para.] to the head and plastering themselves with pipe-clay.
In some cases, hot ashes are put upon the head to singe the hair to its very roots, and they
then literally weep "in dust and ashes." Among some of the Murray tribes, a mourning cap is
worn by the women, made two or three inches thick of carbonate of lime. It is moulded to the
head when moist around a piece of net work; the weight is eight pounds and a half. (Pl. 1,
fig. 17.)

[Note 84: The custom among the Australians of putting dust or ashes on the head, of shaving
the head, of clipping the beard, and of lacerating the body at death or in sign of mourning,
appears very similar to the practices among the Israelites in the time of Moses. Vide Leviticus
xix. 27, 28; Leviticus xxi. 5; Jeremiah xiviii. 30, 31, 32; Revelations xviii. 19, etc.]

[Note 85: The women among the American Indians also cut off the hair close to the head as a
sign of mourning.--Vide Catlin, vol. i.]

The lamentations for the dead do not terminate with the burial; frequently they are renewed
at intervals by the women, during late hours of the night, or some hours before day-break in
the morning. Piercingly as those cries strike upon the traveller in the lonely woods, if raised
suddenly, or very near him, yet mellowed by distance they are soothing and pleasing, awakening
a train of thoughts and feelings, which, though sad and solemn, are yet such as the mind sometimes
delights to indulge in. The names of the dead are never repeated by the natives among themselves,
and it is a very difficult matter for a European to get them to break through this custom,
nor will they do it in the presence of other natives. In cases where the name of a native has
been that of some bird or animal of almost daily recurrence, a new name is given to the object,
and adopted in the language of the tribe. Thus at Moorunde, a favourite son of the native Tenberry
was called Torpool, or the Teal; upon the child's death the appellation of tilquaitch was given
to the teal, and that of torpool altogether dropped among the Moorunde tribe.

The natives of New Holland, as far as yet can be ascertained, have no religious belief or ceremonies.
A Deity, or great First Cause, can hardly be said to be acknowledged, and certainly is not
worshipped by this people, who ascribe the creation to very inefficient causes. They state
that some things called themselves into existence, and had the property of creating others.
But upon all subjects of this nature their ideas are indistinct and indefinite, as they are
not naturally a reasoning people, and by no means given to the investigation of causes or their
effects; hence, if you inquire why they use such and such ceremonies, they reply, our fathers
did so, and we do it; or why they believe so and so, our fathers told us it was so. [Note 86
at end of para.] They are not fond of entering upon abstruse subjects, and when they are induced
to do it, it is more than possible, from our imperfect acquaintance with their language, and
total ignorance of the character and bent of their thoughts upon such points, that we are very
likely to misunderstand and misrepresent their real opinions. It appears to me that different
tribes give a different account of their belief, but all generally so absurd, so vague, unsatisfactory,
and contradictory, that it is impossible at present to say with any certainty what they really
believe, or whether they have any independent belief at all. Mr. Moorhouse, who has taken great
pains in his inquiries among the natives around Adelaide upon questions of this nature, states
that they believe in a Soul or Spirit (itpitukutya), separate and distinct altogether from
the body, which at death goes to the west, to a large pit, where the souls of all men go. When
all are dead, the souls will return to their former place of residence, go to the graves of
their forsaken bodies, and inquire, are these the bodies that we formerly inhabited? The bodies
will reply, "we are not dead, but still living." The souls and bodies will not be re-united;
the former will live in trees during the day, and at night alight on the ground, and eat grubs,
lizards, frogs, and kangaroo rats, but not vegetable food of any description. The souls are
never again to die, but will remain about the size of a boy eight years old.

[Note 86: "For that practice, they are, as far as I could learn, unable to give any other reason
than that of its being the custom of their forefathers which they are therefore bound to follow."--Burchell's
Bichuana tribes, vol. ii. p. 531.]

The account given me by some of the natives of the Murray of the origin of the creation, is,
that there are four individuals living up among the clouds, called Nooreele, a father and his
three male children, but there is no mother. The father is all-powerful, and of benevolent
character. He made the earth, trees, waters, etc., gave names to every thing and place, placed
the natives in their different districts, telling each tribe that they were to inhabit such
and such localities, and were to speak such and such a language. It is said that he brought
the natives originally from some place over the waters to the eastward. The Nooreele never
die, and the souls (ludko, literally a shadow) of dead natives will go up and join them in
the skies, and will never die again. Other tribes of natives give an account of a serpent of
immense size, and inhabiting high rocky mountains, which, they say, produced creation by a
blow of his tail. But their ideas and descriptions are too incongruous and unintelligible to
deduce any definite or connected story from them.

All tribes of natives appear to dread evil spirits, having the appearance of Blacks (called
in the Murray dialect Tou, in that of Adelaide Kuinyo). They fly about at nights through the
air, break down branches of trees, pass simultaneously from one place to another, and attack
all natives that come in their way, dragging such as they can catch after them. Fire [Note
87 at end of para.] appears to have considerable effect in keeping these monsters away, and
a native will rarely stir a yard by night, except in moonlight, without carrying a fire-stick.
Under any circumstances they do not like moving about in the dark, and it is with the greatest
difficulty that they are ever induced to go singly from one station to another, a mile or two
distant, after night-fall. Notwithstanding this dread of they don't know exactly what, the
natives do not let their fears prevent them moving about after dark, if any object is to be
gained, or if several of them are together. By moonlight they are in the habit of travelling
from one place to another, as well as of going out to hunt opossums.

[Note 87: Fire is produced by the friction of two pieces of wood or stick--generally the dry
flower-stem of the Xanthorrea. The natives, however, usually carry a lighted piece of wood
about with them, and do not often let it go out.]

Anything that is extraordinary or unusual, is a subject of great dread to the natives: of this
I had a singular instance at Moorunde. In March, 1843, I had a little boy living with me by
his father's permission, whilst the old man went up the river with the other natives to hunt
and fish. On the evening of the 2nd of March a large comet was visible to the westward, and
became brighter and more distinct every succeeding night. On the 5th I had a visit from the
father of the little boy who was living with me, to demand his son; he had come down the river
post haste for that purpose, as soon as he saw the comet, which he assured me was the harbinger
of all kinds of calamities, and more especially to the white people. It was to overthrow Adelaide,
destroy all Europeans and their houses, and then taking a course up the Murray, and past the
Rufus, do irreparable damage to whatever or whoever came in its way. It was sent, he said,
by the northern natives, who were powerful sorcerers, and to revenge the confinement of one
of the principal men of their tribe, who was then in Adelaide gaol, charged with assaulting
a shepherd; and he urged me by all means to hurry off to town as quickly as I could, to procure
the man's release, so that if possible the evil might be averted. No explanation gave him the
least satisfaction, he was in such a state of apprehension and excitement, and he finally marched
off with the little boy, saying, that although by no means safe even with him, yet he would
be in less danger than if left with me.

All natives of Australia believe in sorcery and witchcraft on the part of certain of their
own tribe, or of others. To enable them to become sorcerers, certain rites must be undergone,
which vary among the different tribes. Around Adelaide they have at one period to eat the flesh
of young children, and at another that of an old man, but it does not appear that they partake
more than once in their life of each kind. When initiated, these men possess extensive powers,
they can cure or cause diseases, can produce or dissipate rain [Note 88 at end of para.], wind,
hail, thunder, etc. They have many sacred implements or relics, which are for the most part
carefully kept concealed from the eyes of all, but especially from the women, such as, pieces
of rock crystal, said to have been extracted by them from individuals who were suffering under
the withering influence of some hostile sorcerers; the pringurru, a sacred piece of bone (used
sometimes for bleeding), etc. The latter, if burned to ashes in the fire, possesses mortiferous
influence over enemies. If two tribes are at war, and one of either happens to fall sick, it
is believed that the sickness has been produced by a sorcerer of the opposite tribe, and should
the pringurru have been burnt, death must necessarily follow.

[Note 88: Also an American superstition.--Vide Catlin, vol.i.p. 134. "Sorcerers or rain makers,
for both offices are generally assumed by one individual."--Moffat's South Africa, p. 305.]

As all internal pains are attributed to witchcraft, sorcerers possess the power of relieving
or curing them. Sometimes the mouth is applied to the surface where the pain is seated, the
blood is sucked out, and a bunch of green leaves applied to the part; besides the blood, which
is derived from the gums of the sorcerer, a bone is sometimes put out of the mouth, and declared
to have been procured from the diseased part; on other occasions the disease is drawn out in
an invisible form, and burnt in the fire, or thrown into the water; at others the patient is
stretched upon the ground, whilst another person presses with his feet or hands upon the diseased
part, or cold water is sprinkled over, and green leaves used as before. There are few complaints
that the natives do not attempt to cure, either by charms or by specific applications: of the
latter a very singular one is the appliance personally of the urine from a female--a very general
remedy, and considered a sovereign one for most disorders. Bandages are often applied round
the ankles, legs, arms, wrists, etc. sufficiently tight to impede circulation; suction is applied
to the bites of snakes, and is also made use of by their doctors in drawing out blood from
the diseased part, a string being tied to the hair, if it be the head that ails, or to any
other part, and the opposite end is put into the sorcerer's mouth, who then commences sucking
and spitting out blood, which he declares comes from the patient. Blood letting is practised
occasionally to relieve pains in the head, or oppression of the system. The operation is performed
by opening a vein in the arm, with a piece of rock crystal in the same way as Europeans bleed.

Fractures of the extremities are treated with splints and bandages, as in Europe. Venereal
ulcers are sprinkled with alkaline wood ashes, the astringent liquid of the nettle bark, or
a macerated preparation from a particular kind of broad-leaved grass. Superficial wounds are
left to themselves, and usually heal without much trouble. Malformations of the body are attributed
to the influence of the stars, caused by the mother eating forbidden food during pregnancy,
or if occurring after birth it is still caused by the stars, in consequence of forbidden food
being eaten. The teeth of the native are generally regular and very beautiful, indeed, in their
natural state, I have never seen a single instance of decayed teeth, among them. Among those,
however, who have been living near Europeans for some years past, and whose habits and diet
have been changed from simple to more artificial ones, a great alteration is taking place in
this respect, and symptoms of decaying teeth are beginning to make their appearance among many.

Among other superstitions of the natives, they believe in the existence of an individual called
in the Murrumbidgee Biam, or the Murray Biam-baitch-y, who has the form and figure of a black,
but is deformed in the lower extremities, and is always either sitting cross-legged on the
ground, or ferrying about in a canoe.

From him the natives say they derive many of the songs sung at their dances; he also causes
diseases sometimes, and especially one which indents the face like the effects of small pox.
Another evil agency, dreaded by the natives, is a spirit of the waters, called ngook-wonga,
it causes many diseases to those who go into the waters in unauthorised places, or at improper
times, hence a native is very loth to go into water he is not accustomed to for the first time.

To counteract the evil effects produced by this spirit, there are persons particularly devoted
to this branch of sorcery, the following is a case where I saw them exercise their powers.
A boy of about fourteen had at the Murray river been seized with a severe attack of erysipelas
in the lower part of one of his legs, from bathing and remaining in the water when heated.
As this did not get better, it was ascribed to the evil agency of the Spirit of the Waters;
and the Pachwonga or Pachwin were called in to cure him. They arrived late at night, three
in number, and at once proceeded to the exercise of their duties. As soon as it was seen that
the magicians were coming, the friends of the boy lifted him up, and carrying him some distance
away from the camp, placed him on the ground by himself, and then ranged themselves in two
rows upon either side, in a sitting posture, but at some distance behind the patient. The three
magi now advanced in the form of a triangle, one leading and the other two behind, equidistantly
apart. They were all painted, carried bunches of green reeds in their hands, which they kept
shaking, and danced [Note 89 at end of para.] with a measured tread, keeping the right foot
always in advance of the other as in a galopade, and singing a low solemn dirge, which was
vehemently beat time to, by the natives behind thumping on the ground. Upon arriving at the
boy, the leading native fell down on his knees close to him, and took hold of the diseased
leg, the other two still dancing and singing around the patient. In a little time, one of the
two fell down also on his knees on another side of the boy, leaving the third still dancing
and singing around them. At last he fell down also on his knees in a triangular position with
the others, the boy being in the centre. All three now commenced blowing, spitting, making
curious gurgling kinds of noises, waving their green bunches of reeds, and pressing forcibly
upon the diseased leg to make the patient give audible indications of the evil spirit leaving
him. After some time, two of the three doctors got up again, danced and sung around the boy,
and then once more assuming their kneeling positions, recommenced spitting and blowing, waving
their bunches of reeds, and making the same curious noises, but louder than ever. Their exorcism
at last was effectual, the evil spirit, in the shape of a sharp stone, was extracted from the
limb, and driven into the ground; but it was too dark they said to see it. As soon as this
agreeable news was announced, the friends of the boy came up and hastily removed him back to
the camp, whilst the three doctors assuming the triangular position, sung and danced round
the place where the boy had been laid, and then advancing in the same form towards the river,
keeping the right foot always in advance, they at last fairly drove the spirit into the water
and relieved the neighbourhood from so troublesome a visitor.

[Note 89: "Dancing over him, shaking his frightful rattles, and singing songs of incantation,
in the hopes to cure him by a charm."--Catlin's North American Indians, vol. i.p. 39.]

It was a long time before I lost a vivid impression of this ceremony; the still hour of the
night, the naked savages, with their fancifully painted forms, their wild but solemn dirge,
their uncouth gestures, and unnatural noises, all tended to keep up an illusion of an unearthly
character, and contributed to produce a thrilling and imposing effect upon the mind.

At the Murray River, singular looking places are found sometimes, made by the natives by piling
small stones close together, upon their ends in the ground, in a shape resembling the accompanying
diagram, and projecting four or five inches above the ground. The whole length of the place
thus inclosed, by one which I examined, was eleven yards; at the broad end it was two yards
wide, at the narrow end one. The position of this singular looking place, was a clear space
on the slope of a hill, the narrow end being the lowest, on in the direction of the river.
Inside the line of stones, the ground was smoothed, and somewhat hollowed. The natives called
it Mooyumbuck, and said it was a place for disenchanting an individual afflicted with boils.
In other places, large heaps of small loose stones are piled up like small haycocks, but for
what purpose I could never understand. This is done by the young men, and has some connection
probably with their ceremonies or amusements.

In others, singular shaped spaces are inclosed, by serpentine trenches, a few inches deep,
but for what purpose I know not, unless graves have formerly existed there.

Another practice of the natives, when travelling from one place to another, is to put stones
up in the trees they pass, at different heights from the ground, to indicate the height of
the sun when they passed. Other natives following, are thus made aware of the hour of the day
when their friends passed particular points. Captain Grey found the same custom in Western
Australia; vol. i. p. 113, he says:--

"I this day again remarked a circumstance, which had before this period elicited my attention,
which was, that we occasionally found fixed on the boughs of trees, at a considerable height
from the ground, pieces of sandstone, nearly circular in form, about an inch and a half in
thickness, and from four to five in diameter, so that they resembled small mill-stones. What
was the object of thus fashioning, and placing these stones, I never could conceive, for they
are generally in the least remarkable spots. They cannot point out burial places, for I have
made such minute searches, that in such case I must have found some of the bones; neither can
they indicate any peculiar route through the country, for two never occur near one another."

The power of sorcery appears always to belong, in a degree, to the aged, but it is assumed
often by the middle aged men. It is no protection to the possessor, from attack, or injury,
on the part of other natives. On the contrary, the greater the skill of the sorcerer, and the
more extensive his reputation, the more likely is he to be charged with offences he is unconscious
of, and made to pay their penalty. Sorcerers are not ubiquitous, but have the power of becoming
invisible, and can transport themselves instantaneously to any place they please. Women are
never sorcerers. It is a general belief among almost all the Aborigines, that Europeans, or
white people, are resuscitated natives, who have changed their colour, and who are supposed
to return to the same localities they had inhabited as black people. The most puzzling point,
however, with this theory, appears to be that they cannot make out how it is that the returned
natives do not know their former friends or relatives. I have myself often been asked, with
seriousness and earnestness, who, among the Europeans, were their fathers, their mothers, and
their other relatives, and how it is that the dead were so ignorant, or so forgetful, as not
to know their friends when they again returned to the earth.

One old native informed me, that all blacks, when dead, go up to the clouds, where they have
plenty to eat and drink; fish, birds, and game of all kinds, with weapons and implements to
take them. He then told me, that occasionally individuals had been up to the clouds, and had
come back, but that such instances were very rare; his own mother, he said, had been one of
the favoured few. Some one from above had let down a rope, and hauled her up by it; she remained
one night, and on her return, gave a description of what she had seen in a chaunt, or song,
which he sung for me, but of the meaning of which I could make out nothing. Nor will this appear
at all surprising, when the character and habits of the people are taken into consideration.
Destitute of any fixed place of residence, neither cultivating the soil, nor domesticating
animals, they have no pursuits to confine them to any particular locality, or to cause them
to congregate permanently in the same district. On the contrary, all their habits have an opposite
tendency.

The necessity of seeking daily their food as they require it, the fact of that food not being
procurable for any great length of time together in the same place, and the circumstance that
its quality, and abundance, or the facility of obtaining it, are contingent upon the season
of the year, at which they may visit any particular district, have given to their mode of life,
an unsettled and wandering character.

The casual observer, or the passing traveller, has but little, therefore, to guide him in his
estimate of the population of the country he may be in. A district that may at one time be
thinly inhabited, or even altogether untenanted, may at another be teeming with population.
The wanderer may at one time be surrounded by hundreds of savages, and at another, in the same
place he may pass on alone and unheeded.

At Lake Victoria, on the Murray, I have seen congregated upwards of six hundred natives at
once, again I have passed through that neighbourhood and have scarcely seen a single individual;
nor does this alone constitute the difficulty and uncertainty involved in estimating the numbers
of the Aborigines. Such are the silence and stealth with which all their movements are conducted,
so slight a trace is left to indicate their line of march, and so small a clue by which to
detect their presence, that the stranger finds it impossible to tell from any thing that he
sees, whether he is in their vicinity or not. I have myself often when travelling, as I imagined
in the most retired and solitary recesses of the forest, been suddenly surprised by the unexpected
appearance of large bodies of natives, without being in the least able to conjecture whence
they had come, or how they obtained the necessaries of life, in what appeared to me an arid
and foodless desert.

Captain Grey has observed in other parts of Australia, the same ingenuity and stealth manifested
by them in either cloaking their movements, or concealing their presence, until circumstances
rendered it in their opinion no longer necessary to preserve this concealment, vol. i. p. 147,
he says: "Immediately numbers of other natives burst upon my sight, each tree, each rock, seemed
to give forth its black denizen as if by enchantment; a moment before the most solemn silence
pervaded these woods, we deemed that not a human being moved within miles of us, and now they
rang with savage and ferocious yells, and fierce armed men crowded around us on every side,
bent on our destruction."

Nor is it less difficult to arrive at the number of the population in those districts which
are occupied by Europeans. In some, the native tribes rarely frequent the stations, in others,
portions only of the different tribes are to be found; some belong to the district and others
not. In all there is a difficulty in ascertaining the exact number of any tribe, or the precise
limits to which their territory extends in every direction around. Even could these particulars
be accurately obtained in a few localities, they would afford no data for estimating the population
of the whole, as the average number of inhabitants to the square mile, would always vary according
to the character of the country and the abundance of food.

Upon this subject Captain Grey remarks, vol. ii. p. 246, "I have found the number of inhabitants
to a square mile to vary so much from district to district, from season to season, and to depend
upon so great a variety of local circumstances, that I am unable to give any computation which
I believe would even nearly approach to truth."

Mr. Moorhouse, who has also paid much attention to this subject, in the neighbourhood of Adelaide,
has arrived at the conclusion, that, in 1843, there were about sixteen hundred aborigines,
in regular or irregular contact with the Europeans, in the province of South Australia; these
he has classed as follows, viz.:--

In regular contact with Europeans,

Adelaide district  300
Encounter Bay      230
Moorunde           300
Port Lincoln        60
Hutt River          30
                   ---
                   920

In irregular contact with Europeans,

Adelaide            -
Encounter Bay      100
Moorunde           200
Port Lincoln       340
Hutt River          40
                   ---
                   680

or together about 1600.

Taking in the southern districts of South Australia 120 miles from Adelaide, the northern ones
160, and the eastern one 200. Mr. Moorhouse estimates that there are altogether only about
3000 natives. This however, appears to me to be a considerably under-rated number, and I should
rather incline to the opinion, that there are twice as many, if the Port Lincoln peninsula
be added to the limits already mentioned. In the Port Lincoln district, Mr. Schurman conjectures
there are about 400.

On the Murray River, which is, perhaps, the most densely populated part of the country, I imagine
there are, from Moorunde, about three to four natives to every mile of river, which as it winds
very considerably in its course, would give a large population to the square mile, if only
the valley of the Murray was taken into account.

There are other tribes also frequenting the river occasionally, from the back scrubs on either
side; but as these range through a great extent of country beyond the valley, and only sometimes
come down there on a visit; I do not include them in the estimate.

At Moorunde itself I have sometimes had from four to five hundred collected, and among those,
only a few, perhaps, from the very remote tribes.

At the Rufus and Lake Victoria, I have seen above six hundred together, where they had no other
motive to collect in so large a party, than from custom, and for the enjoyment of festivity.

Large towns are frequently the centre of meeting for many, and very distant tribes. The facility
of obtaining scraps by begging, small rewards for trifling jobs of work, donations from the
charitable, and a variety of broken victuals, offal, etc. enable them to collect in large numbers,
and indulge to the uttermost their curiosity in observing the novelties around them, in meeting
strange tribes, and joining them either in war or festivity, in procuring tools, clothes, etc.
to carry back and barter in their own districts, and for other similar objects. Thus, Adelaide
is nearly always occupied by tribes from one part or other of the country: on an average, it
will support probably six hundred in the way I have described, though occasionally eight hundred
have met there. The following returns of the numbers who have attended the annual muster on
the Queen's birthday, when bread and beef have been distributed, will show how the ratio has
gone on increasing during the last five years.

In 1840 there were present 283 men, women, and children.
   1841 there were present 374 men, women, and children.
   1842 there were present 400 men, women, and children.
   1843 there were present 450 men, women, and children.
   1844 there were present 793 men, women, and children.

In the Murray district, where it has been customary, since the first establishment of the post
at Moorunde, to issue a certain quantity of flour once in the month (at the full moon) to every
native who chose to come in to receive it, the increase in attendance has been progressively
going on, viz.

 2 issues in 1841 the average attendance were  52 men, women, and children
12 issues in 1842 the average attendance were  94 men, women, and children
10 issues in 1843 the average attendance were 136 men, women, and children
 9 issues in 1844 the average attendance were 171 men, women, and children

Occasionally nearly 500 natives have been present at these monthly issues of flour, and the
reason that the average attendance is not greater, is, that immediately after collecting at
Moorunde, at the full of the moon, to receive their flour, from 100 to 300 would usually set
off to Adelaide, where there are so many objects of interest and attraction, and re-remain
there for several months at a time, and especially during the winter. As fast, too, as one
party returned to their own districts, another would go into town, and thus the average number
would be constantly kept down. A third reason why the musters do not appear so large as they
otherwise would, is that many of the more distant natives come down at other times than the
full moon, and I have then been obliged to deviate from my usual custom, and issue flour to
them at the periods when they arrived. The number of natives attending such extraordinary issues
do not appear in the periodical returns.

In endeavouring to estimate the numbers and proportions of the sexes, and children, almost
as great a difficulty exists as in that of obtaining their aggregate numbers. This arises from
the fact of the more distant tribes who visit Europeans stations, frequently leaving their
younger wives, or little children at home, with aged relatives, whilst they themselves go to
a distance. In all the periodical, or regular issues of flour at the time of full moon, I have
accurately kept lists of all who attended. The gross totals of thirty-three issues are as follows:--

Men      1266
Women    1330
Boys      930
Girls     551
Infants    52
         ----
         4129

From this it is apparent, first, that the women attending the monthly meetings at the Murray
have been, on the whole, about five and a half per cent in excess of the men, an extraordinary
and unusual circumstance, as compared with the results obtained at other places. I can only
account for this upon the supposition before given, that when large bodies of natives leave
Moorunde for Adelaide, more men than women go away, and that consequently a larger proportion
of females is left behind. Mr. Moor-house remarks, upon this point, that he has found the males
to average seventy per cent more than the females, among the Adelaide tribes. My own observation
leads me to the opinion that upon the Murray the two sexes are as nearly equal in numbers as
may be.

Secondly, it would appear, that of the Moorunde issues, the number of girls attending has been
little more than one half that of the boys. This may, perhaps, arise in some measure from females
assuming the duties of women, and being classed as such, at an age when males would still be
considered as only boys. The principal reason, however, must, as before, be ascribed to a greater
number of girls being left behind by the more distant tribes when they come to visit Moorunde.

Thirdly, from the list I have given, it seems that to each woman there would be about 1 1/3
child. Upon this subject Mr. Moorhouse remarks, that his investigation has led to the conclusion
that each woman has, on an average, five children born (nine being the greatest number known),
but that each mother only rears, upon an average, two; and this I think, upon the whole, would
be a tolerably correct estimate.

There is one point connected with the return I have given, peculiarly striking, as it shews
the comparatively small increase that now appears to be going on among the more numerous tribes
of the Aborigines, I allude to the fact of there only having been fifty-two young infants among
1330 women. By infants I mean such as had to be carried in the arms, for those who could walk
at all have been classed among the boys and girls.

I have never known a case of twins among the Aborigines, and Mr. Moorhouse informs me that
no case has ever come under his observation; but Captain Grey found such to occur sometimes
in Western Australia. On the number and proportion of the sexes he observes, that 4.6 seemed
to be the average number of children born to each woman, and that there was one female to every
1.3 males. With respect to the duration of life among the Aborigines, Captain Grey says, vol.
ii. p. 246-248--"With regard to the age occasionally attained by the natives, I believe very
erroneous ideas have been prevalent, for so far am I from considering them to be short lived,
that I am certain they frequently attain the age of seventy years and upwards." "Yet were these
instances of longevity contrasted with the great number of deaths which take place during the
period of infancy, there can be no doubt whatever that the average duration of life amongst
these savage tribes falls far short of that enjoyed by civilized races."

These remarks, as far as my observation has extended, apply to the natives of New Holland generally.
I have frequently met with many venerable, white-headed men among the Aborigines, who could
not, I think, have been less than eighty years of age, and who yet retained the full vigour
of mind, and the bold, upright, though now wasted form, that had characterised them in the
pride of manhood; but about sixty-five appears perhaps to be the average age attained by the old.

The second inference is more than borne out by the statement already recorded, that for every
five children born on an average to each mother, two only are reared, and these subject to
all the casualities and dangers which savage life is exposed to.

[Note 90: This can of course only apply to tribes tolerably well known to Europeans, and more
or less frequently coming in contact with them. Of tribes in their natural state we can have
no accurate data, and but few passing notes even that are worthy of confidence. Generally I
have found children to be numerous among tribes who have never had intercourse with Europeans'
and it is a well known fact that the increase of numbers in aboriginal tribes is checked in
proportion to the frequency, or the extent of their communication with Europeans. At Flinders
island to which 210 Van Diemen's Land natives were removed from Van Diemen's Land in 1835,
this is singularly exemplified. In 1842 Count Strzelecki says, page 353--"And while each family
of the interior of New South Wales, uncontaminated by contact with the whites, swarms with
children, those of Flinders island, had during eight years an accession of only fourteen in
number."]

Upon inquiry into the causes which tend to prevent population going on in an increasing ratio
among the natives of Australia, the following appear to be the most prominent. First, polygamy,
and the illicit and almost unlimited intercourse between the sexes, habits which are well known
to check the progress of population, wherever they prevail.

Secondly. Infanticide, which is very general, and practised to a great extent, especially among
the younger and favourite women.

Thirdly. Diseases, to which in a savage state young children are peculiarly liable, such as
dysentry, cold, and their consequences, etc.

[Note 91: Huic accedit, ex quo illis sunt immisti Europaei, lues venerea. Morbum infantibus
matres afflant, et ingens multitudo quotannis inde perit.]

Fourthly. Wars and quarrels, occurring sometimes from the most trivial circumstances, and often
ending in deaths, or wounds that terminate in death.

The diseases to which the natives are subject, are with the exception of those induced by artificial
living, as gout, rheumatism, etc. very similar to those which afflict Europeans, the principal
being the result of inflammation, acute, or chronic, arising from exposure to the cold, and
which affects most generally the bronchiae, the lungs, and the pleura. Phthisis occasionally
occurs, as does also erysipelas. Scrofula has been met with, but very rarely. A disease very
similar to the small-pox, and leaving similar marks upon the face, appears formerly to have
been very prevalent, but I have never met with an existing case, nor has Mr. Moorhouse ever
fallen in with one. It is said to have come from the eastward originally, and very probably
may have been derived in the first instance from Europeans, and the infection passed along
from one tribe to another: it has not been experienced now for many years.

[Note 92: Ex morbis quos patiuntur ab adventu Europaeorum longe frequentissima et maxime fatalis
est lues venerea. An hic morbus indigenis, priusquam illis immiscebuntur Europaei erat notus,
sciri nunc minime potest. Ipsi jamdiu ex oriente adductum dicunt, ex quo maxime probabile videtur,
eum, origine prima ex Europa, inde de gente in gentem per totam poene continentem esse illatam.
Neque dubium eum in gentibus iis quibus non immiscentur Europaei, neque frequentem esse, nec
acrem, eorum autem per immistionem terribilem in modum augescere. Quinetiam ii sunt indigenarum
mores, ut, adveniat modo forma sub pessima morbus, velox et virulentus qualis nusquam alias
illico latissime effluat. Licet bene sciant hae gentes, hunc, sicut ejus modi alii morbum per
contactum contractum esse illis tamen pestem cujus indies spectantur tantae tamque terribiles
offensiones, vitare minime curae est. Vidi egomet plurimos non modo aegrotorum in tentoriis
otiari, verum etiam foedatus ita secure induere vestes aut iisdem in stragulis cubare, ac si
optima ibi adesset sanitas. Mihi stationem publicam ponendi causa ad "Morrandi" in mensa Octobris,
1841, advenienti, occurrebant populi morbis poene liberi formam atque membra bene formati;
postea autem ex frequenti cum oppido et proximis stationibus commercio, circa Octobrem 1844,
morbos quam maxime horridos contraxerant. Inde eo tempore moribundi erant plurimi, nonnulli
mortui, paucique ex iis, qui frequenter coibant, ex omni aetate et sexu hujusce pestis formis
omnino expertes erant. Apud indigenas morbus hic eodem fere modo quo apud Europaeos sese ostendere
videtur variis tamen ex causis etiam magis odiosum, eo praesertim quod pustulae rotundae, magnitudinem
fere uncialem habentes, simul in cute exsurgunt. His gradatim, cum pure effluente, pars media
expletur, et inde magis magisque crescentibus et dispersis corporis universi superficies tabe
ac scabie laborat, quae propinquantibus simul horrorem ac nauseam movent. Ulcera haec aliquando
infra sex vel octo menses ipsa se cohaerent; plerumque autem incitamentorum et vi causticorum
ad locum adhibita infra hebdomadas tres sanantur. Nec minus apud indigenas quam apud Europaeos,
remedium hujusoe morbi speciale: medicamenta sunt mercurialia, majore tamen illis cum periculo,
tum propter eorum mores, quum quod plerumque sub dio vivunt, omni absente medicina. Post annum
primum aut alterum morbus evanescit, interdum mortem affert. Semper autem aegrotis miseris
cruciatus maximus et dolores perpetui inde flunt. Moorhousi de morbo hoc opiniones in paucis
a meis experimentis dissident, quum ille num glandem penis aut inguinis, principio nunquam,
glandem autem penis rarissime vel secundo attingere arbitrabatur. Ego autem et hoc et illud
in ripis Murray fluminis vidi.]

Many natives of deformed persons are occasionally to be met with, especially in the extremities.
I have seen natives tall, and perfect, and well built in the body and limbs, from the head
down to the knees: but from that point downwards, shrivelled and blighted, presenting but skin
and bone. Many are blind in one eye, some in both; sometimes this appears the effect of inflammation,
or of cataract; at others, it may be the result of accident. Among those natives inhabiting
the sandy drifts along the western coast, where the sand is always circling about in a perfect
shower, I have no doubt but that many become blind from its effects.

In October, 1839, Mr. Moorhouse found nine inhabitants in two huts to the south; out of these,
five were quite blind, and one had lost one eye; they were occupied in making nets.

Deaf and dumb persons are not often found among the Aborigines, but I have met with instances
of this kind. One of the most intelligent natives I ever met with, was a deaf and dumb youth
at the Wimmera. From this poor boy, I could more readily and intelligibly obtain by signs a
description of the country, its character, and localities, than from any native I ever met
with, whose language I was at the time quite unacquainted with.

The blind, or the infirm, are generally well treated, and taken care of when young, but as
soon as they advance in years, or become an impediment to the movements of the tribe, they
are abandoned at once by their people, and left to perish.

The crimes committed by the natives against Europeans do not bear any proportion, either numerically,
or in magnitude, to their number, as a people, and the circumstances of their position. When
we consider the low state of morals, or rather, the absence of all moral feeling upon their
part, the little restraint that is placed upon their community, by either individual authority,
or public opinion, the injuries they are smarting under, and the aggressions they receive,
it cannot but be admitted that they are neither an ill disposed, nor a very vindictive people.
The following are the returns of the convictions of natives in South Australia for the years
1842 and 1843, viz. :--

SUPREME COURT. --------------

OFFENCE.                         1842 1843 1844

Larceny                            2    0    2 Assault with intent to murder      2    0  
0 Wilful murder                      0    3    1 Sheep stealing                     1    2
1 Cattle stealing                    0    1    2

RESIDENT MAGISTRATE'S COURT. ----------------------------

Assault                             0   3    3
Breaking windows                    1   0    0
Intoxication                        3   0    0
Injuring park trees                 0   0    2
                                    ----------
                                    9   9   11

In the colony of New South Wales, the return of all the trials of the Aborigines, from 10th
February, 1837, to the 24th July, 1843, amounted to thirty-three cases, and implicated sixty-one
individuals. The offences were chiefly murder and assault, or stealing sheep and cattle. In
ten cases only, out of thirty-three, convictions took place, and nineteen individuals were
sentenced, viz., twelve to death, six to transportation for ten years, and one to a flogging.
Accustomed to act upon the impulse of the moment, and to take summary vengeance for injury,
real or imagined, their worst deeds are but in accordance with their own standard of right,
having no moral sense of what is just or equitable in the abstract, their only test of propriety
must in such cases be, whether they are numerically, or physically strong enough to brave the
vengeance of those whom they may have provoked, or injured. Custom has, however, from time
immemorial, usurped the place of laws, and with them, perhaps, is even more binding than they
would be. Through custom's irresistible sway has been forged the chain that binds in iron fetters
a people, who might otherwise be said to be without government or restraint. By it, the young
and the weak are held in willing subjection to the old and the strong. Superstitious to a degree
they are taught from earliest infancy to dread they know not what evil or punishment, if they
infringe upon obligations they have been told to consider as sacred. All the better feelings
and impulses implanted in the human heart by nature, are trampled upon by customs, which, as
long as they remain unchanged, must for ever prevent them from rising in the scale of civilization
and improvement, or to use the apt and expressive language of Captain Grey upon this point,
vol. ii. p. 217 :--

"He (the native) is in reality subjected to complex laws, which not only deprive him of all
free agency of thought, but at the same time, by allowing no scope for the development of intellect,
benevolence, or any other great moral qualification, they necessarily bind him down in a hopeless
state of barbarism, from which it is impossible for him to emerge, so long as he is enthralled
by these customs, which, on the other hand, are so ingeniously devised as to have a direct
tendency to annihilate any effort that is made to overthrow them."

Those customs regulate all things, the acquisition and disposal of wives, the treatment of
women, of the elders, the acquiescence of the younger members of a tribe in any measure that
may have been decided upon by the old men, the rules which guide the international intercourse
between different tribes, the certain restrictions or embargoes that are put upon different
kinds of food or at certain ages, the fear of sorcery or witchcraft if they transgress the
orders of the elders, or break through the ordinances that have been imposed upon them, and
many other similar influences.

In their intercourse with each other I have generally found the natives to speak the truth
and act with honesty, and they will usually do the same with Europeans if on friendly terms
with them. In their treatment of each other, and in the division of food, policy and custom
have induced them to be extremely polite and liberal. Old men are especially well off in this
respect, as the younger people always give them the best and largest share of everything. Males
generally are generous and liberal to each other in sharing what food they have, but it is
not often that the females participate in the division. When following their usual pursuits
upon the Murray, I have seen the men after an hour or two's fishing with the nets, sit down
and devour all they had caught, without saving anything for their family or wives, and then
hurry about noon to the camps to share in what had been procured by the women, who usually
begin to return at that hour, with what they have been able to collect. Favourite kinds of
food are also frequently sent as presents from one male to another, and at other times two
parties will meet and exchange the different kinds they respectively bring. Among the younger
people I have often seen a poor hungry fellow, who had by his skill or perseverance obtained
some small article of food, compelled by the rules of savage politeness to share out the petty
spoil among a group of expectant sharks around, whilst he whose skill or labour had procured
it dared hardly taste it, and was sure to come in for the smallest share.

Naturally, I do not think they are bloodthirsty; custom or example may sometimes lead them
on to shed blood, but it is usually in accordance with their prejudices or to gratify the momentary
excitement of passion. With many vices and but few virtues, I do not yet think the Australian
savage is more? vicious in his propensities or more virulent in his passions than are the larger
number of the lower classes of what are called civilized communities. Well might they retort
to our accusations, the motives and animus by which too many of our countrymen have been actuated
towards them.

I have remarked that as far as my observation has enabled me to judge, the natives are rarely
guilty of offences (which they deem such,) towards members of their own tribes. There are many
acts, however, which according to our ideas of right and wrong, are acts of the greatest cruelty
and tyranny, which they exercise towards each other, though sanctioned by custom, and enforced
by daily practice. Such are the cruelties inflicted upon the women, who are looked upon in
the light of slaves, and mercilessly beaten or speared for the most trifling offences. No one
under any circumstances ever attempts to take the part of a female, and consequently they are
maltreated and oppressed in a shocking degree. Does a native meet a woman in the woods and
violate her, he is not the one made to feel the vengeance of the husband, but the poor victim
whom he has abused. Is there hard or disagreeable work of any kind to be done--the woman is
compelled to do it. Is there a scarcity of food at the camp when the husband comes home hungry--the
wife is punished for his indolence and inactivity.

[Note 94: In February 1842, Mr. Gouger, then Colonial Secretary at Adelaide, caused a dog belonging
to a native to be shot for some cause or other I am not acquainted with. The animal had been
left by its master in the charge of his wife, and as soon as he learnt that it was dead, he
speared her for not taking better care of it.]

The complete subserviency of the younger people of both sexes in the savage community, to the
older or leading men, is another very serious evil they labour under. The force of habit and
of traditional custom has so completely clouded their otherwise quick perceptions, that they
blindly yield to whatever the elders may require of them; they dare not disobey, they dare
not complain of any wrong or indignity they may be subjected to this has been and will be the
greatest bar to their civilization or improvement until some means are taken to free them from
so degrading a thraldom, and afford that protection from the oppression of the strong and the
old which they so greatly require.

On the Murray river, or amongst the Adelaide natives I am not aware that any stated punishments
are affixed to specific crimes, except that of spearing in the arm to expiate deaths. Vengeance
appears usually to be summarily executed and on the spot, according to the physical strength
or number of friends of the individual injured; otherwise it is made a cause of quarrel between
tribes, and a battle or disturbance of some kind takes place. This appears to be one great
point of distinction between the practice of some of the tribes in Southern and Western Australia.
Captain Grey says in reference to the latter place, (vol. ii. p. 243.)

"Any other crime may be compounded for, by the criminal appearing and submitting himself to
the ordeal of having spears thrown at him by all such persons as conceive themselves to have
been aggrieved, or by permitting spears to be thrust through certain parts of his body; such
as through the thigh, or the calf of the leg, or under the arm. The part which is to be pierced
by a spear, is fixed for all common crimes, and a native who has incurred this penalty, sometimes
quietly holds out his leg for the injured party to thrust his spear through."

This custom does not appear to hold among the tribes of South Australia, with whom I have come
in contact; but I have often been told by natives of tribes in New South Wales, that they practised
it, although an instance of the infliction of the punishment never came under my own observation.

Injuries, when once overlooked, are never revenged afterwards. Tribes may compel members to
make restitution, as in the case of stealing a wife; but I have never known an instance of
one of their number being given up to another tribe, for either punishment or death. Occasionally
they have been induced to give up guilty parties to Europeans; but to effect this, great personal
influence on the part of the person employed is necessary to ensure success. Though they are
always ready to give up or point out transgressors, if belonging to other tribes than their
own. The labours of Mr. Threlkeld, of Captain Grey, of Messrs. Teichelman and Schurmann, of
Mr. Meyer, of Mr. Schurman, with the occasional notes of visitors and travellers, have done
much to elucidate this subject, and have presented to the world vocabularies of the Hunter's
River and Lake Macquarie districts in New South Wales; of Swan River and King George's Sound
in Western Australia; of Adelaide, of Encounter Bay, and of Port Lincoln, in South Australia;
besides occasional phrases or scanty manuals of various other dialects spoken in different
districts. From these varied contributions it would appear that a striking coincidence exists
in the personal appearance, character, customs, traditions, dialects, etc. among the many and
remotely separated tribes scattered over the surface of New Holland. Each of these, no doubt,
varies in many particulars from the others, and so much so some times, as to lead to the impression
that they are essentially different and distinct. [Note 95 at end of para.] Upon close examination,
however, a sufficient general resemblance is usually found to indicate that all the tribes
have originally sprung from the same race, that they have gradually spread themselves over
the whole continent from some one given point; which appears, as far as we can infer from circumstantial
evidence, to have been somewhere upon the northern coast. There are some points of resemblance
which, as far as is yet known, appear to be common to most of the different dialects with which
we are acquainted. Such are, there being no generic terms as tree, fish, bird, etc., but only
specific ones as applied to each particular variety of tree, fish, bird, etc. The cardinal
numbers, being only carried up to three, there being no degrees of comparison except by a repetition
to indicate intensity, or by a combination of opposite adjectives, to point out the proportion
intended, and no distinction of genders, if we except an attempt to mark one among those tribes
who give numerical names to their children, according to the order of their birth, as before
mentioned. [Note 96: Chap. IV. nomenclature.] All parts of speech appear to be subject to inflections,
if we except adverbs, post-fixes, and post-positions. Nouns, adjectives, pronouns and verbs
have all three numbers, singular, dual and plural. The nominative agent always precedes an
active verb. When any new object is presented to the native, a name is given to it, from some
fancied similarity to some object they already know, or from some peculiar quality or attribute
it may possess; thus, rice is in the Moorunde dialect called "yeelilee" or "maggots," from
an imagined resemblance between the two objects.

[Note 95: Catlin remarks the existence of a similar number and variety in the dialects of the
American Indians, but appears to think them radically different from one another.]

The most singular and remarkable fact, connected with the coincidence of customs or dialect,
amongst the Aborigines, is that it exists frequently to a less degree among tribes living close
to one another, than between those who are more remotely separated. The reason of this apparent
anomaly would seem to be, that those tribes now living near to one another, and among whom
the greatest dissimilarity of language and customs is found to exist, have originally found
their way to the same neighbourhood by different lines of route, and consequently the greatest
resemblances in language and custom, might naturally be expected to be met with, (as is in
reality the case), not between tribes at present the nearest to each other, but between those,
who although now so far removed, occupy respectively the opposite extremes of the lines of
route by which one of them had in the first instance crossed over the continent.

Without entering into an elaborate analysis, of either the structure or radical derivation
of the various dialects we are acquainted with, I shall adduce a few instances in each, of
words taken from the vocabularies I have mentioned before, for King George's Sound, Adelaide,
Encounter Bay, and Port Lincoln, and supply them myself from other dialects, including those
meeting on the Murray or at the Darling, to shew the degree of similarity that exists in language.

In selecting the examples for comparison, I have taken first the personal pronouns and numerals,
as being the words which usually assimilate more closely in the different dialects, than any
other. Secondly, those words representing objects which would be common to all tribes, and
which from their continual recurrence, and daily use, might naturally be supposed to vary the
least from each other, if the original language of all were the same, but which, if radically
different in any, render the subject still more difficult and embarrassing.

DIALECTS ========

[Note: At this point in the book a table appears, which lists common English words and the
equivalent word as taken from the vocabularies of aborigines from various locations. This table
has not been reproduced in full, however, a few entries are given below.]

English   Western   Adelaide   Encounter   Parnkalla       Aiawong
          Australia            Bay         (Port Lincoln) (Moorundie)

I        Nganya     Ngaii      Ngaape       Ngai, ngatto   Ngappo Thou     Nginnee    Ninna
Nginte       Ninna          Ngurru She      Bal        Pa         Kitye        Panna      
Nin We (Ye)  Nganneel   Ngadlu     Ngane        Ngarrinyalbo   Ngenno They     Balgoon    Parna
Kar          Yardna         Ngau-o We two   Ngal-li    Ngadli     Ngele        Ngadli     
Ngel-lo You two  Newball    Niwa       Ngurle       Nuwalla        Ngupal They two Boala  
Purla      Kengk        Pudlanbi       Dlau-o One      Gyne       Kumande    Yammalaitye  Kuma
Meiter Two      Kardura    Purlaitye  Ning Kaiengg Kuttara        Tang kul Many     Partanna
Towata     Ruwar        Kulbarri       Neil Few      Warrang    Kutyonde   --           --
Baupalata

Upon comparison of the different dialects given in the two foregoing tables, and which comprise
an extent of country, embracing fully one half of the continent of Australia, it will be apparent
that a sufficient degree of resemblance exists to justify the conclusion, that they were derived
from one and the same original. It is true, that in many respects, there are sometimes even
radical differences in some of the words of various dialects; but as Captain Grey judiciously
remarks, if the comparison in such cases be extended, and the vocabulary of each enlarged,
there will always be found points of resemblance, either in the dialects compared, or in some
intermediate dialect, which will bear out the conclusion assumed. [Note 97 at end of para.]
This view is still further strengthened, by including in the comparison the weapons, habits,
customs, and traditions, of the various tribes.

[Note 97. I may here refer to a curious mathematical calculation, by Dr. Thomas Young, to the
effect, that if three words coincide in two different languages, it is ten to one they must
be derived in both cases from some parent language, or introduced in some other manner. "Six
words would give more," he says, "than seventeen hundred to one, and eight near 100,000; so
that in these cases, the evidence would be little short of absolute certainty."--Vestiges of
the Creation, p. 302.]

It must be admitted, however, that where the languages spoken by two tribes, appear to differ
greatly, there is no key common to both, or by which a person understanding one of them thoroughly,
could in the least degree make out the other, although an intimate acquaintance with one dialect
and its construction, would undoubtedly tend to facilitate the learning of another. A strong
illustration of this occurs at Moorunde, where three dialects meet, varying so much from each
other, that no native of any one of the three tribes, can understand a single word spoken by
the other two, except he has learnt their languages as those of a foreign people.

The dialects I allude to, are first that of the Murray river, called the "Aiawong" and which
is spoken with slight variations from the Lake Alexandrina, up to the Darling. Secondly, the
"Boraipar," or language of the natives to the east of the Murray, and which appears in its
variations to branch into that of the south-eastern tribes; and thirdly, the "Yak-kumban,"
or dialect spoken by the natives, inhabiting the country to the north-west and north of the
Murray, and which extends along the range of hills from Mount Bryant to the Darling near Laidley's
Ponds, and forms in its variations the language of the Darling itself; these tribes meet upon
the Murray at Moorunde, and can only communicate to each other by the intervention of the Aiawong
dialect, which the north-western or south-eastern tribes are compelled to learn, before they
can either communicate with each other, or with the natives of the Murray, at their common
point of rendezvous.

To the tables already given, it is thought desirable to add two of the dialects, spoken in
the country to the eastward of South Australia, and which were published for the House of Commons,
with other papers on the Aborigines, in August 1844.

[Note: At this point in the book two table appear, with the following headings. These tables
have not been reproduces in this eBook.]

A SPECIMEN OF THE DIFFERENCE OF DIALECTS SPOKEN BY THE NATIVE TRIBES OF PORT PHILLIP.

SPECIMEN OF FIVE DIALECTS SPOKEN BY THE ABORIGINES OF THE NORTH-WESTERN DISTRICT.

Captain Flinders observed the same difference to exist in various parts of New Holland, which
he visited, and yet that judicious navigator inclined to the opinion that all the various tribes
had originally one common origin. In three instances I found a similarity.

Captain Grey, in speaking of the Aborigines of New Holland, says (vol. ii. p. 209),

"One singularity in the dialects spoken by the Aborigines in different portions of Australia
is, that those of districts widely removed from one another, sometimes assimilate very closely,
whilst the dialects spoken in the intermediate ones differ considerably from either of them.
The same circumstances take place with regard to their rights and customs."

And again, after comparing some of the dialects of South Australia and New South Wales with
those of Western Australia, Captain Grey says (vol. ii. p. 216),

"Having thus traced the entire coast line of the continent of Australia, it appears that a
language the same in root is spoken throughout this vast extent of country, and from the general
agreement in this, as well as in personal appearance, rites and ceremonies, we may fairly infer
a community of origin for the Aborigines."

Had we a collected and an authentic account of the dialects, weapons, habits, customs, and
traditions of all the tribes of Australia with whom Europeans have already been in close or
friendly contact, and which, with very few exceptions, would embrace the circuit of the whole
continent, we should have a mass of valuable and interesting information, that would enable
us, not only to form a probable opinion as to the community of origin of the various tribes,
and the point from which they first overspread the continent, but also to guide us in conjecturing
the routes which the various offsets have taken from the parent tribe, the places of contact
where they have met from opposite extremities of the continent, and the gradual change which
has taken place in the habits, customs, and dialects of each.

In the absence of many links necessary to form a connection, we can at present only surmise
conclusions, which otherwise might have been almost certainly deduced.

Connecting, however, and comparing all the facts with which we are acquainted, respecting the
Aborigines, it appears that there are still grounds sufficient to hazard the opinion, that
it is not improbable that Australia was first peopled on its north-western coast, between the
parallels of 12 degrees and 16 degrees S. latitude. From whence we might surmise that three
grand divisions had branched out from the parent tribe, and that from the offsets of these
the whole continent had been overspread.

The first division appears to have proceeded round the north-western, western, and south-western
coast, as far as the commencement of the Great Australian Bight. The second, or central one,
appears to have crossed the continent inland, to the southern coast, striking it about the
parallel of 134 degrees E. longitude. The third division seems to have followed along the bottom
of the Gulf of Carpentaria to its most south-easterly bight, and then to have turned off by
the first practicable line in a direction towards Fort Bourke, upon the Darling. From these
three divisions various offsets and ramifications would have been made from time to time as
they advanced, so as to overspread and people by degrees the whole country round their respective
lines of march. Each offset appearing to retain fewer or more of the original habits, customs,
etc. of the parent tribe in proportion to the distance traversed, or its isolated position,
with regard to communication with the tribes occupying the main line of route of its original
division; modified also, perhaps, in some degree, by the local circumstances of the country
through which it may have spread.

Commencing with the parent tribe, located as I have supposed, first upon the north-west coast,
we find, from the testimony of Captain Flinders and Dampier, that the male natives of that
part of the country, have two front teeth of the upper jaw knocked out at the age of puberty,
and that they also undergo the rite of circumcision; but it does not appear that any examination
was made with sufficient closeness to ascertain, whether [Note 98: Vide Note 78.] any other
ceremony was conjoined with that of circumcision. How far these ceremonies extend along the
north-western or western coasts we have no direct evidence, but at Swan River, King George's
Sound, and Cape Arid, both customs are completely lost, and for the whole of the distance intervening
between these places, and extending fully six hundred miles in straight line along the coast,
the same language is so far spoken, that a native of King George's Sound, who accompanied me
when travelling from one point to the other, could easily understand, and speak to any natives
we met with. This is, however, an unusual case, nor indeed am I aware that there is any other
part of Australia where the same dialect continues to be spoken by the Aborigines, with so
little variation, for so great a distance, as in the colony of Western Australia.

Following round the southern coast easterly, the head of the Great Bight is the first point
at which any great change appears to occur, and even here it is less in the character, language,
and weapons of the natives, than in their ceremonial observances. For the first time the rite
of circumcision is observed, and conjoined with it the still more extraordinary practice to
which I have before alluded. The ceremony of knocking out the two upper front teeth of boys
arrived at the age of puberty, is not, however, adopted. We have already noticed, that for
six hundred miles to the west and north-west from the Great Bight, circumcision is unknown.
The tribes, therefore, who practise it, cannot have come from that direction, neither are they
likely to have come from the eastward, for after crossing the head of the Port Lincoln peninsula,
and descending towards Adelaide, we find the rite of circumcision alone is practised, without
any other ceremony in connection with it. Now, in a change of habits or customs, originating
in the wandering, unsettled life of savages, it is very likely, that many of their original
customs may gradually be dropped or forgotten; but it is scarcely probable, that they should
be again revived by their descendants, after a long period of oblivion, and when those tribes
from whom they more immediately proceeded, no longer remembered or recognised such ceremonials.
By extending the inquiry still further to the east, the position I have assumed is more forcibly
borne out, for the rite of circumcision itself then becomes unknown. It is evident, therefore,
that the Adelaide or Port Lincoln natives could not have come along either the eastern or western
coasts, and retained customs that are there quite unknown, neither could they have come across
the country inland, in the direction of the Darling, for the ceremonies alluded to are equally
unknown there. They must then have crossed almost directly from the north-western coast, towards
the south-eastern extremity of the great Australian Bight. And from them the Adelaide natives
would appear to be a branch or offset.

Returning to the north-west coast, and tracing down the route of the third division of the
parent family, from the south-east Bight of Carpentaria, towards Fort Bourke upon the Darling,
we shall find, that by far the greatest and most fertile portion of New Holland appears to
have been peopled by it. In its progress, offsets and ramifications would have branched off
in every direction along the various ranges or watercourses contiguous to the line of route.
All the rivers running towards the eastern coast, together with the Nammoy, the Gwyder, the
Castlereagh, Macquarie, Bogan, Lochlan, Darling, Hume, Goulburn, etc. with their many branches
and tributaries, would each afford so many routes for the different sub-divisions of the main
body, to spread over the varied and fertile regions of Eastern, South-eastern, and part of
Southern Australia. As tribe separated from tribe, each would retain, in a greater or less
degree, some of the language, habits, or customs of the original division; but such points
of resemblance would naturally again undergo many changes or modifications, in proportion to
the time, distance, or isolated character of the separation. If we look at the progress of
any two parties of natives, branching off upon different rivers, and trace them, either upwards
or downwards, we shall find, that the further they went, the more isolated they would become,
and the less likely to come again in contact with each other, or with the original division
from which they separated. We may, therefore, naturally expect a much greater variety of dialects
or customs in a country that is much intersected by rivers, or ranges, or by any features that
tend to produce the isolating effect that I have described, than in one whose character has
no such tendency; and this in reality we find to be the case. In Western and South-western
Australia, as far as the commencement of the Great Bight, the features and character of the
country appear to be but little diversified, and here, accordingly, we find the language of
the natives radically the same, and their weapons, customs, and ceremonies very similar throughout
its whole extent; but if, on the other hand, we turn to Eastern, South-eastern, and part of
Southern Australia, we find the dialects, customs, and weapons of the inhabitants, almost as
different as the country itself is varied by the intersection of ranges and rivers.

The division I have supposed as taking a south-easterly course from the Gulf of Carpentaria,
would appear early to have lost the rite of circumcision; but to have retained among some of
its branches, the practice of knocking out the front teeth of the upper jaw. Thus, those who
made their way to Port Jackson and to Hunter's River, and to some of the southern parts of
New South Wales, still retained the practice of knocking out one of the front teeth at the
age of puberty; but at Keppel's, Harvey's, and Glass-House bays, on the north-east coast, at
Twofold bay on the south-east, at Port Phillip on the south, and upon the rivers Darling and
Murray, of the interior, no such rite is practised. It is clear, therefore, that when the continent
was first peopled, the natives of Sydney or Hunter's River could not have come round the north-east
coast by Keppel's or Harvey's bays, and retained a ceremony that is there lost; neither could
the Murrumbidgee or southern districts of New South Wales, have been peopled from Port Phillip,
or from South Australia, or by tribes passing up the Murray for the same reason. It is not
demanding too much, therefore, to suppose that the general lines of route taken by the Aborigines
in spreading over the continent of Australia, have been somewhat analogous to those I have
imagined, or that we can fairly account for any material differences there may be in the dialects,
customs, or weapons of the different tribes, by referring them to the effect of local circumstances,
the length of time that may have elapsed since separation, or to the isolated position in which
they may have been placed, with regard to that division of the parent tribe from which they
had seceded.

At present our information respecting the customs, habits, weapons and dialects of the various
tribes is too limited and too scattered to enable us to trace with accuracy the division to
which each may have originally belonged, or the precise route by which it had arrived at its
present location; but I feel quite confident that this may be done with tolerable certainty,
when the particulars I have referred to shall be more abundantly and correctly recorded.

It is at least a subject of much interest, and one that is well worthy the attention of the
traveller or the philanthropist. No one individual can hope personally to collect the whole
material required; but if each recorded with fidelity the facts connected with those tribes,
with whom he personally came in contact, a mass of evidence would soon be brought together
that would more than suffice for the purpose required.

Some attempts have been made in nearly all the British Settlements of Australia to improve
the condition of the aboriginal population; the results have, however, in few cases, met the
expectations of the promoters of the various benevolent schemes that have been entered upon
for the object; nor have the efforts hitherto made succeeded in arresting that fatal and melancholy
effect which contact with civilization seems ever to produce upon a savage people. It has already
been stated, that in all the colonies we have hitherto established upon the continent, the
Aborigines are gradually decreasing in number, or have already disappeared in proportion to
the time their country has been occupied by Europeans, or to the number of settlers who have
been located upon it.

Of the blighting and exterminating effects produced upon simple and untutored races, by the
advance of civilization upon them, we have many and painful proofs. History records innumerable
instances of nations who were once numerous and powerful, decaying and disappearing before
this fatal and inexplicable influence; history WILL record, I fear, similar results for the
many nations who are now struggling; alas, how vainly, against this desolating cause. Year
by year, the melancholy and appalling truth is only the more apparent, and as each new instance
multiplies upon us, it becomes too fatally confirmed, until at last we are almost, in spite
of ourselves, forced to the conviction, that the first appearance of the white men in any new
country, sounds the funeral knell of the children of the soil. In Africa, in the country of
the Bushmen, Mr. Moffat says--

"I have traversed those regions, in which, according to the testimony of the farmers, thousands
once dwelt, drinking at their own fountains, and killing their own game; but now, alas, scarcely
is a family to be seen! It is impossible to look over those now uninhabited plains and mountain
glens without feeling the deepest melancholy, whilst the winds moaning in the vale seem to
echo back the sound, 'Where are they?'"

Another author, with reference to the Cape Colony, remarks--

"The number of natives, estimated at the time of the discovery at about 200,000, are stated
to have been reduced, or cut off, to the present population of about 32,000, by a continual
system of oppression, which once begun, never slackened."

Catlin gives a feeling and melancholy account of the decrease of the North American Indians,
[Note 99: Vide Catlin's American Indians, vol. i. p. 4 and 5, and vol. ii. p. 238.] and similar
records might be adduced of the sad fate of almost every uncivilized people, whose country
has been colonized by Europeans. In Sydney, which is the longest established of all our possessions
in New Holland, it is believed that not a single native of the original tribes belonging to
Port Jackson is now left alive. [Note 100 at end of para.] Advancing from thence towards the
interior a miserable family or two may be met with, then a few detached groups of half-starved
wretches, dependant upon what they can procure by begging for their daily sustenance. Still
further, the scattered and diseased remnants [Note 101 at end of para.], of once powerful,
but now decayed tribes are seen interspersed throughout the country, until at last upon arriving
at the more remote regions, where the blighting and annihilating effects of colonization have
not yet overtaken them, tribes are yet found flourishing in their natural state, free from
that misery and diminution which its presence always brings upon them.

[Note 100: "In the first year of the settlement of New South Wales, 1788, Governor Phillip
caused the amount of the population of Port Jackson to be ascertained, by every cove in it
being visited by different inspectors at the same time. The number of natives found in this
single harbour was 130, and they had 67 boats. At the same time it was known that many were
in the woods making new canoes. From this and other data, Governor Phillip estimated the population
between Botany Bay and Broken Bay inclusive, at 1500."--Aboriginal Protection Society's Report,
May 1839, p. 13.

In Report of the same Society for July 1839, page 71, Mr. Threlkeld says--"Of one large tribe
in the interior four years ago there were 164 persons--there are now only three individuals
alive!!"]

[Note 101: "The whole eastern country, once thickly peopled, may now be said to be entirely
abandoned to the whites, with the exception of some scattered families in one part, and of
a few straggling individuals in another; and these once so high spirited, so jealous of their
independence and liberty, now treated with contempt and ridicule even by the lowest of the
Europeans; degraded, subdued, confused, awkward, and distrustful, ill concealing emotions of
anger, scorn, and revenge--emaciated and covered with filthy rags;--these native lords of the
soil, more like spectres of the past than living men, are dragging on a melancholy existence
to a yet more melancholy doom."--STRZELECHI'S N. S. WALES, p.350.]

It is here that the native should be seen to be appreciated, in his native wilds, where he
alone is lord of all around him. To those who have thus come into communication with the Aborigines,
and have witnessed the fearless courage and proud demeanour which a life of independence and
freedom always inspires, it cannot but be a matter of deep regret to see them gradually dwindling
away and disappearing before the presence of Europeans. As the ravages of a flood destroy the
country through which it takes its course, and which its deposit ought only to have fertilized,
[Note 102 at end of para.] so the native, who ought to be improved by a contact with Europeans,
is overwhelmed and swept away by their approach. In Van Diemen's Land the same result has been
produced as at Sydney, but in a more extended and exterminating manner.[Note 103 at end of
para.] There, instead of a few districts, the whole island is depopulated of its original inhabitants,
and only thirty or forty individuals, the banished remnant of a once numerous people, are now
existing as exiles at Flinders Island, to tell the tale of their expatriation. [Note 104 at
end of para.] In Western Australia the same process is gradually but certainly going on among
the tribes most in contact with the Europeans. In South Australia it is the same; and short
as is the time that this province has been occupied as a British Colony, the results upon the
Aborigines are but too apparent in their diminished numbers, in the great disproportion that
has been produced between the sexes, and in the large preponderance of deaths over births.
A miserably diseased condition, and the almost total absence of children, are immediate consequences
of this contact with Europeans. The increase or diminution of the tribes can only be ascertained
exactly in the different districts, by their being regularly mustered, and lists kept of the
numbers and proportion of the sexes, births, deaths, etc.

[Note 102: "Hard indeed is the fate of the children of the soil, and one of the darkest enigmas
of life lies in the degradation and decay wrought by the very civilization which should succour,
teach, and improve."--ATHENAEUM.]

[Note 103: "That the Aboriginal Tasmanian was naturally mild and inoffensive in disposition,
appears to be beyond doubt. A worm, however, will turn, and the atrocities which were perpetrated
against these unoffending creatures may well palliate the indiscriminate, though heart-rending
slaughter they entailed. Such was the character of the Tasmanian native before roused by oppression,
and ere a continued and systematic hostility had arisen between the races--ere 'their hand
was against every man, and every man's hand against them.'" --MARTYN'S COLONIAL MAGAZINE, May,
1840.]

[Note 104: "At the epoch of their deportation, in 1835, the number of the natives amounted
to 210. Visited by me in 1842, that is, after the interval of seven years, they mustered only
fifty-four individuals." --STRZELECKI'S NEW SOUTH WALES, p. 352

Respecting the Aborigines of Van Diemen's Land, who were thus forcibly removed, Mr. Chief Protector
Robinson (who removed them) observes (Parliamentary Report, p. 198), "When the natives were
all assembled at Flinders Island, in 1835, I took charge of them, and have continued to do
so ever since. I did not find them retaining that ferocious character which they displayed
in their own country; they shewed no hostility, nor even hostile recollection towards the whites.
Unquestionably these natives assembled on the island were the same who had been engaged in
the outrages I have spoken of; many of them, before they were removed, pointed out to me the
spots where murders and other acts of violence had been committed; they made no secret of acknowledging
their participation in such acts, and only considered them a just retaliation for wrongs done
to them or their progenitors. On removal to the island they appeared to forget all these facts;
they could not of course fail to remember them, but they never recurred to them."]

In April, 1843, or only six and a half years after South Australia had first been occupied,
the Protector of the Aborigines in Adelaide ascertained that the tribes, properly belonging
to that neighbourhood, consisted of 150 individuals, in the following proportions, namely,
70 men, 39 women, and 41 children. Now, at the Murray, among a large number of natives who,
until 1842, were comparatively isolated from Europeans, and among whom are frequently many
different tribes, I found by an accurate muster every month at Moorunde for a period of three
years, that the women, on an average, were equally numerous with the men, from which I infer
that such is usually the case in their original and natural state. Taking this for granted,
and comparing it with the proportions of the Adelaide tribe, as given above, we shall find
that in six years and a half the females had diminished from an equality with the males, to
from 70 to 80 per cent. less, and of course the tribe must have sustained also a corresponding
diminution with respect to children.

[Note 105: This result seems to be generally borne out by the few accurate returns that have
hitherto been made on the subject. In Mr. Protector Parker's report for his district, to the
north-west of Port Phillip (for January, 1843), that gentleman gives a census of 375 male natives,
and 295 female, which gives an excess of about 26 per cent. of males over females. In 1834
Mr. Commissioner Lambie gives a census, for the district of Manero, of 416 males and 321 females,
or an excess of the former over the latter of nearly 45 per cent. It would appear that the
disproportion of the sexes increases in a ratio corresponding to the length of time a district
has been occupied by settlers and their stock, and to the density of the European population
residing in it. Official returns for four divisions of the Colony of New South Wales, give
a decrease of the proportion of females to males of fifteen per cent. in two years. Vide Aborigines
Protection Society Report, July, 1839, p. 69. In the same Report, p. 70, Mr. Threlkeld states,
that the Official Report for one district gives only two women to 28 men, two boys, and no girls.]

Again, in 1844, the Protector ascertained from the records he had kept that, in the same tribe,
there were, in four years, twenty-seven births and FIFTY deaths, which shews, beyond all doubt,
the gradual but certain destruction that was going on among the tribe. If no means can be adopted
to check the evil, it must eventually lead to their total extermination.

By comparing the twenty-seven births in four years with the number of women, thirty-nine, it
appears that there would be annually only one child born among every six women: a result as
unnatural as it is evidently attributable to the increased prostitution that has taken place,
with regard both to Europeans and other native tribes, whom curiosity has attracted to the
town, but whom the Adelaide tribe were not in the habit of meeting at all, or, at least, not
in such familiar intercourse prior to the arrival of the white people. This single cause, with
the diseases and miseries which it entails upon the Aborigines, is quite sufficient to account
for the paucity of births, and the additional number of deaths that now occur among them.

In the Moorunde statistics, given Chapter VI., the very small number of infants compared with
the number of women is still more strongly illustrated; but in this case only those infants
that lived and were brought up by their mothers to the monthly musters were marked down; many
other births had, doubtless, taken place, where the children had died, or been killed, but
of which no notice is taken, as it would have been impossible under the circumstances of such
a mixture of tribes, and their constantly changing their localities, to have obtained an accurate
account of all.

Under the circumstances of our intercourse with the Aborigines as at present constituted, the
same causes which produced so exterminating an effect in Sydney and other places, are still
going on in all parts of Australia occupied by Europeans, and must eventually lead to the same
result, if no controlling measures can be adopted to prevent it.

Many attempts, upon a limited scale, have already been made in all the colonies, but none have
in the least degree tended to check the gradual but certain extinction that is menacing this
ill-fated people; nor is it in my recollection that throughout the whole length and breadth
of New Holland, a single real or permanent convert to Christianity has yet been made amongst
them, by any of the missionaries engaged in their instruction, many of whom have been labouring
hopelessly for many years.

In New South Wales, one of the oldest and longest established missions in Australia was given
up by the Rev. Mr. Threlkeld, after the fruitless devotion of many years of toil. [Note 106
at end of para.] Neither have the efforts hitherto made to improve the physical circumstances
or social relations of the Aborigines been attended with any better success. None have yet
been induced permanently to adopt our customs, or completely to give up their wandering habits,
or to settle down fixedly in one place, and by cultivating the ground, supply themselves with
the comforts and luxuries of life. It is not that the New Hollander is not as apt and intelligent
as the men of any other race, or that his capacity for receiving instruction, or appreciating
enjoyment is less; on the contrary, we have the fullest and most ample testimony from all who
have been brought much into contact with this people that the very contrary is the case: a
testimony that is completely borne out by the many instances on record, of the quickness with
which natives have learned our language, or the facility with which temporarily they have accommodated
themselves to our habits and customs.

[Note 106: Vide Parliamentary Reports on Australian Aborigines, 9th of August, 1844, pages
160 and 161.--"In submitting to this decision, it is impossible not to feel considerable disappointment
to the expectations formerly hoped to be realized in the conversion of some at least of the
Aborigines in this part of the colony, and not to express concern that so many years of constant
attention appear to have been fruitlessly expended. It is however, perfectly apparent that
the termination of the mission has arisen solely from the Aborigines becoming extinct in these
districts, and the very few that remain elsewhere are so scattered, that it is impossible to
congregate them for instruction; and when seen in the towns, they are generally unfit to engage
in profitable conversation. The thousands of Aborigines, if ever they did exist in these parts,
decreased to hundreds, the hundreds have lessened to tens, and the tens will dwindle to units
before a very few years will have passed away."

"This mission to the Aborigines has ceased to exist, not from want of support from the British
Government, nor from the inclination of the agent, but purely from the Aborigines themselves
becoming extinct in these parts; and in leaving this scene of much solitariness, privation,
and trial, it is earnestly hoped that He who fixes the bounds of our habitation, apparently
in Sydney for a season, will guide our feet through life to his glory, and provide support
for a numerous family, so that the 'ministry be not blamed.'"]

On the natural intelligence of the native children, Mr. Moorhouse remarks, after several years
practical experience:--

"They are as apt as European children so far as they have been tried, but they have not been
put to abstract reasoning. Their perceptive powers are large, as they are much exercised in
procuring food, etc. Anything requiring perception only is readily mastered, the alphabet will
be known in a few lessons; figures are soon recognised, and the quantities they represent,
but addition from figures alone always presents difficulties for a while, but in a little time,
however, it is understood."

Upon the same subject, Captain Grey remarks, vol. ii. p. 374.

"They are as apt and intelligent as any other race of men I am acquainted with; they are subject
to the same affections, appetites, and passions as other men."

Innumerable cases might be adduced, where native boys, or young men, and sometimes even females,
have been taken into the employment of the settlers, and have lived with them as active and
useful servants for many months, and occasionally even years. Unfortunately, however, in all
such cases, they have eventually returned again to their savage life, and given up the customs
and habits they had assumed. The same result has occurred among the many children who have
been educated at the various schools established for their instruction, in the different Colonies.
Numerous examples might be given of the great degree of proficiency made; and often, of many
of the scholars being in such a state of forwardness and improvement, as reasonably to sanction
the expectation, that they might one day become useful and intelligent members of the community:
this hope has, however, hitherto, in almost every instance, been sooner or later disappointed,
and they have again descended from the civilized to the savage state. What can be the causes
then, that have operated to produce such unfavourable results?

If we admit, and it is admitted by all whose experience best qualifies them to give an opinion,
that the Australian is fully equal in natural powers and intelligence, to the generality of
mankind; it is very evident, that where so little success has hitherto attended any attempts
to improve him, either morally or socially, there must either be some radical defects in the
systems adopted, or some strongly counteracting causes to destroy their efficiency. I believe,
that to both these circumstances, may be traced the results produced.

The following remarks, by Captain Grey, upon this subject, point out some of the evils to which
the natives are subject, and in a great degree, account for the preference they appear to give
to their own wild life and habits. (Vol. 2. pp. 367 to 371.) He says:--

"If we inquire into the causes which tend to detain them in their present depressed condition,
we shall find that the chief one is--'prejudice' The Australians have been most unfairly represented
as a very inferior race, in fact as one occupying a scale in the creation which nearly places
them on a level with the brutes, and some years must elapse, ere a prejudice so firmly rooted
as this can be altogether eradicated, but certainly a more unfounded one never had possession
of the public mind.

"Amongst the evils which the natives suffer in their present position, one is an uncertain
and irregular demand for their labour, that is to say, they may one day have plenty of means
for exerting their industry afforded them by the settlers, and the next their services are
not required; so that they are necessarily compelled to have recourse to their former irregular
and wandering habits.

"Another is the very insufficient reward for the services they render. As an example of this
kind, I will state the instance of a man who worked during the whole season, as hard and as
well as any white man, at getting in the harvest for some setlers, and who only received bread,
and sixpence a day, whilst the ordinary labourers would earn at least fifteen shillings. In
many instances, they only receive a scanty allowance of food, so much so, that some settlers
have told me that the natives left them because they had not enough to eat.

"The evil consequence of this is, that a native finding he can gain as much by the combined
methods of hunting and begging, as he can by working, naturally prefers the former and much
more attractive mode of procuring subsistence, to the latter one.

"Many of the natives have not only a good idea of the value of money, but even hoard it up
for some particular purpose; several of them have shewn me their little treasure of a few shillings,
and have told me it was their intention to save more until they had enough to buy a horse,
a gun, or some wished-for article, but their improvidence has always got the better of their
thriftiness, and this sum has eventually been spent in treating their friends to bread and rice.

"Another evil is the very extraordinary position in which they are placed with regard to two
distinct sets of laws; that is they are allowed to exercise their own laws upon one another,
and are again held amenable to British law where British subjects are concerned. Thus no protection
is afforded them by the British law against the violence or cruelty of one of their own race,
and the law has only been hitherto known to them as the means of punishment, but never as a
code from which they can claim protection or benefit.

"The following instances will prove my assertion: In the month of October 1838, I saw early
one morning some natives in the public street in Perth, in the act of murdering a native woman,
close to the store of the Messrs. Habgood: many Europeans were present, amongst others a constable;
but there was no interference on their part until eventually the life of the woman was saved
by the courage of Mr. Brown, a gardener in Perth, who rushed in amongst the natives, and knocked
down the man who was holding her; she then escaped into the house of the Messrs. Habgood, who
treated the poor creature with the utmost humanity. She was, however, wounded in several places
in the most severe and ghastly manner.

"A letter I received from Mr. A. Bussel, (a settler in the southern part of the colony,) in
May, 1839, shews that the same scenes are enacted all over it. In this case, their cow-keeper,
(the native whose burial is narrated at p. 330,) was speared by the others. He was at the time
the hired servant of Europeans, performing daily a stated service for them; yet they slew him
in open day-light, without any cause of provocation being given by him.

"Again, in October, 1838, the sister of a settler in the northern district, told me that shortly
before this period, she had, as a female servant, a most interesting little native girl, not
more than ten or eleven years of age. This girl had just learned all the duties belonging to
her employment, and was regarded in the family as a most useful servant, when some native,
from a spirit of revenge, murdered this inoffensive child in the most barbarous manner, close
to the house; her screams were actually heard by the Europeans under whose protection, and
in whose service she was living, but they were not in time to save her life. This same native
had been guilty of many other barbarous murders, one of which he had committed in the district
of the Upper Swan, in the actual presence of Europeans. In June, 1839, he was still at large,
unmolested, even occasionally visiting Perth.

"Their fondness for the bush and the habits of savage life, is fixed and perpetuated by the
immense boundary placed by circumstances between themselves and the whites, which no exertions
on their part can overpass, and they consequently relapse into a state of hopeless passive
indifference.

"I will state a remarkable instance of this:--The officers of the Beagle took away with them
a native of the name of Miago, who remained absent with them for several months. I saw him
on the North-west coast, on board the Beagle, apparently perfectly civilized; he waited at
the gun-room mess, was temperate (never tasting spirits), attentive, cheerful, and remarkably
clean in his person. The next time I saw him was at Swan River, where he had been left on the
return of the Beagle. He was then again a savage, almost naked, painted all over, and had been
concerned in several murders. Several persons here told me,--"you see the taste for a savage
life was strong in him, and he took to the bush again directly." Let us pause for a moment
and consider.

"Miago, when he was landed, had amongst the white people none who would be truly friends of
his,--they would give him scraps from their table, but the very outcasts of the whites would
not have treated him as an equal,--they had no sympathy with him,--he could not have married
a white woman,--he had no certain means of subsistence open to him,--he never could have been
either a husband or a father, if he had lived apart from his own people;--where, amongst the
whites, was he to find one who would have filled for him the place of his black mother, whom
he is much attached to?--what white man would have been his brother?--what white woman his
sister? He had two courses left open to him,--he could either have renounced all natural ties,
and have led a hopeless, joyless life amongst the whites,--ever a servant,--ever an inferior
being;--or he could renounce civilization, and return to the friends of his childhood, and
to the habits of his youth. He chose the latter course, and I think that I should have done
the same."

Such are a few of the disadvantages the natives have to contend with, if they try to assimilate
in their life and habits to Europeans, nor is there one here enumerated, of which repeated
instances have not come under my own observation. If to these be added, the natural ties of
consanguinity, the authority of parents, the influence of the example of relatives and friends,
and the seducing attraction which their own habits and customs hold out to the young of both
sexes; first, by their offering a life of idleness and freedom, to a people naturally indolent
and impatient of restraint; and secondly, by their pandering to their natural passions: we
shall no longer wonder that so little has been effected towards ameliorating their condition,
or inducing them to adopt habits and customs that deprive them of those indulgences.

In New South Wales and Port Phillip, the Government have made many efforts in behalf of the
Aborigines; for a series of years past, and at present, the sum of about ten thousand pounds,
is annually placed upon the estimates, towards defraying the salaries of a Chief Protector,
and several subordinate ones, and for other expenses connected with the natives.

[Note: Not included in thei eBook, Table on pages 428-9: ABSTRACT OF EXPENDITURE IN N.S.W ON
ACCOUNT OF THE ABORIGINES FROM 1821 TO 1842 INCLUSIVE.]

In Western Australia a sum of money is also devoted annually towards defraying the salaries
of two Protectors, and other expenses connected with the department.

I am not, however, personally aware, what the particular arrangements may be that have latterly
been adopted in either of these colonies, for the benefit of the Aborigines, or the degree
of success which may have attended them. I believe, however, that in both places, more has
been attempted, within the last three or four years, than had ever been the case before. What
the eventual result may be it is impossible to tell, but with the past experience before me,
I cannot persuade myself, that any real or permanent good will ever be effected, until the
influence exercised over the young by the adults be destroyed, and they are freed from the
contagious effects of their example, and until means are afforded them of supporting themselves
in a new condition, and of forming those social ties and connections in an improved state,
which they must otherwise be driven to seek for among the savage hordes, from which it is attempted
to reclaim them.

In South Australia many efforts have been made in behalf of the Aborigines, and an anxious
desire for their welfare has frequently been exhibited on the part of the Government, and of
many of the colonists. For the year 1845 the sum of 820 pounds is noted in the estimates for
the Aboriginal Department. This sum is distributed as follows:--

Salary of Protector                      300 pounds
Master of Native School at Walkerville   100
Matron of School at Native Location       20
Provisions                               150
Donation to Lutheran Mission             100
Miscellaneous                            150
                                         ---
Total                                    820 pounds

There are three native schools established in the province. The first is that at the native
location in the town of Adelaide, commenced in December, 1839, by Mr. Klose, one of the Dresden
missionaries. The average attendance of children has been about sixteen, all of whom have latterly
been lodged as well as fed at the school. The progress made by the children may be stated to
have been as follows: on the 16th February, 1844--

14 were able to read polysyllables. 2 were able to read monosyllables. 2 could repeat the cardinal
numbers. 14 were in addition. 3 in subtraction. 9 in multiplication. 2 in division.

Most of the children could repeat the Lord's Prayer and Commandments, and they were able to
narrate the history of the Creation, the fall of our first parents, and other portions of the
Old and New Testament. A few were able to write these subjects to dictation. In geography many
of the scholars knew the ordinary divisions of the earth, its shape, diameter, circumference,
and the names of the continents, oceans, seas, gulfs, etc. etc. together with the general description
of the inhabitants of each part, as to colour, etc. Of the girls, fourteen had been taught
to sew, and have made upwards of fifty garments for themselves, besides several shirts for
Europeans.

Mr. Klose receives as salary 33 pounds per annum from the Government, and a remittance from
his society at Dresden. The matron of the establishment also receives 20 pounds from the Government.
The average expense of provisions for each child per week, amounts to two shillings and ten
pence. The cost of clothing each child per year is 2 pounds. Until very recently this school
was taught in the native language; but English is now adopted, except in lecturing from Scripture,
when the native language is still retained.

At Walkerville, about one mile from North Adelaide, another school has been established under
the superintendence of Mr. Smith, since May, 1844. Up to October of the same year the average
attendance of children had been sixty-three. In that short time the progress had been very
satisfactory; all the children had passed from the alphabetical to the monosyllabic class,
and most had mastered the multiplication table; eighteen could write upon the slate, and six
upon paper; twelve girls had commenced sewing, and were making satisfactory progress.

They go four times in the week to the council chamber to be instructed by gratuitous teachers.
On Sunday evening service is performed according to the Church of England by Mr. Fleming, and
the children are said to be attentive and well-behaved. The Methodists of the New Connection
have them also under spiritual instruction in the morning and afternoon of each Sabbath, assisted
by persons of other religious denominations.

All instruction is given in English; their food is cooked by the elder children, (who also
provide the firewood,) and distributed by themselves under the master's eye The cook is said
to take good care of himself, and certainly his appearance does not belie the insinuation,
for he is by far the fattest boy in the lot. The school building is a plain, low cottage, containing
a school-room, a sleeping-room for the male children, another for the female, and apartments
for the master and mistress. There is also an old out-building attached, where the children
perform their ablutions in wet weather. Mr. and Mrs. Smith receive 100 pounds per annum from
the Colonial Government for their services. The children of this school have not yet been generally
provided with other clothing than a small blanket each. The third school was only just commenced
at Encounter Bay, where it has been established through the influence and exertions of Mr.
Meyer, one of the missionaries. The Government give 20 pounds per annum, and the settlers of
the neighbourhood 100 bushels of wheat, and some mutton. Six or eight children are expected
to be lodged and boarded at this school, with the means at present existing.

Besides the establishment of schools, there is a Protector resident in Adelaide to take the
management of the aboriginal department, to afford medical assistance and provisions to such
of the aged or diseased as choose to apply for them, and to remunerate any natives who may
render services to the Government, or the Protectorate. At Moorunde, upon the Murray, the natives
are mustered once a month by the Resident magistrate, and two pounds and a half of flour issued
to each native who chooses to attend. This is occasionally done at Port Lincoln, and has had
a very beneficial effect. Once in the year, on the Queen's birthday, a few blankets are distributed
to some of the Aborigines at Adelaide, Moorunde, Encounter Bay, and Port Lincoln, amounting
in all to about 300. Four natives are also provisioned by the Government as attaches to the
police force at different out-stations, and are in many respects very useful.

Exclusive of the Government exertions in behalf of the Aborigines, there are in the province
four missionaries from the Lutheran Missionary Society at Dresden, two of whom landed in October
1838, and two in August 1840. Of these one is stationed at the native location, and (as has
already been stated) acts as schoolmaster. A second is living twelve miles from Adelaide, upon
a section of land, bought by the Dresden Society, with the object of endeavouring to settle
the natives, and inducing them to build houses upon the property, but the plan seems altogether
a failure. It was commenced in November 1842, but up to November 1844 natives had only been
four months at the place; and on one occasion a period of nine months elapsed, without their
ever visiting it at all, although frequently located at other places in the neighbourhood.

A third missionary is stationed at Encounter Bay, and is now conducting a school, mainly established
through his own exertions and influence.

The fourth is stationed at Port Lincoln. All the four missionaries have learned the dialects
of the tribes where they are stationed, and three have published vocabularies and grammars
as the proof of their industry.

Such is the general outline of the efforts that have hitherto been made in South Australia,
and the progress made. It may be well to inquire, what are likely to be the results eventually
under the existing arrangements. From the first establishment of the schools, until June 1843,
the children were only instructed at the location, their food was given to them to take to
the native encampments to cook, and they were allowed to sleep there at night. The natural
consequence was, that the provisions intended for the sonolars were shared by the other natives,
whilst the evil influence of example, and the jeers of their companions, did away with any
good impression produced by their instruction. I have myself, upon going round the encampments
in Adelaide by night, seen the school-children ridiculed by the elder boys, and induced to
join them in making a jest of what they had been taught during the day to look upon as sacred.

A still more serious evil, resulting from this system was, that the children were more completely
brought into the power, and under the influence of the parents, and thus their natural taste
for an indolent and rambling life, was constantly kept up. The boys naturally became anxious
to participate and excel in the sports, ceremonies, or pursuits of their equals, and the girls
were compelled to yield to the customs of their tribe, and break through every lesson of decency
or morality, which had been inculcated.

Since June, 1843, the system has so far been altered, that the children, whilst under instruction,
are boarded and lodged at the school houses, and as far as practicable, the boys and girls
are kept separate. There are still, however, many evils attending the present practice, most
of which arise from the inadequacy of the funds, applicable to the Aborigines, and which must
be removed before any permanent good can be expected from the instruction given. The first
of these, and perhaps one of the greatest, is that the adult natives make their encampments
immediately in the neighbourhood of the schools, whilst the children, when out of school, roam
in a great measure at will, or are often employed collecting firewood, etc. about the park
lands, a place almost constantly occupied by the grown up natives, there is consequently nearly
as much intercourse between the school children and the other natives, and as great an influence
exercised over them by the parents and elders, as if they were still allowed to frequent the camps.

Another evil is, that no inducement is held out to the parents, to put their children to school,
or to allow them to remain there. They cannot comprehend the advantage of having their children
clothed, fed, or educated, whilst they lose their services; on the contrary, they find that
all the instruction, advice, or influence of the European, tends to undermine among the children
their own customs and authority, and that when compelled to enforce these upon them, they themselves
incur the odium of the white men. Independently, however, of this consideration, and of the
natural desire of a parent to have his family about him, he is in reality a loser by their
absence, for in many of the methods adopted for hunting, fishing, or similar pursuits, the
services even of young children are often very important. For the deprivation of these, which
he suffers when his children are at school, he receives no equivalent, and it is no wonder
therefore, that by far the great majority of natives would prefer keeping their children to
travel with them, and assist in hunting or fishing. It is a rare occurrence, for parents to
send, or even willingly [Note 107 at end of para.] to permit their children to go to school,
and the masters have consequently to go round the native encampments to collect and bring away
the children against their wishes. This is tacitly submitted to at the time, but whenever the
parents remove to another locality, the children are informed of it, and at once run away to
join them; so that the good that has been done in school, is much more rapidly undone at the
native camp. I have often heard the parents complain indignantly of their children being thus
taken; and one old man who had been so treated, but whose children had run away and joined
him again, used vehemently to declare, that if taken any more, he would steal some European
children instead, and take them into the bush to teach them; he said he could learn them something
useful, to make weapons and nets, to hunt, or to fish, but what good did the Europeans communicate
to his children?

[Note 107: "Mr. Gunter expressed very decidedly his opinion, that the blacks do not like Mr.
Watson, and that they especially do not like him, SINCE HE HAS TAKEN CHILDREN FROM THEM BY
FORCE: he would himself like to have some children under his care, IF HE COULD PROCURE THEM
BY PROPER MEANS."--Memorandum respecting Wellington Valley, by Sir G. Gipps, November 1840.]

A third, and a very great evil, is that, after a native boy or girl has been educated and brought
up at the school, no future provision is made for either, nor have they the means of following
any useful occupation, or the opportunity of settling themselves in life, or of forming any
domestic ties or connections whatever, save by falling back again upon the rude and savage
life from which it was hoped education would have weaned them. It is unnatural, therefore,
to suppose that under existing circumstances they should ever do other than relapse into their
former state; we cannot expect that individuals should isolate themselves completely from their
kind, when by so doing they give up for ever all hope of forming any of those domestic ties
that can render their lives happy.

Such being the very limited, and perhaps somewhat equivocal advantages we offer the Aborigines,
we can hardly expect that much or permanent benefit can accrue to them; and ought not to be
disappointed if such is not the case. [Note 108 at end of para.] At present it is difficult
to say what are the advantages held out to the natives by the schools, since they have no opportunity
of turning their instruction to account, and must from necessity relapse again to the condition
of savages, when they leave school. Taken as children from their parents, against the wishes
of the latter, there are not means sufficient at the schools for keeping them away from the
ill effects of the example and society of the most abandoned of the natives around. They are
not protected from the power or influence of their parents and relatives, who are always encouraging
them to leave, or to practise what they have been taught not to do. The good that is instilled
one day is the next obliterated by evil example or influence. They have no future openings
in life which might lead them to become creditable and useful members of society; and however
well disposed a child may be, there is but one sad and melancholy resource for it at last,
that of again joining its tribe, and becoming such as they are. Neither is there that disinclination
on the part of the elder children to resume their former mode of life and customs that might
perhaps have been expected; for whilst still at school they see and participate enough in the
sports, pleasures, or charms of savage life to prevent their acquiring a distaste to it; and
when the time arrives for their departure, they are generally willing and anxious to enter
upon the career before them, and take their part in the pursuits or duties of their tribe.
Boys usually leave school about fourteen, to join in the chase, or learn the practice of war.
Girls are compelled to leave about twelve, through the joint influence of parents and husbands,
to join the latter; and those only who have been acquainted with the life of slavery and degradation
a native female is subject to, can at all form an opinion of the wretched prospect before her.

[Note 108: The importance of a change in the system and policy adopted towards the Aborigines,
and the urgent necessity for placing the schools upon a different and better footing, appears
from the following extract from a despatch from Governor Hutt to Lord Stanley, 21st January,
1843, in which the difficulties and failure attending the present system are stated. Mr. Hutt
says (Parliamentary Reports, p. 416). "It is to the schools, of course, that we must look for
any lasting benefit to be wrought amongst the natives, and I regret most deeply the total failure
of the school instituted at York, and the partial failure of that at Guilford, both of which
at FIRST promised so well. The fickle disposition of these people, in youth as in older years,
incapacitate them from any long continued exertions, whether of learning or labour, whilst
from the roving lives of the parents in search of food, the children, if received into the
schools, must be entirely supported at the public expense. This limits the sphere of our operations,
by restricting the number of the scholars who can thus be taken charge of. Through the kindly
co-operation of the Wesleyan Society at Perth, and the zealous pastoral exertions of the Rev.
Mr. King at Fremantle, the schools at both these places have been efficiently maintained; but
in the country, and apart from the large towns, to which the Aborigines have an interest in
resorting in large numbers for food and money, the formation of schools of a lasting character
will be for some time a work of doubt and of difficulty."]

There are two other points connected with the natives to which I will briefly advert: the one,
relative to the language in which the school children are taught, the other, the policy, or
otherwise, of having establishments for the natives in the immediate vicinity of a town, or
of a numerous European population.

With respect to the first, I may premise, that for the first four years the school at the location
in Adelaide was conducted entirely in the native tongue. To this there are many objections.

First, the length of time and labour required for the instructor to master the language he
has to teach in.

Secondly, the very few natives to whom he can impart the advantages of instruction, as an additional
school, and another teacher would be required for every tribe speaking a different dialect.

Thirdly, the sudden stop that would be put to all instruction if the preceptor became ill,
or died, as no one would be found able to supply his place in a country where, from the number,
and great differences of the various dialects, there is no inducement to the public to learn
any of them.

Fourthly, that by the children being taught in any other tongue than that generally spoken
by the colonists, they are debarred from the advantage of any casual instruction or information
which they might receive from others than their own teachers, and from entering upon duties
or relations of any kind with the Europeans among whom they are living, but whose language
they cannot speak.

Fifthly, that, by adhering to the native language, the children are more deeply confirmed in
their original feelings and prejudices, and more thoroughly kept under the influence and direction
of their own people.

Among the colonists themselves there have scarcely been two opinions upon the subject, and
almost all have felt, that the system originally adopted was essentially wrong. It has recently
been changed, and the English is now adopted instead of the native language. I should not have
named this subject at all, had I not been aware that the missionaries themselves still retain
their former impressions, and that although they have yielded to public opinion on this point,
they have not done so from a conviction of its utility.

The second point to which I referred,--the policy, or otherwise, of having native establishments
near a populous European settlement, is a much more comprehensive question, and one which might
admit, perhaps, of some reasons on both sides, although, upon the whole, those against it greatly
preponderate.

The following are the reasons I have usually heard argued for proximity to town.

1st. It is said that the children sooner acquire the English language by mixing among the towns
people. This, however, to say the least, is a very negative advantage, for in such a contact
it is far more probable that they will learn evil than good; besides, if means were available
to enable the masters to keep their scholars under proper restrictions, there would no longer
be even the opportunity for enjoying this very equivocal advantage.

2nd. It is stated that the natives are sooner compelled to give up their wandering habits,
as there is no game near a town. This might be well enough if they followed any better employment,
but the contrary is the case; and with respect to the school-children, the restriction would
be the correction of a bad habit, which they ought never to be allowed to indulge in, and one
which might soon be done away with entirely if sufficient inducement were held out to the parents
to put their children to school, and allow them to remain there.

3rd. It is thought that a greater number of children can be collected in the vicinity of a
town than elsewhere. This may perhaps be the case at present, but would not continue so if
means were used to congregate the natives in their own proper districts.

4th. It is said that provisions and clothing are cheaper in town and more easily procured than
elsewhere. This is the only apparently valid reason of the whole, but it is very questionable
whether it is sufficient to counterbalance the many evils which may result from too close a
contiguity to town, and especially so as far as the adults are concerned. With respect to the
children, if kept within proper bounds, and under proper discipline, it is of little importance
where they may be located, and perhaps a town may for such purposes be sometimes the best.
With the older natives however it is far different, and the evils resulting to them from too
close contact with a large European population, are most plainly apparent; in,--

1st. The immorality, which great as it is among savages in their natural state, is increased
in a tenfold degree when encouraged and countenanced by Europeans, and but little opening is
left for the exercise of missionary influence or exertions.

2nd. The dreadful state of disease which is superinduced, and which tends, in conjunction with
other causes as before stated, to bring about the gradual extinction of the race.

3rd. The encouragement a town affords to idleness, and the opportunities to acquire bad habits,
such as begging, pilfering, drinking, etc. the effects of which must also have a very bad moral
tendency upon the children.

The town of Adelaide appears capable of supporting about six hundred natives on an average.
Many of these obtain their food by going errands, by carrying wood or water, or by performing
other light work of a similar kind. Many are supported by the offal of a place where so much
animal food is consumed; but by far the greater number are dependent upon charity, and some
few even extort their subsistence from women or children by threats, if they have the opportunity
of doing so without fear of detection.

The number of natives usually frequenting the town of Adelaide averages perhaps 300, but occasionally
there are even as many as 800. These do not belong to the neighbourhood of the town itself,
for the Adelaide tribe properly so called only embraces about 150 individuals. The others come
in detached parties from almost all parts of the colony. Some from the neighbourhood of Bonney's
Well, or 120 miles south; some from the Broughton, or 120 miles north; some from the upper
part of the Murray, or nearly 200 miles east. Thus are assembled at one spot sometimes portions
of tribes the most distant from each other, and whose languages, customs and ceremonies are
quite dissimilar. If any proof were wanted to shew the power of European influence in removing
prejudices or effecting a total revulsion of their former habits and customs, a stronger one
could scarcely be given than this motley assembly of "all nations and languages." In their
primitive state such a meeting could never take place; the distant tribes would never have
dreamt of attempting to pass through the country of the intermediate ones, nor would the latter
have allowed a passage if it had been attempted.

I have remarked that in Adelaide many of the natives support themselves by light easy work,
or going errands; there are also a dozen, or fourteen young men employed regularly as porters
to storekeepers with whom they spend two-thirds of their time, and make themselves very useful.
At harvest time many natives assist the settlers. At Encounter Bay during 1843, from 70 to
100 acres of wheat or barley, were reaped by them; at Adelaide from 50 to 60 acres, and at
Lynedoch Valley they aided in cutting and getting in 200 acres. Other natives have occasionally
employed themselves usefully in a variety of ways, and one party of young men collected and
delivered to a firm in town five tons of mimosa bark up to December 1843. At the native location
during the year 1842, three families of natives assisted by the school-children, had dug with
the spade the ground, and had planted and reaped more than one acre of maize, one acre of potatoes,
and half an acre of melons, besides preparing ground for the ensuing year. On the Murray River
native shepherds and stock-keepers have hitherto been employed almost exclusively, and have
been found to answer well. Most of the settlers in that district have one or more native youths
constantly living at their houses.

In concluding an account of the present state and prospects of the Aborigines and of the efforts
hitherto made on their behalf, I may state that I am fully sensible that to put the schools
upon a proper footing and to do away with the serious disadvantages I have pointed out as at
present attending them, or to adopt effective means for assembling, feeding, or instructing
the natives in their own respective districts would involve a much greater expenditure than
South Australia has hitherto been able to afford from her own resources; and I have therefore
called attention to the subject, not for the purpose of censuring what it is impossible to
remedy without means; but in the sincere and earnest hope that an interest in behalf of a people
who are generally much misrepresented, and who are certainly in justice entitled to expect
at our hands much more than they receive, will be excited in the breasts of the British public,
who are especially their debtors on many accounts.

I am aware that the subject of the Aborigines is one of a very difficult and embarrassing nature
in many respects, and I know that evils and imperfections will occasionally occur, in spite
of the utmost efforts to prevent them. No system of policy can be made to suit all circumstances
connected with a subject so varied and perplexing, and especially so, where every new arrangement
and all benevolent intentions are restrained or limited, by the deficiency of pecuniary means
to carry out the object in a proper manner. Already the subject of apprenticing the natives,
or teaching them a trade, has been under the consideration of the Government, but has been
delayed from being brought into operation by the want of funds sufficient to carry the object
into effect. It is intended, I believe, to make the experiment as soon as means are available
for that purpose.

My duties as an officer of the Government having been principally connected with the more numerous,
but distant tribes of the interior, I can bear testimony to the anxious desire of the Government
to promote the welfare of the natives.

I have equal pleasure in recording the great interest that prevails on their behalf among their
numerous friends in the colonies, and the general kindness and good feeling that have been
exhibited towards them on the part of a large proportion of the colonists of Australia. It
is in the hope that this good feeling may be promoted and strengthened that I have been led
to enter into the details of the preceding pages. In bringing before the public instances of
a contrary conduct or feeling, I by no means wish to lead to the impression that such are now
of very frequent or general occurrence, and I trust my motives may not be misunderstood. My
sole, my only wish has been to bring about an improvement in the terms of intercourse, which
subsists between the settlers and the Aborigines. Whilst advocating the cause of the latter,
I am not insensible to the claims of the former, who leaving their native country and their
friends, cheerfully encounter the inconveniences, toils, privations, and dangers which are
necessarily attendant upon founding new homes in the remote and trackless wilds of other climes.
Strongly impressed with the advantages, and the necessity of colonization, I am only anxious
to mitigate its concomitant evils, and by effecting an amelioration in the treatment and circumstances
of the Aborigines, point out the means of rendering the residence or pursuits of the settler
among an uncivilized community, less precarious, and less hazardous than they have been. My
object has been to shew the result, I may almost say, the necessary result of the system at
present in force, when taking possession of and occupying a country where there are indigenous
races. By shewing the complete failure of all efforts hitherto made, to prevent the oppression
and eventual extinction of these unfortunate people, I would demonstrate the necessity of remodelling
the arrangements made on their behalf, and of adopting a more equitable and liberal system
than any we have yet attempted.

I believe that by far the greater majority of the settlers in all the Australian Colonies would
hail with real pleasure, the adoption of any measures calculated to remove the difficulties,
which at present beset our relations with the Aborigines; but to be effectual, these measures,
at the same time that they afford, in some degree, compensation and support to the dispossessed
and starving native--must equally hold out to the settler and the stockholder that security
and protection, which he does not now possess, but which he is fairly entitled to expect, under
the implied guarantee given to him by the Government, when selling to him his land, or authorizing
him to locate in the more remote districts of the country.

From a long experience, and an attentive observation of what has been going on around me, I
am perfectly satisfied, that unless some great change be made in our system, things will go
on exactly as they have done, and in a few years more not a native will be left to tell the
tale of the wrongs and sufferings of his unhappy race. I am equally convinced that all one-sided
legislation--all measures having reference solely to the natives must fail. The complete want
of success attending the protecting system, and all other past measures, clearly shew, that
unless the interests of the two classes can be so interwoven and combined, that both may prosper
together; no real good can be hoped for from our best efforts to ameliorate the condition of
the savage. In all future plans it is evident that the native must have the inducements and
provocations to crime destroyed or counteracted, as far as it may be practicable to effect
this, and the settler must be convinced that it is his interest to treat the native with kindness
and consideration, and must be able to feel that he is no longer exposed to risk of life or
property for injuries or aggressions, which, as an individual, he has not induced.

I have now nearly discharged the duty I have undertaken--a duty which my long experience among
the natives, and an intimate acquaintance with their peculiarities, habits, and customs, has
in a measure almost forced upon me. In fulfilling it, I have been obliged to enter at some
length upon the subject, to give as succinct an account as I could of the unfavourable impressions
that have often, but unjustly, been entertained of the New Hollanders: of the difficulties
and disadvantages they have laboured under, of the various relations that have subsisted, or
now subsist between them and the colonists, of the different steps that have been adopted by
the Government or others, to ameliorate their condition, and of the degree of success or otherwise
that has attended these efforts. I have stated, that from the result of my own experience and
observation, for a long series of years past, from a practical acquaintance with the character
and peculiarities of the Aborigines, and after a deliberate and attentive consideration of
the measures that have been hitherto pursued, I have unwillingly been forced to the conviction,
that some great and radical defect has been common to all; that we have not hitherto accomplished
one single, useful, or permanent result; and that unless a complete change in our system of
policy be adopted for the future, there is not the slightest hope of our efforts being more
successful in times to come, than they have been in times past. That I am not alone or singular
in the view which I take on this subject, may be shewn from various sources, but most forcibly
from the opinions or statements of those, who from being upon the spot, and personally acquainted
with the real facts of the case, may be supposed to be most competent to form just conclusions,
and most worthy of having weight attached to their opinions. The impression on the public mind
in the colonies, with respect to the general effect of the measures that have heretofore been
adopted, may be gathered from the many opinions or quotations to which I have already referred
in my remarks; many others might be adduced, if necessary, but one or two will suffice.

The following extract is from a speech by A. Forster, Esq. at a meeting held to celebrate the
anniversary of the South Australian Missionary Society, on the 6th September, 1843, and at
which the Governor of the Colony presided:--

"This colony had been established for nearly seven years, and during the whole of that time
the natives had been permitted to go about the streets in a state of nudity. [Note 109 at end
of para.] This was not only an outrage on decency and propriety, but it was demoralising to
the natives themselves. Like Adam, after having come in contact with the tree of knowledge,
they had begun to see their own nakedness, and were ashamed of it. If they could give them
a nearer approach to humanity by clothing them, if they could make them look like men, they
would then, perhaps, begin to think like men. What he complained of was, not that they were
in a low and miserable condition, but that no effort had been made to rescue them from that
condition."

[Note 109: And yet a law is passed, subjecting natives, who appear thus, to punishment!--How
are they to clothe themselves?]

"The circumstances, too, of the aborigines called upon them for increased exertion. They were
wasting away with disease--they were dying on the scaffold--they were being shot down in mistake
for native dogs, and their bleeding and ghastly heads had been exhibited on poles, as scare-crows
to their fellows."

The report of the Missionary Society, read on the same occasion, says,

"Though it is undeniable that there is much to discourage in the small results which can yet
be reckoned from these efforts, and a variety of secondary means might be brought to bear with
great advantage on the condition of the natives, still we must exercise faith in the power
of the Spirit of God, over the most savage soul, in subduing the wicked passions and inclining
the heart unto wisdom by exalted views of a future state, and of the divine character and will."

Captain Grey's opinion of the little good that had ever been accomplished, may be gathered
from the following quotation, and which is fully as applicable to the state of the natives
in 1844, as it was in 1841. Vol. ii. p. 366, he says,

"I wish not to assert, that the natives have been often treated with wanton cruelty, but I
do not hesitate to say, that no real amelioration of their condition has been effected, and
that much of negative evil, and indirect injury has been inflicted on them."

Upon the same subject, the Committee of Management of the Native School at Perth, Swan River,
Western Australia, state in their 3rd Annual Report, dated 1844.

"With regard to the physical condition of the native children, and those who are approaching
to mature life, it may be observed, that they are somewhat improving, though slowly, we trust
surely. We find that to undo is a great work; to disassociate them from their natural ideas,
habits, and practices which are characteristic of the bush life, is a greater difficulty, for
notwithstanding the provisions of sleeping berths in good rooms, also of tables, etc. for their
use, and which are peculiar to civilised life, and with which they are associated, yet they
naturally verge towards, and cling to aboriginal education, and hence to squat on the sand
to eat, to sleep a night in the bush, to have recourse to a Byly-a-duck man for ease in sickness;
these to them seem reliefs and enjoyments from these restraints which civilized life entails
upon them."

"With regard to the mental improvement of the native children, we cannot say much."

"As to the religious state of the pupils in the institution we have signs, improvements, and
encouragements, which say to us, 'Go on.'"

The following quotation from Count Strzelecki's work only just published (1845), shews the
opinion of that talented and intelligent traveller, after visiting various districts of New
South Wales, Port Phillip, Van Diemen's Land, and Flinders' Island, and after a personal acquaintance
with, and experience among the Aborigines:--

"Thus, in New South Wales, since the time that the fate of the Australasian awoke the sympathies
of the public, neither the efforts of the missionary, nor the enactments of the Government,
and still less the Protectorate of the "Protectors," have effected any good. The attempts to
civilize and christianize the Aborigines, from which the preservation and elevation of their
race was expected to result, HAVE UTTERLY FAILED, though it is consolatory, even while painful,
to confess, that NEITHER THE ONE NOR THE OTHER ATTEMPT HAS BEEN CARRIED INTO EXECUTION, WITH
THE SPIRIT WHICH ACCORDS WITH ITS PRINCIPLES."

With such slight encouragement in colonies where the best results are supposed to have been
obtained, and with instances of complete failure in others, it is surely worth while to inquire,
why there has been such a signal want of success?--and whether or not any means can be devised
that may hold out better hopes for the future? I cannot and I would not willingly believe,
that the question is a hopeless one. The failure of past measures is no reason that future
ones should not be more successful, especially when we consider, that all past efforts on behalf
of the Aborigines have entirely overlooked the wrongs and injuries they are suffering under
from our mere presence in their country, whilst none have been adapted to meet the exigencies
of the peculiar relations they are placed in with regard to the colonists. The grand error
of all our past or present systems--the very fons et origo mali appears to me to consist in
the fact, that we have not endeavoured to blend the interests of the settlers and Aborigines
together; and by making it the interest of both to live on terms of kindness and good feeling
with each, bring about and cement that union and harmony which ought ever to subsist between
people inhabiting the same country. So far, however, from our measures producing this very
desirable tendency, they have hitherto, unfortunately, had only a contrary effect. By our injustice
and oppression towards the natives, we have provoked them to retaliation and revenge; whilst
by not affording security and protection to the settlers, we have driven them to protect themselves.
Mutual distrusts and mutual misunderstandings have been the necessary consequence, and these,
as must ever be the case, have but too often terminated in collisions or atrocities at which
every right-thinking mind must shudder. To prevent these calamities for the future; to check
the frightful rapidity with which the native tribes are being swept away from the earth, and
to render their presence amidst our colonists and settlers, not as it too often hitherto has
been, a source of dread and danger, but harmless, and to a certain extent, even useful and
desirable, is an object of the deepestinterest and importance, both to the politician and to
the philanthropist. I have strong hopes, that means may be devised, to bring about, in a great
measure, these very desirable results; and I would suggest, that such means only should be
tried, as from being just in principle, and equally calculated to promote the interests of
both races, may, in their practical adoption, hold out the fairest prospect of efficacy and
success.

Chapter IX.

SUGGESTIONS FOR IMPROVEMENT OF SYSTEM ADOPTED TOWARDS THE NATIVES.

In the preceding chapters I have given a general outline of the character, manners, and customs
of the Aborigines of Australia, and of the effects produced upon them by a contact with civilization.

I have thus endeavoured to lay before the public their present state and future prospects,
and as far as I am able, have attempted to explain what appear to me the reasons that so little
success has hitherto attended Missionary, or other efforts, in their behalf. I would sincerely
hope, that the accounts which I have given, may not be altogether useless; but that a certain
knowledge of the real position of the natives, of the just claims they have upon us, and of
the little prospect that exists of any real or permanent good being effected for them, until
a great alteration takes place in our system, and treatment, may be the means of attracting
attention to their condition, and of enlisting the sympathy of my fellow-countrymen in their cause.

Englishmen have ever been ready to come forward to protect the weak, or the oppressed; nor
could they lend their aid to promote a greater, or a nobler work, than that of endeavouring,
to arrest the decay, and avert the destruction which at present threatens the aboriginal races
of our Australian colonies; and to try at least to bring within the pale of christianity and
civilization, a people hitherto considered as the lowest, and most irreclaimable of mankind,
but whose natural capabilities and endowments, are, I feel assured, by no means inferior to
those of the most favoured nations.

I shall now briefly suggest such alterations and additions, in the system of instruction and
policy adopted towards them, as appear to me likely to prove beneficial.

I am aware, that in carrying out the improvements I propose, a greatly increased expenditure
on behalf of the natives would be necessary, beyond what has hitherto been allowed by any of
the Colonial Governments.

It appears to me, however, that they are justly entitled to expect, at our hands, some compensation
for the injuries our presence unavoidably inflicts, and some alleviation of the consequent
miseries they are suffering under.

If we are sincere in our desires and efforts to promote the improvement, or prevent the decay
of this unfortunate people, we are bound to make our measures sufficiently comprehensive to
hold out some reasonable hope of success, otherwise our labour and money are only thrown away.

I do not believe that there is any one practically acquainted with the present state of our
relations with the Aborigines, and the system adopted towards them, its working, defects, and
inaptitude to overcome opposing difficulties, who would conscientiously assert that there is
the least prospect of any greater benefits resulting in future than have been realized up to
the present time.

There is another reason, independently of justice or humanity, one which, with some, may perhaps
have more weight, as a motive for extending and amending our policy towards the natives. I
mean self-interest. If our measures were calculated to afford them that protection which we
claim for ourselves; and in place of those resources we have deprived them of, to offer to
them a certain and regular supply of food in their respective districts, their wandering habits
would be partially restrained, and a degree of influence and authority acquired over the whole
aboriginal population, in contact with Europeans, which would counteract their natural propensities.
The flocks and herds of the settlers, and the lives of his family and servants, would be as
unmolested and uninjured as among our own people. There would no longer occur those irritating
aggressions, or bloody retaliations, which have too often taken place heretofore, between the
black and the white man; and the misfortune of always having the border districts in a state
of excitement and alarm, would be avoided, whilst the expense and inconvenience of occasionally
sending large parties of military and police, to coerce or punish transgressors that they can
rarely meet with, would be altogether dispensed with.

Unfortunately, the system I propose has been so little tried in Australia, that but few instances
of its practical results can be adduced. There is one instance, however, which, from its coming
nearer to it than any other, may serve to exemplify the success that might be expected. The
case I allude to, is that of the establishment of the Government post at Moorunde, upon the
Murray, in October 1841, by His Excellency Governor Grey. The circumstances which led to the
formation of this post, arose from the disturbed and dangerous state the river route from New
South Wales was in at the time, from the fearful losses that had occurred both of life and
property, and the dread entertained by many, that the out-stations, which were formed along
the line of hills fronting the Murray, would be subject to irruptions from the natives.

Between the 16th of April, and 27th of August, or in about four months, four several affrays
had taken place between the Aborigines and Europeans, in which many of the latter had been
killed, and stock, drays, and other property, had been taken to a great value, (in one instance
alone amounting to 5,000 sheep, besides drays and stores); on the other hand the sacrifice
of native life had been very great, and was admitted in one case, to have amounted to thirty
individuals, exclusive of many who were perhaps mortally wounded. Four different parties had
been sent up the river during this short period, to punish aggressions, or protect property.
In one of these the Europeans were worsted and driven back by the natives, in another a number
amounting to sixty-eight Europeans, were absent for upwards of six weeks, at an immense expense,
and were then obliged to return without bringing in a single culprit from the offending tribes.

[Note 110: In this latter case, the Commissioner of Police, and the greater number of his men,
accompanied the expedition, leaving of course the colony unprotected, and ordinary civil arrangements
at a stand still until their return. I have already remarked, the little chance there is, of
either the police or military ever succeeding in capturing native offenders, and how very frequently
it has occurred, that in their attempts to do so, either through mistake, or from mismanagement,
they have very often been guilty of most serious and lamentable acts of injury and aggression
upon the innocent and the unoffending. As a mere matter of policy, or financial arrangement,
I believe it would in the long run, be prudent and economical, to adopt a liberal and just
line of treatment towards the Aborigines. I believe by this means, we should gain a sufficient
degree of influence, to induce them always to GIVE UP OFFENDERS THEMSELVES; and I believe that
this is the ONLY MEANS by which we can ever hope to ensure their CAPTURE.]

The line of route had become unsafe and dangerous for any party coming from New South Wales;
a feeling of bitter hostility, arising from a sense of injury and aggression, had taken possession
both of the natives and the Europeans, and it was evident for the future, that if the European
party was weak, the natives would rob and murder them, and if otherwise, that they would commit
wholesale butchery upon the natives. It was to remedy this melancholy state of affairs, that
the Government station at Moorunde was established, and his Excellency the Governor, did me
the honour to confide to my management the carrying out the objects proposed.

The instructions I received, and the principles upon which I attempted to carry out those instructions,
were exclusively those of conciliation and kindness. I made it my duty to go personally amongst
the most distant and hostile tribes, to explain to them that the white man wished to live with
them, upon terms of amity, and that instead of injuring, he was most anxious to hold out the
olive branch of peace.

By the liberality of the Government, I had it in my power once every month, to assemble all
the natives who chose to collect, whether from near or more distant tribes, and to give to
each a sufficiency of flour to last for about two days, and once in the year, at the commencement
of winter, to bestow upon some few of the most deserving, blankets as a protection against
the cold.

How far success attended the system that was adopted, or the exertions that were made, it is
scarcely perhaps becoming in me to say: where the object, however, is simply and solely to
try to benefit the Aborigines, and by contrasting the effects of different systems, that have
been adopted towards them, to endeavour to recommend the best, I must, even at the risk of
being deemed egotistical, point out some of the important and beneficial results that accrued
at Moorunde.

In the first place, I may state that the dread of settling upon the Murray, has so far given
place to confidence, that from Wellington (near the Lake), to beyond the Great South Bend,
a distance of more than 100 miles, the whole line of river is now settled and occupied by stock,
where, in 1841, there was not a single European, a herd of cattle, or a flock of sheep; nay,
the very natives who were so much feared then, are looked upon now as an additional inducement
to locate, since the services of the boys or young men, save in great measure the expense of
European servants. There are few residents on the Murray, who do not employ one or more of
these people, and at many stations, I have known the sheep or cattle, partially, and in some
instances, wholly attended to by them.

For three years I was resident at Moorunde, and during the whole of that time, up to November,
1844, not a single case of serious aggression, either on the persons or property of Europeans
had ever occurred, and but very few offences even of a minor character. The only crime of any
importance that was committed in my neighbourhood, was at a sheep station, about 25 miles to
the westward, where somefew sheep were stolen, by a tribe of natives during the absence or
neglect of the men attending them. By a want of proper care and precaution, temptation was
thrown in the way of the natives, but even then, it was only some few of the young men who
were guilty of the offence; none of the elder or more influential members of the tribe, having
had any thing to do with it. Neither did the tribe belong to the Murray river, although they
occasionally came down there upon visits. There was no evidence to prove that the natives had
stolen the sheep at all; the only fact which could be borne witness to, was that so many sheep
were missing, and it was supposed the natives had taken them. As soon as I was made acquainted
with the circumstances, I made every inquiry among the tribe suspected, and it was at once
admitted by the elder men that the youths had been guilty of the offence. At my earnest solicitations,
and representations of the policy of so doing, the culprits, five in number, WERE BROUGHT IN
AND DELIVERED UP BY THEIR TRIBE. No evidence could be procured against them, and after remanding
them from time to time as a punishment, I was obliged to discharge them.

I may now remark, that upon inquiry into the case, and in examining witnesses against the natives,
it came out in evidence, that at the same station, and not long before, a native HAD BEEN FIRED
AT, (with what effect did not appear,) simply because he SEEMED to be going towards the sheep-folds,
which were a long way from the hut, and were directly in the line of route of any one either
passing towards Adelaide, or to any of the more northern stations. Another case occurred about
the same time, and at the same station, where an intelligent and well-conducted native, belonging
to Moorunde, was sent by a gentleman at the Murray to a surgeon, living about sixty miles off,
with a letter, and for medicines. The native upon reaching this station, which he had to pass,
was ASSAULTED AND OPPOSED BY A MAN, ARMED WITH A MUSKET, and if not fired at, (which he said
he was,) was at least intimidated, and driven back, and PREVENTED FROM GOING FOR THE MEDICINES
FOR THE INDIVIDUAL WHO WAS ILL. I myself knew the native who was sent, to be one of the most
orderly and well-conducted men we had at the Murray; in fact he had frequently, at different
times, been living with me as an attache to the police force.

In the second place, I may state, that during the time I have held office at Moorunde, I have
frequently visited on the most friendly terms, and almost alone, the most distant and hostile
tribes, where so short a time before even large and well-armed bodies of Europeans could not
pass uninterrupted or in safety. Many of those very natives, who had been concerned in affrays
or aggressions, have since travelled hundreds of miles and encountered hunger and thirst and
fatigue, to visit a white man's station in peace, and on friendly terms.

Thirdly, I may observe, that ever since I went to the Murray, instead of shewing signs of enmity
or hostility, the natives have acted in the most kind and considerate manner, and have upon
all occasions, when I have been travelling in less known and more remote districts, willingly
accompanied me as guides and interpreters, introducing me from one tribe to another, and explaining
the amicable relations I wished to establish. In one case, a native, whom I met by himself,
accompanied me at once, without even saying good-bye to his wife and family, who were a mile
or two away, and whom, as he was going to a distance of one hundred and fifty miles and back,
he was not likely to see for a great length of time. He was quite content to send a message
by the first native he met, to say where he was going. In my intercourse with the Aborigines
I have always noticed that they would willingly do any thing for a person whom they were attached
to. I have found that an influence, amounting almost to authority, is produced by a system
of kindness; and that in cases where their own feelings and wishes were in opposition to the
particular object for which this influence might be exercised, that the latter would almost
invariably prevail. Thus, upon one occasion in Adelaide, where a very large body of the Murray
natives were collected to fight those from Encounter Bay, I was directed by the Government
to use my influence to prevent the affray. Upon going to their encampment late at night, I
explained the object of my visit to them, and requested them to leave town in the morning,
and return to their own district, (90 miles away.) In the morning I again went to the native
camp, and found them all ready, and an hour afterwards there was not one in Adelaide. Another
strong instance of the power that may be acquired over the natives occurred at Moorunde, in
1844:--Several tribes were assembled in the neighbourhood, and were, as I was told, going to
fight. I walked down towards their huts to see if this was the case, but upon arriving at the
native camps I found them deserted, and all the natives about a quarter of a mile away, on
the opposite side of a broad deep sheet of water caused by the floods. As I reached the edge
of the water I saw the opposing parties closing, and heard the cry of battle as the affray
commenced; raising my voice to the utmost, I called out to them, and was heard, even above
the din of combat. In a moment all was as still as the grave, a canoe was brought for me to
cross, and I found the assembled tribes fully painted and armed, and anxiously waiting to know
what I was going to do. It was by this time nearly dark, and although I had no fears of their
renewing the fight again for the night, I knew they would do so early in the morning; I accordingly
directed them to separate, and remove their encampments. One party I sent up the river, a second
down it, a third remained where they were, and two others I made recross the water, and go
up to encamp near my own residence. All this was accomplished solely by the influence I had
acquired over them, for I was alone and unarmed among 300 natives, whose angry passions were
inflamed, and who were bent upon shedding each others' blood.

By the assistance of the natives, I was enabled in December 1843, to ascend the Darling river
as far as Laidley's Ponds (above 300 miles from Moorunde) when accompanied only by two other
Europeans, and should have probably been enabled to reach Mount Lyell (100 miles further) but
that a severe attack of illness compelled me to return. My journey up the Darling had, however,
this good effect, that it opened a friendly communication with natives who had never before
come in contact with the white man, except in enmity or in contest, and paved the way for a
passage upon friendly terms of any expedition that might be sent by that route to explore the
continent. Little did I anticipate at the time, how soon such an expedition was to be undertaken,
and how strongly and how successfully the good results I so confidently hoped for were to be
fully tested.

In August 1844, Captain Sturt passed up the Murray to explore the country north-west of the
Darling, and whilst at Moorunde, on his route, was supplied with a Moorunde boy to accompany
his party to track stock, and also with a native of the Rufus named And-buck, to go as guide
and interpreter to the Darling. The latter native had accompanied me to Laidley's Ponds in
December 1843, and had come down to Moorunde, according to a promise he then made me, to visit
me in the winter, and go again with me up the Darling, if I wished it. At Laidley's Ponds I
found the natives very friendly and well conducted, and one of them, a young man named Topar,
was of such an open intelligent disposition that although my own acquaintance with him was
of very short duration, I did not hesitate to recommend him strongly to my friend Captain Sturt,
as likely to be a willing and useful assistant. The following report from Captain Sturt, dated
from Laidley's Ponds, will best shew how far I was justified in expecting that a friendly intercourse
might be maintained even with the Darling natives, and to what distance the influence of the
Government station at Moorunde had extended, upon the conciliatory system that had been adopted,
limited though it was by an inadequacy of funds to provide for such a more extended and liberal
treatment of the Aborigines as I should wish to have adopted.

"Sir,--Feeling assured that the Governor would be anxious to hear from me as soon as possible
after the receipt of my letters from Lake Victoria, I should have taken the earliest opportunity
of forwarding despatches to his Excellency after I had ascertained whether the reports I had
heard of the massacre of a party of overlanders at the lagoons on the Darling was founded in
fact or not; but having been obliged to cross over from the ana-branch of the Darling to that
river itself for water,--and its unlooked-for course having taken me greatly to the eastward,
I had no opportunity by which to send to Moorunde, although I was most anxious to allay any
apprehensions my former letter might have raised as to the safety of my party. I tried to induce
several natives to be the bearers of my despatches, but they seemed unwilling to undertake
so long a journey; the arrival, therefore, of a messenger from Moorunde was a most welcome
occurrence, as he proposes returning to that place immediately, and will be the bearer of this
communication to you.

"In continuing, for his Excellency's information, the detail of the proceedings of the expedition
under my orders since I last addressed you, I have the honour to state that I had advanced
a considerable way up the Darling before I ascertained satisfactorily the true grounds of the
report I had heard at Lake Victoria, and was enabled to dismiss all further anxiety on the
subject from my mind.

"It referred to the affray which took place on the Darling, opposite to Laidley's Ponds, between
Major Mitchell and the natives; and I conclude that the circumstance of our being about to
proceed to the same place, recalled a transaction which had occurred eight years ago to their
minds; for we can trace a connection between the story we heard at the Lake, and what we have
heard upon the spot; but all the circumstances were at first told to us with such minuteness,
that coupling them with the character Major Mitchell has given of the Darling natives, and
the generally received opinion of their ferocity and daring, we could hardly refuse giving
a certain degree of credit to what we heard; more especially as it was once or twice confirmed
by natives with whom we communicated on our way up the river. I really feared we should come
into collision with these people, despite my reluctance to proceed to extremities; but it will
be satisfactory to his Excellency, as I trust it will to Lord Stanley, to know that we have
passed up the Darling on the most friendly terms with the native tribes, insomuch that I may
venture to hope that our intercourse with them will be productive of much good. So far from
the show of any hostility, they may have invariably approached us unarmed, nor have we seen
a weapon in the hands of a native since we touched upon the river. THEY HAVE CONSTANTLY SLEPT
AT OUR FIRES, AND SHEWN BY THEIR MANNER THAT THEY HAD EVERY CONFIDENCE IN US, BRINGING THEIR
WIVES AND CHILDREN TO THE CAMP, NOR AT ANY TIME GIVING US THE LEAST ANNOYANCE, BUT ALWAYS SHEWING
A WILLINGNESS TO SAVE US TROUBLE, AND TO DO WHATEVER WE DESIRED THEM TO DO. NOTHING INDEED
COULD HAVE BEEN MORE SATISFACTORY TO US THAN OUR INTERCOURSE WITH THESE POOR PEOPLE, OR MORE
AMUSING THAN THE SPIRITS AND FEELINGS TO WHICH THEY HAVE GIVEN WAY BEFORE US, WHEN UNCONTROLLED
BY FEAR. MANY INDEED HAVE CONTINUED WITH US FOR SOME TIME, AND HAVE EVINCED SINCERE AND MARKED
SORROW AT LEAVING US. I have made it a rule to give blankets to the old and infirm, and tomahawks
and knives to the young men, and they perfectly understand the reason of this distinction.
Finding too, that they consider kangaroos as their own property, we have almost invariably
given them all the animals the dogs have killed, and have endeavoured to convince them that
we wish to be just, and have the kindest feelings toward them. In this humane duty I have been
most cordially assisted both by Mr. Poole and Mr. Browne, and I must add, by the conduct of
my men towards the natives, which reflects very great credit upon them. WE HAVE RECEIVED VERY
GREAT ASSISTANCE FROM OUR GUIDES, WHO HAVE ALWAYS SMOOTHED THE WAY TO OUR COMMUNICATION WITH
THE DIFFERENT TRIBES; and I have earnestly to recommend Nadbuck, who has accompanied us from
Moorunde to this place, to the favour of the Governor, and to request that he may be rewarded
in such manner as his Excellency thinks fit, from the funds of the expedition. We find that
Mr. Eyre's influence has extended to this place, and that he is considered in the highest light
by all the natives along the Darling. In their physical condition they are inferior to the
natives of the Murray in size and strength, but we have seen many very handsome men, and, although
diminutive in stature, exceedingly well proportioned. The tribe at Williorara, Laidley's Ponds,
numbers about eighty souls; the greater proportion women and children. One of them, Topar,
accompanies us to the hills with another native, Toonda, who has been with us since we left
Lake Victoria, and who is a native of this tribe. He is a very singular and remarkable man,
and is rather aged, but still sinewy and active; Topar is young, and handsome, active, intelligent,
and exceedingly good natured;--with them I hope we shall be able to keep up our friendly relations
with the natives of the interior.

"I have to request that you will thank his Excellency for the prompt assistance he would have
afforded us; but I am sure it will be as gratifying to him as it is to us to know that it is
not required.

"As I reported to you in my letter of the 17th of September, I left Lake Victoria on the following
day, and crossing the country in a south-easterly direction, reached the Murray after a journey
of about fifteen miles, over plains, and encamped on a peninsula formed by the river and a
lagoon, and on which there was abundance of feed. We had observed numerous tracks of wild cattle
leading from the brush across the plains to the river, and at night our camp was surrounded
by them. I hoped, therefore, that if I sent out a party in the morning. I should secure two
or three working bullocks, and I accordingly detached Mr. Poole and Mr. Browne, with Flood,
my stockman, and Mack, to run them in; but the brush was too thick, and in galloping after
a fine bull, Flood's carbine went off, and carried away and broke three of the fingers of his
right hand. This unfortunate accident obliged me to remain stationary for a day; but we reached
the junction of the ana-branch of the Darling with the Murray, on the 23rd, and then turned
for the first time to the northward.

"We found the ana-branch filled by the back waters of the Murray, and ran up it for two days,
when the water in it ceased, and we were obliged to cross over to the Darling, which we struck
on an east course, about eighteen miles above its junction with the Murray. It had scarcely
any water in its bed, and no perceptible current--but its neighbourhood was green and grassy,
and its whole aspect pleasing. On the 27th, we thought we perceived a stronger current in the
river, and observed small sticks and grass floating on the water, and we were consequently
led to believe that there was a fresh in it; and as we had had rain, and saw that the clouds
hung on the mountains behind us, we were in hopes the supply the river was receiving came from
Laidley's Ponds. On the following morning the waters of the Darling were half-bank high, and
from an insignificant stream it was at once converted into a broad and noble river, sweeping
everything away on its turbid waters at the rate of these or four miles an hour. The river
still continues to rise, and is fast filling the creeks and lagoons on either side of it. The
cattle enjoy the most luxuriant feed on the banks of the river--there being abundance of grass
also in the flats, which far surpass those of the Murray both in richness of soil, and in extent.
I cannot but consider the river as a most valuable feature of the interior: many a rich and
valuable farm might be established upon it. Its seasons appear to be particularly favourable,
for we have had gentle rains ever since we came upon it. Its periodical flooding is also at
a most favourable period of the year, and its waters are so muddy that the deposit must be
rich, and would facilitate the growth of many of the inter-tropical productions, as cotton,
indigo--the native indigo growing to the height of three feet--maize, or flax; whilst, if an
available country is found in the interior, the Darling must be the great channel of communication
to it. The country behind the flats is sandy and barren, but it would in many places support
a certain number of stock, and might be found to be of more value than appearances would justify
me in stating, and I would beg to be understood, in speaking of the Darling, that I only speak
of it as I have seen it. The summer sun probably parches up the vegetation and unclothes the
soil; but such is the effect of summer heat in all similar latitudes, and that spot should
be considered the most valuable where the effect of solar heat can be best counteracted by
natural or artificial means. I had hoped, as I have stated, that the Darling was receiving
its accession of waters from the Williorara (Laidley's Ponds); but on arriving on its banks
we were sadly disappointed to find, instead of a mountain stream, a creek only connects the
river with Cowandillah Lake; instead of supplying the Darling with water it was robbing it,
and there was scarcely a blade of vegetation on its banks. I was, therefore, obliged to return
to the Darling, and to encamp until such time as I should determine on our next movement. From
some hills above the camp, we had a view of some ranges to the north-west and north, and I
detached Mr. Poole on the 4th to ascertain the nature of the country between us and them, before
I ventured to remove the party; more especially as the natives told us the interior beyond
the ranges was perfectly impracticable. This morning Mr. Poole returned, and informed me that,
from the top of the ranges he ascended, he had a view of distant ranges to the north and north-west,
as far as he could see; that from south-west to west to 13 degrees east of north, there was
water extending, amidst which there were numerous islands; that there was a very distant high
peak, which appeared to be surrounded by water, which shewed as a dark blue line along the
horizon. The country between him and the more distant ranges appeared to be level, and was
similar in aspect to the plains we had traversed when approaching the hills, which were covered
with spear grass, a grass of which the animals are fond, and thin green shrubs.

"I will not venture a conjecture as to the nature of the country whose features have been thus
partially developed to us. How far these waters may stretch, and what the character of the
ranges is, it is impossible to say, but that there is a good country at no great distance,
I have every reason to hope. Mr. Poole states that the small scolloped parroquets passed over
his head from the north-west in thousands; and he observed many new birds. I am therefore led
to hope, that, as these first are evidently strong on the wing on their arrival here, that
the lands from which they come are not very remote from us. So soon as I shall have verified
my position in a satisfactory manner,--which a clouded sky has hitherto prevented my doing,--we
shall move to the ranges, and leaving my drays in a safe place, shall proceed with the horse
teams to a closer examination of the country, and, if I should find an open sea to north-west,
shall embark upon it with an ample supply of provisions and water, and coast it round. The
reports of the fine interior, which we have heard from the natives, are so contradictory, that
it is impossible to place any reliance in them; but Toonda informs us that the water Mr. Poole
has seen is fresh--but as we are not more than two hundred and fifteen feet above the sea,
and are so near Lake Torrens, I can hardly believe that such can be the case. It is a problem,
however, that will now very soon be solved, and I most sincerely trust this decided change
in the barrenness of the land will lead us to a rich and available country.

"I have great pleasure in reporting to you the continued zeal and anxiety of my officers, and
the cheerful assistance they render me. I have found Mr. Piesse of great value, from his regular
and cautious issue of the stores and provisions; and Mr. Stewart extremely useful as draftsman.
Amongst my men, I have to particularise Robert Flood, my stockman, whose attention to the horses
and cattle has mainly insured their fitness for service and good condition; and I have every
reason to feel satisfied with the manner in which the men generally perform their duties.

"I have to apologize for the hurried manner in which this letter is written, and beg to subscribe
myself,

"Sir, your most obedient servant,

"CHARLES STURT."

With reference to the above report, I may mention in explanation, that, after I had accompanied
the exploring party as far as the Rufus, and returned from thence to Moorunde, a rumour was
brought to Captain Sturt by some natives from the Darling, of a massacre said to have taken
place up that river near Laidley's Ponds. From being quite unacquainted with the language not
only of the Darling natives, but also of the Rufus interpreter or the Moorunde boy, Captain
Sturt's party had been only able to make out the story that was told to them by signs or by
the aid of such few words of English as the boy might have learnt at Moorunde. They had naturally
fallen into some error, and had imagined the natives to be describing the recent murder of
a European party coming down the Darling with stock, instead of their narrating, as was in
reality the case, an old story of the affray with Major Mitchell some years before. As Captain
Sturt was still at the Rufus (150 miles from Moorunde) when he received the account, as he
imagined, of so sanguinary an affray, he felt anxious to communicate the occurrence to the
Colonial Government as early as possible, and for this purpose, induced two natives to bring
down despatches to Moorunde. Upon their arrival there, the policeman was absent in town, and
I had no means of sending in the letters to the Government, but by natives. Two undertook the
task, and walked from Moorunde to Adelaide with the letters, and brought answers back again
to the station within five days, having walked 170 miles in that period, Moorunde being 85
miles from Adelaide.

Again upon the Government wishing to communicate with Captain Sturt, letters were taken by
the natives up to the Rufus, delivered over to other natives there, and by them carried onwards
to Captain Sturt, reaching that gentleman on the eleventh day after they been sent from Moorunde,
at Laidley's Ponds, a distance of 300 miles.

By this means a regular intercourse was kept up with the exploring party, entirely through
the aid and good feeling of the natives, up to the time I left the colony, in December, 1844,
when messengers who had been sent up with despatches were daily expected back with answers.
For their very laborious and harassing journeys, during which they must suffer both some degree
of risk in passing through so many other tribes on their line of route, and of hunger and other
privations in prosecuting them, the messengers are but ill requited; the good feeling they
displayed, or the fatigues they went through, being recompensed only by the present of a SMALL
BLANKET AND A FEW POUNDS OF FLOUR. With these facts before us can we say that these natives
are a ferocious, irreclaimable set of savages, and destitute of all the better attributes of
humanity? yet are they often so maligned. The very natives, who have now acted in such a friendly
manner, and rendered such important services to Europeans, are the SAME NATIVES who were engaged
in the plundering of their property, and taking away their lives when coming over land with
stock. Such is the change which has been effected by kindness and conciliation instead of aggression
and injury; and such, I think, I may in fairness argue, would generally be the result if SIMILAR
MEANS were more frequently resorted to.

As yet Moorunde is the only place where the experiment has been made of assembling the natives
and giving food to them; but as far as it has been tried, it has been proved to be eminently
successful. I am aware that the system is highly disapproved of by many of the colonists, and
the general feeling among them appears to be that nothing should be given where nothing is
received, or in other words, that a native should never have any thing given to him until he
does some work for it. I still maintain that the native has a right to expect, and that we
are IN JUSTICE BOUND to supply him with food in any of those parts of the country that we occupy,
and to do this, too, WITHOUT demanding or requiring any other consideration from him than we
have ALREADY received when we TOOK FROM HIM his possessions and his hunting grounds. It may
be all very proper to get him to work a little if we can--and, perhaps, that MIGHT follow in
time, but we have no right to force him to a labour he is unused to, and WHICH HE NEVER HAD
TO PERFORM IN HIS NATURAL STATE, whilst we have a right to supply him with what he has been
accustomed to, BUT OF WHICH WE HAD DEPRIVED HIM--FOOD.

If in our relations with the Aborigines we wish to preserve a friendly and bloodless intercourse;
if we wish to have their children at our schools to be taught and educated; if we hope to bring
the parents into a state that will better adapt them for the reception of christianity and
civilization; or if we care about staying the rapid and lamentable ravages which a contact
with us is causing among their tribes, we must endeavour to do so, by removing, as far as possible,
all sources of irritation, discontent, or suffering. We must adopt a system which may at once
administer to their wants, and at the same time, give to us a controlling influence over them;
such as may not only restrain them from doing what is wrong, but may eventually lead them to
do what is right--an influence which I feel assured would be but the stronger and more lasting
from its being founded upon acts of justice and humanity. It is upon these principles that
I have based the few suggestions I am going to offer for the improvement of our policy towards
the natives. I know that by many they will be looked upon as chimerical or impracticable, and
I fear that more will begrudge the means necessary to carry them into effect; but unless something
of the kind be done--unless some great and radical change be effected, and some little compensation
made for the wrongs and injuries we inflict--I feel thoroughly satisfied that all we are doing
is but time and money lost, that all our efforts on behalf of the natives are but idle words--voces
et preterea nihil--that things will still go on as they have been going on, and that ten years
hence we shall have made no more progress either in civilizing or in christianizing them than
we had done ten years ago, whilst every day and every hour is tending to bring about their
certain and total extinction.

SUGGESTIONS FOR THE IMPROVEMENT OF THE ABORIGINES.

1st. It appears that the most important point, in fact almost the only essential one, in the
first instance, is to gain such an influence or authority over the Aborigines as may be sufficient
to enable us to induce them to adopt, or submit to any regulations that we make for their improvement,
and that to effect this, the means must be suited to their circumtances and habits.

2ndly. It is desirable that the means employed should have a tendency to restrain their wandering
habits, and thus gradually induce them to locate permanently in one place.

3rdly. It is important that the plan should be of such a nature as to become more binding in
its influence in proportion to the length of time it is in operation.

4thly. It should hold out strong inducements to the parents, willingly to allow their children
to go to, and remain at the schools.

5thly. It should be such as would operate, in some degree, in weaning the natives from towns
or populous districts.

6thly. It should offer some provision for the future career of the children upon their leaving
school, and its tendency should be of such a character as to diminish, as far as practicable,
the attractions of a savage life.

7thly. It is highly important that the system adopted should be such as would add to the security
and protection of the settlers, and thereby induce their assistance and co-operation, instead,
as has too often been the case hitherto with past measures, of exciting a feeling of irritation
and dislike between the two races.

I believe that all these objects might be accomplished, in a great degree, by distributing
food regularly to all the natives, in their respective districts.

[Note 111: The whole of my remarks on the Aborigines having been hurriedly compiled, on board
ship, during the voyage from Australia, it was not until my arrival in England that I became
aware that a plan somewhat similar to this in principle, was submitted to Lord John Russell
by a Mr. J. H. Wedge, and was sent out to the colony of New South Wales, to be reported upon
by the authorities. I quote the following extract from Mr. La Trobe's Remarks on Mr. Wedge's
letter, as shewing an opinion differing from my own (Parliamentary Papers, p. 130). "With reference
to the supply of food and clothing, it has not been hitherto deemed advisable to furnish them
indiscriminately to all natives visiting the homesteads. In one case, that of the Western Port
District, the assistant protector has urged that this should be the case; but I have not felt
myself sufficiently convinced of the policy or expediency of such measure to bring it under
his Excellency's notice."]

I have previously shewn, that from the injuries the natives sustain at our hands, in a deprivation
of their usual means of subsistence, and a banishment from their homes and possessions, there
is at present no alternative for them but to remain the abject and degraded creatures they
are, begging about from house to house, or from station to station, to procure food, insulted
and despised by all, and occasionally tempted or driven to commit crimes for which a fearful
penalty is enacted, if brought home to them. I have given instances of the extent to which
the evils resulting from the anomalous state of our relations with them are aggravated by the
kind of feeling which circumstances engender on the part of the Colonists towards them. I have
pointed out the tendency of their own habits and customs, to prevent them from rising in the
scale of improvement, until we can acquire an influence sufficient to counteract these practices;
and I have shewn that thus situated, oppressed, helpless, and starving, we cannot expect they
should make much progress in civilization, or pay great regard to our instructions, when they
see that we do not practice what we recommend, and that we have one law for ourselves and another
for them. The good results that have been produced when an opposite and more liberal system
has been adopted (limited as that system was) has also been stated. It is only fair to assume,
therefore, that these beneficial effects may be expected to accrue in an increasing ratio in
proportion to our liberality and humanity.

My own conviction is, that by adopting the system I recommend, an almost unlimited influence
might be acquired over the native population. I believe that the supplying them with food would
gradually bring about the abandonment of their wandering habits, in proportion to the frequency
of the issue, that the longer they were thus dependent upon us for their resources, the more
binding our authority would be; that when they no longer required their children to assist
them in the chase or in war, they would willingly allow them to remain at our schools; that
by only supplying food to natives in their own districts they would, in some measure, be weaned
from the towns; that by restraining the wandering habits of the parents in this way, there
would be fewer charms and less temptation to the children to relapse from a comparative state
of civilization into one of barbarism again; and that, by supplying the wants of the natives,
and taking away all inducements to crime, a security and protection would be afforded to the
settlers which do not now exist, and which, under the present system, can never be expected,
until the former have almost disappeared before their oppressors.

Many subordinate arrangements would be necessary to bring the plan into complete operation,
and from its general character it could not, perhaps, be carried out every where at once, but
if such arrangements were made, only in a few districts every year, much would be done towards
eventually accomplishing the ends desired.

At Moorunde flour was only regularly issued once in the month, but that is not often enough
to attain the full advantages of the system, still less to remedy the evils the natives are
subject to, or restrain their wandering propensities. Upon the Murray the natives are peculiarly
situated, and have greater facilities for obtaining their natural food than in any other part
of the country. They were consequently in a position more favourable for making an experiment
upon, than those of the inland districts, where a native is often obliged to wander over many
miles of ground for his day's subsistence, and where large tribes cannot remain long congregated
at the same place. In these it would therefore be necessary to make the issues of food much
more frequently, and I would proportion this frequency to the state of each district with regard
to the number of Europeans, and stock in it; and the facility there might be for procuring
native food. On the borders of the colony, where the natives are less hemmed in, the issue
might take place once every fortnight, gradually increasing the number of the issues in approaching
towards Adelaide as a centre. At the latter, and in many other of the districts where the country
is thoroughly occupied by Europeans, it would be necessary, as it would only be just, to supply
the natives with food daily, and I would extend this arrangement gradually to all the districts,
as funds could be obtained for that purpose. It is possible that if means at the same time
were afforded of teaching them industrial pursuits, a proportion of the food required might
eventually be raised by themselves, but it would not be prudent to calculate upon any such
resources at first.

Having now explained what I consider the first and most important principle, to be observed
in all systems devised for the amelioration of the Aborigines, viz. that of endeavouring to
adapt the means employed to the acquisition of a strong controlling influence over them, and
having shewn how I think this might best be obtained, I may proceed to mention a few collateral
regulations, which would be very essential to the effective working of the system proposed.

First. It would be necessary for the sake of perspicuity to suppose the country divided into
districts, agreeing as nearly as could be ascertained with the boundaries of the respectives
tribes. In these districts a section or two of land, well supplied with wood and water, should
be chosen for the Aborigines; such lands, if possible, to be centrically situated with regard
to the tribes intended to assemble there, but always having reference to their favourite places
of resort, or to such as would afford the greatest facilities for procuring their natural food.
I do not apprehend that these stations need be very numerous at first: for the whole colony
of South Australia nine or ten would probably be sufficient at present; thus stations such
as I have described, at Adelaide, Encounter Bay, The Coorong, Moorunde, the Hutt River, Mount
Bryant, Mount Remarkable, and Port Lincoln would embrace most of the tribes of Aborigines at
present in contact with the settlers; others could be added, or these altered, as might be
thought desirable or convenient.

Secondly. In order to carry due weight when first established, and until the natives get well
acquainted with Europeans and their customs, it would be essential that each station should
be supported by two or more policemen. These might afterwards be reduced in number, or withdrawn,
according to the state of the district.

[Note 112: "It is absolutely necessary, for the cause of humanity and good order, that such
force should exist; for as long as distant settlers are left unprotected, and are compelled
to take care of and avenge themselves, so long must great barbarities necessarily be committed,
and the only way to prevent great crimes on the part of the natives, and massacres of these
poor creatures, as the punishment of such crimes, is to check and punish their excesses in
their infancy; it is only after becoming emboldened by frequent petty successes that they have
hitherto committed those crimes, which have drawn down so fearful a vengeance upon them."--GREY,
vol ii. p. 379.]

Under any circumstances a police is necessary in all the country districts, nor do I think
on the whole, many more policemen would be required than there are at out-stations at present.
They would only have to be quartered at the native establishments.

Thirdly. It would be absolutely requisite to have experienced and proper persons in charge
of each of the locations; as far as practicable, it would undoubtedly be the most desirable
to have these establishments under missionaries. In other cases they might be confided to the
protectors of the Aborigines, and to the resident or police magistrates. All officers having
such charge should be deemed ex-officio to be protectors, and as many should be in the commission
of the peace as possible.

Many other necessary and salutary regulations, would naturally occur in so comprehensive a
scheme, but as these belong more to the detail of the system, it may be desirable to allude
only to a few of the most important.

It would be desirable to keep registers at all the stations, containing lists of the natives
frequenting them, their names, and that of the tribe they belong to.

Natives should not be allowed to leave their own districts, to go to Adelaide, or other large
towns, unless under passes from their respective protectors, and if found in Adelaide without
them, should be taken up by the police and slightly punished.

[Note 113: Natives, from a distance, are in the habit of going at certain times of the year
into Adelaide, and remaining three or four months at a time. They are said by Europeans to
plunder stations on the line of route backwards and forwards, and to threaten, and intimidate
women and children living in isolated houses near the town. There is no doubt but that they
have sometimes driven away the natives properly belonging to Adelaide, and have been the means,
by their presence, of a great decrease in the attendance of the children of the Adelaide tribes
at the school. The protector has more than once been obliged to make official representations
on this subject, and to request that measures might be taken to keep them away.]

Deaths, Births, and Marriages, should be duly registered, and a gratuity given on every such
occasion, to ensure the regulation being attended to.

Rewards should be given, (as an occasional present, of a blanket for instance), to such parents
as allowed their children to go to and remain at school during the year.

Rewards should be bestowed for delivering up offenders, or for rendering any other service
to the Government.

Light work should be offered to such as could be induced to undertake it, and rewards, as clothing,
or the like, should be paid in proportion to the value of the work done, and BEYOND THE MERE
PROVIDING THEM with food.

Gifts might also be made to those parents, who consented to give up the performance of any
of their savage or barbarous ceremonies upon their children.

Young men should be encouraged to engage themselves in the service of settlers, as shepherds
or stockkeepers, and the masters should be induced to remunerate their services more adequately
than they usually do.

The elder natives should be led as far as could be, to make articles of native industry for
sale, as baskets, mats, weapons, implements, nets, etc., these might be sent to Adelaide and
sold periodically for their benefit.

Such and many other similar regulations, would appear to be advantageous, and might be adopted
or altered from time to time, as it should be deemed desirable.

Upon the subject of schools for the native children, it appears that much benefit would be
derived from having them as far separated as possible from other natives, and that the following,
among others, would be improvements upon the plans in present use.

1st. That the school buildings should be of such size and arrangement, as to admit of all the
scholars being lodged as well as boarded, and of the boys and girls having different sleeping
rooms.

2ndly. That the schools should have a sufficiency of ground properly enclosed around them,
for the play-grounds, and that no other natives than the scholars should be admitted within
those precincts, except in the presence of the master, when relatives come to see each other;
but that on no account should any natives be permitted to encamp or sleep within the school
grounds.

3rdly. That the children should not be allowed or encouraged to roam about the towns, begging,
or to ramble for any purpose outside their boundaries, where they are likely to come under
the influence of the other natives. This is particularly necessary with respect to girls, indeed
the latter should never be allowed to be absent from school at all, by themselves.

4thly. To compensate in some degree, for what may at first appear to them an irksome or repulsive
restraint, playthings should occasionally be provided for those children who have behaved well,
and all innocent amusement be encouraged, and as often as might be convenient, the master should
accompany his scholars out into the country for recreation, or through the town, or such other
public places, as might be objects of interest or curiosity.

5thly. That a stimulus to exertion, should be excited by prizes, being given to children distinguishing
themselves at certain stages of their progress, such as a superior article of dress, a toy,
or book, or whatever might be best adapted to the age or disposition of the child.

6thly. That parents should never be allowed to withdraw the children, contrary to their wishes,
after having once consented to allow them to remain there.

7thly. That children of both sexes, after having received a proper degree of instruction, and
having attained a certain age, should be bound out as apprentices for a limited term of years,
to such as were willing to receive them, proper provision being made for their being taught
some useful occupation, and being well treated.

8thly. Encouragement should be offered to those who have been brought up at the schools to
marry together when their apprenticeships are out, and portions of land should be preserved
for them and assistance given them in establishing themselves in life. At first perhaps it
might be advisable to have these settlements in the form of a village and adjoining the school
grounds, so that the young people might still receive the advantage of the advice or religious
instruction of the missionaries or such ministers as attended to this duty at the schools.

9thly. The children should be taught exclusively in the English language and on Sundays should
always attend divine service at some place of public worship, accompanied by their masters.

In carrying into effect the above or any other regulations which might be found necessary for
the welfare and improvement of the children. I believe that a sufficient degree of influence
would be acquired over the parents by the system of supplying them with food, which I have
recommended to induce a cheerful consent, but it would be only prudent to have a legislative
enactment on the subject, that by placing the school-children under the guardianship of the
protectors, they might be protected from the influence or power of their relatives; after these
had once fully consented to their being sent to school to be educated.

[Note 114: "The best chance of preserving the unfortunate race of New Holland lies in the means
employed for training their children: the education given to such children should consist in
a very small part of reading and writing. Oral instruction in the fundamental truths of the
Christian religion will be given by the missionaries themselves. The children should be taught
early; the boys to dig and plough, and the trades of shoemakers, tailors, carpenters and masons;
the girls to sew and cook and wash linen, and keep clean the rooms and furniture. The more
promising of these children might be placed, by a law to be framed for this purpose, under
the guardianship of the Governor and placed by him at a school, or in apprenticeship, in the
more settled parts of the colony. Thus early trained, the capacity of the race for the duties
and employments of civilized life would be fairly developed."--Letter from Lord John Russell
to Sir G. Gipps; Parliamentary Report on Aborigines, p. 74.]

There is yet another point to be considered with respect to the Aborigines, and upon the equitable
adjustment of which hinges all our relations with this people, whilst upon it depends entirely
our power of enforcing any laws or regulations we may make with respect to them, I allude to
the law of evidence as it at present stands with respect to persons incompetent to give testimony
upon oath.

It is true that in South Australia an act has very recently passed the legislative council
to legalize the unsworn testimony of natives in a court of justice, but in that act there occurs
a clause which completely neutralizes the boon it was intended to grant, and which is as follows,
"Provided that no person, whether an Aboriginal or other, SHALL BE CONVICTED OF ANY OFFENCE
by any justice or jury upon the SOLE TESTIMONY of any such uncivilized persons." 7 and 8 Victoria,
section 5.

Here then we find that if a native were ill-treated or shot by an European, and the whole tribe
able to bear witness to the fact, no conviction and no punishment could ensue: let us suppose
that in an attempt to maltreat the native, the European should be wounded or injured by him,
and that the European has the native brought up and tried for a murderous attack upon him,
how would it fare with the poor native? the oath of the white man would overpower any exculpatory
unsworn testimony that the native could bring, and his conviction and punishment would be (as
they have been before) certain and severe.

Without attempting to assign a degree of credence to the testimony of a native beyond what
it deserves, I will leave it to those who are acquainted with Colonies, and the value of an
oath among the generality of storekeepers and shepherds, to say how far their SWORN evidence
is, in a moral point of view, more to be depended upon than the unsworn parole of the native.
I would ask too, how often it occurs that injuries upon the Aborigines are committed by Europeans
in the presence of those competent to give a CONVICTING TESTIMONY, (unless where all, being
equally guilty, are for their own sakes mutually averse to let the truth be known)? or how
often even such aggressions take place under circumstances which admit of circumstantial evidence
being obtained to corroborate native testimony?

Neither is it in the giving of evidence alone, that the native stands at a disadvantage as
compared with a white man. His case, whether as prosecutor or defendant, is tried before a
jury of another nation whose interests are opposed to his, and whose prejudices are often very
strong against him.

I cannot illustrate the position in which he is placed, more forcibly, than by quoting Captain
Grey's remarks, vol. ii. p. 381, where he says:--

"It must also be borne in mind, that the natives are not tried by a jury of their peers, but
by a jury having interests directly opposed to their own, and who can scarcely avoid being
in some degree prejudiced against native offenders."

The opinion of Judge Willis upon this point may be gathered from the following extract, from
an address to a native of New South Wales, when passing sentence of death upon him:--

"The principle upon which this court has acted in the embarrassing collisions which have too
frequently arisen between the Aborigines and the white Europeans, has been one of reciprocity
and mutual protection. On the one hand, the white man when detected (WHICH I FEAR SELDOM HAPPENS),
has been justly visited with the rigour of the law, for aggressions on the helpless savages;
and, on the other, the latter has been accountable for outrages upon his white brethren. As
between the Aborigines themselves, the court has never interfered, for obvious reasons. Doubtless,
in applying the law of a civilized nation to the condition of a wild savage, innumerable difficulties
must occur. The distance in the scale of humanity between the wandering, houseless man of the
woods, and the civilized European, is immeasurable! FOR PROTECTION, AND FOR RESPONSIBILITY
IN HIS RELATION TO THE WHITE MAN THE BLACK IS REGARDED AS A BRITISH SUBJECT. In theory, this
sounds just and reasonable; but in practice, how incongruous becomes its application! As a
British subject, he is presumed to know the laws, for the infraction of which he is held accountable,
and yet he is shut out from the advantage of its protection when brought to the test of responsibility.
As a British subject, he is entitled to be tried by his PEERS. Who are the peers of the black
man? Are those, of whose laws, customs, language, and religion, he is wholly ignorant--nay,
whose very complexion is at variance with his own--HIS peers? He is tried in his native land
by a race new to him, and by laws of which he knows nothing. Had you, unhappy man! had the
good fortune to be born a Frenchman, or had been a native of any other country but your own,
the law of England would have allowed you to demand a trial by half foreigners and half Englishmen.
But, by your lot being the lowest, as is assumed, in the scale of humanity, you are inevitably
placed on a footing of fearful odds, when brought into the sacred temple of British justice.
Without a jury of your own countrymen--without the power of making adequate defence, by speech
or witness--you are to stand the pressure of every thing that can be alleged against you, and
your only chance of escape is, not the strength of your own, but the weakness of your adversary's
case. Surrounded as your trial was with difficulties, everything, I believe, was done that
could be done to place your case in a proper light before the jury. They have come to a conclusion
satisfactory, no doubt, to their consciences. Whatever might be the disadvantages under which
you laboured, they were convinced, as I am, that you destroyed the life of Dillon; and as there
was nothing proved to rebut the presumption, of English law, arising from the fact of homicide
being committed by you, they were constrained to find you guilty of murder. There may have
been circumstances, if they could have been proved, which would have given a different complexion
to the case from that of the dying declaration of the deceased, communicated to the Court through
the frail memory of two witnesses, who varied in their relation of his account of the transaction.
This declaration, so taken, was to be regarded as if taken on oath, face to face with your
accuser; and, although you had not the opportunity of being present at it, and of cross-examining
the dying man, yet by law it was receivable against you."

In vol. ii. p 380, Captain Grey says:--

"I have been a personal witness to a case in which a native was most undeservedly punished,
from the circumstance of the natives, who were the only persons who could speak as to certain
exculpatory facts, not being permitted to give their evidence."

Under the law lately passed in South Australia, the evidence of natives would be receivable
in a case of this kind, in palliation of the offence. Although it is more than questionable
how far such evidence would weigh against the white man's oath; but for the purpose of obtaining
redress for a wrong, or of punishing the cruelty, or the atrocity of the European [Note 115
at end of para.], no amount of native evidence would be of the least avail. Reverse the case,
and the sole unsupported testimony of a single witness, will be quite sufficient to convict
even unto death, as has lately been the case in two instances connected with Port Lincoln,
where the natives have been tried at different times for murder, convicted, and two of them
hung, upon the testimony of one old man, who was the only survivor left among the Europeans,
but who, from the natural state of alarm and confusion in which he must have been upon being
attacked, and from the severe wounds he received, could not have been in an advantageous position,
for observing, or remarking the identity of the actual murderers, among natives, who, even
under more favourable circumstances are not easily recognizable upon a hasty view, and still
less so, if either they, or the observer, are in a state of excitement at the time. Is it possible
for the natives to be blind to the unequal measure of justice, which is thus dealt out, and
which will still continue to be so as long as the law remains unchanged?

[Note 115: Governor Hutt remarks, in addressing Lord Glenelg on this subject:--"In furtherance
of the truth of these remarks, I would request your Lordship particularly to observe, that
here is one class of Her Majesty's subjects, who are DEBARRED A TRUE AND FAIR TRIAL BY JURY,
whose evidence is inadmissible in a court of justice, and who consequently may be the victims
of any of the most outrageous cruelty and violence, and yet be UNABLE, FROM THE FORMS AND REQUIREMENTS
OF THE LAW, to obtain redress, and whose quarrels, ending sometimes in bloodshed and death,
it is unjust, as well as inexpedient, to interfere with.

"A jury ought to be composed of a man's own peers. Europeans, in the case of a native criminal,
cannot either in their habits or sympathies be regarded as such, and his countrymen are incapable
of understanding or taking upon themselves the office of juror."]

I have no wish to give the native evidence a higher character than it deserves, but I think
that it ought not to be rendered unavailable in a prosecution; the degree of weight or credibility
to be attached to it, might be left to the court taking cognizance of the case, but if it is
consistent and probable, I see no reason why it should not be as strong a safeguard to the
black man from injury and oppression, as the white man's oath is to him. There are many occasions
on which the testimony of natives may be implicitly believed, and which are readily distinguishable
by those who have had much intercourse with this people--unaccustomed to the intricacies of
untruth, they know not that they must be consistent to deceive, and it is therefore rarely
difficult to tell when a native is prevaricating.

Among the natives themselves, the evil effects resulting from the inability of their evidence
to produce a conviction are still more apparent and injurious. [Note 116 at end of para.] It
has already been shewn how highly important it is to prevent the elders from exercising an
arbitrary and cruel authority over the young and the weak, and how necessary that the latter
should feel themselves quite secure from the vengeance of the former, when endeavouring to
throw off the trammels of custom and prejudice, and by embracing our habits and pursuits, making
an effort to rise in the scale of moral and physical improvement. Whatever alteration therefore
we may make in our system for the better, or however anxious we may be for the welfare and
the improvement of the Aborigines, we may rest well assured that our efforts are but thrown
away, as long as the natives are permitted with impunity to exercise their cruel or degrading
customs upon each other, unchecked and unpunished. We may feel equally certain that these oppressions
and barbarities can never be checked or punished but by means of their own unsupported testimony
against each other, and until this can be legally received, and made available for that purpose,
there is no hope of any lasting or permanent good being accomplished.

[Note 116: Upon the inability of natives to give evidence in a court of justice, Mr. Chief
Protector Robinson remarks, in a letter to His Honour, the Superintendent of Port Phillip,
dated May, 1843--"The legal disabilities of the natives have been a serious obstacle to their
civil protection; and I feel it my duty, whilst on this subject, respectfully to bring under
notice the necessity that still exists for some suitable system of judicature for the governance
and better protection of the aboriginal races. 'As far as personal influence went, the aboriginal
natives have been protected from acts of injustice, cruelty, and oppression; and their wants,
wishes, and grievances have been faithfully represented to the Government of the colony,' and
this, under the circumstances, was all that could possibly be effected. There is, however,
reason to fear that the destruction of the aboriginal natives has been accelerated from the
known fact of their being incapacitated to give evidence in our courts of law. I have frequently
had to deplore, when applied to by the Aborigines for justice in cases of aggression committed
on them by white men, or by those of their own race, my inability to do so in consequence of
their legal incapacity to give evidence. It were unreasonable, therefore, under such circumstances,
to expect the Aborigines would respect, or repose trust and confidence in the Protectors, or
submit to the governance of a department unable efficiently to protect or afford them justice.
Nor is it surprising they should complain of being made to suffer the higher penalties of our
law, when deprived (by legal disability) of its benefits. Little difficulty has been experienced
in discovering the perpetrator where the blacks have been concerned, even in the greater offences,
and hence the ends of justice would have been greatly facilitated by aboriginal evidence. It
is much to be regretted the Colonial Act of Council on aboriginal evidence was disallowed."]

The following very forcible and just remarks are from Captain Grey's work, vol. ii. pages 375
to 378:--

"I would submit, therefore, that it is necessary from the moment the Aborigines of this country
are declared British subjects, they should, as far as possible, be taught that the British
laws are to supersede their own, so that any native who is suffering under their own customs,
may have the power of an appeal to those of Great Britain; or to put this in its true light,
that all authorized persons should, in all instances, be required to protect a native from
the violence of his fellows, even though they be in the execution of their own laws.

"So long as this is not the case, the older natives have at their disposal the means of effectually
preventing the civilization of any individuals of their own tribe, and those among them who
may be inclined to adapt themselves to the European habits and mode of life, will be deterred
from so doing by their fear of the consequences, that the displeasure of others may draw down
upon them.

"So much importance am I disposed to attach to this point, that I do not hesitate to assert
my full conviction, that whilst those tribes which are in communication with Europeans are
allowed to execute their barbarous laws and customs upon one another, so long will they remain
hopelessly immersed in their present state of barbarism: and however unjust such a proceeding
might at first sight appear, I believe that the course pointed out by true humanity would be,
to make them from the very commencement amenable to the British laws, both as regards themselves
and Europeans; for I hold it to be imagining a contradiction to suppose, that individuals subject
to savage and barbarous laws, can rise into a state of civilization, which those laws have
a manifest tendency to destroy and overturn.

"I have known many instances of natives who have been almost or quite civilized, being compelled
by other natives to return to the bush; more particularly girls, who have been betrothed in
their infancy, and who, on approaching the years of puberty, have been compelled by their husbands
to join them.

"To punish the Aborigines severely for the violation of laws of which they are ignorant, would
be manifestly cruel and unjust; but to punish them in the first instance slightly for the violation
of these laws would inflict no great injury on them, whilst by always punishing them when guilty
of a crime, without reference to the length of period that had elapsed between its perpetration
and their apprehension, at the same time fully explaining to them the measure of punishment
that would await them in the event of a second commission of the same fault, would teach them
gradually the laws to which they were henceforth to be amenable, and would shew them that crime
was always eventually, although it might be remotely, followed by punishment.

"I imagine that this course would be more merciful than that at present adopted; viz. to punish
them for a violation of a law they are ignorant of, when this violation affects a European,
and yet to allow them to commit this crime as often as they like, when it only regards themselves;
for this latter course teaches them, not that certain actions, such, for instance, as murder,
etc. are generally criminal, but only that they are criminal when exercised towards the white
people, and the impression, consequently excited in their minds is, that these acts only excite
our detestation when exercised towards ourselves, and that their criminality consists, not
in having committed a certain odious action, but in having violated our prejudices."

Many instances have come under my own personal observation, where natives have sought redress
both against one another and against Europeans, but where from their evidence being unavailable
no redress could be afforded them. Enough has however been now adduced to shew the very serious
evils resulting from this disadvantage, and to point out the justice, the policy, the practicability,
and the necessity of remedying it.

In bringing to a close my remarks on the Aborigines, their present condition and future prospects,
I cannot more appropriately or more forcibly conclude the subject than by quoting that admirable
letter of Lord Stanley's to Governor Sir G. Gipps, written in December, 1842; a letter of which
the sentiments expressed are as creditable to the judgment and discrimination, as they are
honourable to the feelings and humanity of the minister who wrote it, and who, in the absence
of personal experience, and amidst all the conflicting testimony or misrepresentation by which
a person at a distance is ever apt to be assailed and misled, has still been able to separate
the truth from falsehood, and to arrive at a rational, a christian, and a just opinion, on
a subject so fraught with difficulties, so involved in uncertainty, and so beset with discrepancies.

In writing to Sir G. Gipps, Lord Stanley says (Parliamentary Reports, pp. 221, 2, 3):--

"DOWNING-STREET, 20TH DECEMBER, 1842. "SIR,

"I have the honour to acknowledge the receipt of your despatches of the dates and numbers mentioned
in the margin, reporting the information which has reached you in respect to the aboriginal
tribes of New South Wales, and the result of the attempts which have been made, under the sanction
of Her Majesty's Government, to civilize and protect these people.

"I have read with great attention, but with deep regret, the accounts contained in these despatches.
After making every fair allowance for the peculiar difficulty of such an undertaking, it seems
impossible any longer to deny that the efforts which have hitherto been made for the civilization
of the Aborigines have been unavailing; that no real progress has yet been effected, and that
there is no reasonable ground to expect from them greater suceess in future. You will be sensible
with how much pain and reluctance I have come to this opinion, but I cannot shut my eyes to
the conclusion which inevitably follows from the statements which you have submitted to me
on the subject.

"Your despatch of the 11th March last, No. 50, contains an account of the several missions
up to that date, with reports likewise from the chief Protector and his assistants, and from
the Crown Land Commissioners. The statements respecting the missions, furnished not by their
opponents, nor even by indifferent parties, but by the missionaries themselves, are, I am sorry
to say, as discouraging as it is possible to be. In respect to the mission at Wellington Valley,
Mr. Gunther writes in a tone of despondency, which shews that he has abandoned the hope of
success. The opening of his report is indeed a plain admission of despair; I sincerely wish
that his facts did not bear out such a feeling. But when he reports, that after a trial of
ten years, only one of all who have been attached to the mission 'affords some satisfaction
and encouragement;' that of the others only four still remain with them, and that these continually
absent themselves, and when at home evince but little desire for instruction; that 'their thoughtlessness,
and spirit of independence, ingratitude, and want of sincere, straightforward dealing, often
try us in the extreme;' that drunkenness is increasing, and that the natives are 'gradually
swept away by debauchery and other evils arising from their intermixture with Europeans,' I
acknowledge that he has stated enough to warrant his despondency, and to shew that it proceeds
from no momentary disappointment alone, but from a settled and reasonable conviction.

"Nor do the other missions hold out any greater encouragement. That at Moreton Bay is admitted
by Mr. Handt to have made but little progress, as neither children nor adults can be persuaded
to stay for any length of time; while that at Lake Macquarie had, at the date of your despatch,
ceased to exist, from the extinction or removal of the natives formerly in its vicinity. The
Wesleyan Missionaries at Port Phillip, notwithstanding an expenditure in 1841 of nearly 1,300
pounds, acknowledge that they are 'far from being satisfied with the degree of success which
has attended our labours,' and 'that a feeling of despair sometimes takes possession of our
minds, and weighs down our spirits,' arising from the frightful mortality among the natives.

"In the face of such representations, which can be attributed neither to prejudice nor misinformation,
I have great doubts as to the wisdom or propriety of continuing the missions any longer. I
fear that to do so would be to delude ourselves with the mere idea of doing something; which
would be injurious to the natives, as interfering with other and more advantageous arrangements,
and unjust to the colony, as continuing an unnecessary and profitless expenditure.

"To this conclusion I had been led by your despatch, No. 50, but anticipating that the protectorate
system would promise more beneficial results, I postponed my instructions in the matter until
I should receive some further information.

"Your despatches of the 16th and 20th May have furnished that further information, although
they contradict the hopes which I had been led to entertain. After the distinct and unequivocal
opinion announced by Mr. La Trobe, supported as it is by the expression of your concurrence,
I cannot conceal from myself that the failure of the system of protectors has been at least
as complete as that of the missions.

"I have no doubt that a portion of this ill success, perhaps a large portion, is attributable
to the want of sound judgment and zealous activity on the part of the assistant protectors.
Thus the practice of collecting large bodies of the natives in one spot, and in the immediate
vicinity of the settlers, without any previous provision for their subsistence or employment,
was a proceeding of singular indiscretion. That these people would commit depredations rather
than suffer want, and that thus ill-blood, and probably collisions, would be caused between
them and the settlers, must, I should have thought, have occurred to any man of common observation;
and no one could have better reason than Mr. Sievewright to know his utter inability to control
them. When such a course could be adopted, I am not surprised at your opinion that the measures
of the protectors have tended 'rather to increase than allay the irritation which has long
existed between the two races.'

"But after allowing for the effect of such errors, and for the possibility of preventing their
recurrence, there is yet enough in Mr. La Trobe's reports to shew that the system itself is
defective, at least in the hands of those whose services we are able to command. I am unwilling,
at this distance from the scene, and without that minute local knowledge which is essential,
to give you any precise instructions as to the course which under present circumstances should
be pursued: but I have the less hesitation in leaving the matter in your hands, because your
whole correspondence shews that no one feels more strongly than yourself the duty as well as
the policy of protecting, and, if possible, civilizing these Aborigines, and of promoting a
good understanding between them and the white settlers. At present, though I am far from attributing
to the white settlers generally an ill disposition towards the natives, there is an apparent
want of feeling among them, where the natives are concerned, which is much to be lamented.
Outrages of the most atrocious description, involving sometimes considerable loss of life,
are spoken of, as I observe in these papers, with an indifference and lightness which to those
at a distance is very shocking. I cannot but fear that the feeling which dictates this mode
of speaking, may also cause the difficulty in discovering and bringing to justice the perpetrators
of the outrages which from time to time occur. With a view to the protection of the natives,
the most essential step is to correct the temper and tone adopted towards them by the settlers.
Whatever may depend on your own personal influence, or on the zealous co-operation of Mr. La
Trobe, will I am sure be done at once, and I will not doubt that your efforts in this respect
will be successful. In regard to the missions and the protectors, I give you no definite instructions.
If at your receipt of this despatch you should see no greater prospect of advantage than has
hitherto appeared, you will be at liberty to discontinue the grants to either as early as possible;
but if circumstances should promise more success for the future, the grants may be continued
for such time as may be necessary to bring the matter to a certain result. In the meantime,
agreeing as I do, in the general opinion, that it is indispensable to the protection of the
natives that their evidence should, to a certain extent at least, be received in the courts
of law, I shall take into my consideration the means by which this can be effected in the safest
and most satisfactory manner.

"I cannot conclude this despatch without expressing my sense of the importance of the subject
of it, and my hope that your experience may enable you to suggest some general plan by which
we may acquit ourselves of the obligations which we owe towards this helpless race of beings.
I should not, without the most extreme reluctance, admit that nothing can be done; that with
respect to them alone the doctrines of Christianity must be inoperative, and the advantages
of civilization incommunicable. I cannot acquiesce in the theory that they are incapable of
improvement, and that their extinction before the advance of the white settler is a necessity
which it is impossible to control. I recommend them to your protection and favourable consideration
with the greatest earnestness, but at the same time with perfect confidence: and I assure you
that I shall be willing and anxious to co-operate with you in any arrangement for their civilization
which may hold out a fair prospect of success.

"I have, etc. "(signed) "STANLEY."

PLATE I.--ORNAMENTS.

1. Ku-ru-un-ko--tuft of emu feathers used in the play spoken of, page 228. 2. Three tufts of
feathers tied in a bunch, with two kangaroo teeth, worn tied to the hair. 3. Tufts of feathers,
used as a flag or signal, elevated on a spear; similar ones are worn by the males, of eagle
or emu feathers over the pubes. 4. Let-ter-rer--kangaroo teeth worn tied to the hair of young
males and females after the ceremonies of initiation. 5 and 6. Coverings for the pubes, worn
by females, one is of fur string in threads, the other of skins cut in strips. 7. Tufts of
white feathers worn round the neck. 8. Tufts of feathers stained red, worn round the neck.
9. Tufts of feathers stained red, with two kangaroo teeth to each tuft, also worn round the
neck. 10. A piece of bone worn through the septum nasi. 11. Tufts of feathers worn round the
neck, one is black, the other stained red. 12. Tufts of feathers stained red, with four kangaroo
teeth in a bunch, worn round the neck. 13. Necklace of reeds cut in short lengths. 14. Band
for forehead, feathers and swan's-down. 15. Man-ga--band for forehead, a coil of string made
of opossum fur. 16. Mona--net cap to confine the hair of young men of opossum fur. 17. Korno--widow's
mourning cap made of carbonate of lime, moulded to the head, weight 8 1/2lbs. 18. Dog's-tail,
worn as an appendage to the beard, which is gathered together and tied in a pigtail.

PLATE II.--WEAPONS.

1. Spear barbed on both sides, of hard wood, 10 1/2 feet long, used in war or hunting. 2. Similar
to the last but only barbed on one side, used for same purposes. 3. Kar-ku-ru--smooth spear
of hard wood, 10 1/2 feet, used for punishments, as described page 222, also for general purposes.
4. Short, smooth, hard wood spear, 7 1/2 feet long, used to spear fish in diving. 5. Reed spear
with barbed hard wood point, used for war with the throwing stick--the way of holding it, and
position of the hand are shewn. 6. Hard wood spear with grass-tree end, 8 feet long, used with
the throwing stick for general purposes. 7. Hard wood spear with single barb spliced on, 8
feet long, used from Port Lincoln to King George's Sound for chase or war, it is launched with
the throwing stick. 8. Ki-ko--reed spear, hard wood point, 6 to 7 feet long, used with the
throwing-stick to kill birds or other game. 9. Hard wood spear, grass-tree end, barbed with
flint, used with the throwing-stick for war. 10. The head of No. 9 on a arger scale. 11. The
head of No. 1 on a larger scale. 12. The head of a Lachlan spear, taken from a man who was
wounded there, the spear entered behind the shoulder in the back, and the point reached to
the front of the throat, it had to be extracted by cutting an opening in the throat and forcing
the spear-head through from behind--the man recovered. 13. The head of No. 7 on a larger scale.

PLATE III.--WEAPONS.

1. Nga-waonk, or throwing-stick, about 2 feet long, and narrow. 2. Ditto but hollowed and conical.
3. Ditto straight and flat. 4. Ditto narrow and carved. 5. Ditto broad in the centre. 6. Sorcerer's
stick, with feathers and fur string round the point 7. Ditto plain. 8. The Darling Wangn, (boomerang)
carved, 1 foot 10 inches. 9. The Darling war Wangn, 2 feet 1 inch. 10. Battle-axe. 11. Ditto
12. Ditto 13. Ditto 14. The lower end of the throwing-stick, shewing a flint gummed on as a
chisel. 15. The Tar-ram, or shield made out of solid wood, 2 feet 7 inches long, 1 foot broad,
carved and painted. 16. A side view of ditto 17. War-club of heavy wood, rounded and tapering.
18. Port Lincoln Wirris, or stick used for throwing at game, 2 feet. 19. Murray River Bwirri,
or ditto ditto 20. War club, with a heavy knob, and pointed. 21. Port Lincoln Midla, or lever,
with quartz knife attached to the end. 22. Murray river war club.

PLATE IV.--IMPLEMENTS.

1. Tat-tat-ko, or rod for noosing wild fowl, 16 feet long, vide p. 310. 2. Moo-ar-roo, or paddle
and fish spear, 10 to 16 feet, vide p. 263. 3. Chisel pointed hard wood stick, from 3 to 4
feet long, used by the women for digging. 4. Ngakko, or chisel pointed stick, 3 feet long,
used by the men. 5. Mun--canoe of bark, vide p. 314. 6. 7, 8. Varieties of Mooyumkarr, or sacred
oval pieces of wood, used at night, by being spun round with a long string so as to produce
a loud roaring noise for the object of counteracting any evil influences, and for other purposes.
9. 10, 11, 12. Needles, etc. from the fibulas of kangaroos, wallabies, emus, etc. 13. Kangaroo
bone, used as a knife. 14. Stone with hollow in centre for pounding roots. 15. Stone hatchet.
16. Distaff with string of hair upon it. 17. Lenko, or net hung round the neck in diving to
put muscles, etc. in. 18. Kenderanko, net used in diving, vide p. 260. 19. Drinking cup made
of a shell. 20. Drinking cup, being the scull of a native with the sutures closed with wax or gum.

PLATE V.--WORKS OF INDUSTRY.

1. Lukomb, or skin for carrying water, made from the skins of opossums, wallabie, or young
kangaroo; the fur is turned inside, and the legs, tail, and neck, are tied up; they hold from
1 quart to 3 gallons. 2. Pooneed-ke--circular mat, 1 foot 9 inches in diameter, made of a kind
of grass, worn on the back by the women, with a band passed round the lower part and tied in
front, the child is then slipped in between the mat and the back, and so carried. 3. Kal-la-ter--a
truncated basket of about a foot wide at the bottom, made also of a broad kind of grass, used
for carrying anything in, and especially for taking about the fragile eggs of the Leipoa. 4.
A wallet, or man's travelling bag, made of a kangaroo skin, with the fur outside. 5. A small
kal-la-ter. 6. Pool-la-da-noo-ko, or oval basket made of broad-leaved grass, used for carrying
anything; from its flat make, it fits easily to the back. 7. An Adelaide oblong and somewhat
flattish basket, made of a kind of rush. 8. The Rok-ko, or net bag, made of a string manufactured
from the rush, it is carried by the women, and contains generally all the worldly property
of the family, such as shells and pieces of flint for knives--bones for needles--sinews of
animals for thread--fat and red ochre for adorning the person--spare ornaments or belts--white
pigment for painting for the dance--a skin for carrying water--a stone for pounding roots--the
sacred implements of the husband carefully folded up and concealed--a stone hatchet--and many
other similar articles. The size of the rok-ko varies according to the wealth of the family;
it is sometimes very large and weighty when filled.

The End

