A third theory, propounded by the psychologist, Dr. Christine Ladd-Franklin, is based on keen
criticism of the previous two, and seems to be harmonious with all the facts. She supposes
that the color sense is now in the third stage of its evolution. In the first stage the only
elements were white and black; the second stage added yellow and blue; and the third stage
red and green. The outer zone of the retina is still in the first stage, and the intermediate
zone in the second, only the central area having reached the third. In red-green blind individuals,
the central area remains in the second stage, and in the totally color-blind the whole retina
is still in the first stage.

In the first stage, one response, white, was made to light of whatever wave-length. In the
second stage, this single response divided into two, one aroused by the long waves and the
other by the short. The response to the long waves was the sensation of yellow, and that to
the short waves the sensation of blue. In the third stage, the yellow response divided into
one for the longest waves, corresponding to the red, and one for somewhat shorter waves, corresponding
to the green. Now, when we try to get a blend of red and green {222} by combining red and green
lights, we fail because the two responses simply unite and revert to the more primitive yellow
response; and similarly when we try to get the yellow and blue responses together, they revert
to the more primitive white response out of which they developed.

But, since no one can pretend to see yellow as a reddish green, nor white as a bluish yellow,
it is clear that the just-spoken-of union of the red and green responses, and of the yellow
and blue responses, must take place below the level of conscious sensation. These unions probably
take place within the retina itself. Probably they are purely chemical unions.

The very first response of a rod or cone to light is probably a purely chemical reaction. Dr.
Ladd-Franklin, carrying out her theory, supposes that a light-sensitive "mother substance"
in the rods and cones is decomposed by the action of light, and gives off cleavage products
which arouse the vital activity of the rods and cones, and thus start nerve currents coursing
towards the brain.

In the "first stage", she supposes, a single big cleavage product, which we may call W, is
split off by the action of {223} light upon the mother substance, and the vital response to
W is the sensation of white.

In the second stage, the mother substance is capable of giving off two smaller cleavage products,
Y and B. Y is split off by the long waves of light, and B by the short waves, and the vital
response to Y is the sensation of yellow, that to B the sensation of blue. But suppose that,
chemically, Y + B = W: then, if Y and B are both split off at the same time in the same cone,
they immediately unite into W, and the resulting sensation is white, and neither yellow nor blue.

Similarly, in the third stage, the mother substance is capable of giving off three cleavage
products, R, G and B; and there are three corresponding vital responses, the sensations of
red, green and blue. But, chemically, R + G = Y; and therefore, if R and G are split off at
the same time, they unite chemically into Y and give the sensation of yellow. If R, G and B
are all split off at the same time, they unite chemically as follows: R + G = Y, and Y + B
= W; and therefore the resulting sensation is that of white.

This theory of cleavage products is in good general agreement with chemical principles, and
it does justice to all the facts of color vision, as detailed in the preceding pages. It should
be added that "for black, the theory supposes that, {224} in the interest of a continuous field
of view, objects which reflect no light at all upon the retina have correlated with them a
definite non-light sensation--that of black." [Footnote: Quotation from Dr. Ladd-Franklin.]

Adaptation

Sensory adaptation is a change that occurs in other senses also, but it is so much more important
in the sense of sight than elsewhere that it may best be considered here. The stimulus continues,
the sensation ceases or diminishes--that is the most striking form of sensory adaptation. Continued
action of the same stimulus puts the sense into such a condition that it responds differently
from at first, and usually more weakly. It is much like fatigue, but it often is more positive
and beneficial than fatigue.

The sense of smell is very subject to adaptation. On first entering a room you clearly sense
an odor that you can no longer get after staying there for some time. This adaptation to one
odor does not prevent your sensing quite different odors. Taste shows less adaptation than
smell, but all are familiar with the decline in sweet sensation that comes with continued eating
of sweets.

All of the cutaneous senses except that for pain are much subject to adaptation. Continued
steady pressure gives a sensation that declines rapidly and after a time ceases altogether.
The temperature sense is usually adapted to the temperature of the skin, which therefore feels
neither warm nor cool. If the temperature of the skin is raised from its usual level of about
70 degrees Fahrenheit to 80 or 86, this temperature at first gives the sensation of warmth,
but after a time it gives no temperature sensation at all; the warmth sense has become adapted
to the temperature of 80 degrees; and now a temperature of 70 will give the sensation of cool.
{225} Hold one hand in water at 80 and the other in water at 66, and when both have become
adapted to these respective temperatures, plunge them together into water at 70; and you will
find this last to feel cool to the warm-adapted hand and warm to the cool-adapted. There are
limits to this power of adaptation.

The muscle sense seems to become adapted to any fixed position of a limb, so that, after the
limb has remained motionless for some time, you cannot tell in what position it is; to find
out, you have only to move it the least bit, which will excite both the muscle sense and the
cutaneous pressure sense. The sense of head rotation is adaptable, in that a rotation which
is keenly sensed at the start ceases to be felt as it continues; but here it is not the sense
cells that become adapted, but the back flow that ceases, as will soon be explained.

To come now to the sense of sight, we have light adaptation, dark adaptation, and color adaptation.
Go into a dark room, and at first all seems black, but by degrees--provided there is a little
light filtering into the room--you begin to see, for your retina is becoming dark-adapted.
Now go out into a bright place, and at first you are "blinded", but you quickly "get used"
to the bright illumination and see objects much more distinctly than at first; for your eye
has now become light-adapted. Remain for some time in a room illuminated by a colored light
(as the yellowish light of most artificial illuminants), and by degrees the color sensation
bleaches out so that the light appears nearly white.

Dark adaptation is equivalent to sensitizing the retina for faint light. Photographic plates
can be made of more or less sensitiveness for use with different illuminations; but the retina
automatically alters its sensitivity to fit the illumination to which it is exposed.

{226}

Rod and Cone Vision

You will notice, in the dark room, that while you see light and shade and the forms of objects,
you do not see colors. The same is true out of doors at night. In other words, the kind of
vision that we have when the eye is dark-adapted is totally color-blind. Another significant
fact is that the fovea is of little use in very dim light. These facts are taken to mean that
dim-light vision, or twilight vision as it is sometimes called, is rod vision and not cone
vision; or, in other words, that the rods and not the cones have the great sensitiveness to
faint light in the dark-adapted eye. The cones perhaps become somewhat dark-adapted, but the
rods far outstrip them in this direction. The fovea has no rods and hence is of little use
in very faint light. The rods have no differential responsiveness to different wave-lengths,
remaining still in the "first stage" in the development of color vision, and consequently no
colors are seen in faint light.

Rod vision differs then from cone vision in having only one response to every wave-length,
and in adapting itself to much fainter light. No doubt, also, it is the rods that give to peripheral
vision its great sensitivity to moving objects.

After-Images

After-images, which might better be called after-sensations, occur in other senses than sight,
but nowhere else with such definiteness. The main fact here is that the response outlasts the
stimulus. This is true of a muscle, and it is true of a sense organ. It takes a little time
to get the muscle, or the sense organ, started, and, once it is in action, it takes a little
time for it to stop. If you direct your eyes towards the lamp, holding your hand or a book
in front of them as a screen, remove the screen for an {227} instant and then replace it, you
will continue for a short time to see the light after the external stimulus has been cut off.
This "positive after-image" is like the main sensation, only weaker. There is also a "negative
after-image", best got by looking steadily at a black-and-white or colored figure for as long
as fifteen or twenty seconds, and then directing the eyes upon a medium gray background. After
a moment a sensation develops in which black takes the place of white and white of black, while
for each color in the original sensation the complementary color now appears.

This phenomenon of the negative after-image is the same as that of color adaptation. Exposing
the retina for some time to light of a certain color adapts the retina to that color, bleaches
that color sensation, and, as it were, subtracts that color (or some of it) from the gray at
which the eyes are then directed; and gray (or white) minus a color gives the complementary color.

Contrast

Contrast is still another effect that occurs in other senses, but most strikingly in vision.
There is considerable in common between the negative after-image and contrast; indeed, {228}
the negative after-image effect is also called "successive contrast". After looking at a bright
surface, one of medium brightness appears dark, while this same medium brightness would seem
bright after looking at a dark surface. This is evidently adaptation again, and is exactly
parallel to what was found in regard to the temperature sense. After looking at any color steadily,
the complementary color appears more saturated than usual; in fact, this is the way to secure
the maximum of saturation in color sensation. These are examples of "successive contrast".

"Simultaneous contrast" is something new, not covered by adaptation, but gives the same effects
as successive contrast. If you take two pieces of the same gray paper, and place one on a black
background and the other on white, you will find the piece on the black ground to look much
brighter than the piece on the white ground. Spots of gray on colored backgrounds are tinged
with the complementary colors. The contrast effect is most marked at the margin adjoining the
background, and grows less away from this margin. Any two adjacent surfaces produce contrast
effects in each other, though we usually do not notice them any more than we usually notice
the after-images that occur many times in the course of the day.

The Sense of Hearing

Sound, like light, is physically a wave motion, though the sound vibrations are very different
from those of light. They travel 1,100 feet a second, instead of 186,000 miles a second. Their
wave-length is measured in feet instead of in millionths of a millimeter, and their vibration
frequencies are counted in tens, hundreds and thousands per second, instead of in millions
of millions. But sound waves vary among themselves in the same three ways that we {229} noticed
in light waves: in amplitude, in wave-length (or vibration rate), and in degree of mixture
of different wave-lengths.

Difference of amplitude (or energy) of sound waves produces difference of loudness in auditory
sensation, which thus corresponds to brightness in visual sensation. Sounds can be arranged
in order of loudness, as visual sensations can be arranged in order of brightness, both being
examples of intensity series such as can be arranged in any kind of sensation.

Difference of wave-length of sound waves produces difference in the pitch of auditory sensation,
which thus corresponds to color in visual sensation. Pitch ranges from the lowest notes, produced
by the longest audible waves, to the highest, produced by the shortest audible waves. It is
customary, in the case of sound waves, to speak of vibration rate instead of wave-length, the
two quantities being inversely proportional to each other (in the same conducting medium).
The lowest audible sound is one of about sixteen vibrations per second, and the highest one
of about 30,000 per second, while the waves to which the ear is most sensitive have a vibration
rate of about 1,000 to 4,000 per second. The ear begins to lose sensitiveness as early as the
age of thirty, and this loss is most noticeable at the upper limit, which declines slowly from
this age on.

Middle C of the piano (or any instrument) has a vibration rate of about 260. Go up an octave
from this and you double the number of vibrations per second; go down an octave and you halve
the number of vibrations. Of any two notes that are an octave apart, the upper has twice the
vibration rate of the lower. The whole range of audible notes, from 16 to 30,000 vibrations,
thus amounts to about eleven octaves, of which music employs about eight octaves, finding little
use for the upper and lower extremes of the {230} pitch series. The smallest step on the piano,
called the "semitone", is one-twelfth of an octave; but it must not be supposed that this is
the smallest difference that can be perceived. A large proportion of people can observe a difference
of four vibrations, and keen ears a difference of less than one vibration; whereas the semitone,
at middle C, is a step of about sixteen vibrations.

Mixture of different wave-lengths, which in light causes difference of saturation, may be said
in sound to cause difference of purity. A "pure tone" is the sensation aroused by a stimulus
consisting wholly of waves of the same length. Such a stimulus is almost unobtainable, because
every sounding body gives off, along with its fundamental waves, other waves shorter than the
fundamental and arousing tone sensations of higher pitch, called "overtones". A piano string
which, vibrating as a whole, gives 260 vibrations per second (middle C), also vibrates at the
same time in halves, thus giving 520 vibrations per second; in thirds, giving 780 per second;
and in other smaller segments. The whole stimulus given off by middle C of the piano is thus
a compound of fundamental and overtones; and the sensation aroused by this complex stimulus
is not a "pure tone" but a blend of fundamental tone and overtones. By careful attention and
training, we can "hear out" the separate overtones from the total blend; but ordinarily we
take the blend as a unit (just as we take the taste of lemonade as a unit), and hear it simply
as middle C of a particular quality, namely the piano quality. Another instrument will give
a somewhat different combination of overtones in the stimulus, and that means a different quality
of tone in our sensation. We do not ordinarily analyze these complex blends, but we distinguish
one from another perfectly well, and thus can tell whether a piano or a cornet is playing.
The difference between different instruments, which we have spoken of as a {231} difference
in quality or purity of tone, is technically known as timbre; and the timbre of an instrument
depends on the admixture of shorter waves with the fundamental vibration which gives the main
pitch of a note.

Akin to the timbre of an instrument is the vowel produced by the human mouth in any particular
position. Each vowel appears to consist, physically, of certain high notes produced by the
resonance of the mouth cavity. In the position for "ah", the cavity gives a certain tone; in
the position for "ee" it gives a higher tone. Meanwhile, the pitch of the voice, determined
by the vibration of the vocal cords, may remain the same or vary in any way. The vowel tones
differ from overtones in remaining the same without regard to the pitch of the fundamental
tone that is being sung or spoken, whereas overtones move up or down along with their fundamental.
The vowels, as auditory sensations, are excellent examples of blends, in that, though compounds,
they usually remain unanalyzed and are taken simply as units. What has been said of the vowels
applies also to the semi-vowels and continuing consonants, such as l, m, n, r, f, th, s and sh.

Other consonants are to be classed with the noises. Like a vowel, and like the timbre of an
instrument, a noise is a blend of simple tones; but the fundamental tone in a noise-blend is
not so preponderant as to give a clear pitch to the total sound, while the other tones present
are often too brief or too unsteady to give a tonal effect.

Comparison of Sight and Hearing

The two senses of sight and hearing have many curious differences, and one of the most curious
appears in mixing different wave-lengths. Compare the effect of throwing two colored lights
together into the eye with the effect of {232} throwing two notes together into the ear. Two
notes sounded together may give either a harmonious blend or a discord; now the discord is
peculiar to the auditory realm; mixed colors never clash, though colors seen side by side may
do so to a certain extent. A discord of tones is characterized by imperfect blending (something
unknown in color mixing), and by roughness due to the presence of "beats" (another thing unknown
in the sense of sight). Beats are caused by the interference between sound waves of slightly
different vibration rate. If you tune two whistles one vibration apart and sound them together,
you get a tone that swells once a second; tune them ten vibrations apart and you get ten swellings
or beats per second, and the effect is rough and disagreeable.

Aside from discord, a tone blend is really not such a different sort of thing from a color
blend. A chord, in which the component notes blend while they can still, by attention and training,
be "heard out of the chord", is quite analogous with such color blends as orange, purple or
bluish green. At the same time, there is a curious difference here. By analogy with color mixing,
you would expect two notes, as C and E, when combined, to give the same sensation as the single
intermediate note D. Nothing of the kind! Were it so, music would be very different from what
it is, if indeed it were possible at all. But the real difference between the two senses at
this point is better expressed by saying that D does not give the effect of a combination of
C and E, or, in general, that no one note ever gives the effect of a combination or blend of
notes higher and lower than itself. Homogeneous orange light gives the sensation of a blend
of red and yellow; but there is nothing like this in the auditory sphere. In light, some wave-lengths
give the effect of simple colors, as red and yellow; and other wave-lengths the effect of blends,
as greenish yellow or bluish {233} green; but in sound, every wave-length gives a tone which
seems just as elementary as any other.

There is nothing in auditory sensation to correspond to white, no simple sensation resulting
from the combined action of all wave-lengths. Such a combination gives noise, but nothing that
seems particularly simple. There is nothing auditory to correspond with black, for silence
seems to be a genuine absence of sensation. There are no complementary tones like the complementary
colors, no tones that destroy each other instead of blending. In a word, auditory sensation
tallies with its stimulus much more closely than visual sensation does with its; and the main
secret of this advantage of the sense of hearing is that it has a much larger number of elementary
responses. Against the six elementary visual sensations are to be set auditory elements to
the number of hundreds or thousands. From the fact that every distinguishable pitch gives a
tone which seems as simple and unblended as any other, the conclusion would seem to be that
each was an element; and this would mean thousands of elements. On the other hand, the fact
that tones close together in pitch sound almost alike may mean that they have elements in common
and are thus themselves compounds; but still there would undoubtedly be hundreds of elements.

Both sight and hearing are served by great armies of sense cells, but the two armies are organized
on very different principles. In the retina, the sense cells are spread out in such a way that
each is affected by light from one particular direction; and thus the retina gives excellent
space information. But each retinal cell is affected by any light that happens to come from
its particular direction. Every cone, in the central area of the retina, makes all the elementary
visual responses and gives all the possible color sensations; so it is not strange that the
number of visual {234} elements is small. On the other hand, the ear, having no sound lens,
has no way of keeping separate the sounds from different directions (and accordingly gives
only meager indications of the direction of sound); but its sense cells are so spread out as
to be affected, some by sound of one wavelength, others by other wave-lengths. The different
tones do not all come from the same sense cells. Some of the auditory cells give the low tones,
others the medium tones, still others the high tones; and since there are thousands of cells,
there may be thousands of elementary responses.

Theory of Hearing

The most famous theory of the action of the inner ear is the "piano theory" of Helmholtz. The
foundation of the theory is the fact that the sense cells of the cochlea stand on the "basilar
membrane", a long, narrow membrane, stretched between bony attachments at either side, and
composed partly of fibers running crosswise, very much as the strings of a piano or harp are
stretched between two side bars. If you imagine the strings of a piano to be the warp of a
fabric and interwoven with crossing fibers, you have a fair idea of the structure of the basilar
membrane, except for the fact that the "strings" of the basilar membrane do not differ in length
anywhere like as much as the strings of the piano must differ in order to produce the whole
range of notes. Now, a piano string can be thrown into "sympathetic vibration", as when you
put on the "loud pedal" (remove the dampers from the strings) and then sing a note into the
piano. You will find that the string of the pitch sung has been thrown into vibration by the
action of the sound waves sung against it.

Now suppose the strings of the basilar membrane to be tuned to notes of all different pitches,
within the range of {235} audible vibrations: then each string would be thrown into sympathetic
vibration whenever waves of its own vibration rate reached it by way of the outer and middle
ear; and the sense cells standing over the vibrating fibers would be shaken and excited. The
theory is very attractive because it would account so nicely for the great number of elementary
tone sensations (there are over 20,000 fibers or strings in the basilar membrane), as well
as for various other facts of hearing--if we could only believe that the basilar membrane did
vibrate in this simple manner, fiber by fiber. But (1) the fabric into which the strings of
the membrane are woven would prevent their vibrating as freely and independently as the theory
requires; (2) the strings do not differ in length a hundredth part of what they would need
to differ in order to be tuned to all notes from the lowest to the highest, and there is no
sign of differences in stretch or in loading of the strings to make up for their lack of difference
in length; and (3) a little model of the basilar membrane, exposed to sound waves, is seen
to be thrown into vibration, indeed, and into different forms of vibration for waves of different
length, but not by any means into the simple sort of vibration demanded by the piano theory.
This theory is accordingly too simple, but it probably points the way towards some truer, more
complex, conception.

The fact that there are many elementary sensations of hearing is the chief reason why the art
of tones is so much more elaborate than the art of color; for while painting might dispute
with music as to which were the more highly developed art, painting depends on form as well
as color, and there is no art of pure color at all comparable with music, which makes use simply
of tones (and noises) with their combinations and sequences.

{236}

Senses of Bodily Movement

It is a remarkable fact that some parts of the inner ear are not connected with hearing at
all, but with quite another sense, the existence of which was formerly unsuspected. The two
groups of sense cells in the vestibule--the otolith organs--were formerly supposed to be the
sense organ for noise; but noise now appears to be a compound of tones, and its organ, therefore,
the cochlea. The semicircular canals, from their arrangement in three planes at right angles
to each other, were once supposed to analyze the sound according to the direction from which
it came; but no one could give anything but the vaguest idea of how they might do this, and
besides the ear is now known to give practically no information regarding the direction of
sound, except the one fact whether it comes from the right or left, which is given by the difference
in the stimulation received by the two ears, and not by anything that exists in either ear
taken alone.

The semicircular canals have been much studied by the physiologists. They found that injury
to these structures brought lack of equilibrium and inability to walk, swim or fly in a straight
course. If, for example, the horizontal canal in the left ear is destroyed, the animal continually
deviates to the left as he advances, and so is forced into a "circus movement". They found
that the compensatory movements normally made in reaction to a movement impressed on the animal
from without were no longer made when the canals were destroyed. They found that something
very much like these compensatory movements could be elicited by direct stimulation of the
end-organs in the canals or of the sensory nerves leading from them. And they found that little
currents of the liquid filling the canals acted as a stimulus to these end-organs and so aroused
the {237} compensatory movements. They were thus led to accept a view that was originally suggested
by the position of the canals in space.

Each "semicircular" canal, itself considerably more than a semicircular tube, opens into the
vestibule at each end and thus amounts to a complete circle. Therefore rotating the head must,
by inertia, produce a back flow of the fluid contents of the canal, and this current, by bending
the hairs of the sense cells in the canal, would stimulate them and give a sensation of rotation,
or at least a sensory nerve impulse excited by the head rotation.

When a human subject is placed, blindfolded, in a chair that can be rotated without sound or
jar, it is found that he can easily tell whenever you start to turn him in either direction.
If you keep on turning him at a constant speed, he soon ceases to sense the movement, but if
then you stop him, he says you are starting to turn him in the opposite {238} direction. He
senses the beginning of the rotary movement because this causes the back flow through his canals;
he ceases to sense the uniform movement because friction of the liquid in the slender canal
soon abolishes the back flow by causing the liquid to move with the canal; and he senses the
stopping of this movement because the liquid, again by inertia, continues to move in the direction
it had been moving just before when it was keeping pace with the canal. Thus we see that there
are conscious sensations of rotation from the canals, and that these give information of the
starting or stopping of a rotation, though not of its steady continuance. Excessive stimulation
of the canals gives the sensation of dizziness.

The otolith organs in the vestibule are probably excited, not by rotary movements, but by sudden
startings and stoppings of rectilinear motion, as in an elevator; and also by the pull of gravity
when the head is held in any position. They give information regarding the position and rectilinear
movements of the head, as the canals do of rotary head movements. Both are important in maintaining
equilibrium and motor efficiency.

The muscle sense is another sense of bodily movement; it was the "sixth sense", so bitterly
fought in the middle of the last century by those who maintained that the five senses that
were enough for our fathers ought to be enough for us, too. The question was whether the sense
of touch did not account for all sensations of bodily movement. It was shown that there must
be something besides the skin sense, because weights were better distinguished when "hefted"
in the hand than when simply laid in the motionless palm; and it was shown that loss of skin
sensation in an arm or leg interfered much less with the coördinated movements of the limb
than did the loss of all the sensory nerves to the limb.

Later, the crucial fact was established {239} that sense organs (the "muscle spindles") existed
in the muscles and were connected with sensory nerve fibers; and that other sense organs existed
in the tendons and about {240} the joints. This sense accordingly might better be called the
"muscle, tendon and joint sense", but the shorter term, "muscle sense", bids fair to stick.
The Greek derivative, "kinesthesis", meaning "sense of movement", is sometimes used as an equivalent;
and the corresponding adjective, "kinesthetic", is common.

The muscle sense informs us of movements of the joints and of positions of the limbs, as well
as of resistance encountered by any movement. Muscular fatigue and soreness are sensed through
the same general system of sense organs. This sense is very important in the control of movement,
both reflex and voluntary movement. Without it, a person lacks information of where a limb
is to start with, and naturally cannot know what movement to make; or, if a movement is in
process of being executed, he has no information as to how far the movement has progressed
and cannot tell when to stop it. Thus it is less strange than it first appears to learn that
"locomotor ataxia", a disease which shows itself in poor control of movement, is primarily
a disease affecting not the motor nerves but the sensory nerves that take care of the muscle sense.

{241}

EXERCISES

1. Outline the chapter, rearranging the material somewhat, so as to
   state, under each sense, (a) what sense cells, if any, are present
   in the sense organ, (b) what accessory apparatus is present in the
   sense organ, (c) what stimuli arouse the sense, (d) what are the
   elementary responses of the sense, (e) peculiar blends occurring
   within the sense or between this sense and another, (f) what can be
   said regarding adaptation of the sense, and (g) what can be said
   regarding after-images of the sense.

2. Classify the senses according as they respond to stimuli
   (a) internal to the body, (b) directly affecting the surface of the
   body, (c) coming from a distance.

3. What distinctive uses are made of each sense?

4. Explore a small portion of the skin, as on the back of the hand,
   for cold spots, and for pain spots.

5. Try to analyze the smooth sensation obtained by laying the
   finger tip on a sheet of paper, and the rough sensation obtained by
   laying the finger tip on the surface of a brush, and to describe
   the difference in terms of the elementary skin sensations.

6. Is the pain sense a highly developed sense, to judge from its
   sense organ? Is it highly specialized? highly sensitive? How does
   its peculiarity in these respects fit it for its use?

7. Separation of taste and smell. Compare the taste of foods when
   the nostrils are held closed with the taste of the same food when
   the nostrils are opened.

8. Make a complete analysis of the sensations obtained from chocolate
   ice cream in the mouth.

9. Peripheral vision. (a) Color sense. While your eyes are looking
   rigidly straight ahead, take a bit of color in the hand and bring
   it slowly in from the side, noticing what color sensation you get
   from it when it can first be seen at all, and what changes in color
   appear as it moves from the extreme periphery to the center of the
   field of view, (b) Form sense. Use printed letters in the same way,
   noticing how far out they can be read, (c) Sense of motion. Notice
   how far out a little movement of the finger can be seen. Sum up
   what you have learned of the differences between central and
   peripheral vision. What is the use of peripheral vision?

10. Light and dark adaptation. Go from a dimly lighted place
    into bright sunlight, and immediately try for an instant to read
    with the sun shining directly upon the page. Remaining in the
    sunlight, {242} repeat the attempt every 10 seconds, and notice
    how long it takes for the eye to become adapted to the bright
    light. Having become light-adapted, go back into a dimly lighted
    room, and see whether dark-adaptation takes more or less time than
    light-adaptation.

11. Color adaptation. Look steadily at a colored surface, and notice
    whether the color fades as the exposure continues. Try looking at
    the color with one eye only, and after a minute look at the color
    with each eye separately, and notice whether the saturation
    appears the same to the eye that has been exposed to the color,
    and to the eye that has been shielded.

12. Negative after-images. Look steadily for half a minute at a
    black cross upon a white surface, and then turn the eyes upon a
    plain gray surface, and describe what you see. (b) Look steadily
    for half a minute at a colored spot upon a white or gray
    background, and then turn the eyes upon a gray background, and
    note the color of the after-image of the spot. Repeat with a
    different color, and try to reach a general statement as to the
    color of the negative after-image.

13. Positive visual after-images. Look in the direction of a bright
    light, such as an electric light, holding the hand as a screen
    before the eyes, so that you do not see the light. Withdraw the
    hand for a second, exposing the eyes to the light, and immediately
    screen the eyes again, and notice whether the sensation of the
    light outlasts the stimulus.

14. Tactile after-images. Touch the skin lightly for an instant,
    and notice whether the sensation ends as soon as the stimulus is
    removed. If there is any after-image, is it positive or negative?

15. Tactile adaptation. Support two fingers on the edge of a table,
    and lay on them a match or some other light object. Let this
    stimulus remain there, motionless, and notice whether the tactile
    sensation remains steady or dies out. What is the effect of making
    slight movements of the fingers, and so causing the stimulus to
    affect fresh parts of the skin?

16. Temperature sense adaptation. Have three bowls of water, one
    quite warm, one cold, one medium. After holding one hand in the
    warm water and the other in the cold, transfer both simultaneously
    to the medium water and compare the temperature sensations got by
    each hand from this water. State the result in terms of
    adaptation.

17. Overtones. These can be quite easily heard in the sound of a
    large bell. What use does the sense of hearing make of overtones?

REFERENCES For a somewhat fuller discussion of the topic of sensation, see Warren's Human Psychology,
1919, pp. 151-214; and for a much fuller discussion, see Titchener's Textbook of Psychology,
1909, pp. 46-224.

{243}

For a really thorough consideration of the facts and theories of color vision, see J. Herbert
Parsons, An Introduction to the Study of Colour Vision, 1915.

For a more complete statement of the Ladd-Franklin theory, see the article on "Vision", in
Baldwin's Dictionary of Philosophy and Psychology, 1902.

For a recent study that has revolutionized the psychology of the sense of smell, see Der Geruch,
by Hans Henning, 1916, or a review of the same by Professor Gamble in the American Journal
of Psychology, 1921, Vol. 32, pp. 290-296.

For an extensive discussion of the "Psychology of Sound", sec the book with this title by Henry
J. Watt, 1917.

For a full account of taste, see Hollingworth and Poffenberger's Sense of Taste, 1917.

{244}

CHAPTER XI

ATTENTION

HOW WE ATTEND, TO WHAT, AND WITH WHAT RESULTS

"Attention!" shouts the officer as a preliminary to some more specific command, and the athletic
starter calls out "Ready!" for the same purpose. Both commands are designed to put the hearer
in an attitude of readiness for what is coming next. They put a stop to miscellaneous doings
and clear the way for the specific reaction that is next to be called for. They nullify the
effect of miscellaneous stimuli that are always competing for the hearer's attention, and make
him responsive only to stimuli coming from the officer. They make the hearer clearly conscious
of the officer. They arouse in the hearer a condition of keen alertness that cannot be maintained
for more than a few seconds unless some further command comes from the officer. In all these
ways "attention" in the military sense, or "readiness" in the athletic sense, affords a good
picture of the psychology of attention. Attention is preparatory, selective, mobile, highly
conscious. To attend to a thing is to be keenly conscious of that thing, it is to respond to
that thing and disregard other things, and it is to expect something more from that thing.

Attention is, in a word, exploratory. To attend is to explore, or to start to explore. Primitive
attention amounts to the same as the instinct of exploration. Its natural stimulus is anything
novel or sudden, its "emotional state" is curiosity or expectancy, and its instinctive reaction
consists {245} of exploratory movements. Its inherent impulse is to explore, examine, or await.

Attention belongs fundamentally among the native forms of behavior. The child does not have
to learn to attend, though he must learn to attend to many things that do not naturally get
his attention. Some stimuli naturally attract attention, and others attract attention only
because of previous experience and training. In considering the whole subject of attention,
then, we shall in part be dealing with native responses, and in part with responses that are
acquired. But the great laws of attention, which will come to light in the course of the chapter,
are at the same time general laws of reaction, and belong under the head of native characteristics.

The Stimulus, or What Attracts Attention

We can attend to anything whatever, but are more likely to attend to some things than to others.
As stimuli for attention, some objects are much more effective than others, and the question
is, in what way one object has the advantage over another. There are several ways, several
"factors of advantage", we may call them.

Change is the greatest factor of advantage. A steady noise ceases after a while to be noticed,
but let it change in any respect and immediately it arrests attention. The ticking of the clock
is a good example: as long as it keeps uniformly on, it is unnoticed, but if it should suddenly
beat faster or louder or in a different key, or even if it should stop altogether, it would
"wake us up" with a start. The change in the stimulus must not be too gradual if it is to be
effective, it must have a certain degree of suddenness. It may be a change in intensity, a
becoming suddenly stronger or weaker; or it may be change in quality, as in tone, or {246}
color, or odor; or it may be a change in position, a movement in space. When one who is holding
our arm gives it a sudden squeeze to attract our attention, that is a change of intensity;
when we step from the bank into the water, the sudden change from warmth to cold, that gets
our attention without fail, is a change of quality; and something crawling on the skin attracts
attention by virtue of its motion. Anything moving in the field of view is also an unfailing
stimulus to attention.

Strength, or high intensity of a stimulus, is another important factor of advantage. Other
things being equal, a strong stimulus will attract attention before a weak one. A loud noise
has the advantage over a low murmur, and a bright flash of light over a faint twinkle.

In the case of visible objects, size has about the same effect as intensity. The large features
of the landscape are noticed before the little details. The advertiser uses large type, and
pays for big space in the newspaper, in the effort to attract the attention of the reader.

  [Footnote: Often he pays more than the space is worth; at least
  doubling the size of his "ad" will not, on the whole, double the
  amount of attention he gets, or the number of readers whose
  attention he will catch. The "attention value" of an advertisement
  has been found by Strong to increase, not as fast as the increase in
  space, but about as the square root of the space occupied.]

Another similar factor is repetition. Cover a billboard with several copies of the same picture,
and it attracts more attention than a single one of the pictures would. Repeat a "motive" in
the decoration of a building, and it is more likely to be noticed. Repeat a cry or call several
times, and after a while it may be noticed, though not at first. The "summation of stimuli"
has much the same effect as increasing the intensity of a single stimulus.

If, however, a stimulus is repeated or continued for a long time, it will probably cease to
hold attention, because of its {247} monotony, or, in other words, because it lacks the element
of change.

Striking quality is an advantage, quite apart from the matter of intensity. Saturated colors,
though no stronger in intensity of light than pale colors, are stronger stimuli for attention.
High notes are more striking than low. Itch, tickle and pain get attention in preference to
smooth touch. "Striking" cannot be defined in physical terms, but simply refers to the fact
that some kinds of stimulus get attention better than others.

Definite form has the advantage over what is vague. A small, sharply defined object, that stands
out from its background, attracts the eye more than a broad, indefinite expanse of light such
as the sky. In the realm of sound, "form" is represented by rhythm or tune, and by other definite
sequences of sound, such as occur in the jingles that catch the little child's ear.

The factors of advantage so far mentioned are native, and a stimulus possessing one or more
of them is a natural attention-stimulus. But the individual also learns what is worth noticing,
and what is not, and thus forms habits of attention, as well as habits of inattention. The
automobile driver forms the habit of attending to the sound of his motor, the botanist forms
the habit of noticing such inconspicuous objects as the lichens on the tree trunks. On the
other hand, any one forms the habit of not noticing repeated stimuli that have no importance
for him. Move into a house next the railroad, and at first you notice every train that passes;
even at night you awake with a start, dreaming that some monster is pursuing you; but after
a few days the trains disturb you very little, night or day. The general rule covering attention
habits is this: anything that you have to work with, or like to play with, acquires the power
to attract your attention, while anything that you do nothing {248} with loses whatever hold
on your attention it may have possessed by virtue of its intensity, quality, etc.

Besides these permanent habits of attention, there are temporary adjustments determined by
the momentary interest or desire. Stimuli relevant to the momentary interest have an unwonted
hold upon attention, while things out of line with this interest may escape attention altogether,
even though the same things would ordinarily be noticed. What you shall notice in the store
window is governed by what you are looking for as much as by the prominence of the object in
the total display. When you are angry with a person, you notice bad points about him that you
usually overlook, and any aroused desire adjusts or "sets" attention in a similar way. The
desire or interest of the moment facilitates attention to certain stimuli and inhibits attention
to others, and is thus an important factor of advantage.

The interest of the moment is often represented by a question. Ask yourself what spots of red
there are in the field of view, and immediately various red spots jump out and strike the eye;
ask yourself what pressure sensations you are getting from the skin, and immediately several
obtrude themselves. A question sets attention towards whatever may furnish an answer.

To sum up, we may say that three general factors of advantage determine the power of any stimulus
to attract attention. There is the native factor, consisting of change, intensity, striking
quality, and definite form; there is the factor of habit, dependent on past experience; and
there is the factor of present interest and desire.

The Motor Reaction in Attention

Attention is obviously a reaction of the individual to the stimulus that gets his attention;
and it is in part a motor {249} reaction. The movements that occur in attending to an object
are such as to afford a better view of it, or a better hearing of it, or, in general, such
as to bring the sense organs to bear on it as efficiently as possible.

We may distinguish two sorts of motor reaction that occur in attention: the general attentive
attitude, and the special adjustments of the sense organs. An audience absorbed in a speech
or musical performance gives a good picture of the general attentive attitude. You notice that
most people look fixedly towards the speaker, as if listening with their eyes, and that many
of them lean forward as if it were important to get just as close as possible. All the little
restless movements cease, so that you could "hear a pin drop", and at the tensest moments even
the breath is checked. The attitude of attention is one of tense immobility, with the whole
body oriented towards the object of attention. When the object of attention is something not
present but thought of, a somewhat similar rigid attitude is assumed; the body is apt to lean
forward, the neck to be held stiff, and the eyes to "stare at vacancy", i.e., to be fixed on
some convenient object as a mere resting place, while attention is fixed outside the visual
field altogether.

But we spoke of attention as mobile, and it would be strange if its mobility did not show itself
in the motor reaction. It does in fact show itself in the sense organ adjustments which amount
to exploratory reactions. Attention to an object in the hand is shown by "feeling of it", to
a substance in the mouth by tasting movements, to an odor by sniffing movements, to a sound
by cocking the head and turning the eyes towards the source of sound. The most instructive
of this type of attention-reactions are those of the eyes. The eye is focused on the object
that arouses attention, the lens being accommodated for its distance by the action of the little
ciliary muscle inside the {250} eyeball; the two eyes are converged upon the object, so that
the light from it strikes the fovea or best part of each retina; and the eyes are also turned
up, down or sidewise, so as, again, to receive the light from the object upon the fovea.

This last class of eye movements is specially instructive and shows specially well the mobility
of attention. Let a bright or moving object appear somewhere in the field of view--immediately
the eyes turn towards it with a quick jump, fixate it for a few seconds and then jump elsewhere
unless the object is found to be specially significant. Watch the eyes of one who is looking
at a picture or scene of any sort, and you will see his eyes jumping hither and thither, as
his attention shifts from one part of the scene to another. Ask him to abstain from this jumpy
movement and let his eyes "sweep over" the scene, and he will confidently try to follow your
instructions, but if you watch his eyes you will find them still jumping. In fact, "sweeping
the glance" is a myth. It cannot be done. At least, there is only one case in which it can
be done, and that is when there is a moving object to look at. Given an object moving at a
moderate speed across the field of view, and the eyes can follow it and keep pace with it pretty
accurately. But without the moving object as stimulus, the eyes can only execute the jump movement.
There are thus two types of exploratory eye movement: the "jump" in passing from one object
to another, and the "pursuit movement" in examining a moving object.

In reading, the eye moves by a series of short jumps from left to right along the first line
of print, makes a long jump back to the beginning of the second line and another series of
short jumps along that line, and so on. To appreciate the value of this jerky movement, we
need to understand that each short jump occupies but a thirtieth to a fiftieth {251} of a second,
while the "fixation pauses" between jumps last much longer, with the result that over ninety
per cent. of the time spent on a line of print is fixation time, and less than ten per cent,
is occupied in jumping from one fixation to the next. Now, it has been found that nothing of
any consequence is seen during the eye jumps, and that the real seeing takes place only during
the fixations. The jump movement, therefore, is simply a means of passing from one fixation
to another with the least possible loss of time.

The eye sees an object distinctly only when at rest with respect to the object. If the object
is still, the eye must be still to see it distinctly, and to see its different parts must fixate
one after the other, jumping from one part to another. But if the object is in motion, the
eye may still be able to see it distinctly by means of the pursuit movement, which is a sort
of moving fixation.

The Shifting of Attention

Eye movement affords a good picture of the mobility of attention. Ordinarily the eye shifts
frequently from one part of the field of view to another. When simply exploring a scene, it
shifts about in what seems an indiscriminate way, though really following the principle of
deserting each object as soon as it has been examined, and jumping to that other object which
next has the advantage on account of movement, brightness, color, definite form, or habit of
attention. In reading, however, the eye is governed by a definite interest, and moves consecutively
along the series of words, instead of shifting irregularly about the page.

A moving object, or an object that is doing something, or even a complex object that presents
a number of parts to be examined in turn, can hold the eye for some time. But it is almost
impossible to hold the eye fixed for any length of time on a simple, motionless, unchanging object.

{252}

Attention is mobile because it is exploratory; it continually seeks something fresh for examination.
In the presence of a complex of sights and sounds and touch stimuli, it tends to shift every
second or two from one part of the situation to another. Even if you are lying in bed with
your eyes closed, the movement of attention still appears in the rapid succession of thoughts
and images, and some shift usually occurs as often as once a second.

A few simple experiments will serve to throw the shifting of attention into clearer relief.
Look fixedly at a single letter written on a blank sheet of paper, and notice how one part
after another of the letter stands out; notice also that attention does not stick absolutely
to the letter, since thoughts obtrude themselves at intervals.

Or, make a "dot figure", composed of six or eight or more dots arranged either regularly or
irregularly, and look steadily at the collection. Probably you will find that the dots seem
to fall into figures and groups, and that the grouping changes frequently. Objectively, of
course, the dots are grouped in one way as much as another, so that any particular grouping
is your own doing. The objective stimulus, in other words, is capable of arousing several grouping
reactions on your part, and does arouse different reactions one after another

Shifting also appears in looking at an {253} "ambiguous figure", drawn so as to represent equally
well a solid object in either of two different positions. The transparent cube, showing near
and far edges alike, is a good example. Look steadily at such a drawing, and the cube will
appear to shift its position from time to time. Numerous such figures can be constructed; the
most celebrated is the ambiguous staircase. Look steadily at it, and suddenly you see the under
side of a flight of stairs, instead of the upper; and if you keep on looking steadily, it shifts
back and forth between these two positions.

A still more striking case of shifting goes by the name of "binocular rivalry", and occurs
when colors or figures that we cannot combine into a single picture are presented, {254} one
to one eye, and the other to the corresponding part of the other retina. Hold red glass close
in front of one eye and blue before the other, and look through both at once towards a bright
background, and you will see red part of the time and blue part of the time, the two alternating
as in the case of ambiguous figures.

The stereoscope is a great convenience in applying inconsistent stimuli to the two eyes, and
by aid of this instrument a great variety of experiments can be made. It is thus found that,
if the field before one eye is a plain color, while the other, of a different color, has any
little figure on it, this figure has a great advantage over the rival plain color and stays
in sight most of the time. Anything moving in one field has a similar advantage, and a bright
field has the advantage over a darker one. Thus the same factors of advantage hold good in
binocular rivalry as in native attention generally.

A different kind of shifting appears in what is called "fluctuation of attention". Make a light
gray smudge on a white sheet of paper, and place this at such a distance that the gray will
be barely distinguishable from the white {255} background. Looking steadily at the smudge,
you will find it to disappear and reappear periodically. Or, place your watch at such a distance
that its ticking is barely audible, and you will find the sound to go out and come back at
intervals. The fluctuation probably represents periodic fatigue and recovery at the brain synapses
concerned in observing the faint stimulus.

Shiftings of the fluctuation type, or of the rivalry type either, are not to be regarded as
quite the same sort of thing as the ordinary shiftings of attention. The more typical movement
of attention is illustrated by the eye movements in examining a scene, or by the sequence of
ideas and images in thinking or dreaming. Rivalry and fluctuation differ from this typical
shifting of attention in several ways:

(1) The typical movement of attention is quicker than the oscillation in rivalry or fluctuation.
In rivalry, each appearance may last for many seconds before giving way to the other, whereas
the more typical shift of attention occurs every second or so. In fact, during a rivalry or
fluctuation experiment, you may observe thoughts coming and going at the same time, and at
a more rapid rate than the changes in the object looked at. Attention does not really hold
steady during the whole time that a single appearance of an ambiguous figure persists.

(2) Rivalry shifts are influenced very little, if at all, by the factor of momentary desire
or interest, and are very little subject to control.

(3) In rivalry, the color that disappears goes out entirely, and in looking at a dot figure
or ambiguous figure you get the same effect, since the grouping or appearance that gives way
to another vanishes itself for the time being. But when, in exploring a scene with the eyes,
you turn from one object to another, the object left behind simply retires to the background,
without disappearing altogether; and, {256} in the same way, when attention shifts from one
noise to another, the first noise does not lapse altogether but remains vaguely heard. Or when,
in thinking of a number of people, one after another comes to mind, the first one does not
go out of mind altogether when attention moves to the next, but remains still vaguely present
for a few moments.

Laws of Attention and Laws of Reaction in General

Shifting occurs also in reflex action. Let two stimuli be acting at once, the one calling for
one reflex and the other for the opposed reflex (as flexion and extension of the same limb),
and the result is that only one of these reactions will occur at the same time, the other being
completely inhibited; but the inhibited reflex gets its turn shortly, provided the two stimuli
continue to act, and, in fact, the two reactions may alternate in a way that reminds us of
binocular rivalry or ambiguous figures. Three fundamental laws of reaction here come to light.

(1) The law of selection: of two or more inconsistent responses to the same situation (or complex
of stimuli), only one is made at the same time.

(2) The law of advantage: one of the alternative responses has an initial advantage over the
others, due to such factors as intensity and change in the stimulus, or to habits of reaction.

(3) The law of shifting: the response that has the initial advantage loses its advantage shortly,
and an alternative response is made, provided the situation remains the same.

These three laws hold good of reactions at all levels, from reflex action to rational thinking.

The mobility of attention obeys these same laws; only, attention is livelier and freer in its
movements than reflex action or than the shifting in rivalry. Attention is more mobile and
less bound to rigid rules.

{257}

Sustained Attention

The mobility of attention is only half the story. When we speak, for instance, of a student
as having good powers of attention, we are not thinking of mobility but rather of the opposite.

Eye movement, which we employed before as a picture of the movement of attention, affords also
a picture of sustained attention. Remember how the eye moves in reading. Every second it shifts,
but still it keeps to the line of print. Just so, attention keeps moving forward in the story
we are reading, but sticks to the story. The more absorbed we are in the story, the more rapidly
we read. Attention is sustained here, and still it moves. Sustained attention is not glued
to one point, by any means, but is simply confined to a given object or theme, within which
its motion may be as lively as ever.

What is it, then, that sustains attention? Evidently it is the factor of present desire or
interest, already mentioned. It is a reaction-tendency, aroused to activity by some stimulus
or other, unable to reach its goal instantly, but persisting in activity for a while and facilitating
responses that are in its line, while inhibiting others. Such a tendency facilitates response,
i.e., attention, to certain stimuli, and inhibits attention to others, thus causing them to
be overlooked and neglected.

For the student, the ideal attention-sustainer is an interest in the matter presented. If,
however, he cannot get up any absorbing interest in the subject-matter at once, he may generate
the necessary motive force by taking the lesson as a "stunt", as something to be mastered,
a spur to his self-assertion. In the old days, fear was often the motive force relied upon
in the schoolroom, and the switch hanging {258} behind the efficient teacher's desk was the
stimulus to sustained attention. There must be some tendency aroused if attention is to be
sustained. The mastery impulse is certainly superior to fear for the purpose, but better than
either is a genuine interest in the subject studied.

In order to get up a genuine interest in a subject--an objective or inherent interest--it is
usually necessary to penetrate into the subject for some little distance. The subject may not
appeal to any of our native impulses, or to any interest that has been previously acquired,
and how then are we to hold attention to it long enough to discover its inherent interest?
Curiosity will give us a start, but is too easily satisfied to carry us far. Fear of punishment
or disapproval, hope of reward or praise, being put on our mettle, or realizing the necessity
of this subject for our future success, may keep us going till we find the subject attractive
in itself.

So, when the little child is learning to read, the printed characters have so little attractiveness
in themselves that he naturally turns away from them after a brief exploration. But, because
he is scolded when his mind wanders from those marks, because other children make fun of his
blunders, because, when he reads correctly, he feels the glow of success and of applause, he
does hold himself to the printed page till he is able to read a little, after which his interest
in what he is reading is sufficient, without extraneous motives, to keep his nose between the
covers of the story book more, perhaps, than is good for him. The little child, here, is the
type of the successful student.

Attention to a subject thus passes through three stages in its development. First comes the
instinctive exploratory sort of attention, favored by the native factors of advantage. Next
comes the stage of forced attention, driven by {259} extraneous motives, such as fear or self-assertion.
Finally arrives the stage of objective interest. In the first and last stages attention is
spontaneous, in the middle stage forced. The middle stage is often called that of voluntary
attention, since effort has to be exerted to sustain attention, while the first and last stages,
being free from effort, may be called involuntary.

Distraction

Distraction is an important topic for consideration in connection with sustained attention.
A distraction is a stimulus that attracts attention away from the thing to which we mean to
attend. There are always competing stimuli, and the various factors of advantage, especially
desire or interest, determine which stimulus shall get attention at any moment.

In the excited insane condition known as "mania" or the "manic state", the patient is excessively
distractible. He commences to tell you something, all interest in what he has to say, but,
if you pull out your watch while he is talking, he drops his story in the middle of a sentence
and shifts to some remark about the watch. He seems to have no impulse persistent enough to
hold his thoughts steady. There are contrary insane conditions in which it is almost impossible
to distract the patient from his own inner broodings, so much is he absorbed in his own troubles.

Distraction is a favorite topic for experiment in the laboratory. The subject is put to work
adding or typewriting, and works for a time in quiet, after which disturbances are introduced.
A bell rings, a phonograph record is played, perhaps a perfect bedlam of noise is let loose;
with the curious result that the subject, only momentarily distracted, accomplishes more work
rather than less. The distraction has acted as a stimulus to greater effort, and by this effort
{260} is overcame. This does not always happen so in real life, but it shows the possibilities
of sustained attention.

There are several ways of overcoming a distraction. First, greater energy may be thrown into
the task one is trying to perform. The extra effort is apt to show itself in gritting the teeth,
reading or speaking aloud, and similar muscular activity which, while entirely unnecessary
for executing the task in hand, helps by keeping the main stream of energy directed into the
task instead of toward the distracting stimuli. Effort is necessary when the main task is uninteresting,
or when the distraction is specially attractive, or even when the distraction is something
new and strange and likely to arouse curiosity. But one may grow accustomed or "adapted" to
an oft-recurring distraction, so as to sidetrack it without effort; in other words, a habit
of inattention to the distracting stimulus may be formed. There is another, quite different
way of overcoming a distraction, which works very well where it can be employed, and that is
to couple the distraction to the main task, so as to deal with both together. An example is
seen in piano playing. The beginner at the piano likes to play with the right band alone, because
striking a note with the left hand distracts him from striking the proper note with the right.
But, after practice, he couples the two hands, strikes the bass note of a chord with the left
hand while his right strikes the other notes of the same chord, and much prefers two-handed
to one-handed playing. In short, to overcome a distraction, you either sidetrack it or else
couple it to your main task.

Doing Two Things at Once

The subject of distraction brings to mind the question that is often asked, "Can any one do
two things at once?" In this form, the question admits of but one answer, for we {261} are
always doing at least two things at once, provided we are doing anything else besides breathing.
We have no trouble in breathing and walking at the same time, nor in seeing while breathing
and walking, nor even in thinking at the same time. But breathing, walking, and seeing are
so automatic as to require no attention. The more important question then, is whether we can
do two things at once, when each demands careful attention.

The redoubtable Julius Caesar, of happy memory, is said to have been able to dictate at once
to several copyists. Now, Caesar's copyists were not stenographers, but wrote in long-hand,
so that he could speak much faster than they could write. What he did, accordingly, was undoubtedly
to give the first copyist a start on the first letter he wished to send, then turn to the second
and give him a start on the second letter, and so on, getting back to the first in time to
keep him busy. Quite an intellectual feat, certainly! But not a feat requiring absolutely simultaneous
attention to several different matters. In a small way, any one can do something of the same
kind. It is not impossible to add columns of numbers while reciting a familiar poem; you get
the poem started and then let it run on automatically for a few words while you add a few numbers,
switch back to the poem and then back to the adding, and so on. But in all this there is no
doing of two things, attentively, at the same instant of time.

You may be able, however, to combine two acts into a single coördinated act, in the way just
described under the head of distraction, and give undivided attention to this compound act.

The Span of Attention

Similar to the question whether we can attentively perform more than a single act at a time
is the question of {262} how many different objects we can attend to at once. The "span of
attention" for objects of any given kind is measured by discovering how many such objects can
be clearly seen, or heard, or felt, in a single instant of time. Measurement of this "span"
is one of the oldest experiments in psychology. Place a number of marbles in a little box,
take a single peek into the box and see if you know how many marbles are there. Four or five
you can get in a single glance, but with more there you become uncertain.

In the laboratory we have "exposure apparatus" for displaying a card for a fifth of a second
or less, just enough time for a single glance. Make a number of dots or strokes on the card
and see whether the subject knows the number on sight. He can tell four or five, and beyond
that makes many mistakes.

Expose letters not making any word and he can read about four at a glance. But if the letters
make familiar words, he can read three or four words at a glance. If the words make a familiar
phrase, he gets a phrase of several words, containing as many as twenty letters, at a single
glance.

Expose a number of little squares of different colors, and a well-trained subject will report
correctly as many as five colors, though he cannot reach this number every time.

Summary of the Laws of Attention

Bringing together now what we have learned regarding the higher and more difficult forms of
attention, as revealed by sustained attention and work under distraction, by the span of attention
and by trying to do two things at once, we find the previously stated three laws of attention
further illustrated, and a couple of new laws making their appearance.

(1) The law of selection still holds good in these more {263} difficult performances, since
only one attentive response is made at the same instant of time. Automatic activities may be
simultaneously going on, but any two attentive responses seem to be inconsistent with each
other, so that the making of one excludes the other, in accordance with the general law of
selection.

What shall we say, however, of reading four disconnected letters at the same time, or of seeing
clearly four colors at the same time? Here, it would seem, several things are separately attended
to at once. The several things are similar, and close together, and the responses required
are all simple and much alike. Such responses, under such very favorable conditions, are perhaps,
then, not inconsistent with each other, so that two, three, or even four such attentive responses
may be made at the same time.

(2) The law of advantage holds good, as illustrated by the fact that some distractions are
harder to resist than others.

(3) The law of shifting holds good, as illustrated by the constant movement of attention, even
when it is "sustained", and by the alternation between two activities when we are trying to
carry them both along simultaneously.

(4) The law of sustained attention, or of tendency in attention, is the same old law of tendency
that has shown itself repeatedly in earlier chapters. A tendency, when aroused to activity,
facilitates responses that are in its line and inhibits others. A tendency is thus a strong
factor of advantage, and it limits the shifting of attention.

(5) A new law has come to light, the law of combination, which reads as follows: a single response
may be made to two or more stimuli; or, two or more stimuli may arouse a single joint response.

Even though, in accordance with the law of selection, only one attentive response is made at
the same time, more than {264} one stimulus may be dealt with by this single attentive response.
Groups of four dots are grasped as units, familiar words are grasped as units. Notice that
these units are our own units, not external units. Physically, a row of six dots is as much
a unit as a row of four, but we grasp the four as a unit in a way that we cannot apply to the
six. Physically, six letters are as much a unit when they do not form a word as when they do;
but we can make a unitary response to the six in the one case and not in the other. The response
is a unit, though aroused by a number of separate stimuli.

The law of combination, from its name, is open to a possible misconception, as if we reached
out and grasped and combined the stimuli, whereas ordinarily we do nothing to the stimuli,
except to see them and recognize them, or in some such way respond to them. The combination
is something that happens in us; it is our response. If the expression were not so cumbersome,
we might more accurately name this law that of "unitary response to a plurality of stimuli".

Sometimes, indeed, we do make an actual motor response to two or more stimuli, as when we strike
a chord of several notes on the piano. The law of combination still holds good here, since
the movements of the two hands are coördinated into a single act, which is thought of as a
unit ("striking a chord"), attended to as a unit, and executed as a unit. Such coördinated
movements may be called "higher motor units", and we shall find much to say regarding them
when we come to the subject of learned reactions. The law of combination, all in all, will
be found later to have extreme importance in learned reactions.

Passing now to another side of the study of attention, we shall immediately come across a sixth
law to add to our list.

{265}

Attention and Degree of Consciousness

Up to this point, the introspective side of the psychology of attention has not been considered.
One of the surest of all introspective observations belongs right here, to the effect that
we are more conscious of that to which we are attending than of anything else. Of two stimuli
acting at once upon us, we are the more conscious of that one which catches our attention;
of two acts that we perform simultaneously, that one is more conscious that is performed attentively.

We need not be entirely unconscious of the act or the stimulus to which we are not attending.
We may be dimly conscious of it. There are degrees of consciousness. Suppose, for example,
you are looking out of the window while "lost in thought". You are most conscious of the matter
of your thoughts, but conscious to a degree of what you see out of the window. Your eyes are
focused on some particular object outside, and you are more conscious of this than of other
objects seen in indirect vision, though even of these last you are not altogether unconscious.
Consciousness shades off from high light to dim background.

The "field of attention" is the maximum or high light of consciousness; it comprises the object
under attentive observation, the reaction attentively performed. The "field of consciousness"
includes the field of attention and much besides. It includes objects of which we are vaguely
aware, desires active but not clearly formulated, feelings of pleasantness or unpleasantness,
of tension, excitement, confidence, etc.

Apparently the field of consciousness shades off gradually into the field of unconscious activity.
Some physiological processes go on unconsciously, and very habitual movements may be almost
or entirely unconscious. The boundary {266} between what is vaguely conscious and what is entirely
unconscious is necessarily very vague itself, but the probability is that the field of consciousness
is broader than we usually suspect, and that many activities that we ordinarily think of as
unconscious, because we do not observe them at the time nor remember them later, lie really
near the margin of the field of consciousness, but inside that field. "Unconscious motives",
such as spite or pride often seem to be, are probably vaguely conscious rather than unconscious.
We shall return to the fascinating topic of the unconscious at the close of the book.

Degree of consciousness does not always tally with intensity of sensation or energy of muscular
action. You may be more conscious of a slight but significant sound than of much louder noises
occurring at the same time. You may be more conscious of a delicate finger movement than of
a strong contraction of big muscles occurring at the same time. Degree of consciousness goes
with degree of mental activity. Of all the reactions we are making at the same time--and usually
there are several--the most active in a mental way is the most conscious. The slight sound
arouses intense mental response because it means something of importance--like the faint cry
of the baby upstairs, noticed instead of the loud noises of the street. The delicate finger
movement aims at some difficult result, while the big muscles may be doing their accustomed
work automatically.

It is not always the most efficient mental process that is most conscious; indeed, practising
an act makes it both more efficient and less conscious. It is, rather, the less efficient processes
that require attention, because they require mental work to keep them going straight.

Our sixth law of attention, emerging from this introspective study, is naturally of a different
style from the remainder of the list, which were objectively observed; yet it {267} is no less
certain and perhaps no less significant. It may be called:

(6) The law of degrees of consciousness, and thus stated: An attentive response is conscious
to a higher degree than any inattentive response made at the same time. An inattentive response
may be dimly conscious or, perhaps, altogether unconscious. The less familiar the response,
and the higher it stands in the scale of mental performances, the more attentive it is, and
the more conscious.

The Management of Attention

Attentive observation is more trustworthy than inattentive, and also gives more facts. Attentive
movement is more accurate than inattentive, and may be quicker as well. Attentive study gives
quicker learning than inattentive, and at the same time fixes the facts more durably.

Shall we say, then, "Do everything attentively"? But that is impossible. We sense so many stimuli
at once that we could not possibly attend to all of them. We do several things at once, and
cannot give attention to them all. A skilful performance consists of many parts, and we cannot
possibly give careful attention to all the parts. Attention is necessarily selective, and the
best advice is, not simply to "be attentive", but to attend to the right things.

In observation, the best plan is obviously to decide beforehand exactly what needs to be observed,
and then to focus attention on this precise point. That is the principle underlying the remarkably
sure and keen observation of the scientist. Reading may be called a kind of observation, since
the reader is looking for what the author has to tell; and the rule that holds for other observation
holds also for reading. That is to say that the reader finds the most when he knows just what
he is looking for. We can learn {268} something here from story-reading, which is the most
efficient sort of reading, in the sense that you get the point of the story better than that
of more serious reading matter, the reason being that attention is always pressing forward
in the story, looking for something very definite. You want to know how the hero gets out of
the fix he is in, and you press forward and find out with great certainty and little loss of
time. The best readers of serious matter have a similar eagerness to discover what the author
has to say; they get the author's question, and press on to find his answer. Such readers are
both quick and retentive. The dawdling reader, who simply spends so much time and covers so
many pages, in the vague hope that something will stick, does not remember the point because
he never got the point, and never got it because he wasn't looking for it.

In skilled movement, or skilled action of any sort, the best rule is to fix attention on the
end-result or, if the process is long, on the result that immediately needs to be accomplished.
"Keep your eye on the ball" when the end just now to be achieved is hitting the ball. Attention
to the details of the process, though necessary in learning a skilled movement, is distracting
and confusing after skill has been acquired. The runner does not attend to his legs, but to
the goal or, if that is still distant, to the runner just ahead of him.

Theory of Attention

The chief facts to take account of in attempting to form a conception of the brain action in
attention are mobility, persistence in spite of mobility, and focusing.

The mobility of attention must mean that brain activities are in constant flux, with nerve
currents continually shooting hither and thither and arousing ever fresh groups of neurones;
but sustained attention means that a brain {269} activity (representing the desire or interest
or reaction-tendency dominant at the time) may persist and limit the range of the mobile activities,
by facilitating some of these and inhibiting others.

The "focusing" of mental activity is more difficult to translate into neural terms. The fact
to be translated is that, while several mental activities may go on at once, only one occupies
the focus of attention. This must mean that, while several brain activities go on at once,
one is superior in some way to the rest. The superiority might lie in greater intensity of
neurone action, or in greater extent; that is, one brain activity is bigger in some way than
any other occurring at the same time--bigger either because the neurones in it are working
more energetically or because it includes a larger number of active neurones.

But why should not two equally big brain activities sometimes occur at the same moment, and
attention thus be divided? The only promising hypothesis that has been offered to explain the
absence of divided attention is that of "neurone drainage", according to which one or the other
of two neurone groups, simultaneously aroused to activity, drains off the energy from the other,
so putting a quietus on it. Unfortunately, this hypothesis explains too much, for it would
make it impossible for minor brain activities to go on at the same time as the major one, and
that would mean that only one thing could be done at a time, and that the field of consciousness
was no broader than the field of attention. On the whole, we must admit that we do not know
exactly what the focusing of attention can mean in brain terms.

{270}

EXERCISES

1. Outline the chapter, in the form of a number of "laws", putting
   under each law the chief facts that belong there.

2. See if you can verify, by watching another person's eyes, the
   statements made on page 250 regarding eye movements.

3. Choose a spot where there is a good deal going on, stay there
   for five minutes and jot down the things that attract your
   attention. Classify the stimuli under the several "factors of
   advantage".

4. Mention some stimulus to which you have a habit of attention,
   and one to which you have a habit of inattention.

5. Close the eyes, and direct attention to the field of cutaneous
   and kinesthetic sensations. Do sensations emerge of which you are
   ordinarily only dimly conscious? Does shifting occur?

6. Of the several factors of advantage, which would be most effective
   in catching another person's attention, and which in holding his
   attention?

7. How does attention, in a blind person, probably differ from that
   of a seeing person?

8. Doing two things at once. Prepare several columns of one-place
   numbers, ten digits in a column. Try to add these columns, at the
   same time reciting a familiar poem, and notice how you manage it,
   and how accurate your work is.

9. Consider what would be the best way to secure sustained
   attention to some sort of work from which your mind is apt to wander.

REFERENCES

Walter B. Pillsbury gives a full treatment of the subject in his book on Attention, 1908, and
a condensed account of the matter in Chapter V of his Essentials of Psychology, 2nd edition, 1920.

Another full treatment is that of Titchener, in his Textbook of Psychology, 1909, pp. 265-302.

On the topic of distraction, see John J. B. Morgan's Overcoming of Distraction and Other Resistances,
1916.

{271}

CHAPTER XII

INTELLIGENCE

HOW INTELLIGENCE IS MEASURED, WHAT IT CONSISTS IN AND EVIDENCE OF ITS BEING LARGELY A MATTER
OF HEREDITY

Before leaving the general topic of native traits and passing to the process of learning or
acquiring traits, we need to complete our picture of the native mental constitution by adding
intelligence to reflex action, instinct, emotion, feeling, sensation and attention. Man is
an intelligent animal by nature. The fact that he is the most intelligent of animals is due
to his native constitution, as the fact that, among the lower animals, some species are more
intelligent than others is due to the native constitution of each species. A rat has more intelligence
than a frog, a dog than a rat, a monkey than a dog, and a man than a monkey, because of their
native constitutions as members of their respective species.

But the different individuals belonging to the same species are not all equal in intelligence,
any more than in size or strength or vitality. Some dogs are more intelligent than others,
and the same is notably true of men. Now, are these differences between members of the same
species due to heredity or environment? This question we can better approach after considering
the methods by which psychologists undertake to measure intelligence; and an analysis of these
methods may also serve to indicate what is included under the term "intelligence".

{272}

Intelligence Tests

Not far from the year 1900 the school authorities of the city of Paris, desiring to know whether
the backwardness of many children in school resulted from inattention, mischievousness and
similar difficulties of a moral nature, or from genuine inability to learn, put the problem
into the hands of Alfred Binet, a leading psychologist of the day; and within a few years thereafter
he and a collaborator brought out the now famous Binet-Simon tests for intelligence. In devising
these tests, Binet's plan was to leave school knowledge to one side, and look for information
and skill picked up by the child from his elders and playmates in the ordinary experience of
life. Further, Binet wisely decided not to seek for any single test for so broad a matter as
intelligence, but rather to employ many brief tests and give the child plenty of chances to
demonstrate what he had learned and what he could do. These little tests were graded in difficulty
from the level of the three-year-old to that of the twelve-year-old, and the general plan was
to determine how far up the scale the child could successfully pass the tests.

These were not the first tests in existence by any means, but they were the first attempt at
a measure of general intelligence, and they proved extraordinarily useful. They have been added
to and revised by other psychologists, notably by Terman in America, who has extended the scale
of tests up to the adult level. A few samples from Terman's revision will give an idea of the
character of the Binet tests.

  From the tests for three-year-olds: Naming familiar objects--the
  child must name correctly at least three of five common objects that
  are shown him.

  Six-year test: Finding omissions in pictures of faces, from which
  the nose, or one eye, etc., is left out. Four such pictures are
  shown, and three correct responses are required to pass the test.

  Eight-year test: Tell how wood and coal are alike; and so with three
  other pairs of familiar things; two out of four correct responses
  are required to pass the test.

{273}

  Twelve-year test: Vocabulary test--rough definitions showing the
  child's understanding of forty words out of a standard list of one
  hundred.

The question may be raised, "Why such arbitrary standards-three out of five required here,
two out of four there, forty out of a hundred the next time?" The answer is that the tests
have been standardized by actual trial on large numbers of children, and so standardized that
the average child of a given age can just barely pass the tests of that age.

Intelligence is measured by Binet on a scale of mental age. The average child of, let us say,
eight years and six months is said to have a mental age of eight years and six months; and
any individual who does just as well as this is said to have this mental age, no matter what
his chronological age may be. The average child of this age passes all the tests for eight
years and below, and three of the six tests for age nine; or passes an equivalent number of
tests from the total series. Usually there is some "scatter" in the child's successes, as he
fails in a test here and there below his mental age, and succeeds here and there above his
mental age, but the failures below and the successes above balance each other in the average
child, so that he comes out with a mental age equal to his chronological age.

  [Footnote: The Binet scale, it must be understood, is an instrument
  of precision, not to be handled except by one who has been
  thoroughly trained in its use. It looks so simple that any student
  is apt to say, "Why, I could give those tests!" The point is that he
  couldn't--not until he knew the tests practically by heart, not till
  he had standardized his manner of conducting them to agree perfectly
  with the prescribed manner and till he knew how to score the varying
  answers given by different children according to the scoring system
  that goes with the tests, and not till, by experience in handling
  children in the tests, he was able to secure the child's confidence
  and get him to do his best, without, however, giving the child any
  assistance beyond what is prescribed. Many superior persons have
  looked down on the psychological examiner with his (or her)
  assortment of little tests, and have said, "Certainly no special
  training is necessary to give these tests. You simply want to find
  out whether the child can do these stunts. I can find out as well as
  you." They miss the point altogether. The question is not whether
  the child can do these stunts (with an undefined amount of
  assistance), but whether he does them under carefully prescribed
  conditions. The child is given two, three or four dozen chances to
  see how many of them he will accept; and the whole scale has been
  standardized by try-out on many children of each age, and so adapted
  that when given according to instructions, it will give a correct
  measure of the child's mental age. But when given by superior
  persons in ignorance of its true character, it gives results very
  wide of the mark. So much by way of caution.]

{274}

If a child's mental age is the same as his chronological age, he is just average, neither bright
nor dull. If his mental age is much above his chronological, he is bright; if much below, dull.
His degree of brightness or dullness can be measured by the number of years his mental age
is above or below his chronological age. He is, mentally, so many years advanced or retarded.

Brightness or dullness can also be measured by the intelligence quotient, which is employed
so frequently that it is customarily abbreviated to "IQ". This is the mental age divided by
the chronological, and is usually expressed in per cent. The IQ of the exactly average child,
of any age, is 1, or 100 per cent. The IQ of the bright child is above 100 and of the dull
child below 100. About sixty per cent. of all children have an IQ between 90 and 110, twenty
per cent, are below 90 and twenty per cent, above 110. The following table gives the distribution
in somewhat greater detail:

IQ below 70,  1%
IQ    70-79,  5%
IQ    80-89, 14%
IQ    90-99, 30%
IQ  100-109, 30%
IQ  110-119, 14%
IQ  120-129,  5%
IQ over 129,  1%
             ---
             100

{275}

For convenience, those with IQ under 70 are sometimes labeled "feeble-minded", and the others,
in order, "borderline", "low normal", "average" (from 90 to 110), "superior", "very superior",
"exceedingly superior"; but this is arbitrary and really unscientific, for what the facts show
is not a separation into classes, but a continuous gradation from one extreme to the other.
The lower extreme is near zero, and the upper extreme thus far found is about 180.

While the mental age tells an individual's intellectual level at a given time, the IQ tells
how fast he has progressed. An IQ of 125 means that he has picked up knowledge and skill 25
per cent. faster than the average individual--that he has progressed as far in four years as
the average child does in five, or as far in eight as the average does in ten, or as far in
twelve as the average does in fifteen. The IQ usually remains fairly constant as the child
grows older, and thus represents his rate of mental growth. It furnishes a pretty good measure
of the individual's intelligence.

Performance Tests

Since, however, the Binet tests depend greatly on the use of language, they are not fair to
the deaf child, nor to the child with a speech defect, nor to the foreign child. Also, some
persons who are clumsy in managing the rather abstract ideas dealt with in the Binet tests
show up better in managing concrete objects. For all such cases, performance tests are useful.
Language plays little part in a performance test, and concrete objects are used. The "form
board" is a good example. Blocks of various simple shapes are to be fitted into corresponding
holes in a board; the time of performance is measured, and the errors (consisting in trying
to put a block into a differently shaped hole) are also counted. To the normal adult, this
task seems too simple {276} to serve as a test for intelligence, but the young child finds
it difficult, and the mentally deficient adult goes at it in the same haphazard way as a young
child, trying to force the square block into the round hole. He does not pin himself down to
the one essential thing, which is to match blocks and holes according to shape.

Another good performance test is the "picture completion". A picture is placed before the child,
out of which several square holes have been cut. These cut-out pieces are mounted on little
blocks, and there are other similar blocks with more or less irrelevant objects pictured on
them. The child must select from the whole collection of little blocks the one that belongs
in each hole in the picture. The better his understanding of the picture, the better his selection.

Group Testing

The tests so far described, because they have to be given to each subject individually, require
a great deal of time from the trained examiner, and tests are also needed which can be given
to a whole group of people at once. For persons who can read printed directions, a group test
can easily be conducted, though much preliminary labor is necessary in selecting and standardizing
the questions used. Group testing of foreigners, illiterates, and young children is more difficult,
but has been accomplished, the directions being conveyed orally or by means of pantomime.

The first extensive use of group intelligence tests was made in the American Army during the
Great War. A committee of the American Psychological Association prepared and standardized
the tests, and persuaded the Army authorities to let them try them out in the camps. So successful
were these tests--when supplemented, in doubtful cases, by individual tests--that they were
adopted in the receiving {277} camps; and they proved very useful both in detecting those individuals
whose intelligence was too low to enable them to learn the duties of a soldier, and those who,
from high intelligence, could profitably be trained for officers.

The "Alpha test", used on recruits who could read, consisted of eight pages of questions, each
page presenting a different type of problem for solution. On the first page were rows of circles,
squares, etc., to which certain things were to be done in accordance with spoken commands.
The subject had to attend carefully to what he was told to do, since he was given each command
only once, and some of the commands called for rather complicated reactions. The second page
consisted of arithmetical problems, ranging from very simple at the top of the page to more
difficult ones below, though none of them went into the more technical parts of arithmetic.
One page tested the subject's information on matters of common knowledge; and another called
for the selection of the best of three reasons offered for a given fact, as, for example, "Why
is copper used for electric wires? Because--it is mined in Montana--it is a good conductor--it
is the cheapest metal." Another page presented disarranged sentences (as, "wet rain always
is", or "school horses all to go"), to be put straight mentally, and indicated on the paper
as true or false.

Many group tests are now in use, and among them some performance tests. In the latter, pictures
are often employed; sometimes the subject has to complete the picture by drawing in a missing
part, sometimes he has to cancel from the picture a part that is superfluous. He may have to
draw a pencil line indicating the shortest path through a maze, or he may have to continue
a series of marks which starts off according to a definite plan. The problems set him under
each class range from very easy to fairly difficult.

{278}

Some Results of the Intelligence Tests

The principal fact discovered by use of standardized intelligence tests is that the tests serve
very well the purpose for which they were intended. In expert hands they actually give a fairly
reliable measure of the individual's intelligence. They have located the trouble in the case
of many a backward school child, whose intelligence was too low to enable him to derive much
benefit from the regular school curriculum. His schooling needed to be adjusted to his intelligence
so as to prepare him to do what he was constitutionally able to do.

On the other hand, it sometimes happens that a child who is mischievous and inattentive in
school, and whose school work is rather poor, tests high in intelligence, the trouble with
him being that the work set him is below his mental level and therefore unstimulating. Such
children do better when given more advanced work. The intelligence tests are proving of great
service in detecting boys and girls of superior intelligence who have been dragging along,
forming lazy habits of work, and not preparing for the kind of service that their intelligence
should enable them to give.

Some results obtained by the "Alpha test" are given in the following table, and in the diagram
which restates the facts of the table in graphic form. The Alpha test included 212 questions
in all, and a correct answer to any question netted the subject one point. The maximum score
was thus 212 points, a mark which could only be obtained by a combination of perfect accuracy
and very rapid work (since only a limited time was allowed for each page of the test). Very
seldom does even a very bright individual score over 200 points. The table shows the approximate
per cent, of individuals scoring between certain limits; thus, {279} of men drafted into the
Army, approximately 8 per cent. scored below 15 points, 12 per cent. scored from 16 to 29 points,
etc. Of college freshmen, practically none score below 76 points, 1 per cent. score from 76
to 89 points, etc.

             Per cent. of     Per cent. of
             drafted men      college freshmen
             making these     making these
             Scores           Scores
Scores
0-14 points     3              0

15-29          12              0

30-44          15              0

45-59          16              0

60-74          13              0

75-89          11              1

90-104          9              4

105-119         7              8

120-134         6             14

135-149         4             23

150-164         2             24

165-179         1.3           13

180-194         0.5            7

195-212         0.2            1
              -----          ---
              100            100

The "drafted men", consisting of men between the ages of twenty-one and thirty-one, fairly
represent the adult male white population of the country, except in two respects. Many able
young men were not included in the draft, having previously volunteered for officers' training
camps or for special services. Had they been included, the percentages making the higher scores
would have gone up slightly. On the other hand, many men of very low intelligence never reached
the receiving camps at all, being inmates of institutions for the feebleminded or excluded
from the draft because of known mental deficiency; and, of those who reached {280} the camps,
many, being illiterate, did not take the Alpha test. It is for this reason that the graph for
drafted men stops rather short at the lower end; to picture fairly the distribution of intelligence,
it should taper off to the left, beyond the zero of the Alpha test.

College freshmen evidently are, as they should be, a highly selected group in regard to intelligence.
The results obtained at different colleges differ somewhat, and the figures here given represent
an approximate average of results obtained at several colleges of high standing. The median
{281} score for freshmen has varied, at different colleges, from 140 to 160 points.

  [Footnote: The "median" is a statistical measure very similar to the
  average; but, while the average score would be obtained by adding
  together the scores of all the individuals and dividing the sum by
  the number of individuals tested, the median is obtained by
  arranging all the individual scores in order, from the lowest to the
  highest, and then counting off from either end till the middle
  individual is reached; his score is the median. (If the number of
  individuals tested is an even number, there are two middle
  individuals, and the point midway between them is taken as the
  median.) Just as many individuals are below the median as above it.
  The median is often preferred to the average in psychological work,
  not only because it is more easily computed, but because it is less
  affected by the eccentric or unusual performances of a few
  individuals, and therefore more fairly represents the whole
  population.]

It will be noticed in the graph that none of the freshmen score as low as the median of the
drafted men. All of the freshmen, in fact, lie well above the median for the general population.
A freshman who scores below 100 points finds it very difficult to keep up in his college work.
Sometimes, it must be said, a freshman who scores not much over 100 in the test does very well
in his studies, and sometimes one who scores very high in the test has to be dropped for poor
scholarship, but this last is probably due to distracting interests.

No such sampling of the adult female population has ever been made as was afforded by the draft,
and we are not in a position to compare the average adult man and woman in regard to intelligence.
Boys and girls under twelve average almost the same, year by year, according to the Binet tests.
In various other tests, calling for quick, accurate work, girls have on the average slightly
surpassed boys of the same age, but this may result from the fact that girls mature earlier
than boys; they reach adult height earlier, and perhaps also adult intelligence. College women,
in the Alpha test, score on the average a few points below college men, but this, on the other
hand, may be due to the fact that the Alpha test, being prepared for men, includes a few questions
that lie rather outside the usual range of women's interests. On the whole, tests have given
very little evidence of any significant difference between the general run of intelligence
in the two sexes.

Limitations of the Intelligence Tests

Tests of the Binet or Alpha variety evidently do not cover the whole range of intelligent behavior.
They do not test {282} the ability to manage carpenter's or plumber's tools or other concrete
things, they do not test the ability to manage people, and they do not reach high enough to
test the ability to solve really big problems.

Regarding the ability to manage concrete things, we have already mentioned the performance
tests, which provide a necessary supplement to the tests that deal in ideas expressed in words.
It is an interesting fact that some men whose mental age is below ten, according to the Binet
tests, nevertheless have steady jobs, earn good wages, and get on all right in a simple environment.
There are many others, with a mental age of ten or eleven, who cannot master the school work
of the upper grades, and yet become skilled workmen or even real artists. Now, it takes mentality
to perform skilled or artistic work; only, the mentality is different from that demanded by
what we call "intellectual work".

Managing people requires tact and leadership, which are obviously mental traits, though not
easily tested. It is seldom that a real leader of men scores anything but high in the intelligence
tests, but it more often happens that an individual who scores very high in the tests has little
power of leadership. In part this is a matter of physique, or of temperament, rather than of
intelligence, but in part it is a matter of understanding people and seeing how they can be
influenced and led.

Though the intelligence tests deal with "ideas", they do not, as so far devised, reach up to
the great ideas nor make much demand on the superior powers of the great thinker. If we could
assemble a group of the world's great authors, scientists and inventors, and put them through
the Alpha test, it is probable that they would all score high, but not higher than the upper
ten per cent, of college freshmen. Had their IQ's been determined when they were children,
{283} probably all would have measured over 180 and some as high as 200, but the tests would
not have distinguished these great geniuses from the gifted child who is simply one of a hundred
or one of a thousand.

The Correlation of Abilities

There is no opposition between "general intelligence", as measured by the tests, and the abilities
to deal with concrete things, with people, or with big ideas. Rather, there is a considerable
degree of correspondence. The individual who scores high in the intelligence tests is likely,
but not certain, to surpass in these respects the individual who scores low in the tests. In
technical language, there is a "positive correlation" between general intelligence and ability
to deal with concrete things, people and big ideas, but the correlation is not perfect.

Correlation is a statistical measure of the degree of correspondence. Suppose, for an example,
we wish to find out how closely people's weights correspond to their heights. Stand fifty young
men up in single file in order of height, the tallest in front, the shortest behind. Then weigh
each man, and shift them into the order of their weights. If no shifting whatever were needed,
the correlation between height and weight would be perfect. Suppose the impossible, that the
shortest man was the heaviest, the tallest the lightest, and that the whole order needed to
be exactly reversed; then we should say that the correlation was perfectly inverse or negative.
Suppose the shift from height order to weight order mixed the men indiscriminately, so that
you could not tell anything from a man's position in the height order as to what his position
would be in the weight order; then we should have "zero correlation". The actual result, however,
would be that, while the height order would be {284} somewhat disturbed in shifting to the
weight order, it would not be entirely lost, much less reversed. That is, the correlation between
height and weight is positive but not perfect.

Statistics furnishes a number of formulae for measuring correlations, formulae which agree
in this, that perfect positive correlation is indicated by the number + 1, perfect negative
correlation by the number - 1, and zero correlation by 0. A correlation of +.8 indicates close
positive correspondence, though not perfect correspondence; a correlation of +.3 means a rather
low, but still positive, correspondence; a correlation of -.6 means a moderate tendency towards
inverse relationship.

The correlation between two good intelligence tests, such as the Binet and the Alpha, comes
out at about +.8, which means that if a fair sample of the general population, ranging from
low to high intelligence, is given both tests, the order of the individuals as measured by
the one test will agree pretty closely with the order obtained with the other test. The correlation
between a general intelligence test and a test for mechanical ability is considerably lower
but still positive, coming to about +.4. Few if any real negative correlations are found between
different abilities, but low positive or approximately zero correlations are frequent between
different, rather special abilities.

In other words, there is no evidence of any antagonism between different sorts of ability,
but there is plenty of evidence that different special abilities may have little or nothing
in common.

  [Footnote]
  Possibly some readers would like to see a sample of the
  statistical formulae by which correlation is measured. Here is one
  of the simplest. Number the individuals tested in their order as
  given by the first test, and again in their order as given by the
  second test, and find the difference between each individual's two
  rank numbers. If an individual who ranks no. 5 in one test ranks no.
  12 in the other, the difference in his rank numbers is 7. Designate
  this difference by the letter D. and the whole number of individuals
  tested by n. Square each D, and get the sum of all the squares,
  calling this sum "sum of D2[squared]". Then the correlation is given
  by the formula,

  1 - ( ( 6 X sum of D[squared] ) / (n x ( n[squared] - 1)) )

  As an example in the use of this formula, take the following:

  Individuals   Rank of each    Rank of each    D     D[squared]
  tested        individual in   individual in
                first test      second test

  Albert            3               5           2       4

  George            7               6           1       1

  Henry             5               3           2       4

  James             2               1           1       1

  Stephen           1               4           3       9

  Thomas            4               2           2       4

  William           6               7           1       1

  n = 7

  sum of D[squared] = 24

  n[squared] - 1 =    48

  6 x sum of D[squared] = 144

  6 x sum of D[squared] / n ( n[squared] - 1 )

  = 1 - 144/(7 x 48)

  = +.57

  In order to get a full and true measure of the correlation between
  two tests, the following precautions are necessary:

  (1) The same individuals must be given both tests.

  (2) The number of individuals tested must be as great as 15 or 20,
  preferably more.

  (3) The individuals should be a fair sample of the population in
  regard to the abilities tested; they should not be so selected as to
  represent only a small part of the total range of ability.

  (4) The tests should be thorough enough to determine each
  individual's rank in each test, with a high degree of certainty.
  Sloppy testing gives a correlation nearer zero than it should be,
  because it "pies" the true orders to some extent.
  [End footnote]

{285}

General Factors in Intelligence

If now we try to analyze intelligence and see in what it consists, we can best proceed by reviewing
the intelligence tests, and asking how it is that an individual succeeds in them. Passing the
tests is a very specific instance of {286} intelligent behavior, and an analysis of the content
of the tests should throw some light on the nature of intelligence.

The first thing that strikes the eye in looking over the tests is that they call for so many
different reactions. They call on you to name objects, to copy a square, to tell whether a
given statement is true or false, to tell wherein two objects are alike or different. The first
impression, then, is that intelligence consists simply in doing a miscellaneous lot of things
and doing them right.

But can we not state in more general terms how the individual who scores high in the tests
differs from one who scores low? If you survey the test questions carefully, you begin to see
that the person who passes them must possess certain general characteristics, and that lack
of these characteristics will lead to a low score. We may speak of these characteristics as
"general factors" in intelligent behavior.

First, the tests evidently require the use of past experience. They call, not for instinctive
reactions, but for previously learned reactions. Though the Binet tests attempt to steer clear
of specific school knowledge, they do depend upon knowledge and skill picked up by the child
in the course of his ordinary experience. They depend on the ability to learn and remember.
One general factor in intelligence is therefore retentiveness.

But the tests do not usually call for simple memory of something previously learned. Rather,
what has been previously learned must be applied, in the test, to a more or less novel problem.
The subject is asked to do something a little different from anything he has previously done,
but similar enough so that he can make use of what he has learned. He has to see the point
of the problem now set him, and to adapt what he has learned to this novel situation. Perhaps
"seeing the point" and "adapting oneself to {287} a novel situation" are to be held apart as
two separate general factors in intelligence, but on the whole it seems possible to include
both under the general head, responsiveness to relationships, and to set up this characteristic
as a second general factor in intelligence.

In the form board and picture completion tests, this responsiveness to relationships comes
out clearly. To succeed in the form board, the subject must respond to the likeness of shape
between the blocks and their corresponding holes. In picture completion, he must see what addition
stands in the most significant relationship to the total picture situation. In telling how
certain things are alike or different, he obviously responds to relationships; and so also
in distinguishing between good and poor reasons for a certain fact. This element of response
to relationships occurs again and again in the tests, though perhaps not in the simplest, such
as naming familiar objects.

Besides these two intellectual factors in intelligent behavior, there are certain moral or
impulsive factors. One is persistence, which is probably the same thing as the mastery or self-assertive
instinct. The individual who gives up easily, or succumbs easily to distraction or timidity,
is at a disadvantage in the tests or in any situation calling for intelligent behavior.

But, as we said before, in discussing the instincts, excessive stubbornness is a handicap in
meeting a novel situation, which often cannot be mastered by the first mode of response that
one makes to it. Some giving up, some submissiveness in detail along with persistence in the
main effort, is needed. The too stubborn young child may waste a lot of time trying with all
his might to force the square block into the round hole, and so make a poorer score in the
test, than if he had given up his first line of attack and tried something else. Intelligent
behavior must perforce {288} often have something of the character of "trial and error", and
trial and error requires both persistence in the main enterprise and a giving up here in order
to try again there.

Finally, the instinct of curiosity or exploration is evidently a factor in intelligence. The
individual who is stimulated by novel things to explore and manipulate them will amass knowledge
and skill that can later be utilized in the tests, or in intelligent behavior generally.

Special Aptitudes

We distinguish between the general factors in intelligence, just mentioned, and special aptitudes
for dealing with colors, forms, numbers, weights etc. A special aptitude is a specific responsiveness
to a certain kind of stimulus or object. The special aptitudes are factors in intelligent behavior--as
we may judge from the content of the intelligence tests--only, the tests are so contrived as
not to depend too much on any one or any few of the special aptitudes. Arithmetical problems
alone would not make a fair test for intelligence, since they would lay undue stress on the
special aptitude for number; but it is fair enough to include them along with color naming,
weight judging, form copying, and word remembering, and so to give many special aptitudes a
chance to figure in the final score.

There are tests in existence for some special aptitudes: tests for color sense and color matching,
for musical ability, for ability in drawing, etc.; but as yet we have no satisfactory list
of the special aptitudes. They come to light when we compare one individual with another, or
one species with another. Thus, while man is far superior to the dog in dealing with colors,
the dog is superior in dealing with odors. Man has more aptitude for form, but some animals
are fully his equal in sense of location and ability to find {289} their way. Man is far superior
in dealing with numbers and also with tools and mechanical things. He is superior in speech,
in sense of rhythm, in sense of humor, in sense of pathos. Individual human beings also differ
markedly in each of these respects. They differ in these special directions as well as in the
"general factors" of intelligence.

Heredity of Intelligence and of Special Aptitudes

Let us now return to the question raised at the very outset of the chapter, whether or not
intelligence is a native trait. We then said that the differing intelligence of different species
of animals must be laid to their native constitutions, but left the question open whether the
differing intelligence of human individuals was a matter of heredity or of environment.

Intelligence is of course quite different from instinct, in that it does not consist in ready-made
native reactions. The intelligence of an individual at any age depends on what he has learned
previously. But the factors in intelligent behavior--retentiveness, responsiveness to relationships,
persistence, etc.--may very well be native traits.

But what evidence is there that the individual's degree of intelligence is a native characteristic,
like his height or color of hair? The evidence is pretty convincing to most psychologists.

First, we have the fact that an individual's degree of intelligence is an inherent characteristic,
in the sense that it remains with him from childhood to old age. Bright child, bright adult;
dull child, dull adult. That is the rule, and the exceptions are not numerous enough to shake
it. Many a dull child of well-to-do parents, in spite of great pains taken with his education,
is unable to escape from his inherent limitations. The intelligence quotient remains fairly
{290} constant for the same child as he grows up, and stands for an inherent characteristic
of the individual, namely, the rate at which he acquires knowledge and skill. Give two children
the same environment, physical and social, and you will see one child progress faster than
the other. Thus, among children who grow up in the same community, playing together and going
to the same schools, the more rapid mental advance of some than of others is due to differences
in native constitution, and the IQ gives a measure of the native constitution in this respect.
There are exceptions, to be sure, depending on physical handicaps such as deafness or disease,
or on very bad treatment at home, but in general the IQ can be accepted as representing a fact
of native constitution.

Another line of evidence for the importance of native constitution in determining degrees of
intelligence comes from the study of mental resemblance among members of the same family. Brothers
or sisters test more alike than children taken at random from a community, and twins test more
alike than ordinary brothers and sisters. Now, as the physical resemblance of brothers or sisters,
and specially of twins, is accepted as due to native constitution, we must logically draw the
same conclusion from their mental resemblance.

The way feeble-mindedness runs in families is a case in point. Though, in exceptional instances,
mental defect arises from brain injury at the time of birth, or from disease (such as cerebrospinal
meningitis) during early childhood, in general it cannot be traced to such accidents, but is
inherent in the individual. Usually mental defect or some similar condition can be found elsewhere
in the family of the mentally defective child; it is in the family stock. When both parents
are of normal intelligence and come from families with no mental abnormality in any ancestral
line, it is practically unknown that they should have a feeble-minded {291} child; but if mental
deficiency has occurred in some of the ancestral lines, an occasional feeble-minded child may
be born even of parents who are themselves both normal. If one parent is normal and the other
feeble-minded, some of the children are likely to be normal and others feeble-minded; but if
both parents are feeble-minded, it is said that all the children are sure to be feeble-minded
or at least dull.

These facts regarding the occurrence of feeble-mindedness cannot be accounted for by environmental
influences, especially the fact that some children of the same family may be definitely feeble-minded
and others normal. We must remember that children of the same parents need not have precisely
similar native constitutions; they are not always alike in physical traits such as hair color
or eye color that are certainly determined by native constitution.

The special aptitudes also run in families. You find musical families where most of the children
take readily to music, and other families where the children respond scarcely at all to music,
though their general intelligence is good enough. You find a special liking and gift for mathematics
cropping out here and there in different generations of the same family. No less significant
is the fact that children of the same family show ineradicable differences from one another
in such abilities. In one family were two brothers, the older of whom showed much musical ability
and came early to be an organist and composer of church music; while the younger, possessing
considerable ability in scholarship and literature, was never able to learn to sing or tell
one tune from another. Being a clergyman, he desired very much to be able to lead in singing,
but he simply could not learn. Such obstinate differences, persisting in spite of the same
home environment, must depend on native constitution.

Native constitution determines mental ability in two respects. It fixes certain limits which
the individual cannot {292} pass, no matter how good his environment, and no matter how hard
he trains himself; and, on the positive side, it makes the individual responsive to certain
stimuli, and so gives him a start towards the development of intelligence and of special aptitudes.

Intelligence and the Brain

There is certainly some connection between the brain and intelligent behavior. While the spinal
cord and brain stem vary according to the size of the body, and the cerebellum with the motility
of the species of animal, the size of the cerebrum varies more or less closely with the intelligence
of the species. It does vary also with bodily size, as illustrated by the whale and elephant,
which have the largest cerebrum of all animals, including man. But the monkey, which shows
more intelligence than most animals, has also a very large cerebrum for his size of body; and
the chimpanzee and gorilla, considerably surpassing the ordinary monkeys in intelligence, have
also a much larger cerebrum. The cerebrum of man, in proportion to the size of his body, far
surpasses that of the chimpanzee or gorilla.

The cerebrum varies considerably in size from one human individual to another. In some adults
it is twice as large as in others, and the question arises whether greater intelligence goes
with a larger brain. Now, it appears that an extremely small cerebrum spells idiocy; not all
idiots have small brains, but all men with extremely small brains are idiots. The brain weight
of quite a number of highly gifted men has been measured in post-mortem examination, and many
of these gifted men have had a very large cerebrum. On the whole, the gifted individual seems
to have a large brain, but there are exceptions, and the relationship between brain size and
intelligence cannot be very close. Other factors must enter, one factor being undoubtedly the
fineness {293} of the internal structure of the cortex. Brain function depends on dendrites
and end-brushes, forming synapses in the cortex, and such minute structures make little impression
on the total brain weight.

While intelligence is related to the cerebrum as a whole, rather than to any particular "intelligence
center", there is some likelihood that the special aptitudes are related to special parts of
the cortex, though it must be admitted that few aptitudes have as yet been localized. The pretended
localizations of phrenology are all wrong. But we do know that each sense has its special cortical
area, and that adjacent to these sensory areas are portions of the cortex intimately concerned
in response to different classes of complex stimuli. Near the auditory center the cortex is
concerned in recognizing spoken words, and in following music; near the visual center it is
concerned in recognizing printed words, in recognizing seen objects, in finding one's way by
the sense of sight, etc. These special aptitudes thus have a fairly definite cortical localization,
and possibly others have also.

Examined microscopically, the cortex shows differences of structure in different parts, and
to the structural differences probably correspond differences of function. Now it is practically
impossible that such a function as attention or memory should have any localized cortical center,
for these are general functions. The instincts are specialized enough to have local centers,
but none have so far been localized. What has been localized is of the nature of special aptitudes.

{294}

EXERCISES

1. Outline the chapter.

2. Pick out the true statements from the following list:

  (a) Man is the most intelligent of animals.

  (b) Intelligence depends on the development of the cerebellum.

  (c) It has not been found possible to use any single
      performance as a reliable index of intelligence.

  (d) Children of different mental ages may have the same IQ.

  (e) A child with a mental age of 10 years can do all the tests
      for 10 years and below, but none of those for the higher ages.

  (f) The intelligence tests depend wholly on accurate response
      and not at all on speed of reaction.

  (g) If intelligence tests depended upon previous training, they
      could not be measures of native intelligence.

  (h) High correlation between the test scores of brothers and
      sisters is a fact that tends to indicate the importance of
      heredity in determining intelligence.

  (i) The "general factors" in intelligence are the same as the
      instincts.

  (j) Feeble-minded individuals include all those who are below
      the average intelligence.

3. It is found that eminent men very often have eminent brothers,
   uncles and cousins. How would this fact be explained?

4. It is also found that the wives of eminent men often have eminent
   relatives. How would this fact be explained?

5. How could it happen that a boy of 9, in the third school grade,
   with an IQ of 140, should be mischievous and inattentive? What
   should be done with him?

6. If a boy of 12, by industrious work, does pretty well in the
   fourth grade, why should we not accept the teacher's estimate of
   him as a "fairly bright boy"?

7. How might the brain of an idiot be underdeveloped, aside from
   the matter of the number of nerve cells in the cortex?

8. Can it be that high intelligence is a disadvantage in any form
   of industrial work, and, if so, how?

9. Show how "general intelligence" and "special aptitudes" may
   work together to give success in some special line of work.

{295}

REFERENCES

For the Binet tests and some results obtained by their use, see Louis M. Terman, The Measurement
of Intelligence, 1916.

The group tests used in the American Army during the War are described in detail In Vol. 15
of the Memoirs of the National Academy of Sciences, 1921, edited by Robert M. Yerkes. This
large book describes the work of preparing and standardizing the tests, and also gives some
results bearing on the Intelligence of different sections of the population. Some of the interesting
results appear on pp. 507, 522, 528, 537, 693, 697, 705, 732, 743, 799, 815, 819, 829, 856 and 869.

For briefer treatments of the subject, see Walter S. Hunter's General Psychology, 1919, pp.
36-58, and W. B. Pillsbury's Essentials of Psychology, 2nd edition, 1920, pp. 388-407.

For the poor results obtained in attempting to judge intelligence from photographs, see an
illustrated article by Rudolph Pintner, in the Psychological Review for 1918, Vol. 25, pp. 286-296.

For a study of one of the special aptitudes, see C. E. Seashore's Psychology of Musical Talent,
1919.

For a comprehensive survey of test methods and results, see the two volumes of Whipple's Manual
of Mental and Physical Tests, 2nd edition, 1914, 1915.

{296}

CHAPTER XIII

LEARNING AND HABIT FORMATION

THE DEPENDENCE OF ACQUIRED REACTIONS UPON INSTINCT AND REFLEX ACTION, AND THE MODIFICATION
OF NATIVE REACTIONS BY EXPERIENCE AND TRAINING.

Already, in considering intelligence, we have partially rounded the corner from native to acquired
traits, and now, fairly around the corner, we see ahead of us a long straight stretch of road.
For there is much to say regarding acquired traits and regarding the process of acquisition.
All knowledge is acquired, the whole stock of ideas, as well as motor skill, and there are
acquired motives in addition to the native motive forces that we called instincts, and acquired
likes and dislikes in addition to those that are native; so that, all in all, there are thousands
on thousands of acquired reactions, and the daily life of the adult is made up of these much
more than of strictly native reactions.

It will take us several chapters to explore this new territory that now lies before us, a chapter
on acquiring motor habits and skill, a chapter on memory, a chapter on acquired mental reactions,
and a chapter devoted to the general laws that hold good in this whole field. Our general plan
is to proceed from the simple to the complex, generalizing to some extent as we go, but leaving
the big generalizations to the close of the discussion, where we shall see whether the whole
process of acquiring reactions of all sorts cannot be summed up in a few general laws of acquisition,
or "laws of association" as they are traditionally called. On reaching that {297} goal, the
reader may well come back, with the general laws in mind, and see how well they fit in detail
all the instances of acquired responses that we are about to describe. We might have begun
by stating the general laws, but on the whole it will be better to proceed "inductively", beginning
with the observed facts and working up to the general laws.

Acquired Reactions Are Modified Native Reactions

Though we have "turned a corner" in passing from native traits to acquired, it would be a mistake
to suppose we had left what is native altogether behind. It would be a mistake to suppose that
the individual outgrew and left behind his native reactions and acquired an entirely new outfit.
The reactions that he acquires--or learns, as we speak of acquisition in the sphere of reactions--develop
out of his native reactions. Consider this: how is the individual ever going to learn a reaction?
Only by reacting. Without native reactions, he would be entirely inactive at the outset, and
would never make a start towards any acquisition. His acquired reactions, then, are his native
reactions modified by use.

The vast number of motor acts that the individual acquires are based upon the reflexes. They
are modified reflexes. The simplest kind of modification is the mere strengthening of an act
by exercise. By his reflex breathing and crying, the new-born baby exercises his lungs and
breathing muscles and the nerve centers that control them, with the result that his breathing
becomes more vigorous, his crying louder. The strengthening of a reaction through exercise
is a fundamental fact.

But we should scarcely speak of "learning" if the only modification consisted in the simple
strengthening of native reactions, and at first thought it is difficult to see how the {298}
exercise of any reaction could modify it in any other respect. But many reflexes are not perfectly
fixed and invariable, but allow of some free play, and then exercise may fix or stabilize them,
as is well illustrated in the case of the pecking response of the newly hatched chick. If grains
are strewn before a chick one day old, it instinctively strikes at them, seizes them in its
bill and swallows them; but, its aim being poor and uncertain, it actually gets, at first,
only a fifth of the grains pecked at; by exercise it improves so as to get over half on the
next day, over three-fourths after another day or two, and about 86 percent (which seems to
be its limit) after about ten days of practice. Exercise has here modified a native reaction
in the way of making it more definite and precise, by strengthening the accurate movement as
against all the variations of the pecking movement that were made at the start. Where a native
response is variable, exercise tends towards constancy, and so towards the fixation of definite
habits.

A reflex may come to be attached to a new stimulus, that does not naturally arouse it. A child
who has accidentally been pricked with a pin, and of course made the flexion reflex in response
to this natural stimulus, will make this same reaction to the sight of a pin approaching his
skin. The seen pin is a substitute stimulus that calls out the same response as the pin prick.
This type of modification gives a measure of control over the reflexes; for when we pull the
hand back voluntarily, or wink at will, or breathe deeply at will, we are executing these movements
without the natural stimulus being present.

Voluntary control includes also the ability to omit a response even if the natural stimulus
is present. Holding the breath, keeping the eyes wide open in spite of the tendency to wink,
not swallowing though the mouth is full of saliva, holding the hand steady when it is being
pricked, and many {299} similar instances of control over reflexes are cases of detachment
of a native reaction from its natural stimulus. Not "starting" at a sudden sound to which we
have grown used and not turning the eyes to look at a very familiar object, are other instances
of this detachment.

The substitute response is another modification to be placed alongside of the substitute stimulus.
Here a natural stimulus calls out a motor response different from its natural response. The
muttered imprecation of the adult takes the place of the child's scream of pain. The loose
holding of the pen between the thumb and the first two fingers takes the place of the child's
full-fisted grasp.

Finally, an important type of modification consists in the combination of reflex movements
into larger coördinations. One hand grasps an object, while the other hand pulls, pushes or
strikes it. Or, both hands grasp the object but in different ways, as in handling an ax or
shovel. These cases illustrate simultaneous coördination, and there is also a serial coördination,
in which a number of simple instinctive movements become hitched together in a fixed order.
Examples of this are seen in dancing, writing a word, and, most notably, in speaking a word
or familiar phrase.

In these ways, by strengthening, fixing and combining movements, and by new attachments and
detachments between stimulus and response, the instinctive motor activity of the baby passes
over into the skilled and habitual movement of the adult.

Acquired Tendencies

In the sphere of impulse and emotion the same kinds of modification occur. Detachment of an
impulse or emotion from its natural stimulus is very much in evidence, since {300} what frightens
or angers or amuses the little child may have no such power with the adult. One little boy
of two could be thrown into gales of laughter by letting a spoon drop with a bang to the floor;
and you could repeat this a dozen times in quick succession and get the response every time.
But this stimulus no longer worked when he had advanced to the age of four.

The emotions get attached to substitute stimuli. Amusement can be aroused in an older child
by situations that were not at all amusing to the baby. New objects arouse fear, anger, rivalry
or curiosity. The emotions of the adult--with the exception of sex attraction, which is usually
very weak in the child--are the emotions of the child, but they are aroused by different stimuli.

Not only so, but the emotions express themselves differently in the child and the adult. Angry
behavior is one thing in the child, and another thing in the adult, so far as concerns external
motor action. The child kicks and screams, where the adult strikes with his fist, or vituperates,
or plots revenge. The internal bodily changes in emotion are little modified as the individual
grows up--except that different stimuli arouse them--but the overt behavior is greatly modified;
instead of the native reactions we find substitute reactions.

A little girl of three years, while out walking in the woods with her family, was piqued by
some correction from her mother, but, instead of showing the instinctive signs of temper, she
picked up a red autumn leaf and offered it to her mother, with the words, very sweetly spoken,
"Isn't that a pretty leaf?" "Yes," said her mother, acquiescently. "Wouldn't you like to have
that leaf?" "Yes, indeed." "I'll throw it away!" (in a savage tone of voice, and with a gesture
throwing the leaf away). Here we have an early form of substitute reaction, and can glimpse
how such {301} reactions become attached to the emotions. The natural outlet for the child's
anger was blocked, probably because previous outbursts of rage had not had satisfactory consequences,
so that the anger was dammed up, or "bottled up", for the instant, till the child found some
act that would give it vent. Now supposing that the substitute reaction gave satisfaction to
the child, we can well imagine that it would become attached to the angry state and be used
again in a similar case. Thus, without outgrowing the emotions, we may outgrow emotional behavior
that is socially unacceptable.

Emotions are also combined, much as reflexes are combined. The same object which on one occasion
arouses in us one emotion may arouse another emotion on another occasion, so that eventually,
whenever we see that object, we respond by a blend of the two emotions. Your chief may terrify
you on some occasions, at other times amaze you by his masterly grasp on affairs, and again
win your affection by his care for your own welfare; so that your attitude toward "the boss"
comes to be a blend of fear, admiration and gratitude. Religion and patriotism furnish good
examples of compound emotions.

Well, then, adult behavior compared with the instinctive behavior of the little child shows
these several types of modification. This is interesting, but it is not all we wish to know.
We want to know how the modification comes about; that is, we want to get an insight into the
process of learning. Scientifically, this is one of the most fascinating topics in psychology--how
we learn, how we are molded or modified by experience--and practically, it is just as important,
since if we wish to educate, train, mold, improve ourselves or others, it is the process of
modification that we must control; and to control it we must understand it.

To understand it we must watch the process itself; and {302} therefore we turn to studies that
trace the course of events in human and animal learning.

Animal Learning

Animals do learn, all the vertebrates, at least, and many of the invertebrates. They often
learn more slowly than men, but this is an advantage for our present purpose, since it makes
the learning process easier to follow. Mere anecdotes of intelligent behavior in animals are
of little value, but experimental studies, in which the animal's progress is followed, step
by step, from the time when he is confronted with a perfectly novel situation till he has mastered
the trick, have now been made in great numbers, and a few typical experiments will serve as
a good introduction to the whole subject of learning.

The negative adaptation experiment.

Apply a harmless and meaningless stimulus time after time; at first the animal makes some instinctive
exploring or defensive reaction; but with continued repetition of the stimulus, he ceases after
a while to respond. The instinctive reaction has been detached from one of its natural stimuli.

Even in unicellular animals, negative adaptation can be observed, but in them is only temporary,
like the "sensory adaptation" described in the chapter on sensation. Stop the stimulus and
the original responsiveness returns after a short time. Nothing has been learned, for what
is learned remains after an interval of rest.

In higher animals, permanent adaptation is common, as illustrated by a famous experiment on
a spider. While the spider was in its web, a tuning fork was sounded, and the spider made the
defensive reaction of dropping to the ground. It climbed back to its web, the fork was sounded
again, the spider dropped again; but after several {303} repetitions in quick succession, the
spider ceased to respond. Next day, to be sure, it responded as at first; but after the same
performance had been repeated on several days, it ceased permanently to respond to this stimulus.

Negative adaptation is common in domestic animals, as well as in men. The horse "gets used"
to the harness, and the dog to the presence of a cat in the house. Man grows accustomed to
his surroundings, and to numerous unimportant sights and sounds.

The conditioned reflex experiment.

Put into a dog's mouth a tasting substance that arouses the flow of saliva, and at the same
instant ring a bell; and repeat this combination of stimuli many times. Then ring the bell
alone, and the saliva flows in response to the bell. The bell is a substitute stimulus, which
has become attached to the salivary response by dint of having been often given along with
the natural stimulus that arouses this response. At first thought, this is very weird, but
do we not know of similar facts in every-day experience? The dinner bell makes the mouth water;
the sight of food does the same, even the name of a savory dish will do the same.

Quite possibly, the learning process by which the substitute stimulus becomes attached to the
salivary reaction is more complex in man's case. He may observe that the dinner bell means
dinner, whereas the dog, we suppose, does not definitely observe the connection of the bell
and the tasting substance. What the experiment shows is that a substitute stimulus can become
attached to a reaction under very simple conditions.

A conditioned reflex experiment on a child deserves mention. A young child, confronted with
a rabbit, showed no fear, but on the contrary reached out his hand to take the rabbit. At this
instant a loud rasping noise was produced just behind the child, who quickly withdrew his hand
with {304} signs of fear. After this had been repeated a few times, the child shrank from the
rabbit and was evidently afraid of it. Probably it is in this way that many fears, likes and
dislikes of children originate.

The signal experiment.

Place a white rat before two little doors, both just alike except that one has on it a yellow
circle. The rat begins to explore. If he enters the door with the yellow sign, he finds himself
in a passage which leads to a box of food; if he enters the other door he gets into a blind
alley, which he explores, and then, coming out, continues his explorations till he reaches
the food box and is rewarded. After this first trial is thus completed, place him back at the
starting point, and he is very apt to go straight to the door that previously led to the food,
for he learns simple locations very quickly. But meanwhile the experimenter may have shifted
the yellow sign to the other door, connected the passage behind the marked door with the food
box, and closed off the other passage; for the yellow disc in this experiment always marks
the way to the food, and the other door always leads to a blind alley. The sign is shifted
irregularly from one door to the other. Whenever the rat finds himself in a blind alley, he
comes out and enters the other door, so finally getting his reward on every trial. But for
a long time he seems incapable of responding to the yellow signal. However, the experimenter
is patient; he gives the rat twenty trials a day, keeping count of the number of correct responses,
and finds the number to increase little by little, till after some thirty days every response
is correct and unhesitating. The rat has learned the trick.

He learns the trick somewhat more rapidly if punishment for incorrect responses is added to
reward for correct responses. Place wires along the floor of the two passages, and switch an
electric current into the blind alley, behind {305} the door that has no yellow circle on it.
When the rat enters the blind alley and gets a shock, he makes a prompt avoiding reaction,
scampering back to the starting point and cowering there for some time; eventually he makes
a fresh start, avoids the door that led to the shock and therefore enters the other door, though
apparently without paying any attention to the yellow sign, since when, on the next trial,
the sign is moved, he avoids the place where he got the shock, without reference to the sign.
But in a series of trials he learns to follow the sign.

Learning to respond to a signal might be classified under the head of substitute stimulus,
since the rat learns to respond to a stimulus, the yellow disk, that at first left him unmoved.
But more careful consideration shows this to be, rather, a case of substitute response. The
natural reaction of a rat to a door is to enter it, not to look at its surface, but the experiment
forces him to make the preliminary response of attending to the appearance of the door before
entering it. The response of attending to the surface of the door is substituted for the instinctive
response of entering. Otherwise put: the response of finding the marked door and entering that
is substituted for the response of entering any door at random.

The maze experiment.

An animal is placed in an enclosure from which it can reach food by following a more or less
complicated path. The rat is the favorite subject for this experiment, but it is a very adaptable
type of experiment and can be tried on any animal. Fishes and even crabs have mastered simple
mazes, and in fact to learn the way to a goal is probably possible for any species that has
any power of learning whatever. The rat, placed in a maze, explores. He sniffs about, goes
back and forth, enters every passage, and actually covers every square inch of the maze at
least once; and in the course of these explorations {306} hits upon the food box. Replaced
at the starting point, he proceeds as before, though with more speed and less dallying in the
blind alleys. On successive trials he goes less and less deeply into a blind alley, till finally
he passes the entrance to it without even turning his head. Thus eliminating the blind alleys
one after another, he comes at length to run by a fixed route from start to finish.

At first thought, the elimination of useless moves seems to tell the whole story of the rat's
learning process; but careful study of his behavior reveals another factor. When the rat approaches
a turning point in the maze, his course bends so as to prepare for the turn; he does not simply
advance to the turning point and then make the turn, but several steps before he reaches that
point are organized or coördinated into a sort of unit.

{307}

The combination of steps into larger units is shown also by certain variations of the experiment.
It is known that the rat makes little use of the sense of sight in learning the maze, guiding
himself mostly by the muscle sense. Now if the maze, after being well learned, is altered by
shortening one of the straight passages, the rat runs full tilt against the new end of the
passage, showing clearly that he was proceeding, not step by step, but by runs of some length.
Another variation of the experiment is to place a rat that has learned a maze down in the midst
of it, instead of at {308} the usual starting point. At first he is lost, and begins exploring,
but, hitting on a section of the right path, he gets his cue from the "feel" of it, and races
off at full speed to the food box. Now his cue could not have been any single step or turn,
for these would all be too much alike; his cue must have been a familiar sequence of movements,
and that sequence functions as a unit in calling out the rest of the habitual movement.

In short, the rat learns the path by elimination of false reactions and by combination of single
steps and turns into larger reaction-units.

The puzzle-box experiment.

Place a hungry young cat in a strange cage, with a bit of fish lying just outside, and you
are sure to get action. The cat extends his paw between the slats but cannot reach the fish;
he pushes his nose between the slats but cannot get through; he bites the slats, claws at anything
small, shakes anything loose, and tries every part of the cage. Coming to the button that fastens
{309} the door, he attacks that also, and sooner or later turns the button, gets out, and eats
the fish. The experimenter, having noted the time occupied in this first trial, replaces the
cat, still hungry, in the cage, and another bit of fish outside. Same business, but perhaps
somewhat quicker escape. More trials, perhaps on a series of days, give gradually decreasing
times of escape. The useless reactions are gradually eliminated, till finally the cat, on being
placed in the cage, goes instantly to the door, turns the button, goes out and starts to eat,
requiring but a second or two for the whole complex reaction. Perhaps 15 or 20 trials have
been required to reach this stage of prompt, unerring response. The course of improvement is
rather irregular, with ups and downs, but with no sudden shift from the varied reaction of
the first trial to the fixed reaction of the last. The learning process has been gradual.

This is the typical instance of learning by "trial and error", which can be defined as varied
reaction with gradual elimination of the unsuccessful responses and fixation of the successful
one. It is also a case of the substitute response. At first, the cat responds to the situation
by reaching or pushing straight towards the food, but it learns to substitute for this most
instinctive response the less direct response of going to another part of the cage and turning
a button.

The cat in this experiment is evidently trying to get out of the cage and reach the food. The
situation of being confined in a cage while hungry arouses an impulse or tendency to get out;
but this tendency, unable at once to reach its goal, is dammed up, and remains as an inner
directive force, facilitating reactions that are in the line of escape and inhibiting other
reactions. When the successful response is hit upon, and the door opened, the dammed-up energy
is discharged into this response; and, by repetition, {310} the successful response becomes
closely attached to the escape-tendency, so as to occur promptly whenever the tendency is aroused.

There is no evidence that the cat reasons his way out of the cage. His behavior is impulsive,
not deliberative. There is not even any evidence that the cat clearly observes how he gets
out. If he made a clean-cut observation of the manner of escape, his time for escaping should
thereupon take a sudden drop, instead of falling off gradually and irregularly from trial to
trial, as it does fall off. Trial and error learning is learning by doing, and not by reasoning
or observing. The cat learns to get out by getting out, not by seeing how to get out.

Summary of Animal Learning

Let us take account of stock at this point, before passing to human learning, and attempt to
generalize what we have observed in animals of the process of learning.

(1) Elimination of a response, which means detachment of a response from the stimulus that
originally aroused it, occurs in three main cases:

  (a) Elimination occurs most quickly when the response brings actual
  pain; the animal makes the avoiding reaction to the pain and
  quickly comes to make this response to the place where the pain
  occurred; and thus the positive reaction to this place is
  eliminated.

  (b) Elimination occurs more gradually when the response, without
  resulting in actual pain, brings failure or delay in reaching a
  goal towards which the animal is tending. The positive response of
  entering and exploring a blind alley grows weaker and weaker, till
  the blind alley is neglected altogether.

  (c) Elimination of a response also occurs, slowly, through negative
  adaptation to a stimulus that is harmless and also useless.

{311}

(2) New attachments or linkages of stimulus and response occur in two forms, which are called
"substitute stimulus" and "substitute response".

     [Footnote: The writer hopes that no confusion will be caused by
     his use of several words to express this same meaning.
     "Attachment of stimulus and response", "linkage of stimulus and
     response", "connection between stimulus and response", and "bond
     between stimulus and response", all mean exactly the same; but
     sometimes one and sometimes another seems to bring the meaning
     more vividly to mind.]

  (a) Substitute stimulus refers to the case where the natural
  response is not itself modified, but becomes attached to another
  stimulus than the one that originally aroused it. This new linkage
  can sometimes be established by simply giving the original stimulus
  and the substitute stimulus at the same time, and doing so
  repeatedly, as in the conditioned reflex experiment.

  (b) Substitute response refers to the case where the stimulus
  remaining as it originally was, a new reaction is attached to it in
  place of the original response. The conditions under which this
  takes place are more complex than those that give the substitute
  stimulus. A tendency towards some goal must first be aroused, and
  then blocked by the failure of the original response to lead to the
  goal. The dammed-up tendency then facilitates other responses, and
  gives trial and error behavior, till some one of the trial responses
  leads to the goal; and this successful response is gradually
  substituted for the original response, and becomes firmly attached
  to the situation and tendency.

(3) New combinations of responses occur, giving higher motor units.

Human Learning

To compare human and animal learning, and notice in what ways the human is superior, cannot
but throw light on the whole problem of the process of learning. It is obvious {312} that man
learns more quickly than the animals, that he acquires more numerous reactions, and a much
greater variety of reactions; but the important question is how he does this, and how his learning
process is superior.

We must first notice that all the forms of learning displayed by the animal are present also
in the human being. Negative adaptation is important in human life, and the conditioned reflex
is important, as has already been suggested. Without negative adaptation, the adult would be
compelled to attend to everything that aroused the child's curiosity, to shrink from everything
that frightened the child, to laugh at everything that amused the child. The conditioned reflex
type of learning accounts for a host of acquired likes and dislikes. Why does the adult feel
disgust at the mere sight of the garbage pail or the mere name of cod liver oil? Because these
inoffensive visual and auditory stimuli have been associated, or paired, with odors and tastes
that naturally aroused disgust.

The signal experiment is duplicated thousands of times in the education of every human being.
He learns the meaning of signs and slight indications; that is, he learns to recognize important
facts by aid of signs that are of themselves unimportant. We shall have much to say on this
matter in a later chapter on perception. Man learns signs more readily than such an animal
as the rat, in part because the human being is naturally more responsive to visual and auditory
stimuli. Yet the human being often has trouble in learning to read the signs aright. He assumes
that a bright morning means good weather all day, till, often disappointed, he learns to take
account of less obvious signs of the weather. Corrected for saying, "You and me did it", he
adopts the plan of always saying "you and I", but finds that this quite unaccountably brings
ridicule on him at times, so that gradually he may come to say the one or the {313} other according
to obscure signs furnished by the structure of the particular sentence. The process of learning
to respond to obscure signs seems to be about as follows: something goes wrong, the individual
is brought to a halt by the bad results of his action, he then sees some element in the situation
that he had previously overlooked, responds to this element, gets good results, and so--perhaps
after a long series of trials--comes finally to govern his action by what seemed at first utterly
insignificant.

Trial and error learning, though often spoken of as characteristically "animal", is common
enough in human beings. Man learns by impulsively doing in some instances, by rational analysis
in others. He would be at a decided disadvantage if he could not learn by trial and error,
since often the thing he has to manage is very difficult of rational analysis. Much motor skill,
as in driving a nail, is acquired by "doing the best you can", getting into trouble, varying
your procedure, and gradually "getting the hang of the thing", without ever clearly seeing
what are the conditions of success.

Human Compared With Animal Learning

Fairly direct comparisons have been made between human and animal learning of mazes and puzzles.
In the maze, the human subject has an initial advantage from knowing he is in a maze and has
to master it, while the rat knows no more than that he is in a strange place, to be explored
with caution on the odd chance that it may contain something eatable, or something dangerous.
But, after once reaching the food box, the rat begins to put on speed in his movements, and
within a few trials is racing through the maze faster than the adult man, though not so fast
as a child. Adults are more circumspect and dignified, they make less speed, cover less distance,
but also make fewer false moves {314} and finish in less time. That is in the early trials;
adults do not hold their advantage long, since children and even rats also reach complete mastery
of a simple maze in ten or fifteen trials.

The chief point of superiority of adults to human children, and of these to animals, can be
seen in the adjacent table. It is in the first trial that the superiority of the adults shows
most clearly. They get a better start, and adapt themselves to the situation more promptly.
Their better start is due to (1) better understanding of the situation at the outset, (2) more
plan, (3) less tendency to "go off on a tangent", i.e., to respond impulsively to every opening,
without considering or looking ahead. The adult has more inhibition, the child more activity
and responsiveness; the adult's inhibition stands him in good stead at the outset, but the
child's activity enables him to catch up shortly in so simple a problem as this little maze.

  AVERAGE NUMBER OF ERRORS MADE, IN EACH TRIAL IN
  LEARNING A MAZE, BY RATS, CHILDREN AND ADULT MEN

  (From Hicks and Carr)

  Trial
  No.   Rats  Children  Adults

   1     53      35       10
   2     45       9       15
   3     30      18        5
   4     22      11        2
   5     11       9        6
   6      8      13        4
   7      9       6        2
   8      4       6        2
   9      9       5        1
  10      3       5        1
  11      4       1        0
  12      5       0        1
  13      4       1        1
  14      4       0        1
  15      4       1        1
  16      2       0        1
  17      1       0        1

  The table reads that, on the first trial in the maze, the rats
  averaged 53 errors, the children 35 errors, and the adults 10
  errors, and so on. An "error" consisted in entering a blind alley or
  in turning back on {315} the course. The subjects tested consisted
  of 23 rats, five children varying in age from 8 to 18 years, and
  four graduate students of psychology. The human maze was much larger
  than those used for the rats, but roughly about the same in
  complexity. Since rats are known to make little use of their eyes in
  learning a maze, the human subjects were blindfolded. The rats were
  rewarded by food, the others simply by the satisfaction of success.

The puzzle boxes used in experiments on animal learning are too simple for human adults, but
mechanical puzzles present problems of sufficient difficulty. The experimenter hands the subject
a totally unfamiliar puzzle, and notes the time required by the subject to take it apart; and
this is repeated in a series of trials till mastery is complete. In addition to taking the
time, the experimenter observes the subject's way of reacting, and the subject endeavors at
the end of each trial to record what he has himself observed of the course of events.

The human subject's behavior in his first trial with a puzzle is often quite of the trial and
error sort. He manipulates impulsively; seeing a possible opening he responds to it, and meeting
a check he backs off and tries something else. Often he tries the same line of attack time
and time again, always failing; and his final success, in the first trial, is often accidental
and mystifying to himself.

On the second trial, he may still be at a loss, and proceed as before; but usually he has noticed
one or two facts that help him. He is most likely to have noticed where he was in the puzzle
when his accidental success occurred; for it appears that locations are about the easiest facts
to learn for men as well as animals. In the course of a few trials, also, the human subject
notices that some lines of attack are useless, and therefore eliminates them. After a time
he may "see into" the puzzle more or less clearly, though sometimes he gets a practical mastery
of the handling of the puzzle, while still obliged to confess that he does not understand it
at all.

{316}

Insight, when it does occur, is of great value. Insight into the general principle of the puzzle
leads to a better general plan of attack, and insight into the detailed difficulties of manipulation
leads to smoother and defter handling. The human "learning curve" (see Figure 50) often shows
a prolonged stretch of no improvement, followed by an abrupt change to quicker work; and the
subject's introspections show that 76 per cent, or more of these sudden improvements followed
immediately after some fresh insight into the puzzle.

The value of insight appears in another way when the subject, after mastering one puzzle, is
handed another involving the same principle in a changed form. If he has seen the principle
of the first puzzle, he is likely to carry over this knowledge to the second, and master this
readily; {317} but if he has simply acquired motor skill with the first puzzle, without any
insight into its principle, he may have as hard a time with the second as if he had never seen
the first.

Learning by Observation

"We learn by doing" is a true proverb, in the sense that we acquire a reaction by making just
that reaction. We must make a reaction in order to get it really in hand, so that the proverb
might be strengthened to read, "To learn, we must do". But we should make it false if we strengthened
it still further and said "We learn only by doing". For human beings, at least, learn also
by observing.

The "insight" just spoken of consists in observing some fact--often some relationship--and
the value of insight in hastening the process of learning is a proof that we learn by observation
as well as by actual manipulation. To be sure, observation needs to be followed by manipulation
in order to give practical mastery of a thing, but manipulation without observation means slow
learning and often yields nothing that can be carried over to a different situation.

Learning by observation is typically human. The adult's superiority in tackling a maze may
be summed up by saying that he observes more than the child--much more than the animal--and
governs his behavior by his observations. The enormous human superiority in learning a simple
puzzle, of the sort used in experiments on animals, arises from seeing at once the key to the
situation.

A chimpanzee--one of the most intelligent of animals--was tested with a simple puzzle box,
to be opened from outside by turning a button that prevented the door from opening. The device
was so simple that you would expect the animal to see into it at once. A banana was put into
the box and the door fastened with the button. The {318} chimpanzee quickly found the door,
and quickly found the button, which he proceeded to pull about with one hand while pulling
the door with the other. Without much delay, he had the button turned and the door open. After
about three trials, he had a practical mastery of the puzzle, showing thus considerable superiority
over the cat, who would more likely have required twelve or fifteen trials to learn the trick.
But now a second button was put on a few inches from the first, both being just alike and operating
in the same way. The chimpanzee paid no attention to this second button, but turned the first
one as before, and when the door failed to open, kept on turning the first button, opening
it and closing it and always tugging at the door. After a time, he did shift to the second
button, but as he had left the first one closed, his manipulation of the second was futile.
It was a long, hard job for him to learn to operate both buttons correctly; and the experiment
proved that he did not observe how the button kept the door from opening, but only that the
button was the thing to work with in opening the door. At one time, indeed, in order to force
him to deal with the second button, the first one was removed, but he still went to the place
where it had been and fingered about there. What he had observed was chiefly the place to work
at in order to open the door. We must grant that animals observe locations, but most of their
learning is by doing and not by observing.

Here is another experiment designed to test the ability of animals to learn by observation.
The experimenter takes two cats, one having mastered a certain puzzle box, the other not, and
places the untrained cat where it can watch the trained one do its trick. The trained cat performs
repeatedly for the other's benefit, and is then taken away and the untrained cat put into the
puzzle box. But he has derived no benefit from what has gone on before his eyes, and must learn
by trial {319} and error, the same as any other cat; he does not even learn any more quickly
than he otherwise would have done.

The same negative results are obtained even with monkeys, but the chimpanzee shows some signs
of learning by observation. One chimpanzee having learned to extract a banana from a long tube
by pushing it out of the further end with a stick which the experimenter had kindly left close
by, another chimpanzee was placed where he could watch the first one's performance and did
watch it closely. Then the first animal was taken away and the second given a chance. He promptly
took the stick and got the banana, without, however, imitating the action of the first animal
exactly, but pulling the banana towards him till he could reach it. This has been called learning
by imitation, but might better be described as learning by observation.

Such behavior, quite rare among animals, is common in human children, who are very observant
of what older people do, and imitate them on the first opportunity, though often this comes
after an interval. The first time a child speaks a new word is usually not right after he has
heard it. When, on previous occasions, he has heard this word, he has not attempted to copy
it, but now he brings it out of himself. He has not acquired the word by direct imitation,
evidently, but by what has been called "delayed imitation", which consists in observation at
the time followed later by attempts to do what has been observed. Observation does not altogether
relieve the child of the necessity of learning by trial and error, for often his first imitations
are pretty poor attempts; but observation gives him a good start and hastens the learning process
considerably. "Learning by imitation", then, is, more properly, "learning by observation followed
by trial and error" and the reason so little of it appears in animals is their lack of observation.

Learning by thinking depends on observation, since in {320} thought we make use of facts previously
observed. Seldom, unless in the chimpanzee and other manlike apes, do we see an animal that
appears to be thinking. The animal is always doing, or waiting, or sleeping. He seems too impulsive
to stop and think. But a man may observe something in the present problem that calls previous
observations to mind, and by mentally combining observations made at different times may figure
out the solution before beginning motor manipulation. Usually, however, some manipulation of
the trial and error sort is needed before the thought-out solution will work perfectly.

Sometimes mental rehearsal of a performance assists in learning it, as we see in the beginner
at automobile driving, who, while lying in bed after his first day's experience, mentally goes
through the motions of starting the engine and then the car, and finds that this "absent treatment"
makes the car easier to manage the next day.

In summing up the points of superiority of human over animal learning, we may note that--

1. Man is perhaps a quicker learner, anyway, without regard to his better methods of learning.
This, however, is open to doubt, in view of the very rapid learning by animals of such reactions
as the avoidance of a place where they have been hurt.

2. Man is a better observer, and this is the great secret of his quick learning. He is especially
strong in observing relationships, or "principles" as we often call them.

3. He has more control over his impulses, and so finds time and energy for observing and thinking.

4. He is able to work mentally with things that are not present; he remembers things he has
seen, puts together facts observed at different times, thinks over problems that are not actually
confronting him at the moment, and maps out plans of action.

{321}

The Learning of Complex Practical Performances

A great deal of light has been thrown on the learning process by psychological studies of the
course of improvement in mastering such trades as telegraphy and typewriting.

A student of telegraphy was tested once a week to see how rapidly he could send a message,
and also how rapidly he could "receive a message off the wire", by listening to the clicking
of the sounder. The number of letters sent or received per minute was taken as the measure
of his proficiency. This number increased rapidly in the first few weeks, and then more and
more slowly, giving a typical learning curve, or "practice curve", as it is also called.

The curve for sending, aside from minor irregularities, rose with a fairly smooth sweep, tapering
off finally towards the "physiological limit", the limit of what the nerves and muscles of
this individual could perform.

  [Footnote: A good example of the physiological limit is seen in the
  hundred yard dash, since apparently no one, with the best of
  training, can lower the record much below ten seconds; and any given
  individual's limit may be considerably worse than this, according to
  his build, muscular strength and quickness of nerve centers. The
  simple reaction gives another good example; every one has his limit,
  beyond which no amount of training will lower his reaction time; the
  neuromuscular system simply will not work any faster.]

The receiving {322} curve rose more slowly than the sending curve, and flattened out after
about four months of practice, showing little further improvement for the next two months.
This was a discouraging time for the student, for it seemed as if he could never come up to
the commercial standard. In fact, many learners drop out at this stage. But this student persisted,
and, after the long period of little improvement, was gratified to find his curve going up
rapidly again. It went up rapidly for several months, and when it once more tapered off into
a level, he was well above the minimum standard for regular employment.

Such a flat stretch in a practice curve, followed by a second rise--such a period of little
or no improvement, followed by rapid improvement--is called a "plateau". Sometimes due to mere
discouragement, or to the inattention that naturally supervenes when an act becomes easy to
perform, it often has a different cause. It may, in fact, represent a true physiological limit
for the act as it is being performed, and the subsequent rise to a higher level may result
from improved methods of work. That was probably the case with the telegrapher.

  [Footnote: A plateau of this sort is present in the learning curve
  for mastery of a puzzle, given on p. 316.]

The telegrapher acquires skill by improving his methods, rather than by simply speeding up.
He acquires methods that he didn't dream of at first. At the start, he must learn the alphabet
of dots and dashes. This means, for purposes of sending, that he must learn the little rhythmical
pattern of finger movements that stands for each letter; and, for purposes of receiving, that
he must learn the rhythmical {323} pattern of clicks from the sounder that stands for a letter.
When he has learned the alphabet, he is able to send and receive slowly. In sending, he spells
out the words, writing each letter as a separate act. In receiving, at this early stage, he
must pick out each separate letter from the continuous series of clicks that he hears from
the sounder. By degrees, the letters become so familiar that he goes through this spelling
process easily; and, doing now so much better than at the outset, he supposes he has learned
the trade, in its elements, and needs only to put on more speed.

But not at all! He has acquired but a small part of the necessary stock-in-trade of the telegrapher.
He has his "letter habits", but knows nothing as yet of "word habits". These gradually come
to him as he continues his practice. He comes to know words as units, motor units for sending
purposes, auditory units for receiving. The rhythmical pattern of the whole word becomes a
familiar unit. Short, much used words are first dealt with as units, then more and more words,
till he has a large vocabulary of word habits. A word that has become a habit need not be spelled
out in sending, nor laboriously dug out letter by letter in receiving; you simply think the
word "train", and your finger taps it out as a connected unit; or, in receiving, you recognize
the characteristic pattern of this whole series of clicks. When the telegrapher has reached
this word habit stage, he finds the new method far superior, in both speed and sureness, to
the letter habit method which he formerly assumed to be the whole art of telegraphy. He does
not even stop with word habits, but acquires a similar control over familiar phrases.

Higher Units and Overlapping

The acquisition of skill in telegraphy consists mostly in learning these higher units of reactions.
It is the same in {324} learning to typewrite. First you must learn your alphabet of letter-striking
movements; by degrees you reduce these finger movements to firm habits, and are then in the
letter-habit stage, in which you spell out each word as you write it. After a time, you write
a familiar word without spelling it, by a coördinated series of finger movements; you write
by word units, and later, in part, by phrase units; and these higher units give you speed and
accuracy.

Along with this increase in the size of the reaction-units employed goes another factor of
skill that is really very remarkable. This is the "overlapping" of different reactions, a species
of doing two or more things at once, only that the two or more reactions are really parts of
the same total activity. The simplest sort of overlap can be illustrated at an early stage
in learning to typewrite. The absolute beginner at the typewriter, in writing "and", pauses
after each letter to get his bearings before starting on the next; but after a small amount
of practice he will locate the second letter on the keyboard while his finger is still in the
act of striking the first letter. Thus the sensory part of the reaction to the second letter
commences before the motor part of reacting to the first letter is finished; and this overlap
does away with pauses between letters and makes the writing smoother and more rapid.

With further practice in typewriting, when word habits and phrase habits are acquired, overlap
goes to much greater lengths. One expert kept her eyes on the copy about four words ahead of
her fingers on the keyboard, and thus was reacting to about four words at the same time: one
word was just being read from the copy, one word was being written, and the two words between
were being organized and prepared for actual writing. The human typewriting mechanism, consisting
of eye, optic nerve, parts of the brain and cord, motor nerves and muscles, works somewhat
like one of {325} those elaborate machines which receive raw material steadily at one end perform
a series of operations upon it, and keep turning out finished product at the other end.

All this is very remarkable, but the same sort of overlapping and working with large units
can be duplicated in many linguistic performances that every one makes. In reading aloud, the
eyes keep well ahead of the voice, and seeing, understanding and pronouncing are all applied
simultaneously to different words of the passage read. In talking, the ideas keep developing
and the spoken words tag along behind.

In telegraphy and typewriting, it is almost inevitable that the learner should start with the
alphabet and proceed to gradually larger units. But in learning to talk, or to read, the process
goes the other way. The child understands spoken words and phrases before breaking them up
into their elementary vocal sounds; and he can better be taught to read by beginning with whole
words, or even with whole {326} sentences, than by first learning the alphabet and laboriously
spelling out the words. In short, the learning process often takes its start with the higher
units, and reaches the smaller elements only for the purpose of more precise control.

Moderate Skill Acquired in the Ordinary Day's Work

Merely repeating a performance many times does not give the high degree of skill that we see
in the expert telegrapher or typist. Ordinarily, we practise much less assiduously, are much
less zealous, and have no such perfect measure of the success of our work. For "practice to
make perfect", it must be strongly motivated, and it must be sharply checked up by some index
or measure of success or failure. If the success of a performance can be measured, and chalked
up before the learner's eyes in the form of a practice curve, so that he can see his progress,
this acts as a strong incentive to rapid improvement.

Ordinarily, we have no clear indication of exactly how well we are doing, and are satisfied
if we get through our job easily and without too much criticism and ridicule from people around.
Consequently we reach only a moderate degree of skill, nowhere near the physiological limit,
and do not acquire the methods of the real expert.

This is very true of the manual worker. Typesetters of ten or more years' experience were once
selected as subjects for an experiment on the effects of alcohol, because it was assumed that
they must have already reached their maximum skill. In regard to alcohol, the result was that
this drug caused a falling off in speed and accuracy of work--but that is another story. What
we are interested in here is the fact that, as soon as these long-practised operators found
themselves under observation, and their work measured, they all began to improve and in the
course of a couple of weeks {327} reached quite a new level of performance. Their former level
had been reasonably satisfactory under workaday conditions, and special incentive was needed
to make them approach their limit.

A similar condition of affairs has been disclosed by "motion studies" in many kinds of manual
work; the movements of the operative have been photographed or closely examined by the efficiency
expert, and analyzed to determine whether there are any superfluous movements that could be
eliminated, and whether a different method of work would be economical of time and effort.
Usually, superfluous motion has been found and considerable economy seen to be possible. There
is evidently no law of learning to the effect that continued repetition of a performance necessarily
makes it perfect in speed, ease, or adaptation to the task in hand. What the manual worker
attains as the result of prolonged experience is a passable performance, but not at all the
maximum of skill.

The brain worker has little to brag of as against the manual worker. He, too, is only moderately
efficient in doing his particular job. There are brilliant exceptions--bookkeepers who add
columns of figures with great speed and precision, students who know just how to put in two
hours of study on a lesson with the maximum of effect, writers who always say just what they
wish to say and hit the nail on the head every time--but the great majority of us are only
passable. We need strong incentive, we need a clear and visible measure of success or failure,
we need, if such a thing were possible, a practice curve before us to indicate where we stand
at the present moment with respect to our past and our possible future.

{328}

Habit

A habit is contrasted with a reflex, in that the reflex is native, the habit acquired; but
both are alike in being prompt and automatic reactions. The best antithesis to a habit is the
response of a person to a novel situation, where neither nature nor previous experience gives
him a ready response. The new response is exploratory and tentative, while habit is fixed and
definite. The new response is variable, the habit regular. The new response is slow and uncertain,
the habit fairly quick and accurate. The new response is attended by effort and strained attention,
the habit is easy and often only half-conscious. The new response is apt to be unsatisfying
to the one who makes it, while habit is comfortable and a source of satisfaction.

To break a habit is most uncomfortable. Nature--at least that "second nature" which is habit--calls
aloud for the customary performance. Strenuous effort is required to get out of the rut, and
the slipping back into the rut which is almost sure to occur in moments of inadvertence is
humiliating. Result--usually the habit sticks.

But if the habit simply must be broken? Breaking a habit is forming a counter-habit, and the
more positive the counter-habit the better for us. This counter-habit must not be left to form
itself, but must be practised diligently. Strong motivation is necessary, no half-hearted acquiescence
in somebody else's injunction to get rid of the habit. We must adopt the counter-habit as ours,
and work for a high standard of skill in it. For example, if we come to realize that we have
a bad habit of grouchiness with our best friends, it is of little use merely to attempt to
deaden this habit; we need to aim at being a positive addition to the company whenever we are
present, and to practise the art of being good company, checking up our efforts to be sure
we are hitting {329} the right vein, and persisting in our self-training till we become real
artists. It takes some determination for a grouchy individual to make such a revolution in
his conduct; his self-assertion resists violently, for the grouchiness is part and parcel of
himself and he hates to be anything but himself. He must conceive a new and inspiring ideal
of himself, and start climbing up the practice curve towards the new ideal.

{330}

EXERCISES

1. Outline the chapter.

2. Which of the acts performed in eating breakfast are instinctive,
   which are matters of habit, and which are partly the one and partly
   the other?

3. Compare your mental attitude in approaching an unfamiliar and
   a familiar task.

4. How does the performance of the expert in swimming or dancing, etc.,
   differ from the performance of the beginner? Analyze out the points
   of superiority.

5. Show that the element of trial and error is present in (a) the
   child's learning to pronounce a word, and (b) learning "how to
   take" a person so as to get on well with him.

6. Why is it that our handwriting, though exercised so much, is apt
   to grow worse rather than better, while on the contrary our
   spelling is apt to improve?

7. How would you rate your efficiency in study? Is it near your
   physiological limit, on a plateau, or in a stage of rapid
   improvement?

8. A practice experiment. Take several pages of uniform printed
   matter, and mark it off into sections of 15 lines. Take your time
   for marking every word in one section that contains both e and r.
   The two letters need not be adjacent, but must both be present
   somewhere In the word. Having recorded your time for this first
   section, do the same thing with the next section, and so on for 12
   sections. What were you able to observe, introspectively, of your
   method of work and changes with practice. From the objective
   observations, construct a practice curve.

9. Write brief explanations of the following terms:
     practice
     habit
     higher unit
     overlapping
     plateau
     physiological limit
     insight
     trial and error
     negative adaptation
     substitute stimulus
     substitute response
     conditioned reflex

{331}

REFERENCES

Thorndike's Animal Intelligence, Experimental Studies, 1911, reports his own pioneer work in
this field. See also Chapter X in the same author's Educational Psychology, Briefer Course, 1914.

For other reviews of the work on animal learning, see Watson's Behavior, 1914, pp. 184-250;
also Washburn's Animal Mind, 2nd edition, 1917, pp. 257-312.

For human learning and practice, see Thorndike's Educational Psychology, Briefer Course, 1914,
Chapters XIV and XV; also Starch's Educational Psychology, 1919, Chapter XI.

For an experiment showing the acquisition of fears by a child, see Watson and Raynor, "Conditioned
Emotional Reactions", in the Journal of Experimental Psychology, 1920, Vol. 3, pp. 1-14.

James's chapter on "Habit", in his Principles of Psychology, 1890, Vol. I, is a classic which
every one should read.

{332}

CHAPTER XIV

MEMORY

HOW WE MEMORIZE AND REMEMBER, AND IN WHAT RESPECTS MEMORY CAN BE MANAGED AND IMPROVED

So much depends on a good memory in all walks of life, and especially in brain work of any
sort, that perhaps it is no wonder that many students and business and professional men become
worried about their memories and resort to "memory training courses" in the hope of improvement.
The scientific approach to this very practical problem evidently lies through a careful study
of the way in which memory works, and the general problem may be expressed in the question,
how we learn and remember. This large problem breaks up, on analysis, into four subordinate
questions: how we commit to memory, how we retain what has been committed to memory, how we
get it back when we want it, and how we know that what we now get back is really what we formerly
committed to memory. In the case of a person's name which we wish to remember, how do we "fix
it in mind", how do we carry it around with us when we are not thinking of it, how do we call
it up when needed, and what assures us that we have called up the right name? The four problems
may be named those of

  (1) Memorizing, or learning,
  (2) Retention
  (3) Recall
  (4) Recognition

{333}

The Process of Memorizing

As memorizing is one sort of learning, what we have found in the preceding chapter regarding
the learning process should throw light on our present problem. We found animals to learn by
doing, and man by doing and also by observation or observation combined with doing. Observation
is itself a form of doing, a mental reaction as distinguished from a purely passive or receptive
state; so that learning is always active. Observation we found to be of great assistance, both
by way of hastening the learning process, and by way of making what is learned more available
for future use. Our previous studies of learning thus lead us to inquire whether committing
to memory may not consist partly in rehearsing what we wish to learn, and partly in observing
it. Learning by rote, or by merely repeating a performance over and over again, is, indeed,
a fact; and observant study is also a fact.

Let us see how learning is actually done, as indicated by laboratory experiments. The psychologist
experiments a great deal with the memorizing of nonsense material, because the process can
be better observed here, from the beginning, than when sensible material is learned. Suppose
a list of twenty one-place numbers is to be studied till it can be recited straight through.
The learner may go at it simply by "doing", which means here by reading the list again and
again, in the hope that it will finally stick. This pure rote learning will perhaps do the
job, but it is slow and inefficient. Usually the learner goes to work in quite a different
way. He observes various facts about the list. He notices what numbers occur at the beginning
and end, and perhaps in other definite positions. He may group the digits into two-place or
three-place numbers, and notice the characteristics of these. Any familiar combinations that
{334} may occur, such as 1492, he is likely to spy and remember. Lacking these, he can at least
find similar and contrasting number-groups.

For example, the list

  5 7 4 0 6 2 7 3 5 1 4 0 9 2 8 6 3 8 0 1,

which at first sight seemed rather bare of anything characteristic, was analyzed in a way partly
indicated by the commas and semicolons,

  5, 74, 0; 62, 73; 5140; 9, 286; 380, 1,

and memorized easily. These observed facts transformed the list from a shapeless mass into
something having definite characteristics, and the observed characteristics stuck in mind and
held the rest together.

Lists of nonsense syllables, such as

  wok  pam  zut  bip  seg  ron  taz  vis  lab  mer  koj  yad

are apt to be learned largely by observation of similarities and contrasts, by reading meanings
into the syllables, and by grouping into pairs and reading rhythmically. Grouping reduces the
twelve syllables to six two-syllabled nonsense words, some of which may suggest meaningful
words or at least have a swing that makes them easy to remember. Perhaps the first syllable
of every pair is accented, and a pause introduced after each pair; such devices assist memorizing.

The rhythmical and other groups that are found or made by the learner in memorizing nonsense
lists are, in effect, "higher units", and have much the same value as the higher units of telegraphy
or typewriting. One who learns many lists in the course of a laboratory experiment develops
a {335} regular system of grouping. First he reads the list through, in groups of two, three
or four items, noticing each group as a whole; later, he notices the items in each group and
how they are related to each other. He also notices the interrelations of different groups,
and the position of each group in the total series. All this is quite different from a mere
droning along through the items of the list; it is much more active, and much more observant.

Very interesting are the various ways in which the learner attacks a list of nonsense syllables,
numbers, or disconnected words. He goes to work something like the cat trying to escape from
a strange cage. He proceeds by a sort of trial and error observation; he keeps looking for
something about the list that will help to fix it. He sees something that promises well for
a moment, then gives it up because he sees something better. He notices positions, i.e., connects
items with their position in the list. He finds syllables that stand out as peculiar in some
way, being "odd", "fuzzy", smooth, agreeable, disagreeable, or resembling some word, abbreviation
or nickname. He notes resemblances and contrasts between different syllables. He also finds
groups that resemble each other, or that resemble words.

Besides what he actually finds in the list, he imports meanings, more or less far-fetched,
into the list. He may make a rhythmical line of verse out of it; he may make a story out of
it. In short, he both explores the list as it stands and manipulates it into some shape that
promises to be rememberable.

His line of attack differs according to the particular test that is later to be made of his
memory. Suppose he is shown a number of pictures, with the understanding that later those now
shown are to be mixed with others, and that he must then pick out those now shown--then he
simply examines each picture for something characteristic. But {336} suppose each picture is
given a name, and he must later tell the name of each--then he seeks for something in the picture
that can be made to suggest its name. Or suppose, once more, that the pictures are spread out
before him in a row, and he is told that they will later be mixed and he be required to rearrange
them in the same order in which they are now shown--then he seeks for relationships between
the several pictures. His process of memorizing, always observant, exploratory and manipulatory,
differs in detail according to the memory task that he expects later to perform.

For another example, suppose an experiment is conducted by the method of "paired associates".
The subject is handed a list of pairs of words, such as

  soprano     emblem
  grassy      concise
  nothing     ginger
  faraway     kettle
  shadow      next
  mercy       scrub
  hilltop     internal
  recite      shoestring
  narrative   thunder
  seldom      harbor
  jury        eagle
  windy       occupy
  squirm      hobby
  balloon     multiply
  necktie     unlikely
  supple      westbound
  obey        inch
  broken      relish
  spellbound  ferment
  desert      expect

He must learn to respond with the second word of each pair when the first word of the pair
is given. What he does, in learning this lesson, is to take each pair of words as a unit, and
try to find something in the pair that shall make it a firm unit. It may be simply the peculiar
sound or look of a pair that he notes, or it may be some connection {337} of meaning. Perhaps
the pair suggests an image or a little story. After a few readings, he has the pairs so well
in hand that he can score almost one hundred per cent., if tested immediately.

But now suppose the experimenter springs a surprise, by asking the subject, as far as possible,
to recite the pairs in order, or to tell, after completing one pair, what was the first word
of the next pair. The subject can do very little at this, and protests that the test is not
fair, since he "paid no attention to the order of the pairs, but concentrated wholly on each
pair separately". Had he expected to recite the whole list of pairs in order, he would have
noticed the relationship of successive pairs, and perhaps woven them into a sort of continued
story.

In memorizing connected passages of prose or poetry, the "facts observed" are the general sense
and drift of the passage, the meanings of the parts and their places in the general scheme,
the grammatical structure of the sentences and phrases, and the author's choice of particular
words. Memorizing here is the same general sort of observant procedure as with nonsense material,
greatly assisted by the familiar sequences of words and by the connected meaning of the passage,
so that a connected passage can be learned in a fraction of the time needed to memorize an
equally long list of unrelated words. No one in his senses would undertake to memorize an intelligible
passage by the pure rote method, for this would be throwing away the best possible aid in memorizing;
but you will find students who fail to take full advantage of the sense, because, reading along
passively, they are not on the alert for general trends and outlines. For fixing in mind the
sense of a passage, the essential thing is to see the sense. If the student gets the point
with absolute clearness, he has pretty well committed it to memory.

{338}

Short-circuiting.

The peculiarities of words or syllables in a list or passage that is being memorized, the relationships
observed among the parts, and the meanings suggested or imported into the material, though
very useful in the early stages of memorizing, tend to drop out of mind as the material becomes
familiar. A pair of syllables, "lub--mer", may have first been associated by turning them into
"love mother", but later this meaning fades out, and the two syllables seem simply to belong
together in their own right. A pair of words, like "seldom--harbor", that were first linked
together by the intermediary thought of a boat that seldom came into the harbor, become directly
bound together as mere words. A short-circuiting occurs, indirect attachments giving way to
direct. Even the outline and general purpose of a connected passage may fade out of mind, when
the passage becomes well learned, so that it may be almost impossible for a schoolboy, who
has learned his little speech by heart, to deliver it with any consciousness of its real meaning.
A familiar act flattens out and tends to become automatic and mechanical.

Economy in Memorizing

Memorizing is a form of mental work that is susceptible of management, and several principles
of scientific management have been worked out that may greatly assist in the learning of a
long and difficult lesson. The problem has been approached from the angle of economy or efficiency.
Suppose a certain amount of time is allowed for the study of a lesson, how can this time be
best utilized?

The first principle of economy has already been sufficiently emphasized: observant study, directed
towards the finding of relationships and significant facts, is much more efficient than mere
dull repetition.

{339}

The value of recitation in memorizing.

"Recitation" here means reciting to oneself. After the learner has read his lesson once or
twice, he may, instead of continuing simply to read it, attempt to recite it, prompting himself
without much delay when he is stuck, and verifying his recitation by reference to the paper.
The question is whether this active reciting method of study is or is not economical of time
in memorizing, and whether or not it fixes the lesson durably in memory. The matter has been
thoroughly tested, and the answer is unequivocally in favor of recitation. The only outstanding
question is as to how soon to start attempting to recite, and probably no single answer can
be given to this question, so much depends on the kind of material studied, and on peculiarities
of the individual learner. Where the sense rather than the exact wording of a lesson has to
be learned, it is probably best to recite, in outline, after the first reading, and to utilize
the next reading for filling in the outline.

The results of one series of experiments on this matter are summarized in the adjoining table.

THE VALUE OF RECITATION IN MEMORIZING (from Gates)

Material studied   16 nonsense syllables       5 short biographies,
                                               totalling about 170 words

                  Per cent, remembered          Per cent. remembered

                 immediately   after 4 hours    immediately   after 4 hours

All time devoted to reading             35           15              35            16

1/5 of time devoted to recitation          50           26              37            19

2/5 of time devoted to recitation          54           28              41            25

3/5 of time devoted to recitation          57           37              42            26

4/5 of time devoted to recitation          74           48              42            26

  The time devoted to study was in all cases 9 minutes, and this time
  was divided between reading and recitation in different proportions
  as stated in the first column at the left. Reading down the next
  column, {340} we find that when nonsense syllables were studied and
  the test was conducted immediately after the close of the study
  period, 35 per cent. were remembered when all the study time had
  been devoted to reading, 50 per cent, when the last 1/5 of the study
  time had been devoted to recitation, 54 per cent when the last 2/5
  of the time had been devoted to recitation; and so on. The next
  column shows the per cents. remembered four hours after the study
  period. Each subject in these experiments had before him a sheet of
  paper containing the lesson to be studied, and he simply read it
  till the experimenter gave a signal to recite, after which the
  subject recited the lesson to himself as well as he could, prompting
  himself from the paper as often as necessary, and proceeded, thus
  till the end of the study period. The subjects in these particular
  experiments were eighth grade children; adult subjects gave the same
  general results.

Three facts stand out from the table: (1) Reading down the columns, we see that recitation
was always an advantage. (2) The advantage was more marked in the test conducted four hours
after study than in the test immediately following the study. To be sure, there is always a
falling off from the immediate to the later test; there is bound to be some forgetting when
the lesson has been studied for so short a time as here; but the forgetting proceeds more slowly
after recitation than after all reading. Recitation fixes the matter more durably. (3) The
advantage of recitation is less marked in the meaningful material than in case of nonsense
syllables, though it is marked in both cases. The reason is that meaningful material can better
be read observantly, time after time, than is possible with nonsense material. Continued reading
of nonsense material degenerates into a mere droning, while in repeatedly reading meaningful
material the learner who is keenly interested in mastering the passage is sure to keep his
mind ahead of his eyes to some extent, so that his reading becomes half recitation, after all.

Whence comes the advantage of recitation? It has a twofold advantage: it is more stimulating,
and it is more satisfying. When you know you are going to attempt recitation at once, you are
stimulated to observe positions, peculiarities, relationships, and meanings, and thus your
study {341} goes on at a higher level than when the test of your knowledge is still far away,
with many readings still to come. You are also stimulated to manipulate the material, by way
of grouping and rhythm.

On the side of satisfaction, recitation shows you what parts of the lesson you have mastered
and gives you the glow of increasing success. It shows you exactly where you are failing and
so stimulates to extra attention to those parts of the lesson. It taps the instincts of exploration,
manipulation, and mastery much more effectively than continued re-reading of the same lesson
can do. The latter becomes very uninteresting, monotonous and fatiguing.

Perhaps, after all, the greatest advantage of reciting is that it makes you do, in learning,
the very act that you have later to perform in the test; for what you have finally to do is
to recite the lesson without the book. When reading, you are doing something different; and
if it were altogether different, it probably would not help you at all towards success in the
test. But since intelligent reading consists partly in anticipating and outlining as you go,
it is a sort of half recitation, it is halfway doing what you are trying to learn to do. Memorizing
consists in performing an act, now, with assistance, that you later wish to perform without
assistance; and recitation first stimulates you to fashion the act conformably to the object
in view, and then exercises you in performing that act.

Spaced and unspaced repetition.

Another question on the economical management of memorizing: Is it better to keep steadily
going through the lesson till you have it, or to go through it at intervals? If you were allowed
a certain time, and no more, in which to prepare for examination on a certain memory lesson,
how could the study time be best distributed? This question also has received a very definite
answer.

{342}

Spaced repetitions are more effective than unspaced. In an experiment of Piéron, a practised
subject went through a list of twenty numbers with an interval of only thirty seconds between
readings, and needed eleven readings to master the list. But a similar list, with five-minute
intervals, was mastered in six readings; and the number of readings went down to five with
an interval of ten minutes, and remained the same for longer intervals up to two days. With
this particular sort of lesson, then, ten minutes was a long enough interval, and two days
not too long, to give the greatest economy of time spent in actual study.

In a somewhat different experiment in another laboratory, lists of nonsense syllables were
studied either two, four, or eight times in immediate succession, and this was repeated each
day till a total of twenty-four readings had been given to each list; then, one day after the
last reading of each list, the subjects were tested as to their memory of it. The result appears
in the adjoining table.

EFFECT OF SPACED STUDY ON ECONOMY OF MEMORIZING (From Jost)

  Distribution of
  the 24 readings                 Total score    Total score
                                  of Mr. B.      of Mr. M.
  8 readings a day for  3 days        18            7

  6 readings a day for  4 days        39           31

  2 readings a day for 12 days        58           55

The widest distribution gave the best score. Undoubtedly, then, if you had to memorize a poem
or speech, you would get better value for time spent if you read it once or twice at a time,
with intervals of perhaps a day, than if you attempted to learn it at one continuous sitting.
What exact spacing would give the very greatest economy would depend on the length and character
of the lesson.

Spaced study also fixes the matter more durably. Every student knows that continuous "cramming"
just before an {343} examination, while it may accomplish its immediate purpose, accomplishes
little for permanent knowledge.

When we say that spaced repetitions give best results in memorizing, that does not mean that
study generally should be in short periods with intervals of rest; it says nothing one way
or the other on that question. The probability is, since most students take a certain time
to get well "warmed up" to study, that fairly long periods of consecutive study would yield
larger returns than the same amount of time divided into many short periods. What we have been
saying here is simply that repetition of the same material fixes it better in memory, when
an interval (not necessarily an empty interval) elapses between the repetitions.

Whole versus part learning.

In memorizing a long lesson, is it more economical to divide it into parts, and study each
part by itself till mastered, or to keep the lesson entire and always go through the whole
thing? Most of us would probably guess that study part by part would be better, but experimental
results have usually been in favor of study of the whole.

If you had to memorize 240 lines of a poem, you would certainly be inclined to learn a part
at a time; but notice the following experiment. A young man took two passages of this length,
both from the same poem, and studied one by the whole method, the other by the part method,
in sittings of about thirty-five minutes each day. His results appear in the table.

LEARNING PASSAGES OF 240 LINES, BY WHOLE AND PART METHODS (Pyle and Snyder)

  Method of study                Number of days     Total number of
                                   required        minutes required

  30 lines memorized per day,
  then whole reviewed till it
  could be recited                      12              431

  3 readings of whole per day
  till it could be recited              10              348

{344}

Here there was an economy of eighty-three minutes, or nearly twenty per cent., by using the
whole method as against the part method. Similar experiments have regularly given the same
general result.

However, the matter is not quite so simple, as, under certain conditions, the results tend
the other way. Let us consider a very different type of learning test. A "pencil maze", consisting
of passages or grooves to be traced out with a pencil, while the whole thing was concealed
from the subject by a screen, was so arranged that it could be divided into four parts and
each part learned separately. Four squads of learners were used. Squads A and B learned the
maze as a whole, squads C and D part by part. Squads A and C learned by spaced trials, two
trials per day. Squad B learned the whole thing at one sitting; while squad D, which came off
best of all, learned one part a day for four days, and on the fifth day learned to put the
parts together. The results appear in the adjoining table, which shows the average time required
to master the maze by each of the four methods.

PART AND WHOLE LEARNING, SPACED AND UNSPACED, IN THE PENCIL MAZE (From Pechstein)

                         Spaced trials      Unspaced trials

Whole learning            A  641 seconds     B 1250 seconds

Part learning             C 1220 seconds     D  538 seconds

When the trials were spaced, the whole method was much the better; but when the trials were
bunched, the part method was much the better; and, on the whole, the unspaced part learning
was the best of all. Thus the result stands in apparent contradiction with two accepted laws:
that of the advantage of spaced learning, and that of the advantage of whole learning.

This contradiction warns us not to accept the "laws" {345} too blindly, but rather to analyze
out the factors of advantage in each method, and govern ourselves accordingly. Among the factors
involved are the following four:

(1) The factor of interest, confidence and visible accomplishment--the emotional factor, we
might call it. This is on the side of part learning, especially with beginners, who soon feel
out of their depth when wading into a long lesson, and lose hope of ever learning it in this
way. This factor is also largely on the side of unspaced as against spaced learning, when the
part studied is of moderate length and when there are recitations to keep up the interest;
for when the learner sees he is getting ahead, he would rather keep right on than wait for
another day to finish. To have a task that you can hope to accomplish at once, and to attack
it with the intention of mastering it at once, is very stimulating.

(2) The factor of recency, of "striking while the iron is hot". When an act has just been successfully
performed it can easily be repeated, and when a fact has just been observed it can readily
be put to use. This factor is clearly on the side of unspaced learning; and it is also on the
side of part learning, since by the time you have gone through the whole long lesson and got
back to where you are now, the recency value of what you have just now accomplished will have
evaporated.

(3) The factor of meaning, outlining and broad relationships. This is on the side of whole
learning, for it is when you are going through the whole that you catch its general drift,
and see the connections of the several parts and their places in the whole. This factor is
so important as to outweigh the preceding two in many cases, especially with experienced learners
dealing with meaningful material. Even if you should prefer the part method, you would be wise
to begin by a careful survey of the whole.

{346}

(4) The factor of permanency. This is something "physiological", and it is on the side of spaced
learning. The muscles profit more by exercise with intervals of rest than by a large amount
of continuous exercise, and no athlete would think for a moment of training for a contest of
strength by "cramming" for it. Apparently the neurones obey the same law as the muscles, and
for that reason spaced learning gives more durable results than unspaced.

Unintentional Learning

What we have been examining is intentional memorizing, with the "will to learn" strongly in
the game. The assertion has sometimes been made that the will to learn is necessary if any
learning is to be accomplished. We must look into this matter, for it has an important bearing
on the whole question of the process of learning.

There is a famous incident that occurred in a Swiss psychological laboratory, when a foreign
student was supposed to be memorizing a list of nonsense syllables. After the list had been
passed before him many times without his giving the expected signal that he was ready to recite,
the experimenter remarked that he seemed to be having trouble in memorizing the syllables.
"Oh! I didn't understand that I was to learn them", he said, and it was found that, in fact,
he had made almost no progress towards learning the list. He had been observing the separate
syllables, with no effort to connect them into a series.

Another incident: subjects were put repeatedly through a "color naming test", which consisted
of five colors repeated in irregular order, the object being to name the one hundred bits of
color as rapidly as possible. After the subjects had been through this test over two hundred
times, you would think they could recite it from memory; but not {347} at all! They had very
little memory of the order of the bits of color. Their efforts had been wholly concentrated
upon naming the bits as seen, and not in connecting them into a series that could be remembered.

The experiment described a few pages back on "paired associates" is another case in point.
The subjects memorized the pairs, but made no effort to connect the pairs in order, and consequently
were not able later to remember the order of the pairs.

Many somewhat similar experiments have been performed, with the object of measuring the reliability
of the testimony of eye-witnesses; and it has been found that testimony is very unreliable
except for facts that were specifically noted at the time. Enact a little scene before a class
of students who do not suspect that their memory of the affair is later to be tested, and you
will find that their memory for many facts that were before their eyes is hazy, absent, or
positively false.

These facts all emphasize the importance of the will to learn. But let us consider another
line of facts. An event occurs before our eyes, and we do notice certain facts about it, not
with any intention of remembering them later, but simply because they arouse our interest;
later, we recall such facts with great clearness and certainty. Or, we hear a tune time after
time, and gradually come to be able to sing it ourselves, without ever having attempted to
memorize it. Practically all that the child learns in the first few years of his life, he learns
without any "will to learn".

What is the difference between the case where the will to learn is necessary, and the case
where it is unnecessary? The difference is that in the one case we observe facts for the purpose
of committing them to memory, and in the other case we observe the facts without any such intention.
In both cases we remember what we have definitely observed, {348} and fail to remember what
we have not observed. Sometimes, to be sure, it is not so much observation as doing that is
operative. We may make a certain reaction with the object of learning it so as to make it later,
or we may make the reaction for some other reason; but in either case we learn it.

What is essential, then, is not the will to learn, but the doing and observing. The will to
learn is sometimes important, as a directive tendency, to steer doing and observing into channels
relevant to the particular memory task that we need to perform. But committing to memory seems
not to be any special form of activity; rather, it consists of reactions that also occur without
any view to future remembering. Not only do we learn by doing and observing, but doing and
observing are learning.

Retention

We come now to the second of our four main problems, and ask how we retain, or carry around
inside of us, what we have learned. The answer is, not by any process or activity. Retention
is a resting state, in which a learned reaction remains until the stimulus arrives that can
arouse it again. We carry around with us, not the reaction, but the machinery for making the
reaction.

Consider, for example, the retention of motor skill. A boy who has learned to turn a handspring
does not have to keep doing it all the time in order to retain it. He may keep himself in better
form by reviewing the performance occasionally, but he retains the skill even while eating
and sleeping. The same can be said of the retention of the multiplication table, or of a poem,
or of knowledge of any kind. The machinery that is retained consists very largely in brain
connections. Connections formed in the process of {349} learning remain behind in a resting
condition till again aroused to activity by some appropriate stimulus.

But the machinery developed in the process of learning is subject to the wasting effects of
time. It is subject to the law of "atrophy through disuse". Just as a muscle, brought by exercise
into the pink of condition, and then left long inactive, grows weak and small, so it is with
the brain connections formed in learning. With prolongation of the condition of rest, the machinery
is less and less able to function, till finally all retention of a once-learned reaction may
be lost.

But is anything once learned ever completely forgotten and lost? Some say no, being strongly
impressed by cases of recovery of memories that were thought to be altogether gone. Childhood
experiences that were supposed to be completely forgotten, and that could not at first be recalled
at all, have sometimes been recovered after a long and devious search. Sometimes a hypnotized
person remembers facts that he could not get at in the waking state. Persons in a fever have
been known to speak a language heard in childhood, but so long disused as to be completely
inaccessible in the normal state. Such facts have been generalized into the extravagant statement
that nothing once known is ever forgotten. For it is an extravagant statement. It would mean
that all the lessons you had ever learned could still be recited, if only the right stimulus
could be found to arouse them; it would mean that all the lectures you ever heard (and attended
to) are still retained, that all the stories you ever read are still retained, that all the
faces you ever noticed are still retained, that all the scenes and happenings that ever got
your attention could still be revived if only the right means were taken to revive them. There
is no evidence for any such extreme view.

The modern, scientific study of this matter began with {350} recognizing the fact that there
are degrees of retention, ranging all the way from one hundred per cent, to zero, and with
the invention of methods of measuring retention. Suppose you have memorized a list of twenty
numbers some time ago, and kept a record of the time you then took to learn it; since when
you have not thought of it again.

On attempting now to recite it, you make no headway and are inclined to think you have entirely
forgotten it. But, finding the list again, you relearn it, and probably find that your time
for relearning is less than the original learning time--unless the lapse of time has run into
months. Now consider--if no time at all were needed for relearning, because the list could
be recited easily without, your retention would be one hundred per cent. If, on the contrary,
it took you just as long now to relearn as it did originally to learn, the retention would
be zero. If it takes you now two-thirds as long to relearn as it originally took to learn,
then {351} one-third of the work originally done on the list does not have to be done over,
and this saving is the measure of retention.

By the use of this method, the curve of retention, or curve of forgetting, as it is also called,
has been determined. It is a curve that first goes down steeply, and then more and more gradually,
till it approximates to zero; which means that the loss of what has been learned proceeds rapidly
at first and then more and more slowly.

The curve of forgetting can be determined by other methods besides the saving method--by the
recall method or by the recognition method; and data obtained by these methods are given in
the adjoining tables. It will be seen that the different methods agree in showing a curve that
falls off more rapidly at first than later. More is lost in the first hour than in the second
hour, and more in the first week than in the second week. Few of the experiments have been
continued long enough to bring the curve actually to the zero line, but it has come very close
to that line in tests conducted after an interval of two to four months.

PER CENT. OF WORDS RECOGNIZED AT DIFFERENT INTERVALS AFTER BEING SEEN (From Strong)

  Interval between       Per cent. recognized with
  exposure and test      certainty and correctness

   15 secs.               84

    5 min.                73

   15 min.                62

   30 min.                58

    1 hour                56

    2 hours               50

    4 hours               47

    8 hours               40

   12 hours               38

    1 day                 29

    2 days                24

    4 days                19

    7 days                10

  The subject read a list of 20 disconnected words once through,
  giving careful attention to each word. Immediately at the close of
  the reading he performed an example in mental arithmetic, to prevent
  his reviewing the list of words mentally. After an interval, he was
  shown these {352} twenty words mixed with twenty others, and had to
  pick out those he surely recognized as having been shown before.
  Many lists were used, for testing after the different intervals.
  Five adult subjects took part in the experiment, and in all 15 lists
  were used with each interval; the per cents. given in the table are
  the averages for the 15 lists.

  THE PER CENT. OF ERROR IN RECALLING DETAILS OF A
  PICTURE AFTER DIFFERENT INTERVALS OF TIME
  (From Dallenbach)

  Time of test              Per cent, of error      Per cent of error
                            in spontaneous          in answering
                            recall                  questions regarding
 		                                    the picture

  Immediately after exposure     10                      14

  After  5 days                  14                      18

  After 15 days                  18                      20

  After 46 days                  22                      22

  The picture was placed in the subject's hands, and he examined it
  for one minute, at the end of which time he wrote down as complete a
  description of the picture as possible, and then answered a set of
  sixty questions covering all the features of the picture. After five
  days he was retested in the same way, and again after fifteen days,
  etc. In one respect this is not a typical memory experiment, since
  the test after five days would revive the subject's memory of the
  picture and slacken the progress of forgetting. The experiment
  corresponds more closely to the conditions of ordinary life, when we
  do recall a scene at intervals; or it corresponds to the conditions
  surrounding the eye-witness of a crime, who must testify regarding
  it, time after time, before police, lawyers and juries. However, the
  subjects in this experiment realized at the time that they were to
  be examined later, and studied the picture more carefully than the
  eye-witness of a crime would study the event occurring before his
  eyes; so that the per cent. of error was smaller here than can be
  expected in the courtroom.

It must be understood that this classical curve of forgetting only holds good, strictly, for
material that has barely been learned. Reactions that have been drilled in thoroughly and repeatedly
fall off very slowly at first, and the further course of the curve of forgetting has not been
accurately followed in their case. A typist who had spent perhaps two hundred hours in drill,
and then dropped typewriting for a year, recovered the lost ground in less than an hour of
fresh practice, so that the retention, as measured by the saving method, was over ninety-nine
per cent.

Somewhat different from the matter of the curve of forgetting is the question of the rate of
forgetting, as {353} dependent on various conditions. The rate of forgetting depends, first,
on the thoroughness of the learning, as we have just seen. It depends on the kind of material
learned, being very much slower for meaningful than for nonsense material, though both have
been learned equally well. Barely learned nonsense material is almost entirely gone by the
end of four months, but stanzas of poetry, just barely learned, have shown a perceptible retention
after twenty years.

Very fortunately, the principles of economy of memorizing hold good also for retention. Forgetting
is slower when relationships and connections have been found in the material than when the
learning has been by rote. Forgetting is slower after active recitation than when the more
passive, receptive method of study has been employed. Forgetting is slower after spaced than
after unspaced study, and slower after whole learning than after part learning.

An old saying has it that quick learning means quick forgetting, and that quick learners are
quick forgetters. Experiment does not wholly bear this out. A lesson that is learned quickly
because it is clearly understood is better retained than one which is imperfectly understood
and therefore slowly learned; and a learner who learns quickly because he is on the alert for
significant facts and connections retains better than a learner who is slow from lack of such
alertness. The wider awake the learner, the quicker will be his learning and the slower his
subsequent forgetting; so that one is often tempted to admonish a certain type of studious
but easy-going person, "for goodness' sake not to dawdle over his lessons", with any idea that
the more time he spends with them the longer he will remember them. More gas! High pressure
gives the biggest results, provided only it is directed into high-level observation, and does
not simply generate fear and worry and a rattle-brained frenzy of rote learning.

{354}

Recall

Having committed something to memory, how do we get it back when we want it? To judge from
such simple cases as the animal's performance of a previously learned reaction, all that is
necessary is a stimulus previously linked with the response. How, for example, shall we get
the cat to turn the door-button, this being an act that the cat has previously learned? Why,
we put the cat into the same cage, i.e., we supply the stimulus that has previously given the
reaction, and trust to it to give the same reaction again. The learning process has attached
this reaction to this stimulus. Now can we say the same regarding material committed to memory
by the human subject? Is recall a species of learned reaction that needs only the linked stimulus
to arouse it?

If you have learned and still retain a list of numbers or syllables, you can recite it on thinking
of it, on hearing words that identify it in your mind, or on being given the first few items
in the list as a start. The act of reciting the list became linked, during the learning, with
the thought of the list, with words signifying this particular list, and with the first items
of the list; therefore, these stimuli can now arouse the reaction of reciting the list. As
you advance into the list, reciting it, the parts already recited act as stimuli to keep you
going forward. In the same way, if you have memorized Hamlet's soliloquy, this title serves
as the stimulus to make you recall the beginning of the speech and that in turn calls up the
next part and so on; or, if you have analyzed the speech into an outline, the title calls up
the outline and the outline acts as the stimulus to call up the several parts that were attached
to the outline in the process of memorization. When one idea calls up another, the first acts
as a stimulus and the second is a {355} response previously attached to this stimulus. In general,
then, recall is a learned response to a stimulus.

There is an exceptional case, where recall seems to occur without any stimulus. This form of
recall goes by the name of perseveration, and a good instance of it is the "running of a tune
in the head", shortly after it has been heard. Another instance is the vivid flashing of scenes
of the day before the "mind's eye" as one lies in bed before going to sleep. It appears as
if the sights or sounds came up of themselves and without any stimulus. Possibly there is some
vague stimulus which cannot itself be detected. Only a slight stimulus would be needed, because
these recent and vivid experiences are so easily aroused.

Difficulties in recall.

Sometimes recall fails to materialize when we wish it and have good reason for expecting it.
We know this person's name, as is proved by the fact that we later recall it, but at the moment
we cannot bring it up. We know the answer to this examination question, but in the heat of
the examination we give the wrong answer, though afterwards the right answer comes to mind.
This seldom happens with thoroughly learned facts, but frequently with facts that are moderately
well known. Some sort of inhibition or interference blocks recall.

One type of interference is emotional. Fear may paralyze recall. Anxious self-consciousness,
or stage fright, has prevented the recall of many a well-learned speech, and interfered with
the skilful performance of many a well-trained act.

Distraction is an interference, since it keeps the stimulus from exerting its full effect.
Sometimes the stimulus that is present has been linked with two or more responses, and these
get in each other's way; as you will sometimes hear a speaker hesitate and become confused
from having two ways {356} of expressing the same thought occur to him at almost the same instant.

Helps in recall.

There are no sure rules for avoiding these intricate interferences; and, in general, recall
being a much less manageable process than memorizing, we do not have anything like the same
mass of practical information regarding it. One or two suggestions have some value, however.

(1) Give the stimulus a good chance. Look squarely at the person whose name you wish to recall,
avoiding doubt as to your ability to recall it; for doubt is itself a distraction. Put yourself
back into the time when you formerly used this person's name. In extemporaneous speaking, go
ahead confidently, avoid worry and self-consciousness, and, full of your subject, trust to
your ideas to recall the words as needed. Once carried away with his subject, a speaker may
surprise himself by his own fluency.

(2) Drop the matter for a while, and come back to it afresh. Sometimes, when you cannot at
once recall a name, it does no good to keep doggedly hunting, while half an hour later you
get it without the least trouble. The explanation of this curious phenomenon is found in interference
and the dying out of interference. At your first attempt to recall the name, you simply got
on the wrong track, and thus gave this wrong track the "recency" advantage over the right track;
but this temporary advantage fades out rapidly with rest and leaves the advantage with the
track most used in the past.

The rule to drop a matter when baffled and confused, and take it up again when fresh, can be
used in more complex cases than hunting for a name. When, in trying to solve any sort of problem,
you find yourself in a rut, about the only escape is to back off, rest up, and make an entirely
fresh start.

{357}

Recognition

The fourth question propounded at the beginning of the chapter, as to how we can know that
the fact now recalled is what we formerly committed to memory and now wish to recall, is part
of the larger question of how we recognize. What we recognize includes not only facts recalled,
but also facts not recalled but presented a second time to the senses. Recognition of objects
seen, heard, touched, etc., is the most rudimentary form of memory. The baby shows signs of
recognizing persons and things before he shows signs of recall. A little later, he recognizes
and understands words before he begins to speak (recall) them; and everybody's vocabulary of
recognized words remains much greater than his speaking vocabulary. We recognize faces that
we could not recall, and names that we could not recall. In short, recognition is easier than
recall.

Consequently any theory of recognition that makes it depend on recall can scarcely be correct.
One such theory held that an object is recognized by recalling its original setting in past
experience; an odor would be recognized by virtue of recalling the circumstances under which
it was formerly experienced. Now sometimes it does happen that an odor which seems familiar,
but cannot be identified, calls up a past experience and thus is fully recognized; but such
"indirect recognition" is not the usual thing, for direct recognition commonly takes place
before recall of the past experience has time to occur. You see a person, and know him at once,
though it may require some moments before you can recall where and when you have seen him before.

Recognition may be more or less complete. At its minimum, it is simply a "feeling of familiarity"
with the object; at its maximum it is locating the object precisely in your autobiography.
You see a man, and say, "He looks {358} familiar, I must have seen him somewhere", and then
it dawns on you, "Oh! yes, now I know exactly who he is; he is the man who . . ." Between these
extremes lie various degrees of recognition. This man seems to be some one seen recently, or
a long, long time ago, or at the seashore, or as a salesman in a store; or as some one you
looked up to, or felt hostility towards, or were amused at; and often these impressions turn
out to be correct, when you succeed in fully recognizing the person. These impressions resemble
the first signs of recognition in the baby's behavior; you say that the baby remembers people
because he smiles at one who has pleased him before, and shrinks from one who has displeased him.

Recognition described in terms of stimulus and response.

Recognition is a form of learned response, depending on previous reaction to the object recognized.
To recognize an object is to respond to it as we responded before--except for the feeling of
familiarity, which could not occur the first time we saw the object. But notice this: though
the object is the same identical object it was before, it may have changed somewhat. At least,
its setting is different; this is a different time and perhaps a different place, and the circumstances
are bound to be more or less different. In spite of this difference in the situation, we make
the same response as before.

Now, the response we made to the object in its original setting was a response to the whole
situation, object plus setting; our response to the object was colored by its setting. When
we now recognize the object, we make the same response to the object in a different setting;
the response originally called out by the object plus its setting is now aroused by the object
alone. Consequently we have an uneasy feeling of responding to a situation that is not present.
{359} This uneasy feeling is the feeling of familiarity in its more haunting and "intriguing" form.

We see some one who seems familiar and who arouses a hostile attitude in us that is not accounted
for in the least by his present actions. We have this uneasy feeling of responding to a situation
that is not present, and cannot rest till we have identified the person and justified our hostile
attitude.

Or, we see some one who makes us feel as if we had had dealings with him before in a store
or postoffice where he must have served us; we find ourselves taking the attitude towards him
that is appropriate towards such a functionary, though there is nothing in his present setting
to arouse such an attitude. Or, we see some one in the city streets who seems to put us back
into the atmosphere of a vacation at the seashore, and by searching our memory we finally locate
him as an individual we saw at such and such a resort. At other times, the feeling of familiarity
is rather colorless, because the original situation in which the person was encountered was
colorless; but we still have the feeling of responding to something that is not present. We
make, or start to make, the same response to the person that we originally made to him plus
his setting, and this response to something that is not there gives the feeling of familiarity.

When we see the same person time after time in the same setting, as when we go into the same
store every morning and buy a paper from the same man, we cease to have any strong feeling
of familiarity at sight of him, the reason being that we are always responding to him in the
same setting, and consequently have no feeling of responding to something that is not there.
But if we see this same individual in a totally different place, he may give us a queer feeling
of familiarity. When we see the same person time after time {360} in various settings, we end
by separating him from his surroundings and responding to him alone, and therefore the familiarity
feeling disappears.

Complete recognition, or "placing" the object, involves something more than these feelings
and rudimentary reactions. It involves the recall of a context or scheme of events, and a fitting
of the object into the scheme.

Memory Training

The important question whether memory can be improved by any form of training breaks up, in
the light of our previous analysis, into the four questions, whether memorizing can be improved,
whether the power of retention can be improved, whether recall can be improved, and whether
recognition can be improved. As to recognition, it is difficult to imagine how to train it;
the process is so elusive and so direct. It has been found, however, that practice in recognizing
a certain class of objects improves one's standards of judgment as to whether a feeling of
familiarity is reliable or not; it enables one to distinguish between feelings that have given
correct recognitions and the vaguer feelings that often lead one astray.

As to recall, certain hints were given above as to the efficient management of this process,
and probably practice in recalling a certain sort of facts, checked up by results, would lead
to improvement.

As to retention, since this is not a performance but a resting state, how could we possibly
go about to effect an improvement? One individual's brain is, to be sure, more retentive than
another's; but that seems a native trait, not to be altered by training.

On the other hand, the process of committing to memory, being a straightforward and controllable
activity, is {361} exceedingly susceptible to training, and it is there, for the most part,
that memory training should be concentrated in order to yield results. It does yield marked
results. In the laboratory, the beginner in learning lists of nonsense syllables makes poor
work of it. He is emotionally wrought up and uncertain of himself, goes to work in a random
way (like any beginner), perhaps tries to learn by pure rote or else attempts to use devices
that are ill-adapted to the material, and has a slow and tedious job of it. With practice in
learning this sort of material, he learns to observe suitable groupings and relationships,
becomes sure of himself and free from the distraction of emotional disturbance, and may even
come to enjoy the work. Certainly he improves greatly in speed of memorizing nonsense syllables.
If, instead, he practises on Spenser's "Faery Queen", he improves in that, and may cut down
his time for memorizing a twelve-line stanza from fifteen minutes to five. This improvement
is due to the subject's finding out ways of tackling this particular sort of material. He gets
used to Spenser's style and range of ideas. And so it is with any kind of material; practice
in memorizing it brings great improvement in memorizing that particular material.

Whether practice with one sort of material brings skill that can be "transferred", or carried
over to a second kind of material, is quite another question. Usually the amount of transfer
is small compared with the improvement gained in handling the first material, or compared with
the improvement that will result from specific training with the second kind. What skill is
transferred consists partly of the habit of looking for groupings and relationships, and partly
in the confidence in one's own ability as a memorizer. It is really worth while taking part
in a memory experiment, just to know what you can accomplish after a little training. Most
persons who complain of poor memory would be {362} convinced by such an experiment that their
memory was fundamentally sound. But these laboratory exercises do not pretend to develop any
general "power of memory", and the much advertised systems of memory training are no more justified
in such a claim. What is developed, in both cases, is skill in memorizing certain kinds of
material so as to pass certain forms of memory test.

One who suffers from poor memory for any special material, as names, errands, or engagements,
probably is not going to work right in committing the facts to memory; and if he gives special
attention to this particular matter, keeping tab on himself to see whether he improves, he
is likely to find better ways of fixing the facts and to make great improvement. It was said
of a certain college president of the older day that he never failed to call a student or alumnus
by name, after he had once met the man. How did he do it? He had the custom of calling each
man in the freshman class into his office for a private interview, during which, besides fatherly
advice, he asked the man personal questions and studied him intently. He was interested in
the man, he formed a clear impression of his personality, and to that personality he carefully
attached the name. Undoubtedly this able scholar was possessed of an unusually retentive memory;
but his memory for names depended largely on his method of committing them to memory.

Contrast this with the casual procedure of most of us on being introduced to a person. Perhaps
we scarcely notice the name, and make no effort to attach the name to the personality. To have
a good memory for names, one needs to give attention and practice to this specific matter.
It is the same with memory for errands; it can be specifically trained. Perhaps the best general
hint here is to connect the errand beforehand in your mind with the {363} place where you should
think, during the day, to do the errand.

Often some little mnemonic system will help in remembering disconnected facts, but such devices
have only a limited field of application and do not in the least improve the general power
of memory. Some speakers, in planning out a speech, locate each successive "point" in a corner
of the hall, or in a room of their own house; and when they have finished one point, look into
the next corner, or think of the next room, and find the following point there. It would seem
that a well-ordered discourse should supply its own logical cues so that such artificial aids
would be unnecessary.

In training the memory for the significant facts that constitute the individual's knowledge
of his business in life, the best rule is to systematize and interrelate the facts into a coherent
whole. Thus, a bigger and stronger stimulus is provided for the recall of any item. This, along
with the principles of "economy" in memorizing, is the best suggestion that psychology has
to make towards memory improvement.

{364}

EXERCISES

1. In outlining the chapter, regroup the material so as to separate
   the practical applications from the description of memory
   processes. This gives you two main heads: A. Memory processes, and
   B. The training and management of memory. Each of these main heads
   should be divided into four sub-heads: Memorizing, retention, etc.,
   and the information contained in the chapter grouped under these
   sub-heads.

2. Disorders of memory can be classified under the four heads of
   disorders of learning, of retention, of recall and of recognition.
   Where would you place each of the following?

  (a) Aphasia, where, through brain injury, the subject's
      vocabulary is very much reduced.

  (b) The condition of the very old person, who cannot remember
      what has happened during the day, though he still remembers
      experiences of his youth.

  (c) The "feeling of having been there before", in which you have
      a weird impression that what is happening now has happened in
      just the same way before, as if events were simply repeating
      themselves.

  (d) The loss of memory which sometimes occurs after a physical
      or emotional shock, or after a fever, and which passes away
      after a time.

3. How fully can you recall what happened on some interesting
   occasion when you were a child of 5-8 years? Dwell on the
   experience, and see whether you get back more than at first seemed
   possible. Try the same with an experience of five years ago.

4. If a student came to you for advice, complaining of poor memory,
   and said that though he put hours and hours on a lesson and read it
   over many times, still he failed on it, what questions would you
   ask regarding his method of study, and what suggestions would you
   offer?

5. An experiment on memorising lists of numbers. Prepare several
   lists of 20 digits, and shuffle them; draw out one and take your
   time for learning it to the point of perfect recitation. Write an
   introspective account of the process. Repeat with a second list

6. An experiment in memorizing word-pairs. Prepare 20 pairs of
   words as follows: take 20 cards or slips of paper, and write a
   different word on each. Then turn them over, shuffle, and write
   another word on the back of each. Thus, though you may know what
   words you have written, you do not how how they are paired; and now
   your job is to learn the pairs. Note starting time, take the first
   card and look at both {365} sides, and study the pair of words on
   this card for about 5 seconds, passing then to the second card, and
   so on through the pack. Shuffle the pack, take the top card and
   give yourself about 5 seconds to recall the word on the reverse,
   then turning the card over and reading it. Proceed in this way
   through the pack, shuffle again, and repeat. Continue thus till you
   score 100 per cent. Note total time required, and report on process
   of memorizing.

7. Memorizing a series of related words. Prepare a list of 40
   words, as follows: first write the numbers 1 to 40 in a column;
   then write any word for No. 1; for No. 2, write some word closely
   related to No. 1; for No. 3 some word closely related to No. 2; and
   so on. Your list, for example, might begin like this: house, roof,
   chimney, soot, fire, coal, mine, miner, strike, arbitration, etc.
   Having finished writing your list, cover it and see how much of it
   you can recite without further study, and how long it takes you to
   complete the memorizing. Explain the results obtained.

8. Plot the curve of forgetting from the following data, which give
   the per cent, of retention of stanzas of a poem at different
   intervals after the end of memorizing.

     after  1 day  79%
     after  2 days 67%
     after  6 days 42%
     after 14 days 30%
     after 30 days 24%

REFERENCES

Ebbinghaus, On Memory, 1885, translated by Ruger and Bussenius, 1918. This is the pioneer experimental
study of memory, and is still worth reading, and is not specially hard reading.

James's chapter on Memory, in Vol. I of his Principles of Psychology, 1890, is still one of
the best references, and contains some important remarks on the improvement of memory.

Of the numerous special studies on memory, mention may be made of that by Arthur I. Gates,
Recitation as a Factor in Memorizing, 1917, which, on pp. 65-104, gives a valuable account
of the various devices used by one who is memorizing.

For the psychology of testimony, see G. M. Whipple's article on "The Obtaining of Information:
Psychology of Observation and Report", in the Psychological Bulletin for 1918, Vol. 15, pp.
217-248, especially pp. 233-248. See also a popularly written account of the matter by Münsterberg,
in On the Witness Stand, 1908, pp. 15-69.

{366}

CHAPTER XV

ASSOCIATION AND MENTAL IMAGERY

SOMETHING ABOUT THINKING AS RELATED TO MEMORY

Memory plays a part, not only in "memory work", and not only in remembering particular past
experiences, but in all sorts of thinking. Recall furnishes the raw material for thought. A
large share of any one's daily work, whether it be manual or mental, depends on the recall
of previously learned reactions. Most of the time, though we are not exactly trying to remember
facts committed to memory, we are recalling what we have previously learned, and utilizing
the recalled material for our present purposes. For example, in conversation we recall words
to express our meaning, and we recall the meanings of the words we hear. In adding a column
of figures, we recall the sums of the numbers. In cooking a meal, we recall the ingredients
of the dish we wish to prepare, and the location of the various materials and utensils required
for our purpose. In planning a trip, we recall places and routes. Any sort of problem is solved
by means of recalled facts put together in a new way. A writer in constructing a story puts
together facts that he has previously noted, and any work of the imagination consists of materials
recalled from past experience and now built into a new composition.

What Can Be Recalled

If recall is so important in thinking and acting, it is worth while to make a survey of the
materials that recall {367} furnishes. In general, using the term "recall" rather broadly,
we say that any previously learned reaction may be recalled. Writing movements may be said
to be recalled when we write, and speech movements when we speak. "Higher units", like the
word habits and phrase habits of the telegrapher and typist, are in a broad sense recalled
whenever they are used. The typist does not by any means recall the experience of learning
a higher unit, but he calls into action again the response that he has learned to make. In
the same way, the word habits and phrase habits of vocal speech are called into action, i.e.,
recalled, whenever we speak.

Besides these motor reactions, tendencies to reaction can be recalled. The attitude of hostility
that may have become habitual in us towards a certain person, or towards a certain task, is
called into activity at the mention of that person or task. The acquired interest in architecture
that we may have formed by reading or travel is revived by the sight of an ambitious group
of buildings. A slumbering purpose may be recalled into activity by some relevant stimulus.

Observed facts can be recalled, and this is the typically human form of recall. In animals,
we see the recall of tendencies and of learned movements, but no clear evidence of the recall
of observed facts. To be recalled with certainty, a fact must have been definitely noted when
it was before us. If we have definitely noted the color of a person's eyes, we are in a position
to testify that his eyes are brown, for example; otherwise, we may say that we think probably
his eyes are brown; because we have certainly noticed that he is dark, and the dark eyes fit
best into this total impression.

We say that a fact is recalled when we think of it without its being present to the senses.
While the original {368} observation of the fact was a response to a sensory stimulus, the
recall of it is a response to some other stimulus, some "substitute stimulus". When John is
before me, I observe that his eyes are brown in response to a visual stimulus; but I later
recall this fact in response simply to the name "John", or in response to the question as to
what is the color of John's eyes. I see what a square is by seeing squares and handling them,
and later I get this idea simply in response to the word "square" in conversation or reading.

Memory Images

Now, can sensations be recalled, can they be aroused except by their natural sensory stimuli?
Can you recall the color blue, or the sound of a bugle, or the odor of camphor, or the feel
of a lump of ice held in the hand? Almost every one will reply "Yes" to some at least of these
questions. One may have a vivid picture of a scene before the "mind's eye", and another a realistic
sound in the "mind's ear", and they may report that the recalled experience seems essentially
the same as the original sensation. Therefore, sensory reactions are no exception to the rule
of recall by a substitute stimulus.

A sensation or complex of sensations recalled by a substitute stimulus is called a "mental
image" or a "memory image".

Individuals seem to differ in the vividness or realism of their memory images--the likeness
of the image to an actual sensation--more than in any other respect. Galton, in taking a sort
of census of mental imagery, asked many persons to call up the appearance of their breakfast
table as they had sat down to it that morning, and to observe how lifelike the image was, how
complete, how adequate in respect to color, how steady and lasting, and to compare {369} the
image in these respects with the sensory experience aroused by the actual presence of the scene.
Some individuals reported that the image was "in all respects the same as an original sensation",
while others denied that they got anything at all in the way of recalled sensation, though
they could perfectly well recall definite facts that they had observed regarding the breakfast
table. The majority of people gave testimony intermediate between these extremes.

Individuals differ so much in this respect that they scarcely credit each other's testimony.
Some who had practically zero imagery held that the "picture before the mind's eye" spoken
of by the poets was a myth or mere figure of speech; while those who were accustomed to vivid
images could not understand what the others could possibly mean by "remembering facts about
the breakfast table without having any image of it", and were strongly tempted to accuse them
of poor introspection, if not worse. It is true that in attempting to study images, we have
to depend altogether on introspection, since no one can objectively observe another person's
memory image, and therefore we are exposed to all the unreliability of the unchecked introspective
method. But at the same time, when you cross-question an individual whose testimony regarding
his imagery is very different from yours, you find him so consistent in his testimony and so
sure he is right, that you are forced to conclude to a very real difference between him and
yourself. You are forced to conclude that the power of recalling sensations varies from something
like one hundred per cent, down to practically zero.

Individuals may also differ in the kind of sensation that they can vividly recall. Some who
are poor at recalling visual sensations do have vivid auditory images, and others who have
little of either visual or auditory imagery call up {370} kinesthetic sensations without difficulty.
When this was first discovered, a very pretty theory of "imagery types" was built upon it.
Any individual, so it was held, belonged to one or another type: either he was a "visualist",
thinking of everything as it appears to the eyes, or he was an "audile", thinking of everything
according to its sound, or he was a "motor type", dealing wholly in kinesthetic imagery, or
he might, in rare cases, belong to the olfactory or gustatory or tactile type.

But the progress of investigation showed, first, that a "mixed type" must also be admitted,
to provide for individuals who easily called up images of two or more different senses; and,
later on, that the mixed type was the most common. In fact, it is now known to be very unusual
for an individual to be confined to images of a single sense. Nearly every one gets visual
images more easily and frequently than those of any other sense, but nearly every one has,
from time to time, auditory, kinesthetic, tactile and olfactory images. So that the "mixed
type" is the only real type, the extreme visualist or audile, etc., being exceptional and not
typical.

{371}

Limitations of Imagery

Recalled sensations are commonly inferior to their originals, both in the enjoyment they afford
and in the use that can be made of them. They are likely to be inferior in several respects.

(1) An image has usually less color, or tone--less body, realism and full sensory quality--than
a sensation aroused by its appropriate peripheral stimulus. While you may be able to call up
a fairly good image of your absent friend's face, the actual presence of your friend would
be more satisfactory, just as a sensory experience. You may be able to run over a piece of
music "in your head", and if your auditory imagery is strong you may even run over an orchestral
piece, and get the tone quality of the various instruments; but, after all, such a mental concert
is an imperfect substitute for a real orchestra. You enjoy a real whiff of the sea more than
the best olfactory image you can summon. There is something lacking in these recalled sensations,
and the trouble seems to be that they are not sensations enough; they lack sensory body.

(2) Images are apt to be sketchy and lacking in detail, and also narrow and lacking in background.

(3) Images are apt to be unsteady and fleeting, as compared with actual sensations. Where the
peripheral stimulus, continuing, keeps the sensation going, the substitute stimulus that recalls
a sensation is not so effective in this respect, any more than in giving body and detail. In
all these respects, an image is less enjoyable and satisfying than an actual sensation.

(4) On the more practical side, images are inferior to the actual presence of an object, in
that we cannot utilize the image as a source of new information. {372} We cannot observe facts
in the image of a thing that we have not observed in the actual presence of the thing.

At one of the universities, there is a beautiful library building, with a row of fine pillars
across the front, and the students pass this building every day and enjoy looking at it. It
has long been a favorite experiment in the psychology classes at that university to have the
students call up an image of the library, and to have them state how clear their image is,
how complete and how vivid. Then they are asked to count the pillars from their image, and
to tell what kind of capitals the pillars have, and whether the shafts are plain or fluted.
But at this point the students begin to object. "We have never counted those pillars, and cannot
be expected to know the number now." In fact, few of them give the correct number, and those
who have reported clear and vivid images are little better off in this respect than those whose
images are dim and vague.

The image, then, does not give you facts that you did not observe in the presence of the object.
The substitute stimulus, which now recalls the image, only recalls responses which you made
when the real object was the stimulus. If you looked at the object simply to get its general
appearance, the general appearance is all you can recall. If you noted the color of the object,
you can probably recall the color. If you noted such details as the number of pillars, you
can recall these details. But the substitute stimulus that now arouses the image is by no means
the equivalent of the original peripheral stimulus in making possible a variety of new reactions.
Its only linkage is with reactions actually made by you in response to the real object. The
substitute stimulus, such as the name of a building, became linked with responses actually
made by you, not with responses that you simply might have made, when the object was present.
This important fact is closely related to the {373} unreliability of testimony that was mentioned
before under the head of "unintentional memory". [Footnote: See pp. 346-348.] Facts recalled
are facts previously observed.

It is true, of course, that recalled facts can be compared and new facts be observed by the
comparison. We may recall how John looks, and how James looks, and note the fact, not previously
observed, that they look alike. A great deal can be inferred in this way by a person who is
sitting in his room far from the objects thought about. But this noting of the relationships
of different objects is a very different matter from observing what is there, in a single object
or scene. What is there can only be observed when you are there.

The Question of Non-Sensory Recall

Many observed facts are not strictly facts of sensation, though observed by means of the senses.
Let us suppose, for an example, that your attention is caught by the bright green new leaves
at the tips of the branches of an evergreen tree in summer, and that you notice also the darker
green of the older leaves further back along the branches, and, exploring deeper, find leaves
that are dead and brown, while still further in they have all fallen off, leaving bare branches
reaching back to the trunk; so that you finally "see" how the tree is constructed, as a hollow
cone of foliage supported by an interior framework of branches. All this has meant a lot of
different reactions on your part, and the final "seeing" of how the tree is constructed would
scarcely be called a sensation, since it has required mental work beyond that of simply seeing
the tree. It is a response additional to the strictly sensory response of seeing the tree.

Now the question is whether this additional response can be recalled, without recalling at
the same time the primary {374} response of seeing the tree. Can we recall the fact observed
about the tree without at the same time seeing the tree "in the mind's eye"? Must we necessarily
have an image of the tree when we recall the way the tree is constructed?

Since getting the general sensory appearance of the tree, and observing the way it is constructed,
are two different responses, it seems quite conceivable that either fact should be recalled
without the other; and no one doubts that the sensory appearance of the tree can be recalled
without the other observed fact coming up along with it. But many authorities have held that
the non-sensory fact could not be recalled alone; in other words, they have held that every
recalled fact comes as a sensory image, or with a sensory image. Persons with ready visual
imagery are of course likely to get a visual image with any fact they may recall. But persons
whose visual imagery is hard to arouse say that they recall facts without any visual image.
I who write these words, being such a person, testify that while I have been writing and thinking
about that tree I have not seen it before my mind's eye.

It is true, however, that I have had images during this time--auditory images of words expressing
the facts mentioned. Another individual might have had kinesthetic images instead of either
visual or auditory. But can there be a recall of fact without any sensory image?

On this question, which has been called the question of "imageless thought", though it might
better be called that of "imageless recall", controversy has raged and is not yet at rest,
so that a generally accepted conclusion cannot be stated. But the best indications are to the
effect, first, that vague and fleeting images, especially of the kinesthetic sort, are often
present without being detected except by very fine introspection, some image being pretty sure
to come up every few seconds when we are engaged in silent thought or {375} recall; but, second,
that images are not present every second of the time, and that at the instant when a non-sensory
fact is recalled it is apt to be alone.

Hallucinations

Since a vivid mental image may be "in all respects the same as an actual sensation", according
to the testimony of some people, the question arises how, then, an image is distinguished from
a sensation. Well, the image does not usually fit into the objective situation present to the
senses. But if it does fit, or if the objective situation is lost track of, then, as a matter
of fact, the image may be taken for a sensation.

You see some beautiful roses in the florist's window, and you smell them; the odor fits into
the objective situation very well, till you notice that the shop door is shut and the window
glass impervious to odors, from which you conclude that the odor must have been your image.

You are lost in thought of an absent person, till, forgetting where you are, you seem to see
him entering the door; he "fits" well enough for an instant, but then the present situation
forces itself upon you and the image takes its proper place.

You are half asleep, almost lost to the world, and some scene comes before you so vividly as
to seem real till its oddity wakens you to the reality of your bedroom. Or you are fully asleep,
and then the images that come are dreams and seem entirely real, since contact with the objective
situation has been broken.

Images taken for real things are common in some forms of mental disorder. Here the subject's
hold on objective fact is weakened by his absorption in his own desires and fears, and he hears
reviling voices and smells suspicious {376} odors or sees visions that are in line with his
desires and fears.

Such false sensations are called "hallucinations". An hallucination is an image taken for a
sensation, a recalled fact taken for a present objective fact. It is a sensory response, aroused
by a substitute stimulus, without the subject's noticing that it is thus aroused instead of
by its regular peripheral stimulus.

Synesthesia.

Quite a large number of people are so constituted as to hear sounds as if colored, a deep tone
perhaps seeming dark blue, the sound of a trumpet a vivid red, etc. Each vowel and even each
consonant may have its own special color, which combine to give a complex color scheme for
a word. Numbers also may be colored. This colored hearing is the commonest form of "synesthesia",
which consists in responding to a stimulus acting on one sense, by sensations belonging to
a different sense. Whether the persons so constituted as to respond in this way are constituted
thus by nature or by experience is uncertain, though the best guess is that the extra sensations
are images that have become firmly attached to their substitute stimuli during early childhood.

Free Association

Mental processes that depend on recall are called "associative processes", since they make
use of associations or linkages previously formed. When some definite interest or purpose steers
the associative processes, we speak of "controlled association", contrasting this with the
"free association" that occurs in an idle mood, when one thought simply calls up another with
no object in view and no more than fleeting desires to give direction to the sequence of thoughts.

Revery affords the best example of free association. I {377} see my neighbor's dog out of my
window, and am reminded of one time when I took charge of that dog while my neighbor was away,
and then of my neighbor's coming back and taking the dog from the cellar where I had shut him
up; next of my neighbor's advice with respect to an automobile collision in which I was concerned;
next of the stranger with whom I had collided, and of the stranger's business address on the
card which he gave me; next comes a query as to this stranger's line of business and whether
he was well-to-do; and from there my thoughts switch naturally to the high cost of living.

This is rather a drab, middle-aged type of revery, and youth might show more life and color;
but the linkages between one thought and the next are typical of any revery. The linkages belong
in the category of "facts previously observed". I had previously observed the ownership of
this dog by my neighbor, and this observation linked the dog and the neighbor and enabled the
dog to recall the neighbor to my mind. Most of the linkages in this revery are quite concrete,
but some are rather abstract, such as the connection between being well-to-do (or not) and
the high cost of living; but, concrete or abstract, they are connections previously observed
by the subject. Sometimes the linkage keeps the thoughts within the sphere of the same original
experience, and sometimes switches them from one past experience to another, or even away from
any specific past experience to general considerations; yet always the linkage has this character,
that the item that now acts as stimulus has been formerly combined in observation with the
other item that now follows as the response. One fact recalls another when the two have been
previously observed as belonging together.

But suppose, as is commonly the case, that the fact now present in my mind has been linked,
in different past {378} experiences, with several different facts. Then two questions demand
our attention: whether all these facts are recalled; and, if not, what gives the advantage
to the fact actually recalled over the others that are not recalled.

The answer to the first question is plain. The fact first present in mind does not call up
all the associated facts, but usually only one of them, or at least only one at a time. My
neighbor, in the example given, though previously associated with a dozen other facts, now
calls up but two of these facts, and those two not simultaneously but one after the other.
We see a law here that is very similar to a law stated under the head of attention. There,
we said that of all the objects before us that might be noticed only one was noticed at a time;
and here we say that of all the objects that might be recalled to mind by association only
one is recalled at a time. Both statements can be combined into the one general "law of reaction"
which was mentioned before, that of all the responses linked to a given stimulus (or complex
of stimuli) only one is actually aroused at the same instant, though several may be aroused
in succession, provided the stimulus continues.

In revery, the stimulus usually does not continue. The first fact thought of gives way to the
fact that it recalls, and that to one that it recalls in turn, and so on, without much dwelling
on any fact. But if we do dwell on any fact--as upon the thought of a certain person--then
this stimulus, continuing to act, calls up in succession quite a number of associated facts.

If, then, only one of the several facts associated with the stimulus is recalled at once, our
second question presents itself, as to what are the factors of advantage that cause one rather
than another of the possible responses to occur. The fact first in mind might have called up
any one of several facts, having been linked with each of them in past {379} experience; and
we want to know why it recalls one of these facts rather than the rest.

The factors of advantage in recall are the factors that determine the strength of linkage between
two facts; and they are:

  the frequency with which the linkage has occurred;
  the recency with which it has occurred; and
  the intensity with which it has occurred.

If I have frequently observed the connection of two facts, the linkage between them is strong;
if I have recently observed their connection, the linkage between them is strong till the "recency
value" dies away; and if my observation of the connection of the two facts was a vivid experience,
or intense reaction, then, also, the linkage between them is strong. If these three factors
of advantage work together in favor of the same response, then that response is sure to occur;
but if the three factors pull different ways, we should have to figure out the balance of advantage
before we could predict which of the possible responses would actually be made. Naturally enough,
even the skilful psychologist is often unable to strike the balance between the three factors.
He does know, however, and all of us know in a practical way, that strong recency value offsets
a lot of frequency; so that a mere vague allusion to a very recent topic of conversation can
be depended on to recall the right facts to the hearer's mind, even though they lie outside
of his habitual line of interest. "James", by virtue of frequency, means your brother or friend;
but after the lecturer has been talking about the psychologist James, repetition of this name
infallibly recalls the psychologist to mind.

Besides frequency, recency and intensity, there is, indeed, another factor to be taken into
account; and that is the {380} present state of the subject's mind. If he is unhappy, unpleasant
associations have the advantage; if happy, pleasant. If he is absorbed in a given matter, facts
related to that matter have the advantage. Frequency, recency and intensity summarize the history
of associations, and measure their strength as dependent on their history; but the present
state of mind is an additional directive factor, and when it has much to do with recall, we
speak of directed or controlled association.

Before we pass to the topic of controlled association, however, there is another form of free
association, quite different from revery, to be examined. There is an experiment, called the
free association test, in which the subject is given a series of words as stimuli, and is asked
to respond to each word by speaking some other word, the first that is recalled by the stimulus.
No special kind of word need be given in response, but simply the first word recalled. Though
this is called free association, it is controlled to the extent that the response must be a
word, and the result is very different from revery. Instead of the recall of concrete facts
from past experience, there is recall of words. If you give the subject the stimulus word,
"table", his response is "chair" or "dinner", etc., and often he does not think of any particular
table, but simply of the word. Words are so often linked one with another that it is no wonder
that one recalls another automatically. What particular word shall be recalled depends on the
frequency, recency and intensity of past linkage.

Though this form of test seems so simple as almost to be silly, it is of use in several ways.
When a large number of stimulus words are used, and the responses classified, some persons
are found to favor linkages that have a personal significance--"egocentric responses", these
are called--while other persons run to connections that are {381} impersonal and objective.
Thus the test throws some light on the individual's habits of attention. The test has also
a "detective" use, based upon the great efficacy of the factor of recency; you may be able
by it to tell whether an individual has recently had a certain matter in mind. If he happens
to be an individual who has recently committed some crime, properly selected stimulus words
will lead him to recall the scene of the crime, and thus to make responses that betray him,
unless he checks them and so arouses suspicion by his hesitation. Another use of the test is
for unearthing a person's emotional "complexes", which of course possess a high intensity value.
If the subject shows hesitation and embarrassment in responding to words referring to money,
the indication is that he is emotionally disturbed over the state of his finances. One person
who consulted a doctor for nervousness made peculiar responses to stimulus words relating to
the family, and was discovered to be much disturbed over his family's opposition to his projected
marriage. The free association test is useful rather as giving the experienced psychologist
hints to be followed up than as furnishing sure proof of the contents of the subject's mind.

Controlled Association

There is a controlled association test conducted like this one in free association, except
that the subject is required to respond to each stimulus word by a word standing in a specified
relation to it. To one series of words he must respond by saying their opposites; to another,
by mentioning a part of each object named; to another series, consisting of names of countries,
he must respond by naming as quickly as possible the capital of each country named; and there
are many tests of this sort, each dealing with some class of relationships which, being often
observed, are easily handled {382} by a person of normal intelligence. The intelligent subject
makes few errors in such a test, and responds in very quick time. Indeed, the remarkable fact
is that he takes less time to respond in an easy controlled association test than in the free
association test; which shows that the "control" acts not simply to limit the response, but
also to facilitate it.

The "control" here is often called by the name of "mental set". It is a good example of a "reaction
tendency". On being told you are to give opposites, you somehow set or adjust your mental machinery
for making this type of response. The mental set thus thrown into action facilitates responses
of the required type, while inhibiting other responses that would readily occur in the absence
of any directive tendency. If the word "good" came as a stimulus word in a free association
test, it might easily arouse the responses, "good day", "good night", "good boy", "good better",
and many besides, since all of these combinations have been frequently used in the past; and
the balance of frequency, recency and intensity might favor any one of these responses. But
when the subject is set for opposites, the balance of these factors has little force as against
the mental set. The mental set for opposites favors the revival of such combinations as "new--old",
"good--bad", and such others of this class as have been noted and used in the subject's past
experience.

Mental set is a selective factor, a factor of advantage. It does not supersede the previously
formed associations, or work independently of them, but selects from among them the one which
fits the present task. Does it get in its work after recall has done its part, or before? Does
it wait till recall has brought up a number of responses, and then pick out the one that fills
the bill? No, it often works much too quickly for that, giving the right response instantly;
and introspection is often perfectly clear that none but the right {383} response is recalled
at all. The selective influence of the mental set is exerted before recall; it facilitates
the right recall and inhibits recall of any but the right response.

In controlled association, as in free association, only one of the facts previously linked
with the stimulus is recalled at a time; but while in free association the factors of frequency,
recency and intensity of past linkage determine which of the many possible facts shall be recalled,
in controlled association the additional factor of mental set is present and has a controlling
influence in determining which fact shall be recalled. Thus, in an opposites test, the stimulus
word "good" promptly calls up the pair "good--bad", because the mental set for opposites gives
this response a great advantage over "good night" and other responses which may have a very
strong linkage with the stimulus word.

The mental set is itself a response to a stimulus. It is an inner response thrown into activity
by some stimulus, such as the stimulus of being asked to give the opposites of a series of
words that are presently to be shown or spoken. This inner response of getting ready for the
task can be introspectively observed by a person who is new to this type of test. It may take
the form of mentally running over examples of opposites--or whatever kind of responses are
to be called for--or it may take the form of calling up some image or diagram or gesture that
symbolizes the task. A visual image of the nose on the face may serve as a symbol of the part-whole
relationship, a small circle inside a larger one may symbolize the relation of an object to
a class of objects, and gesturing first to the right and then to the left may symbolize the
relationship of opposites. But as the subject grows accustomed to a given task, these conscious
symbols fade away, and nothing remains except a general "feeling of readiness" or of "knowing
what you are {384} about". The mental set remains in force, however, and is no less efficient
for becoming almost unconscious.

Examples of Controlled Association

Dwelling so long on the test for controlled association may have created the impression that
this is a rather artificial and unusual type of mental performance; but in reality controlled
association is a very representative mental process, and enters very largely into all forms
of mental work. This is true in arithmetical work, for example. A pair of numbers, such as
8 and 3, has been linked in past experience with several responses; it means 83, it means 11,
it means 5, and it means 24. But if you are adding, it means 11, and no other response occurs;
if you are multiplying, it means 24, and only that response occurs. The mental set for multiplying
facilitates the responses of the multiplication table and inhibits those of the addition table,
while the mental set for adding does the reverse. Rapid adding or multiplying would be impossible
without an efficient mental set. Thus in arithmetic, as in the tests, the mental set is an
inner response to the task.

In reading, there is a mental set which is an inner response to the context, and which determines
which of the several well-known meanings of a word shall actually be called to mind when the
word is read. Presented alone, a word may call up any of its meanings, according to frequency,
etc.; but in context it usually brings to mind just the one meaning that fits the context.
The same is true of conversation.

The objective situation arouses a mental set that controls both thought and action. The situation
of being in church, for example, determines the meanings that are got from the words heard,
and controls the motor behavior to {385} fit the occasion. The subject, observing the situation,
adjusts himself to it, perhaps without any conscious effort, and his adjustment facilitates
appropriate mental and motor reactions, while inhibiting others.

A problem arouses a mental set directed towards solution of the problem. A difficult problem,
however, differs from a context or familiar task or situation in this important respect, that
the appropriate response has not been previously linked with the present stimulus, so that,
in spite of ever so good a mental set, the right response cannot immediately be recalled. One
must search for the right response. Still, the mental set is useful here, in directing the
search, and keeping it from degenerating into an aimless running hither and thither. Problem
solution is so different a process from smooth-running controlled association that it deserves
separate treatment, which will be given it a few chapters further on, under the caption of
reasoning.

{386}

EXERCISES

1. Outline the chapter.

2. The rating of images belonging under different senses. Try to
   call up the images prescribed below, and rate each image according
   to the following scale:

  3. . . . The image is practically the same as a sensation, as bright,
            full, incisive, and, in short, possessed of genuine
            sensory quality.

  2. . . . The image has a moderate degree of sensory quality.

  1. . . . The image has only faint traces of sensory quality.

  0. . . . No sensory image is called up, though there was a
            recall of the fact mentioned.

  Call up visual images of: a friend's face, a sun flower, a white
  house among trees, your own signature written in ink.

  Call up auditory images of: the sound of your friend's voice, a
  familiar song, an automobile horn, the mewing of a cat.

  Call up olfactory images of: the odor of coffee, of new-mown hay, of
  tar, of cheese.

  Call up gustatory images of: sugar, salt, bitter, acid.

  Call up cutaneous images of: the feel of velvet, a lump of ice, a
  pencil held against the tip of your nose, a pin pricking your
  finger.

  Call up kinesthetic imagery of: lifting a heavy weight, reaching up
  to a high shelf, opening your mouth wide, kicking a ball.

  Call up organic imagery of: feeling hungry, feeling thirsty, feeling
  nausea, feeling buoyant.

  In case of which sense do you get the most lifelike imagery, and in
  case of which sense the least. By finding the average rating given
  to the images of each sense, you can arrange the senses in order,
  from the one in which your imagery rates highest to the one in which
  it rates lowest. It may be best to try more cases before reaching a
  final decision on this matter.

3. Verbal imagery. When you think of a word, do you have a visual,
   auditory, or kinesthetic image of it--or how does it come?

4. In reading, notice how much imagery of objects, persons, scenes,
   sounds, etc., occurs spontaneously.

5. Analysis of a revery. Take any object as your starting point,
   and let your mind wander from that wherever it will for a minute.
   {387} Then review and record the series of thoughts, and try to
   discover the linkages between them.

6. Free association experiment. Respond to each one of a list of
   disconnected words by saying the first word suggested by it. Use
   the following list: city, war, bird, potato, day, ocean, insect,
   mountain, tree, roof.

7. Controlled association, (a) Use the same list of stimulus words
   as above, but respond to each by a word meaning the opposite or
   at least something contrasting, (b) Repeat, naming a part of the
   object designated by each of these same words, (c) Repeat again,
   naming an instance or variety of each of the objects named. Did
   you find wrong responses coming up, or did the mental set exclude
   them altogether?

8. Write on a sheet of paper ten pairs of one-place numbers, each
   pair in a little column with a line drawn below, as in addition or
   multiplication examples. See how long it takes you to add, and
   again how long it takes to multiply all ten. Which task took the
   longer, and why? Did you notice any interference, such as thinking
   of a sum when you were "set" for products?

9. Free association test for students of psychology. Respond to
   each of the following stimulus words by the first word suggested by
   it of a psychological character:

   conditioned
   objective
   gregarious
   delayed
   correlation
   fear
   negative
   end-brush
   mastery
   rat
   pyramidal
   submission
   stimulus
   semicircular
   feeling-tone
   substitute
   kinesthetic
   primary
   axon
   advantage
   tension
   synapse
   field
   blend
   autonomic
   quotient
   rod
   retention
   limit
   fovea
   nonsense
   apraxia
   saturated
   higher
   thalamus
   red-green
   paired
   organic
   complementary
   economy
   tendency
   after
   exploration
   preparatory
   basilar
   recency
   native
   fluctuation
   curve
   endocrine
   dot
   perseveration
   expressive
   Binet
   synesthesia
   James-Lange
   frontal
   facilitation
   flexion
   overlapping

{388}

REFERENCES

On imagery, synesthesia, etc., see Gallon's Inquiries into Human Faculty and Its Development,
1883, pp. 57-112; and for more recent studies of imagery see G. H. Betts on The Distribution
and Function of Mental Imagery, 1909, and Mabel R. Fernald on The Diagnosis of Mental Imagery,
1912.

On the diagnostic use of the association test, an extensive work is that of C. G. Jung, Studies
in Word-Association, translated by Eder, 1919.

{389}

CHAPTER XVI

THE LAWS OF ASSOCIATION

AN ATTEMPT TO REDUCE THE LEARNING PROCESS TO ITS ELEMENTS

This is a very serious occasion. What we now have before us is one of the great outstanding
problems of psychology, a problem that has come down through the ages, with succeeding generations
of psychological thinkers contributing of their best to its solution; and our task is to attack
this problem afresh in the light of modern knowledge of the facts of learning and memory. We
wish to gather up the threads from the three preceding chapters, which have detailed many facts
regarding learned reactions of all sorts, and see whether we cannot summarize our accumulated
knowledge in the form of a few great laws. We wish also to relate our laws to what is known
of the brain machinery.

The Law of Exercise

Of one law of learning, we are perfectly sure. There is no doubt that the exercise of a reaction
strengthens it, makes it more precise and more smooth-running, and gives it an advantage over
alternative reactions which have not been exercised. Evidence for these statements began to
appear as soon as we turned the corner into this part of our subject, and has accumulated ever
since. This law is sometimes called the "law of habit", but might better be called the "law
of improvement of a reaction through exercise", or, more briefly, the "law of exercise".

{390}

The law of exercise is very broad in its scope, holding good of life generally and not alone
of mental life. Exercise of a muscle develops the muscle, exercise of a gland develops the
gland; and, in the same way, exercise of a mental reaction strengthens the machinery used in
making that reaction.

Let us restate the law in terms of stimulus and response. When a given stimulus arouses a certain
response, the linkage between that stimulus and that response is improved by the exercise so
obtained, and thereafter the stimulus arouses the response more surely, more promptly, more
strongly than before.

Under the law of exercise belong several sub-laws already familiar to us.

1. The law of frequency refers to the cumulative effect of repeated exercise. The practice
curve gives a picture of this sub-law, showing how improvement with repeated exercise of a
performance is rapid at first and tapers off into the physiological limit, beyond which level
more repetition cannot further improve the performance. The superiority of "spaced study" over
unspaced means that exercise is more effective when rest periods intervene between the periods
of exercise; as this is notoriously true of muscular exercise, it is not surprising to find
it true of mental performances as well.

2. The law of recency refers to the gradual weakening of the machinery for executing a reaction
when no longer exercised; it is the general biological law of "atrophy through disuse" applied
to the special case of learned reactions. As exercise improves the linkage between stimulus
and response, so disuse allows the linkage to deteriorate. This law is pictured more completely
and quantitatively in the curve of forgetting.

Really, there are two laws of recency, the one being a {391} law of retention, the other a
law of momentary warming up through exercise. The law of retention, or of forgetting, is the
same as atrophy through disuse. The warming-up effect, well seen in the muscle which is sluggish
after a long rest but becomes lively and responsive after a bit of exercise, [Footnote: See
p. 73.] appears also in the fact that a skilled act needs to be done a few times in quick succession
before it reaches its highest efficiency, and in the fact of "primary memory", the lingering
of a sensation or thought for a few moments after the stimulus that aroused it has ceased.
Primary memory is not strictly memory, since it does not involve the recall of facts that have
dropped out of mind, but just a new emphasis on facts that have not yet completely dropped
out. Warming up is not a phenomenon of learning, but it is a form of recency, and is responsible
for the very strong "recency value" that is sometimes a help in learning, [Footnote: See p.
345.] and sometimes a hindrance in recall. [Footnote: See p. 356.]

3. The law of intensity simply means that vigorous exercise strengthens a reaction more than
weak exercise. This is to be expected, but the question is, in the case of mental performances,
how to secure vigorous exercise. Well, by active recitation as compared with passive reception,
by close attention, by high level observation. In active recitation, the memorizer strongly
exercises the performance that he is trying to master, while in reading the lesson over and
over he is giving less intense exercise to the same performance.

The Law of Effect

We come now to a law which has not so accepted a standing as the law of exercise, and which
may perhaps be another sub-law under that general law. The "law of effect" may, however, be
regarded simply as a generalized statement of {392} the facts of learning by trial and error.
The cat, in learning the trick of escaping from a cage by turning the door-button, makes and
therefore exercises a variety of reactions; and you might expect, then, in accordance with
the law of exercise, that all of these reactions would be more and more firmly linked to the
cage-situation, instead of the successful reaction gradually getting the advantage and the
unsuccessful being eliminated. The law of effect, stated as objectively as possible, is simply
that the successful or unsuccessful outcome or effect of a reaction determines whether it shall
become firmly linked with the stimulus, or detached from the stimulus and thus eliminated.
The linkage of a response to a stimulus is strengthened when the response is a success, and
weakened when the response is a failure.

Success here means reaching the goal of an awakened desire or reaction-tendency, and failure
means being stopped or hindered from reaching the goal. Since success is satisfying and failure
unpleasant, the law of effect is often stated in another form: a response that brings satisfaction
is more and more firmly attached to the situation and reaction-tendency, while a response that
brings pain or dissatisfaction is detached.

The law of effect is a statement of fact, but the question is whether it is an ultimate fact,
or whether it can be explained as a special case of the law of exercise. Some have suggested
that it is but a special case of the sub-law of frequency; they call attention to the fact
that the successful response must be made at every trial, since the trial continues till success
is attained, whereas no one unsuccessful response need be made at every trial; therefore in
the long run the successful response must gain the frequency advantage. But there is a very
ready and serious objection to this argument; for it may and does happen that an unsuccessful
response is repeated several times during a single {393} trial, while the successful response
is never made more than once in a single trial, since success brings the trial to a close;
and thus, as a matter of fact, frequency often favors the unsuccessful response--which, nevertheless,
loses out in competition with the successful response.

Can the law of effect be interpreted as an instance of the sub-law of recency? The successful
reaction always occurs at the end of a trial, and is the most recent reaction at the beginning
of the next trial. This recency might have considerable importance if the next trial began
instantly (as in unspaced learning), but can have no importance when so long as interval as
a day is left between trials; for evidently the recency of twenty-four hours plus ten seconds
is not effectively different from that of an even twenty-four hours. Recency, then, does not
explain the law of effect.

Can it be explained as an instance of the sub-law of intensity? An animal, or man, who sees
success coming as he is making the reaction that leads directly to success, throws himself
unreservedly into this reaction, in contrast with his somewhat hesitant and exploratory behavior
up to that time. The dammed-up energy of the reaction-tendency finds a complete outlet into
the successful reaction, and therefore the successful reaction is more intensely exercised
than the unsuccessful. This seems like a pretty good explanation, though perhaps not a complete
explanation.

Limitations of the Law of Exercise

The law of exercise, with all its sub-laws, is certainly fundamental and universal; it is always
in operation whenever anything is learned; and yet, just by itself, it goes only halfway towards
accounting for learned reactions. For a reaction to be exercised, it must be made, and the
law of exercise presupposes that it is made, and does not attempt to account for its being
made in the first place.

{394}

The law of exercise does not cover the formation of new linkages, but only the strengthening
of linkages that are already working. It does not explain the attachment of a response to some
other than its natural stimulus, nor the combination, of responses into a higher unit, nor
the association of two facts so that one later recalls the other. We learn by doing, but how
can we do anything new so as to start to learn? We learn by observing combinations of facts,
but how in the first place do we combine the facts in our minds?

How, for example, can we learn to respond to the sight of the person by saying his name? Evidently,
by exercising this linkage of stimulus and response. But how did we ever make a start in responding
thus, since there is nothing about the person's looks to suggest his name? The name came to
us through the ear, and the face by way of the eye; and if we repeated the name, that was a
response to the auditory stimulus and not to the visual. How has it come about, then, that
we later respond to the visual stimulus by saying the name?

In short, the more seriously we take the law of exercise, the more we feel the need of a supplementary
law to provide for the first making of a reaction that then, by virtue of exercise, is strengthened.

This is the problem that occupied the older writers on psychology when they dealt with "association";
and their solution of the problem was formulated in the famous "laws of association". The laws
of association were attempts to explain how facts got associated, so that later one could recall
another.

