CARLYLE

                    THE REIGN of MARY TUDOR
                              by
                      JAMES ANTHONY FROUDE

                       LONDON: PUBLISHED
                   by J. M. DENT & SONS Ltd
                        AND IN NEW YORK
                      BY E. P. DUTTON & CO

{p.vii} INTRODUCTION

The memory of no English sovereign has been so execrated as that of Mary Tudor. For generations
after her death her name, with its horrid epithet clinging round it like the shirt of Nessus,
was a bugbear in thousands of Protestant homes. It is true that nearly 300 persons were burnt
at the stake in her short reign. But she herself was more inclined to mercy than almost any
of her predecessors on the throne. Stubbs speaks of her father's "holocausts" of victims. The
persecution of Papists under Edward was not less rigorous than that of Protestants under Mary.
When her record is compared with that of Philip of Spain, with his Council of Blood in the
Netherlands, or of Charles IX. in France, she appears as an apostle of toleration. Why, then,
has her memory been covered through centuries with scorn and obloquy?

Froude will have it that it was due to a national detestation of the crimes which were committed
in the name of religion. Those who take a more detached view of history can find little evidence
to support the assumption. The nation as a whole seemed to acquiesce in the persecution. The
government was weak, there was no standing army, and Mary, like all the Tudors, rested her
authority on popular sanction. Plots against her were few, and they were all easily suppressed.
Parliament met regularly. It was not the submissive parliament of Henry VIII. It thwarted some
of Mary's dearest projects. For some time it offered opposition to, if it did not actively
resist, the Spanish marriage. It was inexorably opposed to the restitution of church property.
It refused to alter the succession to the Crown as Mary wished. But it never remonstrated against
the persecution of Protestants. It cheerfully revived the old acts for the burning of Lollard
heretics. Froude suggests that Englishmen were aghast at the use to which they were afterwards
put. But though parliament after parliament was summoned after the Smithfield fires had been
lit, there was no sign of disapproval or of condemnation. When Edward died, there was an instantaneous
return to Catholicism. When Mary died, Elizabeth {p.viii} had to walk warily in bringing about
innovations in religion. Mary was crowned with the ceremonies of the Catholic Church. When
Elizabeth was crowned, nearly all the bishops, including the "bloody" Bonner, attended, and
the service of the mass was used. Harpsfield, the notorious Archdeacon of Canterbury, the last
man to condemn heretics to the stake in England, publicly stated, weeks after the accession
of Elizabeth, that there should be no change in religion. Later generations, judging events
and characters by their own standard, have pitilessly condemned the Marian persecutions. The
Englishmen of those days were not so squeamish or so indifferent.

There can be no doubt that Mary was unpopular among her own contemporaries. Two reasons probably
account for it. The first was her marriage with Philip of Spain. There is no nation in Europe
which has shown itself more tolerant of alien sovereigns than the English. They submitted to
William of Normandy almost without a struggle after Senlac. They adopted the Plantagenet as
their national line of kings. The Tudors were Welsh; the Stuarts Scotch; William III. was a
Dutchman; the Hanoverian dynasty was German. But though tolerant of foreign dynasties, the
English have, since the days of John, been excessively jealous of foreign influences. One of
the main causes of Henry III.'s unpopularity was the overweening influence of his foreign favourites.
From Edward I. downwards the Plantagenets ruled as English sovereigns. Henry VII., though he
was crowned on the field of battle and claimed the throne by right of conquest, was too discreet
to maintain his power, as Mary was once tempted to do, by the aid of Welsh guards. The fiercest
hostility was evoked by James I., William III., and the first two Georges, because they surrounded
themselves with favourites from their own countries. Foreigners might sit on the throne of
England, but they had to rule as English sovereigns and rest their power on the support of
the English people. This intense national jealousy was unhappily aroused by Mary. The strict
limitations which were placed on her husband's powers should have warned her of her danger.
Philip was allowed the empty title of king, but from the realities of power he was studiously
excluded. Philip was careful to maintain the spirit as well as the letter of his obligations.
He made no attempt to encroach upon the sovereignty of Mary. He advised her, as it was his
duty to do, but he did not interfere with the government of the country. No {p.ix} Spanish
troops were landed in England, even when war had broken out with France, and the coasts of
England were unguarded. Yet the morbid suspicions of the people were not allayed. The Dudley
plot and the Stafford invasion were justified by their authors, not on the ground of Mary's
bloody persecutions, but because it was feared that Philip was planning a coup d'état. Mary's
popularity began to wane with her marriage; it sunk lower and lower till it almost disappeared
when England was dragged into a war with France in the interests of Spain. St. Quintin and
Gravelines for a time roused a feeble enthusiasm for the war, but the loss of Calais finally
extinguished the Queens popularity. Mary is reported to have said that if her body were opened
Calais would be found written on her heart. Froude disbelieves the report. But whether the
story be apocryphal or not, there is no doubt that the loss of Calais was accountable, if not
for the death of the Queen, for the permanent destruction of her fame.

Calais was called the "brightest jewel in the English crown." It was the last relic of the
French possessions of the Plantagenets. It was the Gibraltar of the sixteenth century. It helped
to make of the narrow seas an English channel. It was a mart for English goods. It afforded
a foothold for Continental enterprises. To some extent it linked England with her traditional
allies, the old Burgundian possessions in the Netherlands. By us, looking back over the chequered
story of the last three centuries, the loss of Calais is seen to have been a blessing in disguise.
England gained by it as she did by the loss of Normandy under John, and of Hanover at the accession
of Queen Victoria. But to Mary's subjects it was a corroding humiliation.

"If Spain should rise suddenly into her ancient strength," Froude truly remarks, "and tear
Gibraltar from us, our mortification would be faint, compared to the anguish of humiliated
pride with which the loss of Calais distracted the subjects of Mary."

It was the galling reflection that Calais was lost to the French in a Spanish quarrel that
crowned the poor Queen's obloquy. She had lost it through wanton neglect. Had the warnings
of Wentworth and Grey been heeded, Calais might have been saved. Calais need never have been
imperilled had the Queen thought more of English interests and less of the needs of her Spanish
husband.

{p.x} The odium in which Mary's memory was held was turned to account by the friends of the
new religion. Early in the next reign there appeared one of the most remarkable books ever
written--Foxe's Book of Martyrs. The authenticity of its narrative has been impugned by Lingard
and other Catholic historians; Froude bears testimony to its trustworthiness wherever it can
be tested, except when it deals with purely hearsay evidence. When Foxe's narrative of the
horrible Guernsey case was challenged by a Catholic controversialist in the reign of Elizabeth,
the matter was inquired into, and the account was found to be absolutely true. No one will
be found, however, in these days to assert that a book, written by an avowed partisan, in an
uncritical age, recording transactions of which from the very nature of things he could have
had no personal knowledge, was not too highly coloured in parts and in others absolutely untrustworthy.
Few books, nevertheless, have exercised a more abiding influence on the course of our national
life. Its simplicity, its directness, its poignant style, and its dramatic power combined to
make it an English classic. If it loaded Bonner and Gardiner with shame and hatred, it fixed
for three centuries the popular estimate of Mary Tudor. Froude used it with extraordinary skill.
His relation of the death of a young Protestant martyr, an apprentice from Essex, taken as
it is almost bodily from Foxe, must thrill even yet the least emotional of his readers. The
permanence of Mary's hideous title and her abiding unpopularity are more due to the compelling
power of a work of genius than to any outstanding demerits, as judged by contemporary standards,
in the Catholic Queen.

Instead of being condemned to eternal infamy, poor Mary Tudor might well have expected a juster
as well as a more charitable verdict from posterity. From her girlhood to her grave her story
was tragic in its sadness. When she was in the first bloom of maidenhood, she was taken by
her father to hold her Court of the Welsh Marches at Ludlow in 1525. The title of Princess
of Wales was not conferred upon her, but she was surrounded by all the pomps and emblems of
sovereignty. The Court was the Princess's Court, as it had been Prince Henry's Court in her
father's youth. Three years later she was degraded from her high estate, and deprived of her
Court. Henceforth, throughout her father's reign, she was known as the Lady, not the Princess,
Mary. She was old {p.xi} enough to feel all the bitterness of her mother's tragedy. She remembered
to her dying day the humiliation of the Boleyn marriage. She never ceased to resent the birth
of her sister Elizabeth. Her brother Edward was born in lawful wedlock after Queen Catherine's
death, and Mary was always perfectly loyal and obedient to him as she was to her father. But
she looked with cold disfavour, mingled with morbid jealousy, on the budding promise of Elizabeth.
Her very existence was an insult to Mary's mother and a menace to Mary's religion. If Elizabeth
was legitimate, Catherine of Arragon was rightly divorced, and Mary herself had no claim to
the throne other than by her father's will. Elizabeth could never be reconciled to Rome without
casting an aspersion on Anne Boleyn's honour.

No woman was ever more lonely or loveless than the ill-starred and ill-favoured Queen Mary.
She had no near relatives in England except Elizabeth, and Elizabeth, by the irony of fate,
was worse than a stranger to her. The awful solitude of a throne excluded her, even more than
her own ill-health and brooding temper, from the joys of friendship. Philip of Spain was at
once her nearest relation on her mother's side, and the only man she ever confided in except
Cardinal Pole. She lavished all the pent-up affection of an unloved existence on her husband.
She was repaid by cold neglect, studied indifference, and open and vulgar infidelity. Philip
made no pretence to care for his wife. She was older in years, she was ungainly in person,
she possessed no charm of manner or grace of speech, her very voice was the deep bass of a
man. In the days of her joyous entrance into London, amid the acclamations of the populace,
her high spirit, her kind heart, and the excitement of adventure lent a passing glow to her
sallow cheeks. But ill-health and disillusion followed. She became morbid and sullen, sometimes
remaining for days in a dull stupor, at other times giving way to gusts of hysterical passion.
But beneath her forbidding exterior there beat a warm, tender, womanly heart, which yearned
for some one to love and to cherish. Her mother had died when she was yet young, her father
never encouraged her to display her affection for him, and she was verging on middle age before
she saw Philip. He became her hero, her master. Wifely obedience became to her the greatest
of virtues; she held herself and England at his service. She longed for a son who would bind
her husband more closely to herself and who {p.xii} would save England from the hated Elizabeth,
and still more from Elizabeth's hated religion. When old and ill, and on the brink of the grave,
she still cherished the vain dream of giving birth to the saviour of England and the champion
of the faith.

But Froude dwells with malicious irony on the frustration of the poor woman's hopes. He covers
the incident with a ridicule which must jar on all sensitive minds. The fact that Cardinal
Pole encouraged her belief adds zest to Froude's satisfaction. No purer soul ever set himself
to right the world than Reginald Pole; no one failed more completely in his cherished plans.
He and Mary died on the same day; the bells that tolled their knell rang out the order for
which they stood. But the utter failure of their hopes roused no emotion save that of bitter
contempt in Froude. He saw no merit in the "hysterical dreamer" who had sacrificed his all
for his religion; he saw no pathos in the life of that lone woman who was condemned, almost
from her cradle, to a loveless existence and a forlorn death. His final epitaph on her is that
"she had reigned little more than five years, and she descended into the grave amidst curses
deeper than the acclamations which had welcomed her accession." The only excuse he can find
for her is that she was suffering from "hysterical derangement" akin to insanity, which placed
her absolutely under the domination of Gardiner and Pole. When we remember her magnanimity
towards Lady Jane Grey at her accession, when we contrast her conduct towards the formidable
Elizabeth with Elizabeth's subsequent conduct towards Mary Queen of Scots, her generosity to
the causes she had at heart with Elizabeth's unfailing parsimony, and her open and straightforward
dealings both in matters of Church and of State with her sister's mean and tortuous subterfuges,
we may well extend not only our pity to the woman, but some tribute of admiration to the Queen.
At least we may agree with Froude that "few men or women have lived less capable of doing knowingly
a wrong thing."

                                        W. LLEWELYN WILLIAMS.
  February 3, 1910.

{p.xv} CONTENTS

  Chapter                                                Page

    I. Queen Jane and Queen Mary                            1

   II. The Spanish Marriage                                79

  III. Reconciliation With Rome                           147

   IV. The Martyrs                                        201

    V. Calais                                             260

   VI. Death of Mary                                      305

       Index                                              321

{p.001} MARY TUDOR

CHAPTER I.

QUEEN JANE AND QUEEN MARY.

On the 7th of July the death of Edward VI. was ushered in with signs and wonders, as if heaven
and earth were in labour with revolution. The hail lay upon the grass in the London gardens
as red as blood. At Middleton Stony in Oxfordshire, anxious lips reported that a child had
been born with one body, two heads, four feet and hands.[1] About the time when the letters
patent were signed there came a storm such as no living Englishman remembered. The summer evening
grew black as night. Cataracts of water flooded the houses in the city and turned the streets
into rivers; trees were torn up by the roots and whirled through the air, and a more awful
omen--the forked lightning--struck down the steeple of the church where the heretic service
had been read for the first time.[2]

                   [Footnote 1: Grey Friars' Chronicle: Machyn.]

                   [Footnote 2: Baoardo's History of the Revolution
                   in England on the Death of Edward VI., printed at
                   Venice, 1558. A copy of this rare book is in the
                   Bodleian Library at Oxford.]

The king died a little before nine o'clock on Thursday evening. His death was made a secret;
but in the same hour a courier was galloping through the twilight to Hunsdon to bid Mary mount
and fly. Her plans had been for some days prepared. She had been directed to remain quiet,
but to hold herself ready to be up and away at a moment's warning. The lords who were to close
her in would not be at their posts, and for a few hours the roads would be open. The Howards
were looking for her in Norfolk; and thither she was to ride at her best speed, proclaiming
her accession as she went along, and sending out her letters calling loyal Englishmen to rise
in her defence.

So Mary's secret friends had instructed her to act as her one chance. Mary, who, like all the
Tudors, was most herself in the moments of greatest danger, followed a counsel boldly which
agreed with her own opinion; and when Lord Robert Dudley {p.002} came in the morning with a
company of horse to look for her, she was far away. Relays of horses along the road, and such
other precautions as could be taken without exciting suspicion, had doubtless not been overlooked.

Far different advice had been sent to her by the new ambassadors of the emperor. Scheyfne,
who understood England and English habits, and who was sanguine of her success, had agreed
to a course which had probably been arranged in concert with him; but on the 6th, the day of
Edward's death, Renard and M. de Courières arrived from Brussels. To Renard, accustomed to
countries where governments were everything and peoples nothing, for a single woman to proclaim
herself queen in the face of those who had the armed force of the kingdom in their hands, appeared
like madness. Little confidence could be placed in her supposed friends, since they had wanted
resolution to refuse their signatures to the instrument of her deposition. The emperor could
not move; although he might wish well to her cause, the alliance of England was of vital importance
to him, and he would not compromise himself with the faction whose success, notwithstanding
Scheyfne's assurance, he looked upon as certain. Renard, therefore, lost not a moment in entreating
the princess not to venture upon a course from which he anticipated inevitable ruin. If the
nobility or the people desired to have her for queen, they would make her queen. There was
no need for her to stir.[3] The remonstrance agreed {p.003} fully with the opinion of Charles
himself, who replied to Renard's account of his conduct with complete approval of it.[4] The
emperor's power was no longer equal to an attitude of menace; he had been taught, by the repeated
blunders of Reginald Pole, to distrust accounts of popular English sentiment; and he disbelieved
entirely in the ability of Mary and her friends to cope with a conspiracy so broadly contrived,
and supported by the countenance of France.[5] But Mary was probably gone from Hunsdon before
advice arrived, to which she had been lost if she had listened. She had ridden night and day
without a halt for a hundred miles to Keninghal, a castle of the Howards on the Waveney river.
There, in safe hands, she would try the effect of an appeal to her country. If the nation was
mute, she would then escape to the Low Countries.[6]

                   [Footnote 3: Avant nostre arrivée elle mist en
                   delibération avec aulcungs de ses plus confidens ce
                   qu'elle debvroit faire, advenant la dicte morte; la
                   quelle treuva, que incontinant la dicte morte
                   decouverte, elle se debvoit publier royne par
                   lettres et escriptz, et qu'en ce faisant, elle
                   conciteroit plusieurs à se déclairer pour la
                   maintenir telle, (et aussy que y a quelque
                   observance par de çà que celuy ou celle qui est
                   appelé à la couronne se doit incontinent tel
                   déclairer et publier) pour la haine qu'ilz portent
                   audict duc, le tenant tiran et indigne; s'estant
                   absolument resolue qu'elle debvoit suyvre ceste
                   conclusion et conseil, aultrement elle tomberoit en
                   danger de sa personne plus grand qu'elle n'est et
                   perdroit l'espoir de parvenir à la couronne. La
                   quelle conclusion avons treuvé estrange, difficile,
                   et dangereuse, pour les raisons soubzcriptes: pour
                   aultant que toutes les forces du pays sont ès mains
                   dudict duc: que la dicte dame n'a espoir de
                   contraires forces ny d'assistance pour donner pied
                   à ceulx qu'ilz adhérer luy vouldroient; que se
                   publiant royne, le roy et royne désignés par le
                   dict testament (encores qu'il soit mal) prendroient
                   fondement, de l'invahir par la force et que n'y
                   aura moien d'y résister si vostre majesté ne s'en
                   empesche; ce que avons pesé pour les grands
                   affaires et empeschemens qu'elle a contre les
                   Françoys et en divers lieux, que ne semble convenir
                   que l'on concite en ceste saison les Angloys contre
                   vostre Majesté et ses pays.

                   Comme n'avons peu communiquer verbalement avec
                   elle, l'avons advertie desdicts difficultés.... Que
                   si la noblesse ses adhérens, ou le peuple la
                   desiroit et maintenoit pour royne, il le pourroit
                   démonstrer par l'effect; que la question estoit
                   grande mêsme entre barbares et gens de telle
                   condition que les Angloys ... luy touchant ces
                   difficultez pour le respect de sa personne et pour
                   suyvre la fin de la dicte instruction qu'est de non
                   troubler le royaulme au désadvantaige de vostre
                   Majesté--The Ambassadors in England to the Emperor:
                   Papiers d'État du Cardinal de Granvelle, vol. iv.
                   pp. 19, 20.]

                   [Footnote 4: Nous avons veu par vos lectres
                   l'advertissement qu'avez donné soubz main à Madame
                   la princesse nostre cousine, affin qu'elle ne se
                   laisse forcompter par ceulx qui luy persuadent
                   qu'elle se haste de se déclairer pour royne, que
                   nous a semblé tres bien pour les raisons et
                   considerations touschez en vosdictes lectres.--The
                   Emperor to the Ambassadors: Ibid. pp. 24, 25.]

                   [Footnote 5: Ne se pouvoient faire grand fondement
                   sur la faveur et affection que aulcuns particuliers
                   et le peuple peuvent porter à nostredicte cousine,
                   ne fust que y en y eust plus grant nombre ou des
                   principaulx, n'estant cela souffisant pour
                   contreminer la negociation si fondée et de si
                   longue main que le dict duc de Northumberland a
                   empris avec l'assistance que doubtez de
                   France.--Ibid. pp. 25, 26.]

                   [Footnote 6: Baoardo.]

In London, during Friday and Saturday, the death of Edward was known and unknown. Every one
talked of it as certain. Yet the Duke of Northumberland still spoke of him as living, and public
business was carried on in his name. On the 8th of July the mayor and aldermen were sent for
to Greenwich to sign the letters patent. From them the truth could not be concealed, but they
were sworn to secrecy before they were allowed to leave the palace. The conspirators desired
to have Mary under safe custody in the Tower before the mystery was published to the world,
and another difficulty was not yet got over.

The novelty of a female sovereign, and the supposed constitutional objection to it, were points
in favour of the alteration which Northumberland was unwilling to relinquish. The "device"
had been changed in favour of Lady Jane; but Lady Jane was not to reign alone: Northumberland
intended to hold {p.004} the reins tight-grasped in his own hands, to keep the power in his
own family, and to urge the sex of Mary as among the prominent occasions of her incapacity.[7]
England was still to have a king, and that king was to be Guilford Dudley.

                   [Footnote 7: In the explanation given on the
                   following Tuesday to the Emperor's ambassadors,
                   Madame Marie was said--"N'estre capable dudict
                   royaulme pour le divorce faict entre le feu Roy
                   Henry et la Royne Katherine; se référant aux causes
                   aians meu ledict divorce; et mesme n'estre
                   suffisante pour l'administration d'icelluy comme
                   estant femme, et pour la religion."--Papiers
                   d'État du Cardinal de Granvelle, p. 28. Noailles
                   was instructed to inform the King of France of the
                   good affection of "the new King" ("le nouveaulx
                   Roy"). He had notice of the approaching coronation
                   of "the King;" and in the first communication of
                   Edward's death to Hoby and Morryson in the
                   Netherlands, a "king," and not a "queen," was
                   described as on the throne in his place.]

Jane Grey, eldest daughter of the Duke of Suffolk, was nearly of the same age with Edward.
Edward had been precocious to a disease; the activity of his mind had been a symptom, or a
cause, of the weakness of his body. Jane Grey's accomplishments were as extensive as Edward's;
she had acquired a degree of learning rare in matured men, which she could use gracefully,
and could permit to be seen by others without vanity or consciousness. Her character had developed
with their talents. At fifteen she was learning Hebrew and could write Greek; at sixteen she
corresponded with Bullinger in Latin at least equal to his own; but the matter of her letters
is more striking than the language, and speaks more for her than the most elaborate panegyrics
of admiring courtiers. She has left a portrait of herself drawn by her own hand; a portrait
of piety, purity, and free, noble innocence, uncoloured, even to a fault, with the emotional
weaknesses of humanity.[8] While the effects of the Reformation of England had been chiefly
visible in the outward dominion of scoundrels and in the eclipse of the hereditary virtues
of the national character, Lady Jane Grey had lived to show that the defect was not in the
reformed faith, but in the absence of all faith--that the graces of a St. Elizabeth could be
rivalled by the pupil of Cranmer and Ridley. The Catholic saint had no excellence of which
Jane Grey was without the promise; the distinction was in the freedom of the Protestant from
the hysterical ambition for an unearthly nature, and in the presence, through a more intelligent
creed, of a vigorous and practical understanding.

                   [Footnote 8: Letters of Lady Jane Grey to
                   Bullinger: Epistolæ Tigurinæ, pp. 3-7.]

When married to Guilford Dudley, Jane Lady had entreated that, being herself so young, and
her husband scarcely older, {p.005} she might continue to reside with her mother.[9] Lady Northumberland
had consented; and the new-made bride remained at home till a rumour went abroad that Edward
was on the point of death, when she was told that she must remove to her father-in-law's house,
till "God should call the king to his mercy;" her presence would then be required at the Tower,
the king having appointed her to be the heir to the crown.

                   [Footnote 9: Baoardo--who tells the story as it was
                   told by Lady Jane herself to Abbot Feckenham.]

This was the first hint which she had received of the fortune which was in store for her. She
believed it to be a jest, and took no notice of the order to change her residence, till the
Duchess of Northumberland came herself to fetch her. A violent scene ensued with Lady Suffolk.
At last the duchess brought in Guilford Dudley, who commanded Lady Jane, on her allegiance
as a wife, to return with him; and, "not choosing to be disobedient to her husband," she consented.
The duchess carried her off, and kept her for three or four days a prisoner. Afterwards she
was taken to a house of the duke's at Chelsea, where she remained till Sunday, the 9th of July,
when a message was brought that she was wanted immediately at Sion House, to receive an order
from the king.

She went alone. There was no one at the palace when she arrived; but immediately after Northumberland
came, attended by Pembroke, Northampton, Huntingdon, and Arundel. The Earl of Pembroke, as
he approached, knelt to kiss her hand. Lady Northumberland and Lady Northampton entered, and
the duke, as President of the Council, rose to speak.

"The king," he said, "was no more. A godly life had been followed, as a consolation to their
sorrows, by a godly end, and in leaving the world he had not forgotten his duty to his subjects.
His majesty had prayed on his death-bed that Almighty God would protect the realm from false
opinions, and especially from his unworthy sister; he had reflected that both the Lady Mary
and the Lady Elizabeth had been cut off by act of parliament from the succession as illegitimate;[10]
the Lady Mary had been disobedient to her father; she had been again disobedient to her brother;
she was a capital and principal enemy of God's word; and both she and her sister were bastards
born; King Henry did not intend that the crown should be worn by either of them; King Edward,
therefore, had, before his death, bequeathed {p.006} it to his cousin the Lady Jane; and, should
the Lady Jane die without children, to her younger sister; and he had entreated the council,
for their honours' sake and for the sake of the realm, to see that his will was observed."

                   [Footnote 10: La detta maestà haveva ben
                   considerato un atto di Parliamento nel quale fu già
                   deliberato che qualunque volesse riconoscere Maria
                   overo Elizabetha sorelle per heredi della corona
                   fusse tenuto traditore.--Baoardo.]

Northumberland, as he concluded, dropped on his knees; the four lords knelt with him, and,
doing homage to the Lady Jane as queen, they swore that they would keep their faith or lose
their lives in her defence.

Lady Jane shook, covered her face with her hands, and fell fainting to the ground. Her first
simple grief was for Edward's death; she felt it as the loss of a dearly loved brother. The
weight of her own fortune was still more agitating; when she came to herself, she cried that
it could not be; the crown was not for her, she could not bear it--she was not fit for it.
Then, knowing nothing of the falsehoods which Northumberland had told her, she clasped her
hands, and, in a revulsion of feeling, she prayed God that if the great place to which she
was called was indeed justly hers, He would give her grace to govern for his service and for
the welfare of his people.[11]

                   [Footnote 11: Mr. John Gough Nichols, the
                   accomplished editor of so many of the best
                   publications of the Camden Society, throws a doubt
                   on the authenticity of this scene, being unable to
                   find contemporary authority for it. It comes to us,
                   through Baoardo, from Lady Jane herself.]

So passed Sunday, the 9th of July, at Sion House. In London, the hope of first securing Mary
being disappointed, the king's death had been publicly acknowledged; circulars were sent out
to the sheriffs, mayors, and magistrates in the usual style, announcing the accession of Queen
Jane, and the troops were sworn man by man to the new sovereign. Sir William Petre and Sir
John Cheke waited on the emperor's ambassador to express a hope that the alteration in the
succession would not affect the good understanding between the courts of England and Flanders.
The preachers were set to work to pacify the citizens; and, if Scheyfne is to be believed,
a blood cement was designed to strengthen the new throne; and Gardiner, the Duke of Norfolk,
and Lord Courtenay[12] were directed to prepare for death in three days.[13] But Northumberland
would scarcely have risked an act of gratuitous tyranny. Norfolk, being under attainder, might
have been put to death {p.007} without violation of the forms of law, by warrant from the crown;
but, Gardiner was uncondemned, and Courtenay had never been accused of crime.

                   [Footnote 12: Edward Lord Courtenay was son of the
                   executed Marquis of Exeter and great grandson of
                   Edward IV. He was thrown into the Tower with his
                   father when a little boy, and in that confinement,
                   in fifteen years, he had grown to manhood. Of him
                   and his fortunes all that need be said will unfold
                   itself.]

                   [Footnote 13: Scheyfne to Charles V., July 10: MS.
                   Rolls House.]

The next day, Monday, the 10th of July, the royal barges came down the Thames from Richmond;
and at three o'clock in the afternoon Lady Jane landed at the broad staircase at the Tower,
as queen, in undesired splendour. A few scattered groups of spectators stood to watch the arrival;
but it appeared, from their silence, that they had been brought together chiefly by curiosity.
As the gates closed, the heralds-at-arms, with a company of the archers of the guard, rode
into the city, and at the cross in Cheapside, Paul's Cross, and Fleet Street they proclaimed
"that the Lady Mary was unlawfully begotten, and that the Lady Jane Grey was queen." The ill-humour
of London was no secret, and some demonstration had been looked for in Mary's favour;[14] but
here, again, there was only silence. The heralds cried "God save the queen!" The archers waved
their caps and cheered, but the crowd looked on impassively. One youth only, Gilbert Potter,
whose name for those few days passed into fame's trumpet, ventured to exclaim, "The Lady Mary
has the better title." Gilbert's master, one "Ninian Sanders," denounced the boy to the guard,
and he was seized. Yet a misfortune, thought to be providential, in a few hours befell Ninian
Sanders. Going home to his house down the river, in the July evening, he was overturned and
drowned as he was shooting London Bridge in his wherry; the boatmen, who were the instruments
of Providence, escaped.

                   [Footnote 14: Noailles.]

Nor did the party in the Tower rest their first night there with perfect satisfaction. In the
evening messengers came in from the eastern counties with news of the Lady Mary, and with letters
from herself. She had written to Renard and Scheyfne to tell them that she was in good hands,
and for the moment was safe. She had proclaimed herself queen. She had sent addresses to the
peers, commanding them on their allegiance to come to her; and she begged the ambassadors to
tell her instantly whether she might look for assistance from Flanders; on the active support
of the emperor, so far as she could judge, the movements of her friends would depend.

The ambassadors sent a courier to Brussels for instructions; but, pending Charles's judgment
to the contrary, they thought they had better leave Mary's appeal unanswered till they could
see how events would turn. There was one rumour current {p.008} indeed that she had from ten
to fifteen thousand men with her; but this they could ill believe. For themselves, they expected
every hour to hear that she had been taken by Lord Warwick and Lord Robert Dudley, who were
gone in pursuit of her, and had been put to death.[15]

                   [Footnote 15: Renard to Charles V.: Papiers d'État
                   du Cardinal Granvelle, vol. iv.]

The lords who were with the new queen were not so confident. They were in late consultation
with the Duchess of Northumberland and the Duchess of Suffolk, when, after nightfall, a letter
was brought in to them from Mary. The lords ordered the messenger into arrest. The seal of
the packet was broken, and the letter read aloud. It was dated the day before, Sunday, July 9:--

"My lords," wrote Mary, "we greet you well, and have received sure advertisement that our deceased
brother the king, our late Sovereign Lord, is departed to God's mercy; which news how they
be woeful to our heart He only knoweth to whose will and pleasure we must and do submit us
and all our wills. But in this so lamentable a case that is, to wit, now, after his majesty's
departure and death, concerning the crown and governance of this realm of England, that which
hath been provided by act of parliament and the testament and last will of our dearest father,
you know--the realm and the whole world knoweth. The rolls and records appear, by the authority
of the king our said father, and the king our said brother, and the subjects of this realm;
so that we verily trust there is no true subject that can pretend to be ignorant thereof; and
of our part we have ourselves caused, and as God shall aid and strengthen us, shall cause,
our right and title in this behalf to be published and proclaimed accordingly.

"And, albeit, in this so weighty a matter, it seemeth strange that the dying of our said brother
upon Thursday at night last past, we hitherto had no knowledge from you thereof; yet we consider
your wisdom and prudence to be such, that having eftsoons amongst you debated, pondered, and
well-weighed the present case, with our estate, with your own estate, the commonwealth, and
all our honours, we shall and may conceive great hope and trust, with much assurance in your
loyalty and service; and therefore, for the time, we interpret and take things not for the
worst; and that ye yet will, like noblemen, work the best. Nevertheless, we are not ignorant
of your consultation to undo the provisions made for our preferment, nor of the great banded
provisions forcible whereunto ye be assembled {p.009} and prepared, by whom and to what end
God and you know; and nature can fear some evil. But be it that some consideration politic,
or whatsoever thing else, hath moved you thereunto; yet doubt ye not, my lords, but we can
take all these your doings in gracious part, being also right ready to remit and also pardon
the same, with that freely to eschew bloodshed and vengeance against all those that can or
will intend the same; trusting also assuredly you will take and accept this grace and virtue
in good part as appertaineth, and that we shall not be enforced to use the service of other
our true subjects and friends which, in this our just and rightful cause, God, in whom our
whole affiance is, shall send us.

"Whereupon, my lords, we require and charge you, and every of you, on your allegiance, which
you owe to God and us, and to none other, that for our honour and the surety of our realm,
only you will employ yourselves; and forthwith, upon receipt hereof, cause our right and title
to the crown and government of this realm to be proclaimed in our city of London, and such
other places as to your wisdom shall seem good, and as to this cause appertaineth, not failing
hereof, as our very trust is in you; and this our letter, signed with our own hand, shall be
your sufficient warrant."[16]

                   [Footnote 16: Holinshed.]

The lords, when the letter was read to the end, looked uneasily in each other's faces. The
ladies screamed, sobbed, and were carried off in hysterics. There was yet time to turn back;
and had the Reformation been, as he pretended, the true concern of the Duke of Northumberland,
he would have brought Mary back himself, bound by conditions which, in her present danger,
she would have accepted. But Northumberland cared as little for religion as for any other good
thing. He was a great criminal, throwing a stake for a crown; and treason is too conscious
of its guilt to believe retreat from the first step to be possible.

Another blow was in store for him that night, before he laid his head upon his pillow. Lady
Jane, knowing nothing of the letter from Mary, had retired to her apartment, when the Marquis
of Winchester came in to wish her joy. He had brought the crown with him, which she had not
sent for; he desired her to put it on, and see if it required alteration. She said it would
do very well as it was. He then told her that, before her coronation, another crown was to
be made for her husband. Lady Jane started; and it seemed as if for the first time the dreary
{p.010} suspicion crossed her mind that she was, after all, but the puppet of the ambition
of the duke to raise his family to the throne. Winchester retired, and she sat indignant[17]
till Guilford Dudley appeared, when she told him that, young as she was, she knew that the
crown of England was not a thing to be trifled with. There was no Dudley in Edward's will,
and, before he could be crowned, the consent of Parliament must be first asked and obtained.
The boy-husband went whining to his mother, while Jane sent for Arundel and Pembroke, and told
them that it was not for her to appoint kings. She would make her husband a duke if he desired
it; that was within her prerogative; but king she would not make him. As she was speaking,
the Duchess of Northumberland rushed in with her son, fresh from the agitation of Mary's letter.
The mother stormed; Guilford cried like a spoilt child that he would be no duke, he would be
a king: and, when Jane stood firm, the duchess bade him come away, and not share the bed of
an ungrateful and disobedient wife.[18]

                   [Footnote 17: Le quale parole io senti con mio gran
                   dispiacere.--Baoardo.]

                   [Footnote 18: Baoardo.]

The first experience of royalty had brought small pleasure with it. Dudley's kingship was set
aside for the moment, and was soon forgotten in more alarming matters. To please his mother,
or to pacify his vanity, he was called "Your Grace." He was allowed to preside in the council,
so long as a council remained, and he dined alone[19]--tinsel distinctions, for which the poor
wretch had to pay dearly.

                   [Footnote 19: Se faisoit servir de mesme.--Renard
                   to Charles V.: MS. Rolls House.]

The next day (July 11) restored the conspirators to their courage. No authentic accounts came
in of disturbances. London was still quiet; so quiet, that it was thought safe to nail Gilbert
Potter by the ears in the pillory, and after sufficient suffering, to slice them off with a
knife. Lord Warwick and Lord Robert were still absent, and no news had come from them--a proof
that they were still in pursuit. The duke made up his mind that Mary was watching only for
an opportunity to escape to Flanders; and the ships in the river, with a thousand men-at-arms
on board them, were sent to watch the Essex coast, and to seize her, could they find opportunity.
Meanwhile he himself penned a reply to her letter. "The Lady Jane," he said, "by the antient
laws of the realm," and "by letters patent of the late king," signed by himself, and countersigned
by the nobility, was rightful queen of England. The divorce of Catherine of Arragon from Henry
VIII. had been prescribed by {p.011} the laws of God, pronounced by the Church of England,
and confirmed by act of parliament; the daughter of Catherine was, therefore, illegitimate,
and could not inherit; and the duke warned her to forbear, at her peril, from molesting her
lawful sovereign, or turning her people from their allegiance. If she would submit and accept
the position of a subject, she should receive every reasonable attention which it was in the
power of the queen to show to her.

During the day rumours of all kinds were flying, but Mary's friends in London saw no reasonable
grounds for hope. Lord Robert was supposed by Renard[20] to be on his way to the Tower with
the princess as his prisoner; and if she was once within the Tower walls, all hope was over.
It was not till Wednesday morning (July 12) that the duke became really alarmed. Then at once,
from all sides, messengers came in with unwelcome tidings. The Dudleys had come up with Mary
the day before, as she was on her way from Keninghal to Framlingham. They had dashed forward
upon her escort, but their own men turned sharp round, declared for the princess, and attempted
to seize them; they had been saved only by the speed of their horses.[21] In the false calm
of the two preceding days, Lord Bath had stolen across the country into Norfolk. Lord Mordaunt
and Lord Wharton had sent their sons; Sir William Drury, Sir John Skelton, Sir Henry Bedingfield,
and many more, had gone in the same direction. Lord Sussex had declared also for Mary; and,
worse than all, Lord Derby had risen in Cheshire, and was reported to be marching south with
twenty thousand men.[22] Scarcely were these news digested, when Sir Edmund Peckham, cofferer
of the household, was found to have gone off with the treasure under his charge. Sir Edward
Hastings, Lord Huntingdon's brother, had called out the musters of Buckinghamshire in Mary's
name, and Peckham had joined him; while Sir Peter Carew, the very hope and stay of the western
Protestants, had proclaimed Mary in the towns of Devonshire.

                   [Footnote 20: Renard to Charles V.: MS. Rolls
                   House.]

                   [Footnote 21: Ibid.]

                   [Footnote 22: Queen Jane and Queen Mary. Renard
                   to Charles V.]

Now, when too late, it was seen how large an error had been committed in permitting the princess's
escape. But it was vain to waste time in regrets. Her hasty levies, at best, could be but rudely
armed; the duke had trained troops and cannon, and, had he been free to act, with no enemies
but those in the field against him, he had still the best of the game. But Suffolk and {p.012}
Northampton, the least able of the council, were, nevertheless, the only members of it on whom
he could rely. To whom but to himself could he trust the army which must meet Mary in the field?
If he led the army in person, whom could he leave in charge of London, the Tower, and Lady
Jane? Winchester and Arundel knew his dilemma, and deliberately took advantage of it. The guard,
when first informed that they were to take the field, refused to march. After a communication
with the Marquis of Winchester, they withdrew their objections, and professed themselves willing
to go. Northumberland, uneasy at their conduct, or requiring a larger force, issued a proclamation
offering tenpence a day to volunteers who would go to bring in the Lady Mary.[23] The lists
were soon filled, but filled with the retainers and servants of his secret enemies.[24]

                   [Footnote 23: Grey Friars' Chronicle.]

                   [Footnote 24: "Ille impigre quidem, utpote cujus
                   res agebatur, proponit magna stipendia; conducit
                   militem partim invitum partim perfidum; constabant
                   enim majori ex parte satellitia nobilium qui
                   secreto Mariæ favebant."--Julius Terentianus to
                   John 'ab Ulmis: Epistolæ Tigurinæ, p. 243.]

The men being thus collected, Suffolk was first thought of to lead them, or else Lord Grey
de Wilton;[25] but Suffolk was inefficient, and his daughter could not bring herself to part
with him; Grey was a good soldier, but he had been a friend of Somerset, and the duke had tried
hard to involve him with Arundel and Paget in Somerset's ruin.[26] Northampton's truth could
have been depended upon, but Northampton four years before had been defeated by a mob of Norfolk
peasants. Northumberland, the council said, must go himself--"there was no remedy." No man,
on all accounts, could be so fit as he; "he had achieved the victory in Norfolk once already,
and was so feared, that none durst lift their weapons against him:"[27] Suffolk in his absence
should command the Tower. Had the duke dared, he would have delayed; but every moment that
he remained inactive added to Mary's strength, and whatever he did he must risk something.
He resolved to go, and as the plot was thickening, he sent Sir Henry Dudley to Paris to entreat
the king to protect Calais against Charles, should the latter move upon it in his cousin's
interest.

                   [Footnote 25: Renard to Charles V.: Rolls House
                   MSS.]

                   [Footnote 26: Ibid.]

                   [Footnote 27: Chronicle of Queen Jane.]

Noailles had assured him that this and larger favours would be granted without difficulty;
while, as neither Renard nor his companions had as yet acknowledged Lady Jane, and were notoriously
in correspondence with Mary, the French ambassador {p.013} suggested also that he would do
wisely to take the initiative himself, to send Renard his passports, and commit the country
to war with the emperor.[28] Northumberland would not venture the full length to which Noailles
invited him; but he sent Sir John Mason and Lord Cobham to Renard, with an intimation that
the English treason laws were not to be trifled with. If he and his companions dared to meddle
in matters which did not concern them, their privileges as ambassadors should not protect them
from extremity of punishment.[29]

                   [Footnote 28: Noailles, vol. ii.]

                   [Footnote 29: Ajoutant menace de la rigeur de leurs
                   lois barbares.--Renard to Charles V.: Granvelle
                   Papers, vol. iv.]

Newmarket was chosen for the rendezvous of the army. The men were to go down in companies,
in whatever way they could travel most expeditiously, with the guns and ammunition waggons.
The duke himself intended to set out on Friday at dawn. In his calculations of the chances,
hope still predominated--his cannon would give him the advantage in the field, and he trusted
to the Protestant spirit in London to prevent a revolution in his absence. But he took the
precaution of making the council entangle themselves more completely by taking out a commission
under the Great Seal, as general of the army, which they were forced to sign; and before he
left the Tower, he made a parting appeal to their good faith. If he believed they would betray
him, he said, he could still provide for his own safety; but, as they were well aware that
Lady Jane was on the throne by no will of her own, but through his influence and theirs, so
he trusted her to their honours to keep the oaths which they had sworn. "They were all in the
same guilt," one of them answered; "none could excuse themselves." Arundel especially wished
the duke God speed upon his way, and regretted only that he was not to accompany him to the
field.[30]

                   [Footnote 30: Chronicle of Queen Jane.]

This was on Thursday evening. Northumberland slept that night at Whitehall. The following morning
he rode out of London, accompanied by his four sons, Northampton, Grey, and about six hundred
men. The streets were thronged with spectators, but all observed the same ominous silence with
which they had received the heralds' proclamation. "The people press to see us," the duke said,
"but not one saith God speed us."[31]

                   [Footnote 31: Ibid.]

The principal conspirator was now out of the way; his own particular creatures--Sir Thomas
and Sir Henry Palmer, and {p.014} Sir John Gates, who had commanded the Tower guard, had gone
with him. Northampton was gone. The young Dudleys were gone all but Guilford. Suffolk alone
remained of the faction definitely attached to the duke; and the duke was marching to the destruction
which they had prepared for him. But prudence still warned those who were loyal to Mary to
wait before they declared themselves; the event was still uncertain; and the disposition of
the Earl of Pembroke might not yet, perhaps, have been perfectly ascertained.

Pembroke, in the black volume of appropriations, was the most deeply compromised. Pembroke,
in Wilts and Somerset, where his new lands lay, was hated for his oppression of the poor, and
had much to fear from a Catholic sovereign, could a Catholic sovereign obtain the reality as
well as the name of power; Pembroke, so said Northumberland, had been the first to propose
the conspiracy to him, while his eldest son had married Catherine Grey. But, as Northumberland's
designs began to ripen, he had endeavoured to steal from the court; he was a distinguished
soldier, yet he was never named to command the army which was to go against Mary; Lord Herbert's
marriage was outward and nominal merely--a form, which had not yet become a reality, and never
did. Although Pembroke was the first of the council to do homage to Jane, Northumberland evidently
doubted him. He was acting and would continue to act for his own personal interests only. With
his vast estates and vast hereditary influence in South Wales and on the Border, he could bring
a larger force into the field than any other single nobleman in England; and he could purchase
the secure possession of his acquisitions by a well-timed assistance to Mary as readily as
by lending his strength to buttress the throne of her rival.

Of the rest of the council, Winchester and Arundel had signed the letters patent with a deliberate
intention of deserting or betraying Northumberland, whenever a chance should present itself,
and of carrying on their secret measures in Mary's favour[32] {p.015} with greater security.
The other noblemen in the Tower perhaps imperfectly understood each other. Cranmer had taken
part unwillingly with Lady Jane; but he meant to keep his promise, having once given it. Bedford
had opposed the duke up to the signature, and might be supposed to adhere to his original opinion;
but he was most likely hesitating, while Lord Russell had been trusted with the command of
the garrison at Windsor. Sir Thomas Cheyne and Shrewsbury might be counted among Mary's friends;
the latter certainly. Of the three secretaries, Cecil's opposition had put his life in jeopardy;
Petre was the friend and confidant of Paget, and would act as Paget should advise; Cheke, a
feeble enthusiast, was committed to the duke.

                   [Footnote 32: "Aliqui subscripserunt, id quod
                   postea compertum est, ut facilius fallerent
                   Northumbrum, cujus consilio hæc omnia videbant
                   fieri et tegerent conspirationem quam adornabant in
                   auxilium Mariæ."--Julius Terentianus to John ab
                   Ulmis: Epistolæ Tigurinæ, p. 242. John Knox
                   allowed his vehemence to carry him too far against
                   the Marquis of Winchester, who unquestionably was
                   not one of those who advised the scheme of
                   Northumberland. In the "aliqui" of Julius
                   Terentianus, the letters of Renard, of Scheyfne,
                   enable us to identify both him and Arundel; but
                   there must have been many more, in the council or
                   out of it, who were acting in concert with them.]

The task of bringing the council together was undertaken by Cecil. Cecil and Winchester worked
on Bedford; and Bedford made himself responsible for his son, for the troops at Windsor, and
generally for the western counties. The first important step was to readmit Paget to the council.
Fresh risings were reported in Northamptonshire and Lincolnshire;[33] Sir John Williams was
proclaiming Mary round Oxford; and on Friday night or Saturday morning (July 15) news came
from the fleet which might be considered decisive as to the duke's prospects. The vessels,
so carefully equipped, which left the Thames on the 12th, had been driven into Yarmouth Harbour
by stress of weather. Sir Henry Jerningham was in the town raising men for Mary; and knowing
that the crews had been pressed, and that there had been desertions among the troops before
they were embarked,[34] he ventured boldly among the ships. "Do you want our captains?" some
one said to him. "Yea, marry," was the answer. "Then they shall go with you," the men shouted,
"or they shall go to the bottom." Officers, sailors, troops, all declared for Queen Mary, and
landed with their arms and artillery. The report was borne upon the winds; it was known in
a few hours in London; it was known in the duke's army, which was now close to Cambridge, and
was the signal for the premeditated mutiny. "The noblemen's tenants refused to serve their
lords against Queen Mary."[35] Northumberland sent a courier at full speed to the council for
reinforcements. The courier returned "with but a slender answer."[36]

                   [Footnote 33: Cecil's Submission, printed by
                   Tytler, vol. ii.]

                   [Footnote 34: Scheyfne to Charles V.: Rolls House
                   MSS.]

                   [Footnote 35: Chronicle of Queen Jane.]

                   [Footnote 36: Ibid.]

The lords in London, however, were still under the eyes of the Tower garrison, who watched
them narrowly. Their first {p.016} meeting to form their plans was within the Tower walls,
and Arundel said "he liked not the air."[37] Pembroke and Cheyne attempted to escape, but failed
to evade the guard; Winchester made an excuse to go to his own house, but he was sent for and
brought back at midnight. Though Mary might succeed, they might still lose their own lives,
which they were inclined to value.

                   [Footnote 37: Cecil's Submission: Tytler, vol. ii.]

On Sunday, the 16th, the preachers again exerted themselves. Ridley shrieked against Mary at
Paul's Cross;[38] John Knox, more wisely, at Amersham, in Buckinghamshire, foretold the approaching
retribution from the giddy ways of the past years; Buckinghamshire, Catholic and Protestant,
was arming to the teeth; and he was speaking at the peril of his life among the troopers of
Sir Edward Hastings.

                   [Footnote 38: Stow.]

"Oh England!" cried the saddened Reformer, "now is God's wrath kindled against thee--now hath
he begun to punish as he hath threatened by his true prophets and messengers. He hath taken
from thee the crown of thy glory, and hath left thee without honour, and this appeareth to
be only the beginning of sorrows. The heart, the tongue, the hand of one Englishman is bent
against another, and division is in the realm, which is a sign of desolation to come. Oh, England,
England! if thy mariners and thy governors shall consume one another, shalt not thou suffer
shipwreck? Oh England, alas! these plagues are poured upon thee because thou wouldst not know
the time of thy most gentle visitation."[39]

                   [Footnote 39: Account of a Sermon at Amersham:
                   Admonition to the Faithful in England, by John
                   Knox.]

At Cambridge, on the same day, another notable man preached--Edwin Sandys, then Protestant
Vice-Chancellor of the University, and afterwards Archbishop of York. Northumberland the preceding
evening brought his mutinous troops into the town. He sent for Parker, Lever, Bill, and Sandys
to sup with him, and told them he required their prayers, or he and his friends were like to
be "made deacons of."[40] Sandys, the vice-chancellor, must address the university the next
morning from the pulpit.

                   [Footnote 40: Some jest, perhaps, upon a shorn
                   crown; at any rate, a euphemism for decapitation;
                   for Foxe, who tells the story, says, "and even so
                   it came to pass, for he and Sir John Gates, who was
                   then at table, were made deacons ere it was long
                   after on the Tower Hill."--Foxe, vol. viii. p.
                   590.]

Sandys rose at three o'clock in the summer twilight, took his Bible, and prayed with closed
eyes that he might open at a {p.017} fitting text. His eyes, when he lifted them, were resting
on the 16th of the 1st of Joshua: "The people answered Joshua, saying, All thou commandest
us we will do; and whithersoever thou sendest us we will go; according as we hearkened unto
Moses, so will we hearken unto thee, only the Lord thy God be with thee as he was with Moses."

The application was obvious. Edward was Moses, the duke was Joshua; and if a sermon could have
saved the cause, Lady Jane would have been secure upon her throne.[41]

                   [Footnote 41: Foxe, vol. viii. p. 590.]

But the comparison, if it held at all, held only in its least agreeable features. The deliverers
of England from the Egyptian bondage of the Papacy had led the people out into a wilderness
where the manna had been stolen by the leaders, and there were no tokens of a promised land.
To the universities the Reformation had brought with it desolation. To the people of England
it had brought misery and want. The once open hand was closed; the once open heart was hardened;
the ancient loyalty of man to man was exchanged for the scuffling of selfishness; the change
of faith had brought with it no increase of freedom, and less of charity. The prisons were
crowded, as before, with sufferers for opinion, and the creed of a thousand years was made
a crime by a doctrine of yesterday; monks and nuns wandered by hedge and highway, as missionaries
of discontent, and pointed with bitter effect to the fruits of the new belief, which had been
crimsoned in the blood of thousands of English peasants. The English people were not yet so
much in love with wretchedness that they would set aside for the sake of it a princess whose
injuries pleaded for her, whose title was affirmed by act of parliament. In the tyranny under
which the nation was groaning, the moderate men of all creeds looked to the accession of Mary
as to the rolling away of some bad black nightmare.

On Monday Northumberland made another effort to move forward. His troops followed him as far
as Bury, and then informed him decisively that they would not bear arms against their lawful
sovereign. He fell back on Cambridge, and again wrote to London for help. As a last resource,
Sir Andrew Dudley, instructed, it is likely, by his brother, gathered up a hundred thousand
crowns' worth of plate and jewels from the treasury in the Tower, and started for France to
interest Henry--to bribe him, it was said, by a promise of Guisnes and Calais--to send an army
into England.[42] The duke foresaw, and dared {p.018} the indignation of the people; but he
had left himself no choice except between treason to the country or now inevitable destruction.[43]
When he called in the help of France he must have known well that his ally, with a successful
army in England, would prevent indeed the accession of Mary Tudor, but as surely would tear
in pieces the paper title of the present queen and snatch the crown for his own Mary, the Queen
of Scots, and the bride of the Dauphin.

                   [Footnote 42: Renard to Charles V.: Rolls House
                   MSS.]

                   [Footnote 43: La peine où se retreuve ledict due
                   est qu'il ne se ose fier en personne, pour n'avoir
                   faict où donné occasion à personne de l'aimer,--que
                   a meu envoyer en France le Millor Dudley son frère,
                   pour l'assurer du secours que luy a esté promis par
                   le roy de France, et le prier en faire
                   demonstration pour intimider ceulx de par deça. Car
                   encores qu'il entende qu'il dégoustera davantage
                   ceulx du pays pour y amener François, si est ce
                   craignant d'estre rebouté de son emprinse, et
                   d'estre massacré du peuple et sa generation, et que
                   ma dicte dame Marie ne parvienne à la couronne, il
                   ne respectera chose quelconque: plustôt donnera il
                   pied aux François ou peys: tel est le couraige
                   d'ung homme tiran, obstiné, et resolu, signamment
                   quant il est question de se démesurer pour
                   regner.--Renard to Charles V.: Granvelle Papers,
                   vol. iv. p. 38.]

But the council was too quick for Dudley. A secret messenger followed or attended him to Calais,
where he was arrested, the treasure recovered, and his despatches taken from him.

The counter-revolution could now be accomplished without bloodshed and without longer delay.
On Wednesday the 19th July word came that the Earl of Oxford had joined Mary. A letter was
written to Lord Rich admonishing him not to follow Oxford's example, but to remain true to
Queen Jane, which the council were required to sign. Had they refused, they would probably
have been massacred.[44] Towards the middle of the day, Winchester, Arundel, Pembroke, Shrewsbury,
Bedford, Cheyne, Paget, Mason, and Petre found means of passing the gates, and made their way
to Baynard's Castle,[45] where they sent for the mayor, the aldermen, and other great persons
of the city. When they were all assembled, Arundel was the first to speak.

                   [Footnote 44: The letter is among the Lansdowne
                   MSS. It is in the hand of Sir John Cheke, and
                   dated July 19. The signatures are Cranmer,
                   Goodrich, Winchester, Bedford, Suffolk, Arundel,
                   Shrewsbury, Pembroke, Darcy, Paget, Cheyne, Cotton,
                   Petre, Cheke, Baker, Bowes.]

                   [Footnote 45: Fronting the river, about
                   three-quarters of a mile above London Bridge. The
                   original castle of Baynard the Norman had fallen
                   into ruins at the end of the fifteenth century.
                   Henry VII. built a palace on the site of it, which
                   retained the name.]

The country, he said, was on the brink of civil war, and if they continued to support the pretensions
of Lady Jane Grey to the crown, civil war would inevitably break out. In a few more days or
weeks the child would be in arms against the {p.019} father, the brother against the brother;
the quarrels of religion would add fury to the struggle; the French would interfere on one
side, the Spaniards on the other, and in such a conflict the triumph of either party would
be almost equally injurious to the honour, unity, freedom, and happiness of England. The friends
of the commonwealth, in the face of so tremendous a danger, would not obstinately persist in
encouraging the pretensions of a faction. It was for them where they sate to decide if there
should be peace or war, and he implored them, for the sake of the country, to restore the crown
to her who was their lawful sovereign.

Pembroke rose next. The words of Lord Arundel, he said, were true and good, and not to be gainsaid.
What others thought he knew not; for himself, he was so convinced, that he would fight in the
quarrel with any man; and if words are not enough, he cried, flashing his sword out of the
scabbard, "this blade shall make Mary Queen, or I will lose my life."[46]

                   [Footnote 46: E quando le persuasioni del conte
                   d'Arundel non habiano luogo appresso di voi, o
                   questa spada farà Reina Maria, o perderò io la
                   vita.--Baoardo.]

Not a voice was raised for the Twelfth-day Queen, as Lady Jane was termed, in scornful pity,
by Noailles. Some few persons thought that, before they took a decisive step, they should send
notice to Northumberland, and give him time to secure his pardon. But it was held to be a needless
stretch of consideration; Shrewsbury and Mason hastened off to communicate with Renard;[47]
while a hundred and fifty men were marched directly to the Tower gates, and the keys were demanded
in the queen's name.

                   [Footnote 47: Renard had been prepared, by a
                   singular notice, to expect their coming, and to
                   suspect their good faith. Ce matin, he wrote,
                   relating the counter-revolution to the Emperor; ce
                   matin, à bonne heure, il y a venu une vieille femme
                   de soixante ans en nostre logis pour nous advertir
                   que l'on deust faire sçavoir à madicte dame Marie
                   qu'elle se donna garde de ceulx de conseil car its
                   la vouloient tromper soubz couleur de luy monstrer
                   affection.--Granvelle Papers, vol. iv.]

It is said that Suffolk was unprepared: but the goodness of his heart and the weakness of his
mind alike saved him from attempting a useless resistance: the gates were opened, and the unhappy
father rushed to his daughter's room. He clutched at the canopy under which she was sitting,
and tore it down; she was no longer queen, he said, and such distinctions were not for one
of her station. He then told her briefly of the revolt of the council. She replied that his
present words were more welcome to her than those in which he had advised her to accept {p.020}
the crown;[48] her reign being at an end, she asked innocently if she might leave the Tower
and go home.[49] But the Tower was a place not easy to leave, save by one route too often travelled.

                   [Footnote 48: Baoardo to Charles V.: Rolls House
                   MSS.]

                   [Footnote 49: Narrative of Edward Underhill:
                   Harleian MSS. 425.]

Meanwhile the lords, with the mayor and the heralds, went to the Cross at Cheapside to proclaim
Mary Queen. Pembroke himself stood out to read; and this time there was no reason to complain
of a silent audience. He could utter but one sentence before his voice was lost in the shout
of joy which thundered into the air. "God save the queen," "God save the queen," rung out from
tens of thousands of throats. "God save the queen," cried Pembroke himself, when he had done,
and flung up his jewelled cap and tossed his purse among the crowd. The glad news spread like
lightning through London, and the pent-up hearts of the citizens poured themselves out in a
torrent of exultation. Above the human cries, the long-silent church-bells clashed again into
life; first began St. Paul's, where happy chance had saved them from destruction; then, one
by one, every peal which had been spared caught up the sound; and through the summer evening
and the summer night, and all the next day, the metal tongues from tower and steeple gave voice
to England's gladness. The lords, surrounded by the shouting multitude, walked in state to
St. Paul's, where the choir again sang a Te Deum, and the unused organ rolled out once more
its mighty volume of music. As they came out again, at the close of the service, the apprentices
were heaping piles of wood for bonfires at the cross-ways. The citizens were spreading tables
in the streets, which their wives were loading with fattest capons and choicest wines; there
was free feasting for all comers; and social jealousies, religious hatreds, were forgotten
for the moment in the ecstasy of the common delight. Even the retainers of the Dudleys, in
fear or joy, tore their badges out of their caps, and trampled on them.[50]

                   [Footnote 50: Renard to Charles V.: Rolls House
                   MSS. All authorities agree in the general
                   description of the state of London. Renard,
                   Noailles, and Baoardo are the most explicit and
                   interesting.]

At a night session of the council, a letter was written to Northumberland, which Cranmer, Suffolk,
and Sir John Cheke consented to sign, ordering him in the name of Queen Mary to lay down his
arms. If he complied, the lords undertook to intercede for his pardon. If he refused, they
said that they {p.021} would hold him as a traitor, and spend their lives in the field against
him.[51]

                   [Footnote 51: This letter is among the Tanner
                   MSS. in the Bodleian Library at Oxford. It was
                   printed by Stowe.]

While a pursuivant bore the commands of the council to the duke, Arundel and Paget undertook
to carry to Mary at Framlingham their petition for forgiveness, in which they declared that
they had been innocent at heart of any share in the conspiracy,[52] and had only delayed coming
forward in her favour from a desire to prevent bloodshed.

                   [Footnote 52: "Our bounden duties most humbly
                   remembered to your excellent Majesty. It may like
                   the same to understand, that we, your most humble,
                   faithful, and obedient subjects, having always, God
                   we take to witness, remained your Highness's true
                   and humble subjects in our hearts, ever since the
                   death of our late Sovereign Lord and master your
                   Highness's brother, whom God pardon, and seeing
                   hitherto no possibility to utter our determination
                   without great destruction and bloodshed, both of
                   ourselves and others, till this time, have this day
                   proclaimed in your city of London your Majesty to
                   be our true natural sovereign liege Lady and Queen;
                   most humbly beseeching your Majesty to pardon and
                   remit our former infirmities, and most graciously
                   to accept our meanings, which have been ever to
                   serve your Highness truly, and so shall remain with
                   all our power and force, to the effusion of our
                   blood, as these bearers, our very good Lords, the
                   Earls of Arundel and Paget, can, and be ready more
                   particularly to declare--to whom it may please your
                   excellent Majesty to give firm credence; and thus
                   we do and shall daily pray to Almighty God for the
                   preservation of your most royal person long to
                   reign over us."--Lansdowne MSS. 3. Endorsed, in
                   Cecil's hand, "Copy of the Letter of the Lords to
                   the Queen Mary from Baynard's Castle." The
                   signatures are, unfortunately, wanting.]

The two lords immediately mounted and galloped off into the darkness, followed by thirty horse,
leaving the lights of illuminated London gleaming behind them.

The duke's position was already desperate: on the 18th, before the proclamation in London,
Mary had felt herself strong enough to send orders to the Mayor of Cambridge for his arrest;[53]
and, although he had as yet been personally unmolested, he was powerless in the midst of an
army which was virtually in Mary's service. The news of the revolution in London first reached
him by a private hand. He at once sent for Sandys, and, going with him to the market cross,
he declared, after one violent clutch at his beard, that he had acted under orders from the
council; the council, he understood, had changed their minds, and he would change his mind
also; therefore he cried, "God save Queen Mary," and with a strained effort at a show of satisfaction,
he, too, like Pembroke, threw up his cap. The queen, he said to Sandys, was a merciful woman,
and there would be a general pardon. "Though the queen grant you a {p.022} pardon," Sandys
answered, "the lords never will; you can hope nothing from those who now rule."[54]

                   [Footnote 53: Renard to Charles V.: Rolls House
                   MSS.]

                   [Footnote 54: Foxe, vol. viii.]

It was true that he could hope nothing--the hatred of the whole nation, which before his late
treasons he had brought upon himself, would clamour to the very heavens for judgment against
him. An hour after the proclamation of Mary (July 20), Rouge-cross herald arrived with the
lords' letter from London. An order at the same time was read to the troops informing them
that they were no longer under the duke's command, and an alderman of the town then ventured
to execute the queen's warrant for his arrest. Northumberland was given in charge to a guard
of his own soldiers; he protested, however, that the council had sent no instructions for his
detention; and in some uncertainty, or perhaps in compassion for his fate, the soldiers obeyed
him once more, and let him go. It was then night. He intended to fly; but he put it off till
the morning, and in the morning his chance was gone. Before he could leave his room he found
himself face to face with Arundel, who, after delivering the council's letter to the queen,
had hastened to Cambridge to secure him.

Northumberland, who, while innocent of crime, had faced death on land and sea like a soldier
and a gentleman, flung himself at the earl's feet. "Be good to me, for the love of God," he
cried; "consider I have done nothing but by the consent of you and the council." He knew what
kind of consent he had extorted from the council. "My lord," said Arundel, "I am sent thither
by the Queen's Majesty; and in her name I do arrest you."--"I obey, my lord," the duke replied;
"yet show me mercy, knowing the case as it is."--"My lord," was the cold answer, "you should
have sought for mercy sooner; I must do according to my commandment."[55]

                   [Footnote 55: Holinshed.]

At the same moment Sandys was paying the penalty for his sermon. The university, in haste to
purge itself of its heretical elements, met soon after sunrise to depose their vice-chancellor.
Dr. Sandys, who had gone for an early stroll among the meadows to meditate on his position,
hearing the congregation-bell ringing, resolved, like a brave man, to front his fortune; he
walked to the senate-house, entered, and took his seat. "A rabble of Papists" instantly surrounded
him. He tried to speak, but the masters of arts shouted "Traitor;" rough hands shook or dragged
him from his chair: and the impatient theologian, in sudden heat, drew his dagger, and "would
have done a mischief {p.023} with it," had not some of his friends disarmed him.[56] He, too,
was handed over to a guard, lashed to the back of a lame horse, and carried to London.

                   [Footnote 56: Foxe, vol. viii. pp. 591-2.]

Mary, meanwhile, notwithstanding the revolution in her favour, remained a few more days at
Framlingham, either suspicious of treachery or uncertain whether there might not be another
change. But she was assured rapidly that the danger was at an end by the haste with which the
lords and gentlemen who were compromised sought their pardon at her feet. On the 21st and 22nd
Clinton, Grey, Fitzgerald, Ormond, Fitzwarren, Sir Henry Sidney, and Sir James Crofts presented
themselves and received forgiveness. Cecil wrote, explaining his secret services, and was taken
into favour. Lord Robert and Lord Ambrose Dudley, Northampton and a hundred other gentlemen--Sir
Thomas Wyatt among them--who had accompanied the duke to Bury, were not so fortunate. The queen
would not see them, and they were left under arrest. Ridley set out for Norfolk, also, to confess
his offences; but, before he arrived at the court, he was met by a warrant for his capture,
and carried back a prisoner to the Tower.

The conspiracy was crushed, and crushed, happily, without bloodshed. The inquiry into its origin,
and the punishment of the guilty, could be carried out at leisure. There was one matter, however,
which admitted of no delay. Mary's first anxiety, on feeling her crown secure, was the burial
of her dead brother, who, through all these scenes, was still lying in his bed in his room
at Greenwich. In her first letter to the Imperial ambassadors, the day after the arrival of
Arundel and Paget at the court, she spoke of this as her greatest care; to their infinite alarm,
she announced her intention of inaugurating her reign with Requiem and Dirige, and a mass for
the repose of his soul.

Their uneasiness requires explanation.

While on matters of religion there was in England almost every variety of opinion, there was
a very general consent that the queen should not marry a foreigner. The dread that Mary might
form a connection with some continental prince, had formed the strongest element in Northumberland's
cause; all the Catholics, except the insignificant faction who desired the restoration of the
Papal authority,[57] all the moderate Protestants, {p.024} wished well to her, but wished to
see her married to some English nobleman; and, while her accession was still uncertain, the
general opinion had already fixed upon a husband for her in the person of her cousin Edward
Courtenay, the imprisoned son of the Marquis of Exeter. The interest of the public in the long
confinement of this young nobleman had invested him with all imaginary graces of mind and body.
He was the grandchild of a Plantagenet, and a representative of the White Rose. He had suffered
from the tyranny, and was supposed to have narrowly escaped murder at the hands of the man
whom all England most hated. Nature, birth, circumstances, all seemed to point to him as the
king-consort of the realm.[58] The emperor had thought of Mary for his son; and it has been
seen that the fear of such an alliance induced the French to support Northumberland. To prevent
the injury which the report, if credited in England, would have done to her cause, Mary, on
her first flight to Keninghal, empowered Renard to assure the council that she had no thought
at all of marrying a stranger. The emperor and the bishop of Arras, in assuring Sir Philip
Hoby that the French intended to strike for the Queen of Scots, declared that, for themselves
they wished only to see the queen settled in her own realm, as her subjects desired; and especially
they would prevent her either from attempting innovations in religion without their consent,
or from marrying against their approbation.[59]

                   [Footnote 57: I must again remind my readers of the
                   distinction between Catholic and Papist.
                   Three-quarters of the English people were
                   Catholics; that is, they were attached to the
                   hereditary and traditionary doctrines of the
                   Church. They detested, as cordially as the
                   Protestants, the interference of a foreign power,
                   whether secular or spiritual, with English
                   liberty.]

                   [Footnote 58: "Adversity is a good thing. I trust
                   in the Lord to live to see the day her Grace to
                   marry such an one as knoweth what adversity
                   meaneth; so shall we have both a merciful queen and
                   king to their subjects; and would to God I might
                   live to have another virtuous Edward."--Epistle of
                   Poor Pratt to Gilbert Potter, written July 13:
                   Queen Jane and Queen Mary, Appendix, p. 116. The
                   occasion of this curious epistle was the punishment
                   of Gilbert on the pillory. The writer was a
                   Protestant, and evidently thought the Reformation
                   in greater danger from Northumberland than Mary.
                   "We have had many prophets and true preachers," he
                   said, "which did declare that our king shall be
                   taken away from us, and a tyrant shall reign. The
                   gospel shall be plucked away, and the right heir
                   shall be dispossessed; and all for our
                   unthankfulness. And, thinkest thou not, Gilbert,
                   this world is now come? Yea! truly! and what shall
                   follow, if we repent not in time? The same God will
                   take from us the virtuous Lady Mary our lawful
                   Queen, and send such a cruel Pharaoh as the Ragged
                   Bear to rule us, which shall pull and poll us, and
                   utterly destroy us, and bring us in great
                   calamities and miseries."]

                   [Footnote 59: MS. Harleian, 523.]

But the emperor's disinterestedness was only the result of his despondency. While the crisis
lasted, neither Charles nor Henry of France saw their way to a distinct course of action. Charles,
on the 20th of July, ignorant of the events in London, {p.025} had written to Renard, despairing
of Mary's success. Jane Grey he would not recognise; the Queen of Scots, he thought, would
shortly be on the English throne. Henry, considering, at any rate, that he might catch something
in troubled waters, volunteered to Lord William Howard,[60] in professed compliance with the
demands of Northumberland, to garrison Guisnes and Calais for him. Howard replied that the
French might come to Calais if they desired, but their reception might not be to their taste.[61]
The revolution of the 19th altered the aspect of the situation both at the courts of Paris
and of Brussels. The accession of Mary would be no injury to France, provided she could be
married in England; and Henry at once instructed Noailles to congratulate the council on her
accession. Noailles himself indeed considered, that, should she take Courtenay for a husband,
the change might, after all, be to their advantage. The emperor, on the other hand, began to
think again of his original scheme. Knowing that the English were sincere in their detestation
of the Papacy, and imperfectly comprehending the insular distinction between general attachment
to Catholic tradition and indifference to Catholic unity, he supposed that the country really
was, on the whole, determined in its adherence to the reformed opinions. But the political
alliance was still of infinite importance to him; and therefore he was anxious beyond everything
that the princess whom he intended to persuade to break her word about her marriage should
be discreet and conciliatory about religion. He lost not a moment, after hearing that she was
proclaimed queen, in sending her his congratulations; but he sent with them an earnest admonition
to be cautious; to be content with the free exercise for herself of her own creed, to take
no step whatever without the sanction of parliament, and to listen to no one who would advise
her, of her own authority, to set aside the Act of Uniformity. Her first duty was to provide
for the quiet of the realm; and she must endeavour, by prudence and moderation, to give reasonable
satisfaction to her subjects of all opinions. Above all things, let her remember to be a good
Englishwoman (bonne Anglaise).[62]

                   [Footnote 60: Governor of Calais.]

                   [Footnote 61: Noailles.]

                   [Footnote 62: Charles V. to Renard, July 22:
                   Granvelle Papers, vol. iv.]

It was, in consequence, with no light anxiety that Renard learnt from Mary her intention of
commencing her reign with an act which was so far at variance with the emperor's advice, and
which would at once display the colours of a party. To give the late king a public funeral
with a ceremonial forbidden {p.026} by the law, would be a strain of the prerogative which
could not fail to create jealousy even among those to whom the difference between a Latin mass
and an English service was not absolutely vital; and the judicious latitudinarianism to which
the lay statesmen of the better sort were inclining, would make them dread the appearance of
a disposition that would encourage the revolutionists. She owed her crown to the Protestants
as well as to the Catholics. If she broke the law to please the prejudices of the latter, Renard
was warned that her present popularity would not be of long continuance.[63]

                   [Footnote 63: Elle sera odieuse, suspecte, et
                   dangereuse.--Renard to the Emperor: Rolls House
                   MSS.]

Yet, as the ambassador trembled to know, a carelessness of consequences and an obstinate perseverance
in a course which she believed to be right were the principal features in Mary's character.
He wrote to her while she was still at Framlingham, using every argument which ought, as he
considered, to prevail. He reminded her of the long and unavailing struggle of the emperor
to bring back Germany out of heresy, where the obstinacy of the Romanists had been as mischievous
to him as the fanaticism of the Lutherans. "Her duty to God was of course the first thing to
be considered; but at such a time prudence was a part of that duty. The Protestant heresies
had taken a hold deep and powerful upon her subjects. In London alone there were fifteen thousand
French, Flemish, and German refugees, most of them headstrong and ungovernable enthusiasts.
The country dreaded any fresh convulsions, and her majesty should remember that she had instructed
him to tell the council that she was suspected unjustly, and had no thought of interfering
with the existing settlement of the realm."[64]

                   [Footnote 64: Renard to Queen Mary, copy enclosed
                   to Charles V.: Rolls House MSS.]

With all his efforts, however, Renard could but bring the queen to consent to a few days' delay;
and fearing that she would return to her purpose, he sent to the emperor a copy of his letter,
which he urged him to follow up. Charles on the 29th replied again, lauding the ambassador's
caution, and suggesting an argument more likely to weigh with his cousin than the soundest
considerations of public policy. Edward had lived and died in heresy, and the Catholic services
were intended only for the faithful sons of the Church.[65] He desired {p.027} Renard to remind
her that those who had been her most valuable friends were known to hold opinions far from
orthodox; and he once more implored her to be guided by parliament, and to take care that the
parliament was free. She had asked whether she should imitate Northumberland and nominate the
members of the House of Commons. He cautioned her against so dangerous an example; he advised
her to let the counties and towns send deputies of their own choice; and if the writs were
sent into Cornwall and the northern counties, which had remained most constant to the Catholic
religion, these places might be expected to return persons who would support her own sentiments.[66]

                   [Footnote 65: Vous avez tres bien faict de
                   desconseillier à la dicte Royne qu'elle fist les
                   obsèques du feu Roy, ce qu'elle peult tant plus
                   delaisser avecque le repos de sa conscience,
                   puisque comme escripvez il est décedé soustenant
                   jusques à la fin, selon, qu'il avoit esté persuadé
                   de depuis sa jeunesse, les opinions de desvoyez de
                   nostre ancienne religion: par ou l'on ne peult sans
                   scrupule luy faire l'enterrement et obsèques
                   accoustumez en nostre dicte religion. Et est bien
                   que l'ayez persuadé par vostre dicte lettre à la
                   dicte dilation.--Charles V. to Renard, July 29:
                   Granvelle Papers, vol. iv.]

                   [Footnote 66: Et il seroit a esperer que y
                   appellant ceulx du Noort et de Cornuailles avec les
                   autres comme ce sont ceulx qui sont demeurez plus
                   ferme en la religion, et qui ont démonstré plus
                   d'affection en son endroit qu'elle trouveroit
                   envers iceulx pour tout ce qu'elle vouldroit
                   ordonner plus de faveur.--Ibid.]

If the emperor had been equally earnest in urging Mary to consult the wishes of her subjects
on her marriage, he would have been a truer friend to her than he proved to be. But prudential
arguments produced no effect on the eager queen; Renard had warned her not to resist Northumberland;
she had acted on her own judgment, and Northumberland was a prisoner, and she was on the throne.
By her own will she was confident that she could equally well restore the mass, and in good
time the pope's authority. The religious objection to the funeral was more telling, and on
this point she hesitated. Meantime she began to move slowly towards London, and at the end
of the month the reached her old house of Newhall in Essex, where she rested till the preparations
were complete for her entry into the city.

The first point on which she had now to make up her mind concerned the persons with whom she
was to carry on the government. The emperor was again clear in his advice, which here she found
herself obliged to follow. She was forced to leave undisturbed in their authorities such of
her brother's late ministers as had contributed to the revolution in her favour. Derby, Sussex,
Bath, Oxford, who had hurried to her support at Framlingham, were her loyal subjects, whom
she could afford to neglect, because she could depend upon their fidelity. Pembroke and Winchester,
Arundel and Shrewsbury, Bedford, {p.028} Cobham, Cheyne, Petre, too powerful to affront, too
uncertain to be trusted as subjects, she could only attach to herself by maintaining in their
offices and emoluments. She would restore the Duke of Norfolk to the council; Gardiner should
hold office again; and she could rely on the good faith of Paget, the ablest, as well as the
most honest, of all the professional statesmen. But Norfolk was old, and the latitudinarian
Paget and the bigoted Gardiner bore each other no good will; so that, when the queen had leisure
to contemplate her position, it did not promise to be an easy one. She would have to govern
with the assistance of men who were gorged with the spoils of the church, suspected of heresy,
and at best indifferent to religion.

In Mary's absence, the lords in London carried on the government as they could on their own
responsibility. On the 21st Courtenay was released from the Tower. Gardiner was offered liberty,
but he waited to accept it from the queen's own hand. He rejoined the council, however, and
on the first or second day of his return to the board, he agitated their deliberations by requiring
the restoration of his house in Southwark, which had been appropriated to the Marquis of Northampton,
and by reminding Pembroke that he was in possession of estates which had been stolen from the
See of Winchester.

On the 25th Northumberland and Lord Ambrose Dudley were brought in from Cambridge, escorted
by Grey and Arundel, with four hundred of the guard. Detachments of troops were posted all
along the streets from Bishopsgate, where the duke would enter, to the Tower, to prevent the
mob from tearing him in pieces. It was but twelve days since he had ridden out from that gate
in the splendour of his power; he was now assailed from all sides with yells and execrations;
bareheaded, with cap in hand, he bowed to the crowd as he rode on, as if to win some compassion
from them; but so recent a humility could find no favour. His scarlet cloak was plucked from
his back; the only sounds which greeted his ears were, "Traitor, traitor, death to the traitor!"
He hid his face, sick at heart with shame, and Lord Ambrose, at the gate of the Tower, was
seen to burst into tears.[67] Edwin Sandys, Northampton, Ridley, Lord Robert Dudley, the offending
judges Cholmley and Montague, with many others, followed in the few next days. Montague had
protested to the queen that he had acted only under compulsion, but his excuses were not fully
received. Lady Northumberland {p.029} went to Newhall to beg for mercy for her sons, but Mary
refused to admit her.[68]

                   [Footnote 67: Renard to Charles V.: Rolls House
                   MSS. Baoardo. Grey Friars' Chronicle.]

                   [Footnote 68: Renard to Charles V.: Rolls House
                   MSS.]

In general, however, there was no desire to press hard upon the prisoners. Few had been guilty
in the first degree; in the second degree so many were guilty, that all could not be punished,
and to make exceptions would be unjust and invidious. The emperor recommended a general pardon,
from which the principal offenders only should be excluded, and Mary herself was as little
inclined to harshness. Her present desire was to forget all that had passed, and take possession
of her power for the objects nearest to her heart. Her chief embarrassment for the moment was
from the overloyalty of her subjects. The old-fashioned lords and country gentlemen who had
attended her with their retainers from Norfolk, remained encamped round Newhall, unable to
persuade themselves that they could leave her with safety in the midst of the men who had been
the ministers of the usurpation.[69]

                   [Footnote 69: Ibid.]

Her closest confidence the queen reserved for Renard. On the 28th of July she sent for him
at midnight. On the 2nd of August he was again with her, and the chief subject of her thoughts
was still the funeral. "She could not have her brother committed to the ground like a dog,"
she said. While her fortunes were uncertain, she allowed Renard to promise for her that she
would make no changes in religion, but "she had now told the lords distinctly that she would
not recognise any of the laws which had been passed in the minority,[70] and she intended to
act boldly; timidity would only encourage the people to be insolent;" "the lords were all quarrelling
among themselves, and accusing one another; she could not learn the truth on any point of the
late conspiracy; she did not know who were guilty or who were innocent; and, amidst the distracted
advices which were urged upon her, she could not tell whether she could safely venture to London
or not; but outward acquiescence in {p.030} the course which she chose to follow she believed
that she could compel, and she would govern as God should direct her. The emperor, she added,
had written to her about her marriage, not specifying any particular person, but desiring her
to think upon the subject. She had never desired to marry while princess, nor did she desire
it now; but if it were for the interests of the church, she would do whatever he might advise."

                   [Footnote 70: She, perhaps, imagined that she was
                   not exceeding her statutable right in the refusal.
                   The 17th of the 28th of Henry VIII. empowered any
                   one of the heirs to the crown named in the king's
                   will, on arriving at the age of twenty-four, to
                   repeal laws passed not only in his or her own
                   minority; but under circumstances such as those
                   which had actually occurred, where the first heir
                   had died before coming of age. The 11th of the 1st
                   of Edward VI. modified the act of Henry, limiting
                   the power of repeal to the sovereign in whose own
                   reign the law to be repealed had been passed. But
                   this act of Edward's was, itself, passed in a
                   minority, and Mary might urge that she might repeal
                   that as well as any other statute passed in his
                   reign in virtue of the act of her father.]

On this last point Renard knew more of the emperor's intentions than Mary, and was discreetly
silent; on other point he used his influence wisely. He constrained her, with Charles's arguments,
to relinquish her burial scheme. "Edward, as a heretic, should have a heretic funeral at Westminster
Abbey; she need not be present, and might herself have a mass said for him in the Tower. As
to removing to London, in his opinion she had better go thither at once, take possession of
her throne, and send Northumberland to trial. Her brother's body ought to be examined also,
that it might be ascertained whether he had been poisoned; and if poisoned, by whom and for
what purpose."[71]

                   [Footnote 71: Renard to Charles V.: Rolls House
                   MSS.]

Mary rarely paused upon a resolution. Making up her mind that, as Renard said, it would be
better for her to go to London, she set out thither the following day, Thursday, the 3rd of
August. Excitement lent to her hard features an expression almost of beauty,[72] as she rode
in the midst of a splendid cavalcade of knights and nobles. Elizabeth, escorted by two thousand
horse and a retinue of ladies, was waiting to receive her outside the gates. The first in her
congratulations, after the proclamation, yet fearful of giving offence, Elizabeth had written
to ask if it was the queen's pleasure that she should appear in mourning; but the queen would
have no mourning, nor would have others wear it in her presence. The sombre colours which of
late years had clouded the court were to be banished at once and for ever; and with the dark
colours, it seemed for a time as if old dislikes and suspicions were at the same time to pass
away. The sisters embraced; the queen was warm and affectionate, kissing all the ladies in
Elizabeth's train; and side by side the daughters of Henry VIII. rode through Aldgate at seven
in the evening, amidst the shouts of the people, the thunder of cannon, and pealing of church
bells.[73] At the Tower gates the old Duke of Norfolk, Gardiner, Courtenay, and the Duchess
of Somerset {p.031} were seen kneeling as Mary approached. "These are my prisoners," she said
as she alighted from her horse, and stooped and kissed them. Charmed by the enthusiastic reception
and by the pleasant disappointment of her anxieties, she could find no room for hard thoughts
of any one; so far was she softened, Renard wrote, that she could hardly be brought to consent
to the necessary execution of justice. Against Northumberland himself she had no feeling of
vindictiveness, and was chiefly anxious that he should be attended by a confessor; Northampton
was certainly to be pardoned; Suffolk was already free; Northumberland should be spared, if
possible; and, as to Lady Jane, justice forbade, she said, that an innocent girl should suffer
for the crimes of others.[74]

                   [Footnote 72: "La beauté de visage plus que
                   médiocre," are Renard's words to Charles.]

                   [Footnote 73: Renard; Noailles; Machyn; Grey
                   Friars' Chronicle.]

                   [Footnote 74: Renard to Charles V.: Rolls House
                   MSS.]

The emperor had recommended mercy; but he had not advised a general indemnity, as Renard made
haste to urge. The imperialist conception of clemency differed from the queen's; and the same
timidity which had first made the ambassadors too prudent, now took the form of measured cruelty.
Renard entreated that Lady Jane should not be spared; "conspirators required to be taught that
for the principals in treason there was but one punishment; the duke must die, and the rival
queen and her husband must die with him." "We set before her"--Renard's own hand is the witness
against him--"the examples of Maximus and his son Victor, both executed by the Emperor Theodosius;
Maximus, because he had usurped the purple; Victor, because, as the intended heir of his father,
he might have been an occasion of danger had he lived."[75]

                   [Footnote 75: Et luy fust proposé l'exemple de
                   Maximus et Victor son filz que Theodose l'Empereur
                   feit mourir pour s'estre attribué le nom d'Empereur
                   par tyrannie et l'avoir voulu continuer en son diet
                   filz Victor, escripvant l'histoire que l'on feit
                   mourir le filz pour le scandale et danger qu'en
                   eust peu advenir.--Renard to Charles V.: Rolls
                   House MSS. For the story, see Gibbon, cap. xxvii.]

Looking also, as Renard was already doing, on the scenes which were around him, chiefly or
solely as they might affect the interests of his master's son, he had been nervously struck
by the entourage which surrounded Elizabeth and the popularity which she, as well as the queen,
was evidently enjoying.

Elizabeth, now passing into womanhood, was the person to whom the affections of the liberal
party in England most definitely tended. She was the heir-presumptive to the crown; in matters
of religion she was opposed to the mass, and opposed as decidedly to factious and dogmatic
Protestantism; while {p.032} from the caution with which she had kept aloof from political
entanglements, it was clear that her brilliant intellectual abilities were not her only or
her most formidable gifts. Already she shared the favour of the people with the queen. Let
Mary offend them (and in the intended marriage offence would unquestionably have to be given),
their entire hearts might be transferred to her. The public finger had pointed to Courtenay
as the husband which England desired for the queen. When Courtenay should be set aside by Mary,
he might be accepted by Elizabeth; and Elizabeth, it was rumoured, looked upon him with an
eye of favour.[76] On all accounts, therefore, Elizabeth was dangerous. She was a figure on
the stage whom Renard would gladly see removed; and a week or two later he bid Mary look to
her, watch her, and catch her tripping if good fortune would so permit: "it was better to prevent
than to be prevented."[77]

                   [Footnote 76: Renard to Charles V.: Rolls House
                   MSS.]

                   [Footnote 77: Signantment sembleroit que vostre
                   majesté ne se deust confier en Madame Elizabeth que
                   bien a point, et discouvrir sur ce qu'elle ne se
                   voit en espoir d'entrer en règne, ne avoir voulu
                   fleschir quant au point de la religion ny ouyr la
                   messe; ce que l'on jugeoit elle deust faire pour la
                   respect de vostre majesté, et pour les courtoysies
                   dont elle use en son endroit encores qu'elle ny
                   eust faict sinon l'assister et l'accompaigner. Et
                   davantage l'on peult discouvrir comme elle se
                   maintient en la nouvelle religion par practique,
                   pour attirer et gaigner a sa dévotion ceulx quilz
                   sont de la dicte religion en s'en aider, si elle
                   avoit intention de maligner; et jaçois l'on se
                   pourroit fourcompter quant à son intention, si est
                   en ce commencement, qu'il est plus sure prévenir
                   que d'estre prévenu et penser a ce que peult
                   advenir; actendu que les objects sont evidens.--Les
                   Ambassadeurs de l'Empereur à Marie, Reine
                   d'Angleterre: Granvelle Papers, vol. ii. pp.
                   64-69.]

The queen did not close her ears to these evil whispers; but for the first few days after she
came to the Tower her thoughts were chiefly occupied with religion, and her first active step
was to release and to restore to their sees the deprived and imprisoned bishops. The first
week in August, Ponet, by royal order, was ejected from Winchester, Ridley from London, and
Scory from Chichester. The See of Durham was reconstituted. Tunstal, Day, and Heath were set
at liberty, and returned to their dioceses. The Bishop of Ely was deposed from the chancellorship,
and the seals were given to Gardiner. "On the 5th of August," says the Grey Friars' Chronicle,
"at seven o'clock at night, Edmond Bonner came home from the Marshalsea like a bishop, and
all the people by the wayside bade him welcome home, both man and woman, and as many of the
women as might kissed him; and so he came to Paul's, and knelt on the {p.033} steps, and said
his prayers, and the people rang the bells for joy."[78]

                   [Footnote 78: Chronicle of the Grey Friars of
                   London, p. 82.]

While Mary was repairing acts of injustice, Gardiner, with Sir William Petre, was looking into
the public accounts. The debts of the late government had been reduced, the currency unconsidered,
to £190,000.[79] A doubt had been raised whether, after the attempt to set aside the succession,
the queen was bound to take the responsibility of these obligations, but Mary preferred honour
to convenience; she promised to pay everything as soon as possible. Further, there remain,
partly in Gardiner's hand, a number of hasty notes, written evidently in these same first weeks
of Mary's reign, which speak nobly for the intentions with which both Mary and himself were
setting generally to work. The expenses of the household were to be reduced to the scale of
Henry VII., or the early years of Henry VIII.; the garrisons at Berwick and Calais were to
be placed on a more economical footing, the navy reduced, the irregular guard dismissed or
diminished. Bribery was to be put an end to in the courts of Westminster, at quarter sessions,
and among justices of the peace; "the laws were to be restored to their authority without suffering
any matters to be ordered otherwise than as the laws should appoint."[80] These first essentials
having been attended to, the famous or infamous book of sales, grants, and exchanges of the
crown lands was to be looked into; the impropriation of benefices was to cease, and decency
to be restored to the parish churches, where the grooms and gamekeepers should give way to
competent ministers; economy, order, justice, and reverence were to heal the canker of profligate
profanity which had eaten too long into the moral life of England.

                   [Footnote 79: August 1553. Debts of the crown.
                   Irish debt, £36,094 18s. Household debts, £14,574
                   16s. Further household debts, £7450 5s. Berwick
                   debt, with the wages of the officers, £16,639 18s.
                   Calais debt, beside £17,000 of loans and other
                   things, £21,184 10s. Ordnance Office, £3134 7s.
                   Public works, £3200. Admiralty debt, £3923 4s.
                   Debts in the Office of the Chamber, £17,968. Debts
                   beyond the seas by Sir Thomas Gresham's particular
                   bill, £61,068. Alderney's debt, £3028. Scilly debt,
                   £3071.--MS. Mary, Domestic, vol. i. State Paper
                   Office.]

                   [Footnote 80: Note of things to be attended to:
                   MS. Mary, Domestic, vol. i.]

In happier times Mary might have been a worthy queen, and Gardiner an illustrious minister;[81]
but the fatal superstition {p.034} which confounded religion with orthodox opinion was too
strong for both of them.

                   [Footnote 81: Another natural feature of these
                   curious days was the arrest of suspected persons;
                   one of whom, Edward Underhill, the Hot Gospeller,
                   has left behind him, in the account of his own
                   adventures, a very vivid picture of the time.
                   Underhill was a yeoman of the guard. He had seen
                   service in the French wars, but had been noted
                   chiefly for the zeal which he had shown in the late
                   reign in hunting Catholics into gaol. He had thus
                   worked his way into Court favour. During the brief
                   royalty of Jane Grey, his wife was confined. His
                   child was christened at the Tower church, and
                   Suffolk and Pembroke were "gossips," and Jane
                   herself was godmother. The day that Mary was
                   proclaimed, he put out a ballad, which, as he
                   expected, brought him into trouble. "The next day,"
                   he is telling his own story, "after the queen was
                   come to the Tower, the foresaid ballad came into
                   the hands of Secretary Bourne, who straightway made
                   inquiry for the said Edward, who dwelt in
                   Lymehurst; which he having intelligence of, sent
                   the sheriff of Middlesex with a company of bills
                   and glaives, who came into my house, being in my
                   bed, and my wife newly laid in childbed. The high
                   constable, whose name is Thomas Joy, dwelled at the
                   house next to me, whom the sheriff brought also
                   with him. He being my very friend, desired the
                   sheriff and his company to stay without for
                   frighting of my wife, and he would go fetch me unto
                   him; who knocked at the door, saying, he must speak
                   with me. I, lying so near that I might hear him,
                   called unto him, willing him to come unto me, for
                   that he was always my very friend and earnest in
                   the gospel, who declared unto me that the sheriff
                   and a great company was sent for me. Whereupon I
                   rose and made me ready to come unto him.

                   "Sir, said he, I have commandment from the council
                   to apprehend you and bring you unto them.

                   "Why, said I, it is now ten of the clock at night;
                   you cannot now carry me unto them.

                   "No, sir, said he, you shall go with me to my house
                   in London, where you shall have a bed, and
                   to-morrow I will bring you unto them in the Tower.

                   "In the name of God, quoth I, and so went with him,
                   requiring him if I might understand the cause. He
                   said he knew none."

                   Underhill, however, conjectured that it was the
                   ballad. He "was nothing dismayed;" and in the
                   morning went readily to the Tower, where he waited
                   in the presence chamber talking to the pensioners.

                   Sir Edward Hastings passed through, and as he saw
                   him, "frowned earnestly." "Are you come?" said
                   Hastings, "we will talk with you ere you part, I
                   warrant you." They were old acquaintances.
                   Underhill had been controller of the ordnance at
                   Calais when Lord Huntingdon was in command there.
                   The earl being in bad health, his brother Sir
                   Edward was with him, assisting in the duties of the
                   office; and Underhill, being able to play and sing,
                   had been a frequent visitor at the Government
                   House. The earl, moreover, "took great delight to
                   hear him reason" with Sir Edward, on points of
                   controversy--chiefly on the real presence--where
                   the controller of the ordnance (according to his
                   own account) would quote Scripture, and Sir Edward
                   would "swear great oaths," "especially by the
                   Lord's foot;" on which Underhill would say, "Nay,
                   then, it must needs be so, and you prove it with
                   such oaths," and the earl would laugh and exclaim,
                   "Brother, give him over, Underhill is too good for
                   you."

                   Hastings, it seemed, could not forgive these
                   passages of wit, and Underhill was too smart for
                   them. While he stood waiting, Secretary Bourne came
                   in, "looking as the wolf at the lamb," and seeing
                   the man that he had sent for, carried him off into
                   the council room. Hastings was gone, Bedford sat as
                   President, "and Bedford," says Underhill, "was my
                   friend, for that my chance was to be at the
                   recovery of his son, my Lord Russell, when he was
                   cast into the Thames by Lymehurst, whom I received
                   into my house, and gate him to bed, who was in
                   great peril of his life, the weather being very
                   cold."

                   Bedford, however, made no sign of recognition.
                   Bourne read the ballad; on which Underhill
                   protested that there was no attack on the queen's
                   title in it. No! Bourne said, but it maintains the
                   queen's title with the help of an arrant heretic,
                   Tyndal. Underhill used the word Papist. Sir John
                   Mason asked what he meant by that: "Sir," he says
                   that he replied, "I think, if you look among the
                   priests in Paul's, you shall find some old
                   mumpsimusses there.

                   "Mumpsimusses, knave, said he, mumpsimusses! Thou
                   art an heretic knave, by God's blood!

                   "Yea! by the mass, said the Earl of Bath, I warrant
                   him an heretic knave indeed.

                   "I beseech your honours," Underhill said, "speaking
                   to the Lords that sat at the table (for those
                   others stood by and were not of the council), be my
                   good Lords. I have offended no laws. I have served
                   the Queen's Majesty's father and brother long time,
                   and spent and consumed my living therein. I went
                   not forth against her Majesty, notwithstanding I
                   was commanded."

                   He was interrupted by Arundel, who said that, "by
                   his writing," "he wished to set them all by the
                   ears." Hastings re-entered at the moment, telling
                   the council that they must repair to the queen, and
                   the Hot Gospeller was promptly ordered to Newgate.

                   The sheriff led him through the streets, his friend
                   Joy "following afar off, as Peter followed Christ."
                   He wrote a few words to his wife at the door of
                   Newgate, asking her to send him "his nightgown, his
                   Bible, and his lute;" and then entered the prison,
                   his life in which he goes on to describe.

                   In the centre of Newgate was "a great open hall."
                   "As soon as it was supper time," the board was
                   covered in the same hall. The keeper, whose name
                   was "Alisander," with his wife, came and sat down,
                   and half a dozen prisoners that were there for
                   felony, Underhill "being the first that for
                   religion was sent unto that prison." One of the
                   felons had served with him in France. "After
                   supper," the story continues, "this good fellow,
                   whose name was Bristow, procured me to have a bed
                   in his chamber, who could play well upon a rebeck.
                   He was a tall fellow, and after one of Queen Mary's
                   guard; yet a Protestant, which he kept secret, for
                   else, he said, he should not have found such favour
                   as he did at the keeper's hands and his wife's, for
                   to such as loved the gospel they were very cruel.
                   Well, said Underhill, I have sent for my Bible,
                   and, by God's grace, therein shall be my daily
                   exercise; I will not hide it from them. Sir, said
                   he, I am poor; but they will bear with you, for
                   they see your estate is to pay well; and I will
                   shew you the nature and manner of them; for I have
                   been here a good while. They both do love music
                   very well. Wherefore you with your lute, and I to
                   play with you on my rebeck, will please them
                   greatly. He loveth to be merry, and to drink wine,
                   and she also. If you will bestow upon them, every
                   dinner and supper, a quart of wine and some music,
                   you shall be their white son, and have all the
                   favour they can shew you."

                   The honour of being "white son" to the governor and
                   governess of Newgate was worth aspiring after.
                   Underhill duly provided the desired entertainments.
                   The governor gave him the best room in the prison,
                   with all other admissible indulgences.

                   "At last," however, "the evil savours, great
                   unquietness, with over many drafts of air," threw
                   the poor gentleman into a burning ague. He shifted
                   "his lodgings," but to no purpose; the "evil
                   savours" followed him. The keeper offered him his
                   own parlour, where he escaped from the noise of the
                   prison; but it was near the kitchen, and the smell
                   of the meat was disagreeable. Finally, the wife put
                   him away in her store-closet, amidst her best
                   plate, crockery, and clothes, and there he
                   continued to survive till the middle of September,
                   when he was released on bail through the
                   interference of the Earl of Bedford.--Underhill's
                   Narrative: Harleian MSS. 425.]

{p.035} Edward's body was meanwhile examined. The physicians {p.036} reported that without
doubt he had died of poison, and there was a thought of indicting the Duke of Northumberland
for his murder: but it was relinquished on further inquiry; the poison, if the physicians were
right, must have been administered by negligence or accident. The corpse was then buried (August
6) with the forms of the Church of England at Westminster Abbey; the Archbishop of Canterbury,
who had so far been left at liberty, read the service; it was the last and saddest function
of his public ministry which he was destined to perform. Simultaneously, as Mary had determined,
requiems were chanted in the Tower Chapel; and Gardiner, in the presence of the queen and four
hundred persons, sung the mass for the dead with much solemnity. The ceremony was, however,
injured by a misfortune; after the gospel the incense was carried round, and the chaplain who
bore it was married; Doctor Weston, who was afterwards deprived of the deanery of Windsor for
adultery, darted forward and snatched the censer out of the chaplain's hand. "Shamest thou
not to do thine office," he said, "having a wife, as thou hast? The queen will not be censed
by such as thou."[82] Nor was scandal the worst part of it. Elizabeth had been requested to
attend, and had refused; angry murmurs and curses against the Bishop of Winchester were heard
among the yeomen of the guard; while the queen made no secret of her desire that the example
which she had set should be imitated. Renard trembled for the consequences; Noailles anticipated
a civil war; twenty thousand men, the latter said, would lose their lives before England would
be cured of heresy;[83] yet Mary had made a beginning, and as she had begun she was resolved
that others should continue.

                   [Footnote 82: Strype.]

                   [Footnote 83: Noailles, vol. ii. p. 111.]

In the Tower she felt her actions under restraint. She was still surrounded by thousands of
armed men, the levies of Derby and Hastings, the retainers of Pembroke and Arundel and Bedford;
the council were spies upon her actions; the sentinels at the gates were a check upon her visitors.
She could receive no one whose business with her was not made public to the lords, and whose
reception they were not pleased to sanction; even Renard was for a time excluded from her,
and in her anxiety to see him she suggested that he might come to her in disguise.[84] {p.037}
Such a thraldom was irksome and inconvenient. She had broken the promise which Renard had been
allowed to make for her about religion; she had been troubled, it is easy to believe, with
remonstrances, to which she was not likely to have answered with temper; Pembroke absented
himself from the presence; he was required to retire and to reduce the number of his followers;
the quarrels which began while the queen was at Newhall broke out with worse violence than
ever; Lord Derby complained to Renard that those who had saved her crown were treated with
neglect, while men like Arundel, Bedford, and Pembroke, who had been parties to the treasons
against her, remained in power; Lord Russell was soon after placed under arrest; Pembroke and
Winchester were ordered to keep their houses, and the court was distracted with suspicion,
discord, and uncertainty.[85]

                   [Footnote 84: Monseigneur, je n'ay sceu trouver
                   moien jusques à ceste heure de communiquer avec la
                   royne, ce que je deliberois faire avec l'occasion
                   des lectres de sa Majesté, si sans suspicion,
                   j'eusse pen avoir accès, que n'a esté possible pour
                   estre les portes en la Tour de Londres où elle este
                   logée, si gardées que n'est possible y entrer que
                   l'on ne soit congneu; elle m'avoit faict dire si je
                   me pouvoys desguiser et prendre ung manteau, mais
                   il m'a semblé pour le mieux et plus seur d'attendre
                   qu'elle soit a Richemont.--Renard to Charles V.:
                   Granvelle Papers, vol. iv. pp. 71, 72.]

                   [Footnote 85: Renard to the Emperor: Rolls House
                   MSS. Queen Jane and Queen Mary, p. 15.]

From such a scene Mary desired to escape to some place where she could be at least mistress
of her own movements; her impatience was quickened by a riot at St. Bartholomew's, where a
priest attempted to say mass; and on Saturday, the 12th of August, she removed to Richmond.
Her absence encouraged the insubordination of the people. On Sunday, the 13th, another priest
was attacked at the altar; the vestments were torn from his back, and the chalice snatched
from his hands. Bourne, whom the queen had appointed her chaplain, preached at Paul's Cross.
A crowd of refugees and English fanatics had collected round the pulpit; and when he spoke
something in praise of Bonner, and said that he had been unjustly imprisoned,[86] yells rose
of "Papist, Papist! Tear him down!" A dagger was hurled at the preacher, swords were drawn,
the mayor attempted to interfere, but he could not make his way through the dense mass of the
rioters; and Bourne would have paid for his rashness with his life had not Courtenay, who was
a popular favourite, with his mother, the Marchioness of Exeter, thrown themselves on the pulpit
steps, while Bradford sprung to his side, and kept the people back till he could be carried off.

                   [Footnote 86: Renard says it was at these words
                   that the exasperation broke out.]

But the danger did not end there. The Protestant orators sounded the alarm through London.
Meetings were held, and inflammatory placards were scattered about the streets. If {p.038}
religion was to be tampered with, men were heard to say, it was better at once to fetch Northumberland
from the Tower.

Uncertain on whom she could rely, Mary sent for Renard (August 16), who could only repeat his
former cautions, and appeal to what had occurred in justification of them. He undertook to
pacify Lord Derby; but in the necessity to which she was so soon reduced of appealing to him,
a foreigner, in her emergencies, he made her feel that she could not carry things with so high
a hand. She had a rival in the Queen of Scots, beyond her domestic enemies, whom her wisdom
ought to fear; she would ruin herself if she flew in the face of her subjects; and he prevailed
so far with her that she promised to take no further steps till the meeting of parliament.
After a consultation with the mayor, she drew up a hasty proclamation, granting universal toleration
till further orders, forbidding her Protestant and Catholic subjects to interrupt each other's
services, and prohibiting at the same time all preaching on either side without licence from
herself.

Being on the spot, the ambassador took the opportunity of again trying Mary's disposition upon
the marriage question. His hopes had waned since her arrival in London; he had spoken to Paget,
who agreed that an alliance with the Prince of Spain was the most splendid which the queen
could hope for; but the time was inopportune, and the people were intensely hostile. The exigencies
of the position, he thought, might oblige the queen to yield to wishes which she could not
oppose, and accept Lord Courtenay; or possibly her own inclination might set in the same direction;
or, again, she might wish to renew her early engagement with the emperor himself. The same
uncertainty had been felt at Brussels; the Bishop of Arras, therefore, had charged Renard to
feel his way carefully and make no blunder. If the queen inclined to the emperor, he might
speak of Philip as more eligible; if she fancied Courtenay, it would be useless to interfere--she
would only resent his opposition.[87] Renard obeyed his instructions, and the result was reassuring.
When the ambassador mentioned the word "marriage," the queen began to smile significantly,
not once, but many times; she plainly liked the topic: plainly, also, her thoughts were not
turning in the direction of any English husband; she spoke of her rank, and of her unwillingness
to {p.039} condescend to a subject; Courtenay, the sole remaining representative of the White
Rose except the Poles, was the only Englishman who could in any way be thought suitable for
her; but she said that she expected the emperor to provide a consort for her, and that, being
a woman, she could not make the first advances. Renard satisfied himself from her manner that,
if the Prince of Spain was proposed, the offer would be most entirely welcome.[88]

                   [Footnote 87: Car si elle y avoit fantasie, elle ne
                   laisseroit, si elle este du naturel des autres
                   femmes, de passer oultre, et si se ressentiroit à
                   jamais de ce que vous en pourriez avoir dit.--Arras
                   to Renard: Granvelle Papers, vol. iv. p. 77.]

                   [Footnote 88: Renard to the Bishop of Arras:
                   Granvelle Papers, vol. iv. p. 79. Renard to
                   Charles V., August 16: Rolls House MSS.]

The trials of the conspirators were now resolved upon. The queen was determined to spare Lady
Jane Grey, in spite of all which Renard could urge; but the state of London showed that the
punishment of the really guilty could no longer be safely delayed. On this point all parties
in the council were agreed. On Friday, the 18th of August, therefore, a court of peers was
formed in Westminster Hall, with the aged Duke of Norfolk for High Steward, to try John Dudley
Duke of Northumberland, the Earl of Warwick, and the Marquis of Northampton for high treason.
Forty-four years before, as the curious remarked, the father of Norfolk had sat on the commission
which tried the father of Northumberland for the same crime.

The indictments charged the prisoners with levying war against their lawful sovereign. Northumberland,
who was called first to the bar, pleaded guilty of the acts which were laid against him, but
he submitted two points to the consideration of the court.

1. Whether, having taken the field with a warrant under the Great Seal, he could be lawfully
accused of treason.

2. Whether those peers from whom he had received his commission, and by whose letters he had
been directed in what he had done, could sit upon his trial as his judges.

The Great Seal, he was answered briefly, was the seal of a usurper, and could convey no warrant
to him. If the lords were as guilty as he said, yet, "so long as no attainder was on record
against them, they were persons able in law to pass upon any trial, and not to be challenged
but at the prince's pleasure."[89]

                   [Footnote 89: Queen Jane and Queen Mary. The
                   anomaly in the constitution of the Court amused
                   Renard, who commented upon it to the Emperor, as an
                   illustration of England and the English
                   character.--Rolls House MSS.]

The duke bowed and was silent.

Northampton and Warwick came next, and, like Northumberland, confessed to the indictment. Northampton,
however, pleaded in his defence, that he had held no public office {p.040} during the crisis;
that he had not been present at the making of Edward's device, and had been amusing himself
hunting in the country.[90] Warwick, with proud sadness, said merely, that he had followed
his father, and would share his father's fortunes; if his property was confiscated, he hoped
that his debts would be paid.[91]

                   [Footnote 90: Renard to Charles V.: Rolls House
                   MSS. Queen Jane and Queen Mary, Appendix.
                   Baoardo says, Northampton pleaded--Ch' egli non si
                   era mai messo in governo et che sempre attese alla
                   caccia.]

                   [Footnote 91: Ibid.]

But Northampton had indisputably been in the field with the army, and, as his judges perfectly
well knew, had been, with Suffolk, the Duke's uniform supporter in his most extreme measures;
the queen had resolved to pardon him; but the court could not recognise his excuse. Norfolk
rose, in a few words pronounced the usual sentence, and broke his wand; the cold glimmering
edge of the Tower axe was turned towards the prisoners, and the peers rose. Northumberland,
before he was led away, fell upon his knees; his children were young, he said, and had acted
under orders from himself; to them let the queen show mercy; for himself he had his peace to
make with Heaven; he entreated for a few days of life, and the assistance of a confessor; if
two of the council would come to confer with him, he had important secrets of state to communicate;
and, finally, he begged that he might die by the axe like a nobleman.[92]

                   [Footnote 92: Queen Jane and Queen Mary, p 17,
                   Renard says that he asked the council to intercede
                   for his life.]

On the 19th, Sir John and Sir Henry Gates, Sir Andrew Dudley, and Sir Thomas Palmer were tried
before a special commission. Dudley had gone with the treasonable message to France; the three
others were the boldest and most unscrupulous of the Duke's partisans, while Palmer was also
especially hated for his share in the death of Somerset. These four also pleaded guilty, and
were sentenced, Palmer only scornfully telling the commissioners that they were traitors as
well as he, and worse than he.[93]

                   [Footnote 93: So Renard states. The author of the
                   Chronicle of Queen Mary says merely that he
                   denied that he had borne arms against the queen,
                   but admitted that he had been with the army.]

Seven had been condemned; three only, the duke, Sir John Gates, and Palmer, were to suffer.

Crime alone makes death terrible: in the long list of victims whose bloody end, at stake or
scaffold, the historian of England in the sixteenth century has to relate, two only showed
signs of cowardice, and one of those was a soldier and a nobleman, who, {p.041} in a moment
of extreme peril, four years before, had kissed swords with his comrades, and had sworn to
conquer the insurgents at Norwich, or die with honour.

The Duke of Northumberland, who since that time had lived very emphatically without God in
the world, had not lived without religion. He had affected religion, talked about religion,
played with religion, till fools and flatterers had told him that he was a saint; and now,
in his extreme need, he found that he had trifled with forms and words, till they had grown
into a hideous hypocrisy. The Infinite of death was opening at his feet, and he had no faith,
no hope, no conviction, but only a blank and awful horror, and perhaps he felt that there was
nothing left for him but to fling himself back in agony into the open arms of superstition.
He had asked to speak with some member of the council; he had asked for a confessor. In Gardiner,
Bishop of Winchester, he found both.

After the sentence Gardiner visited him in the Tower, where he poured out his miserable story;
he was a Catholic, he said, he always had been a Catholic; he had believed nothing of all the
doctrines for which he had pretended to be so zealous under Edward. "Alas!" he cried, "is there
no help for me?" "Let me live but a little longer to do penance for my many sins." Gardiner's
heart was softened at the humiliating spectacle; he would speak to the queen, he said, and
he did speak, not wholly without success; he may have judged rightly, that the living penitence
of the Joshua of the Protestants would have been more useful to the church than his death.[94]
Already Mary had expressed a wish that, if possible, the wretched man should be spared; and
he would have been allowed to live, except for the reiterated protests of Renard in his own
name and in the emperor's.

                   [Footnote 94: The authority for this story is
                   Parsons the Jesuit, who learnt it from one of the
                   council who was present at the interview. Parsons
                   says, indeed, that Mary would have spared the duke;
                   but that some one wrote to the emperor, and that
                   the emperor insisted that he should be put to
                   death. This could not be, because there was no time
                   for letters to pass and repass between Brussels and
                   London, in the interval between the sentence and
                   the execution; but Renard says distinctly that Mary
                   did desire to pardon him, and that he was himself
                   obliged to exert his influence to prevent it.]

It was decided at last that he should die; and a priest was assigned him to prepare his soul.
Doctor Watts or Watson, the same man whom Cranmer long ago had set in the stocks at Canterbury,
took charge of Palmer and the rest--to them, {p.042} as rough soldiers, spiritual consolation
from a priest of any decent creed was welcome.

The executions were fixed originally for Monday, the 21st; but the duke's conversion was a
triumph to the Catholic cause too important not to be dwelt upon a little longer. Neither Northampton,
Warwick, Andrew Dudley, or Sir Henry Gates were aware that they were to be respited, and, as
all alike availed themselves of the services of a confessor and the forms of the Catholic faith,
their compliance could be made an instrument of a public and edifying lesson. The lives of
those who were to suffer were prolonged for twenty-four hours. On Monday morning "certain of
the citizens of London" were requested to be in attendance at the Tower chapel, where Northumberland,
Northampton, Dudley, Henry Gates, and Palmer were brought in; and, "first kneeling down, every
one of them, upon his knees, they heard mass, saying devoutedly, with the bishop,[95] every
one of them, Confiteor."

                   [Footnote 95: Gardiner.]

"After the mass was done, the duke rose up, and looked back upon my lord marquis, and came
unto him, asking them all forgiveness, the one after the other, upon their knees, one to another;
and the one did heartily forgive the other. And then they came, every one of them, before the
altar, every one of them kneeling, and confessing to the bishop that they were the same men
in the faith according as they had confessed to him before, and that they all would die in
the Catholic faith." When they had all received the sacrament, they rose and turned to the
people, and the duke said:--

"Truly, good people, I profess here before you all, that I have received the sacrament according
to the true Catholic faith: and the plague that is upon the realm and upon us now is that we
have erred from the faith these sixteen years; and this I protest unto you all from the bottom
of my heart."

Northampton, with the rest, "did affirm the same with weeping tears."[96]

                   [Footnote 96: Harleian MSS. 284. Compare the
                   account of the chronicler, Queen Jane and Queen
                   Mary, pp. 18, 19.]

Among the spectators were observed the sons of the Duke of Somerset.

In exhibiting to the world the humiliation of the professors of the gospel, the Catholic party
enjoyed a pardonable triumph. Northumberland, in playing a part in the pageant, was hoping
to save his wretched life. When it was over he wrote (August 22) a passionate appeal to Arundel.

{p.043} "Alas, my lord," he said, "is my crime so heinous as no redemption but my blood can
wash away the spots thereof? An old proverb there is, and that most true--A living dog is better
than a dead lion; oh that it would please her good grace to give me life, yea, the life of
a dog, if I might but live and kiss her feet, and spend both life and all in her honourable
service."

But Arundel could not save him--would not have saved him, perhaps, had he been able--and he
had only to face the end with such resolution as he could command.

The next morning, at nine o'clock, Warwick and Sir John Gates heard mass in the Tower chapel;
the two Seymours were again present with Courtenay: and before Gates received the sacrament,
he said a few words of regret to the latter for his long imprisonment, of which he admitted
himself in part the cause.[97] On leaving the chapel Warwick was taken back to his room, and
learned that he was respited. Gates joined Palmer, who was walking with Watson in the garden,
and talking with the groups of gentlemen who were collected there. Immediately after, the duke
was brought out. "Sir John," he said to Gates, "God have mercy on us; forgive me as I forgive
you, although you and your council have brought us hither." "I forgive you, my lord," Gates
answered, "as I would be forgiven; yet it was you and your authority that was the only original
cause of all." They bowed each. The duke passed on, and the procession moved forward to Tower Hill.

                   [Footnote 97: "Not for any hatred towards you," he
                   added, "but for fear that harm might come thereby
                   to my late young master."--Queen Jane and Queen
                   Mary, p. 20.]

The last words of a worthless man are in themselves of little moment; but the effect of the
dying speech of Northumberland lends to it an artificial importance. Whether to the latest
moment he hoped for his life, or whether, divided between atheism and superstition, he thought,
if any religion was true, Romanism was true, and it was prudent not to throw away a chance,
who can tell? At all events, he mounted the scaffold with Heath, the Bishop of Worcester, at
his side; and then deliberately said to the crowd, that his rebellion and his present fall
were owing to the false preachers who had led him to err from the Catholic faith of Christ;
the fathers and the saints had ever agreed in one doctrine; the present generation were the
first that had dared to follow their private opinions; and in England and in Germany, where
error had taken deepest root, there had followed war, famine, rebellion, misery, tokens {p.044}
all of them of God's displeasure. Therefore, as they loved their country, as they valued their
souls, he implored his hearers to turn, all of them, and turn at once, to the church which
they had left; in which church he, from the bottom of his heart, avowed his own steadfast belief.
For himself he called them all to witness that he died in the one true Catholic faith; to which,
if he had been brought sooner, he would not have been in his present calamity.

He then knelt; "I beseech you all," he said again, "to believe that I die in the Catholic faith."
He repeated the Miserere psalm, the psalm De Profundis, and the Paternoster. The executioner,
as usual, begged his pardon. "I have deserved a thousand deaths," he muttered. He made the
sign of the cross upon the saw-dust, and kissed it, then laid down his head, and perished.

The shame of the apostasy shook down the frail edifice of the Protestant constitution, to be
raised again in suffering, as the first foundations of it had been laid, by purer hands and
nobler spirits.[98] In his better years Northumberland had been a faithful subject and a fearless
soldier, and, with a master's hand over him, he might have lived with integrity, and died with
honour. Opportunity tempted his ambition--ambition betrayed him {p.045} into crime--and, given
over to his lower nature, he climbed to the highest round of the political ladder, to fall
and perish like a craven. He was one of those many men who can follow worthily, yet cannot
lead; and the virtue of the beginning was not less real than the ignominy of the end.

                   [Footnote 98: Lady Jane Grey spoke a few memorable
                   words on the duke's conduct at the scaffold. "On
                   Tuesday, the 29th of August," says the writer of
                   the Chronicle of Queen Mary, "I dined at
                   Partridge's house (in the Tower) with my Lady Jane,
                   she sitting at the board's-end, Partridge, his
                   wife, and my lady's gentlewoman. We fell in
                   discourse of religion. I pray you, quoth she, have
                   they mass in London. Yea, forsooth, quoth I, in
                   some places. It may so be, quoth she. It is not so
                   strange as the sudden conversion of the late duke;
                   for who could have thought, said she, he would have
                   so done? It was answered her, perchance he thereby
                   hoped to have had his pardon. Pardon! quoth she,
                   woe worth him! He hath brought me and our stock in
                   most miserable calamity by his exceeding ambition;
                   but for the answering that he hoped for life by his
                   turning, though other men be of that opinion, I
                   utterly am not. For what man is there living, I
                   pray you, although he had been innocent, that would
                   hope of life in that case, being in the field in
                   person against the queen, as general, and after his
                   taking so hated and evil spoken of by the Commons;
                   and at his coming into prison, so wondered at as
                   the like was never heard by any man's time. Who can
                   judge that he should hope for pardon whose life was
                   odious to all men? But what will ye more? Like as
                   his life was wicked and full of dissimulation, so
                   was his end thereafter. I pray God I view no friend
                   of mine die so. Should I, who am young and in my
                   few years, forsake my faith for the love of life?
                   Nay, God forbid! Much more he should not, whose
                   fatal course, although he had lived his just number
                   of years, could not have long continued. But life
                   was sweet, it appeared. So he might have lived, you
                   will say, he did not care how; indeed the reason is
                   good; for he that would have lived in chains to
                   have had his life, by like would leave no other
                   means unattempted. But God be merciful to us, for
                   he saith, whoso denyeth him before men, he will not
                   know him in his Father's kingdom."--Queen Jane and
                   Queen Mary, p. 24.]

Gates was the second sufferer. He, too, spoke in the same key. He had been a great reader of
Scripture, he said, but he had not read it to be edified, but to be seditious--to dispute,
to interpret it after his private affection; to him, therefore, the honey had been poison,
and he warned all men how they followed his ill example; God's holy mysteries were no safe
things to toy or play with. Gates, in dying, had three strokes of an axe;--"Whether," says
an eye-witness,[99] "it was by his own request or no was doubtful"--remarkable words: as if
the everlasting fate of the soul depended on its latest emotion, and repentance could be intensified
by the conscious realisation of death.

                   [Footnote 99: Harleian MSS. 284.]

Last came Sir Thomas Palmer, in whom, to judge by his method of taking leave of life, there
was some kind of nobleness. It was he who led the cavalry forlorn hope, at Haddington, when
the supplies were thrown in for the garrison.

He leapt upon the scaffold, red with the blood of his companions. "Good morning to you all,
good people," he said, looking round him with a smile; "ye come hither to see me die, and to
see what news I have; marry, I will tell you; I have seen more in yonder terrible place [he
pointed towards the Tower] than ever I saw before throughout all the realms that ever I wandered
in; for there I have seen God, I have seen the world, and I have seen myself; and when I beheld
my life, I saw nothing but slime and clay, full of corruption; I saw the world nothing else
but vanity, and all the pleasures and treasures thereof nought worth; I saw God omnipotent,
his power infinite, his mercy incomprehensible; and when I saw this, I most humbly submitted
myself unto him, beseeching him of mercy and pardon, and I trust he hath forgiven me; for he
called me once or twice before, but I would not turn to him, but even now by this sharp kind
of death he hath called me unto him. I trust the wings of his mercy shall spread over me and
save me; and I do here confess, before you all, Christ to be the very Son of God the Father,
born of the Virgin Mary, which came into the world to fulfil the law for us, and to bear our
offences on his back, and suffered his passion for our redemption, by the which I trust to
be saved."

{p.046} Like his fellow-sufferers, Palmer then said a few prayers, asked the queen's forgiveness,
knelt, and died.

Stunned by the apostasy on the scaffold of the man whom they had worshipped as a prophet, the
ultra-faction among the Protestants became now powerless. The central multitude, whose belief
was undefined, yielded to the apparent sentence of Heaven upon a cause weakened by unsuccessful
treason, and disavowed in his death by its champion. Edward had died on the anniversary of
the execution of More; God, men said, had visited his people, and "the Virgin Mary" had been
set upon the throne for their redemption.[100] Dr. Watson, on the 20th of August, preached
at Paul's Cross under a guard of soldiers; on the 24th, two days after the scene on Tower Hill,
so little was a guard necessary, that mass was said in St. Paul's Church in Latin, with matins
and vespers. The crucifix was replaced in the roodloft, the high altar was re-decorated, the
real presence was defended from the pulpit, and, except from the refugees, not a murmur was
heard.[101] Catching this favourable opportunity, the queen charmed the country with the announcement
that the second portion of the last subsidy granted by Parliament should not be collected;
she gave her word that the currency at the earliest moment should be thoroughly restored; while
she gained credit on all sides for the very moderate vengeance with which she appeared to be
contenting herself. Ridley only, Renard wrote, on the 9th of September, would now be executed;
the other prisoners were to be all pardoned. The enthusiasm was slightly abated, indeed, when
it was announced that their forgiveness would not be wholly free. Montague and Bromley, on
their release from the Tower, were fined £7000 a-piece; Suffolk, Northampton, and other noblemen
and gentlemen, as their estates would bear. But, to relieve the burdens of the people at the
expense of those who had reaped the harvest of the late spoliations was, on the whole, a legitimate
retribution; the moneyed men were pleased with the recognition of Edward's debts, and provided
a loan of 25,000 crowns for the present necessities of the government. London streets rang
again with shouts of "God Save the Queen;" and Mary recovered a fresh instalment of popularity
to carry her a few steps further.[102]

                   [Footnote 100: Renard to Charles V.: Rolls House
                   MSS.]

                   [Footnote 101: Ibid.]

                   [Footnote 102: Noailles; Renard.]

The refugees were the first difficulty. They were too numerous to imprison; and the most influential
among them--men like Peter Martyr--having come to England on the invitation {p.047} of the
late government, it was neither just nor honourable to hand them over to their own sovereigns.
But both Mary and her Flemish adviser were anxious to see them leave the country as quickly
as possible. The emperor recommended a general intimation to be given out, that criminals of
all kinds taking refuge in England would be liable to seizure, offences against religion being
neither specially mentioned nor specially excepted.[103] The foreign preachers were ordered
to depart by proclamation; and Peter Martyr, who had left Oxford, and was staying with Cranmer
at Lambeth, expecting an arrest, received, instead of it, a safe-conduct, of which he instantly
availed himself. The movements of others were quickened with indirect menaces; while Gardiner
told Renard, with much self-satisfaction, that a few messages desiring some of them to call
upon him at his house had given them wings.[104]

                   [Footnote 103: Renard to Queen Mary: Granvelle
                   Papers, vol. iv. p. 65.]

                   [Footnote 104: Renard to Charles V., September 9:
                   Rolls House MSS.]

Finding her measures no longer opposed, the queen refused next to recognise the legality of
the marriage of the clergy. Married priests should either leave their wives or leave their
benefices; and on the 29th of August, Gardiner, Bonner, Day, and Tunstal, late prisoners in
the Tower, were appointed commissioners to examine into the conditions of their episcopal brethren.
Convocation was about to meet, and must undergo a preliminary purification. Unhappy Convocation!
So lately the supreme legislative body in the country, it was now patched, clipped, mended,
repaired, or altered, as the secular government put on its alternate hues. The Protestant bishops
had accepted their offices on Protestant terms--Quamdiu se bene gesserint, on their good behaviour;
and, with the assistance of so pliant a clause, a swift clearance was effected. Barlow, to
avoid expulsion, resigned Bath. Paul Bush retreated from Bristol. Hooper, ejected from Worcester
by the restoration of Heath, was deprived of Gloucester for heresy and marriage, and, being
a dangerous person, was committed on the 1st of September to the Fleet. Ferrars, of St. David's,
left in prison by Northumberland for other pretended offences, was deprived on the same grounds,
but remained in confinement. Bird, having a wife, was turned out of Chester; Archbishop Holgate
out of York. Coverdale, Ridley, Scory, and Ponet had been already disposed of. The bench was
wholesomely swept.[105]

                   [Footnote 105: Some of the Protestant bishops
                   (Cranmer, Hooper, Ridley, and Ferrars were
                   admirable exceptions) had taken care of themselves
                   in the seven years of plenty. At the time of the
                   deposition of the Archbishop of York an inventory
                   was taken of the personal property which was then
                   in his possession. He had five houses, three very
                   well provided, two meetly well. At his house at
                   Battersea he had, of coined gold, £300; plate gilt
                   and parcel gilt, 1600 oz. Mitre, gold, with two
                   pendants set with very fine diamonds, sapphires,
                   and balists, and other stones and pearls, weight
                   125 oz.; six great gold rings, with very fine
                   sapphires, emeralds, diamonds, turquoises. "At
                   Cawood he had of money £900; mitres, 2. Plate gilt
                   and parcel gilt, 770 oz; broken cross of silver
                   gilt, 46 oz.; two thousand five hundred sheep; two
                   Turkey carpets, as big and as good as any subject
                   had; a chest full of copes and vestments. Household
                   stores: wheat, 200 quarters; malt, 500 quarters;
                   oats, 60 quarters; wine, five or six tuns; fish and
                   ling, six or seven hundred; horses at Cawood, four
                   or five score; harness and artillery sufficient for
                   seven score men."--Strype's Crammer, vol. i. p.
                   440.]

{p.048} The English Protestant preachers seeing that priests everywhere held themselves licensed
ex officio to speak as they pleased from the pulpit, began themselves also, in many places,
to disobey the queen's proclamation. They were made immediately to feel their mistake, and
were brought to London to the Tower, the Marshalsea, or the Fleet, to the cells left vacant
by their opponents. Among the rest came one who had borne no share in the late misdoings, but
had long foreseen the fate to which those doings would bring him and many more. When Latimer
was sent for, he was at Stamford. On the 4th of September six hours' notice was given him of
his intended arrest; and so obviously his escape was desired, that the pursuivant who brought
the warrant left him to obey it at his leisure; his orders, he said, were not to wait. But
Latimer had business in England. While the fanatics who had provoked the catastrophe were slinking
across the Channel from its consequences, Latimer determined to stay at home, and help to pay
the debts which they had incurred. He went quietly to London, appeared before the council,
where his "demeanour" was what they were pleased to term "seditious,"[106] and was committed
to the Tower. "What, my friend," he said to a warder who was an old acquaintance there, "how
do you? I am come to be your neighbour again." Sir Thomas Palmer's rooms in the garden were
assigned for his lodging. In the winter he was left without a fire, and, growing infirm, he
sent a message to the Lieutenant of the Tower to look better after him, or he should give him
the slip yet.[107]

                   [Footnote 106: Privy Council Register, MS. Mary.]

                   [Footnote 107: Foxe.]

And there was another besides Latimer who would not fly when the chance was left open to him.
Archbishop Cranmer had continued at Lambeth unmolested, yet unpardoned; his conduct with respect
to the letters patent had been more upright than the conduct of any other member of the council
by {p.049} whom they had been signed; and on this ground, therefore, an exception could not
easily be made in his disfavour. But his friends had interceded vainly to obtain the queen's
definite forgiveness for him; treason might be forgotten; the divorce of Catherine of Arragon
could never be forgotten. So he waited on, watching the reaction gathering strength, and knowing
well the point to which it tended. In the country the English service was set aside and the
mass restored with but little disturbance. No force had been used or needed; the Catholic majorities
among the parishioners had made the change for themselves. The archbishop's friends came to
him for advice; he recommended them to go abroad; he was urged to go himself while there was
time; he said, "it would be in no ways fitting for him to go away, considering the post in
which he was; and to show that he was not afraid to own all the changes that were by his means
made in religion in the last reign."[108]

                   [Footnote 108: Strype's Cranmer.]

Neither was it fitting for him to sit by in silence. The world, misconstruing his inaction,
believed him false like Northumberland; the world reported that he had restored mass at Canterbury;
the world professed to have ascertained that he had offered to sing a requiem at Edward's funeral.
In the second week of September, therefore, he made a public offer, in the form of a letter
to a friend, to defend the communion service, and all the alterations for which he was responsible,
against any one who desired to impugn them; he answered the stories against himself with a
calm denial; and, though the letter was not printed, copies in manuscript were circulated through
London so numerously that the press, said Renard, would not have sent out more.[109]

                   [Footnote 109: Renard to Charles V.: Rolls House
                   MSS. In these late times, when men whose temper
                   has not been tried by danger, feel themselves
                   entitled, nevertheless, by their own innocence of
                   large errors, to sit in judgment on the greatest of
                   their forefathers, Cranmer has received no tender
                   treatment. Because, in the near prospect of a death
                   of agony, his heart for a moment failed him, the
                   passing weakness has been accepted as the key to
                   his life, and he has been railed at as a coward and
                   a sycophant. Considering the position of the
                   writer, and the circumstances under which it was
                   issued, I regard the publication of this letter as
                   one of the bravest actions ever deliberately
                   ventured by man.

                   Let it be read, and speak for itself.

                   "As the devil, Christ's antient adversary, is a
                   liar and the father of lying, even so hath he
                   stirred his servants and members to persecute
                   Christ and his true word and religion, which he
                   ceaseth not to do most earnestly at this present.
                   For whereas the most noble prince, of famous
                   memory, King Henry VIII., seeing the great abuses
                   of the Latin masses, reformed some things therein
                   in his time, and also our late sovereign lord King
                   Edward VI. took the same wholly away, for the
                   manifold errours and abuses thereof, and restored
                   in the place thereof Christ's holy supper,
                   according to Christ's own institution, and as the
                   Apostles in the primitive Church used the same in
                   the beginning, the devil goeth about by lying to
                   overthrow the Lord's holy supper, and to restore
                   the Latin satisfactory masses, a thing of his own
                   invention and device. And to bring the same more
                   clearly to pass, some have abused the name of me,
                   Thomas, Archbishop of Canterbury, bruiting abroad
                   that I have set up the mass at Canterbury, and that
                   I offered to say mass before the Queen's Highness
                   at Paul's Cross and I wot not where. I have been
                   well exercised these twenty years, to suffer and to
                   bear evil reports and lies, and have not been much
                   grieved thereat, and have borne all things quietly;
                   yet where untrue reports and lies turn to the
                   hindrance of God's truth, they be in no ways to be
                   tolerated and suffered. Wherefore these be to
                   signify to the world that it was not I that did set
                   up the mass at Canterbury, but a false, flattering,
                   lying, and dissembling monk, which caused the mass
                   to be set up there without my advice and counsel:
                   and as for offering myself to say mass before the
                   Queen's Highness, or in any other place, I never
                   did, as her Grace knoweth well. But if her Grace
                   will give me leave, I shall be ready to prove
                   against all that will say the contrary, that the
                   Communion-book, set forth by the most innocent and
                   godly prince King Edward VI., in his High Court of
                   Parliament, is conformable to the order which our
                   Saviour Christ did both observe and command to be
                   observed, which his Apostles and primitive Church
                   used many years; whereas the mass in many things
                   not only hath no foundation of Christ, his
                   Apostles, nor the primitive Church, but also is
                   contrary to the same, and containeth many horrible
                   blasphemies."]

{p.050} The challenge was answered by an immediate summons before the council; the archbishop
was accused of attempting to excite sedition among the people, and was forthwith committed
to the Tower to wait, with Ridley and Latimer, there, till his fate should be decided on. Meantime
the eagerness with which the country generally availed itself of the permission to restore
the Catholic ritual, proved beyond a doubt that, except in London and a few large towns, the
popular feeling was with the queen. The English people had no affection for the Papacy. They
did not wish for the re-establishment of the religious orders, or the odious domination of
the clergy. But the numerical majority among them did desire a celibate priesthood, the ceremonies
which the customs of centuries had sanctified, and the ancient faith of their fathers, as reformed
by Henry VIII. The rights of conscience had found no more consideration from the Protestant
doctrinalists than from the most bigoted of the persecuting prelates; and the facility with
which the professors of the gospel had yielded to moral temptations, had for the time inspired
moderate men with much distrust for them and for their opinions.

Could Mary have been contented to pursue her victory no further, she would have preserved the
hearts of her subjects; and the reaction, left to complete its own tendencies, would in {p.051}
a few years, perhaps, have accomplished in some measure her larger desires. But few sovereigns
have understood less the effects of time and forbearance. She was deceived by the rapidity
of her first success; she flattered herself that, difficult though it might be, she could build
up again the ruined hierarchy, could compel the holders of church property to open their hands,
and could reunite the country to Rome. Before she had been three weeks on the throne, she had
received, as will be presently mentioned, a secret messenger from the Vatican; and she had
opened a correspondence with the pope, entreating him, as an act of justice to herself and
to those who had remained true to their Catholic allegiance, to remove the interdict.[110]

                   [Footnote 110: Renard to Charles V., September 9:
                   Rolls House MSS.]

Other actors in the great drama which was approaching were already commencing their parts.

Reginald Pole having attempted in vain to recover a footing in England on the accession of
Edward, having seen his passionate expectations from the Council of Trent melt into vapour,
and Germany confirmed in heresy by the Peace of Passau, was engaged, in the summer of 1553,
at a convent on the Lago di Garda, in re-editing his book against Henry VIII., with an intended
dedication to Edward, of whose illness he was ignorant. The first edition, on the failure of
his attempt to raise a Catholic crusade against his country, had been withdrawn from circulation;
the world had not received it favourably, and there was a mystery about the publication which
it is difficult to unravel. In the interval between the first despatch of the book into England
as a private letter in the summer of 1536, and the appearance of it in print at Rome in the
winter of 1538-9, it was re-written, as I have already stated, enlarged, and divided into parts.
In a letter of apology which Pole wrote to Charles V., in the summer or early autumn of 1538,[111]
he spoke of that division as having been executed by himself;[112] he said that he had kept
his book secret till the church had spoken; but Paul having excommunicated Henry, he could
no longer remain silent; he dwelt at length on the history of the work which he was then editing,[113]
and he sent a copy at the same time with a letter, or he {p.052} wrote a letter with the intention
of sending a copy, to James V. of Scotland.[114]

                   [Footnote 111: Before his embassy to Spain.]

                   [Footnote 112: Opus in quatuor libros sum
                   partitus.]

                   [Footnote 113: "Scripta quæ nunc edo," are his own
                   words in the apology, and therefore, in an earlier
                   part of this work, I said that he published his
                   book himself. There is no doubt, from the context,
                   that in the word scripta he referred to that book
                   and to no other.]

                   [Footnote 114: "Eum ad te librum Catholice princeps
                   nunc mitto, et sub nominis tui auspiciis cujus te
                   strenuum pietatis ministrum præbes in lucem exire
                   volo."--Epistola ad Regem Scotiæ: Poli Epistolæ,
                   vol. i. p. 174.]

But Charles had refused to move; the book injured Henry not at all, and injured fatally those
who were dear to Pole; he checked the circulation of the copies, and he declared to the Cardinal
of Naples that it had been published only at the command of the pope--that his own anxiety
had been for the suppression of it.[115] Thirteen years after this, however, writing to Edward
VI., he forgot that he had described himself to Charles as being himself engaged in the publication;
and he assured the young king that he had never thought of publishing the book, that he had
abhorred the very thought of publishing it; that it was prepared, edited, and printed by his
friends at Rome during his own absence;[116] now, at length, he found himself obliged in his
own person to give it forth, because an edition was in preparation elsewhere from one of the
earlier copies; and he selected the son of Henry as the person to whom he could most becomingly
dedicate the libel against his father's memory.

                   [Footnote 115: "Qui si postea editus fuit magis id
                   aliorum voluntate et illius qui mihi imperare
                   potuit quam meâ est factum, mea vero fuit ut
                   impressus supprimeretur."--Ibid. vol. iv. p. 85.]

                   [Footnote 116: "Nam cum ad urbem ex Hispaniâ
                   rediens libros injussu meo typis excusos
                   reperissem, toto volumine amicorum studio et operâ
                   non sine ejus auctoritate qui jus imperandi haberet
                   in plures libros disposito quod ego non feceram
                   quippe qui de ejus editione nunquam cogitâssem,"
                   etc.

                   "Quid aliud hoc significavit nisi me ab his libris
                   divulgandis penitus abhorruisse ut certe
                   abhorrui."--Epistola ad Edwardum Sextum: Poli
                   Epistolæ. The book being the sole authority for
                   some of the darkest charges against Henry VIII.,
                   the history of it is of some importance.

                   This was not the only instance in which his
                   recollection of his own conduct was something
                   treacherous. In the apology to Charles V., speaking
                   of a war against Henry, he had said: "Tempus
                   venisse video, ad te primum missus, deinde ad Regem
                   Christianissimum, ut hujus scelera per se quidem
                   minime obscura detegam, et te Cæsar a bello Turcico
                   abducere coner et quantum possum suadeam ut arma
                   tua eo convertas si huic tanto malo aliter mederi
                   non possis." For thus, "levying war against his
                   country," Pole had been attainted. The name of
                   traitor grated upon him. To Edward, therefore, he
                   wrote: "I invited the two sovereigns rather to win
                   back the king, by the ways of love and affection,
                   as a fallen friend and brother, than to assail him
                   with arms as an enemy. This I never desired nor did
                   I urge any such conduct upon them. Hoc ego nunquam
                   profecto volui neque cum illis egi."--Epistola ad
                   Edwardum Sextum; Ibid.]

Edward did not live to receive this evidence of Pole's good feeling. He died before the edition
was completed; and as soon as Northumberland's failure and Mary's accession were known at Rome,
England was looked upon in the Consistory {p.053} as already recovered to the faith, and Pole
was chosen by the unanimous consent of the cardinals as the instrument of the reconciliation.
The account of the proclamation of the queen was brought to the Vatican on the 6th of August
by a courier from Paris; the pope in tears of joy drew his commission and despatched it on
the instant to the Lago di Garda; and on the 9th Pole himself wrote to Mary to say that he
had been named legate, and waited her orders to fly to England. He still clung to his conviction
that the revolution in all its parts had been the work of a small faction, and that he had
but himself to set his foot upon the shore to be received with an ovation; his impulse was
therefore to set out without delay; but the recollection, among other things, that he was attainted
by act of parliament, forced him to delay unwillingly till he received formal permission to
present himself.

Anxious for authentic information as to the state of England and the queen's disposition, Julius
had before despatched also a secret agent, Commendone, afterwards a cardinal, with instructions
to make his way to London to communicate with Mary, and if possible to learn her intentions
from her own lips. Rapid movement was possible in Europe even with the roads of the sixteenth
century. Commendone was probably sent from Rome as soon as Edward was known to be dead; he
was in London, at all events, on the 8th of August,[117] disguised as an Italian gentleman
in search of property which he professed had been bequeathed him by a kinsman. By the favour
of Providence,[118] he fell in with an acquaintance, a returned Catholic refugee, who had a
place in the household; and from this man he learnt that the queen was virtually a prisoner
in the Tower, and that the heretics on the council allowed no one of whose business they disapproved
to have access to her. Mary, however, was made acquainted with his arrival; a secret interview
was managed, at which she promised to do her very best in the interests of the church; but
she had still, she said, to conquer her kingdom, and Pole's coming, much as she desired it,
was for the moment out of the question; before she could draw the spiritual sword she must
have the temporal sword more firmly in her grasp, and she looked to marriage as the best means
of strengthening herself. If she married abroad, she thought at that time of the emperor; if
she accepted one of her subjects, {p.054} she doubted--in her dislike of Courtenay--whether
Pole might not return in a less odious capacity than that of Apostolic Legate; as the queen's
intended husband the country might receive him; he had not yet been ordained priest, and deacon's
orders, on a sufficient occasion, could perhaps be dispensed with.[119] The visit, or visits,
were concealed even from Renard. Commendone was forbidden, under the strictest injunctions,
to reveal what the queen might say to him, except to the pope or to Pole; and it is the more
likely that she was serious in her expressions about the latter, from the care with which she
left Renard in ignorance of Commendone's presence.

                   [Footnote 117: He remained fifteen days, and he
                   left for Rome the day after the execution of
                   Northumberland.--Pallavicino.]

                   [Footnote 118: Cælitum ductu.]

                   [Footnote 119: "Nec destiterat regina id ipsum
                   Commendono indicare, eum percontata an existimaret
                   Pontificem ad id legem Polo relaxaturum, cum is
                   nondum sacerdos sed diaconus esset, extarentque
                   hujusmodi relaxionum exempla ingentis alicujus
                   emolumenti gratiâ."--Pallavicino.]

The papal messenger remained long enough to witness a rapid change in her position; he saw
the restoration of the mass; he was in London at the execution, and he learnt the apostasy,
of Northumberland; and he carried letters from Mary to the pope with assurances of fidelity,
and entreaties for the absolution of the kingdom. But Mary was obliged to say, notwithstanding,
that for the present she was in the power of the people, of whom the majority mortally detested
the Holy See; that the lords of the council were in possession of vast estates which had been
alienated from the church, and they feared their titles might be called in question;[120] and,
although she agreed herself in all which Pole had urged (she had received his letter before
Commendone left England), yet that, nevertheless, necessity acknowledged no law. Her heretical
sister was in every one's mouth, and might at any moment take her place on the throne, and
for the present, she said, to her deep regret, she could not, with prudence or safety, allow
the legate to come to her.

                   [Footnote 120: Mary described her throne as,
                   "acquistato per benevolenze di quei popoli, che per
                   la maggior parte odiano a morte questa sancta sede,
                   oltre gl' interessi dei beni ecclesiastici occupati
                   da molti signori, che sono del suo
                   consiglio."--Julius III. to Pole: Poli Epistolæ,
                   vol. iv.]

The queen's letters were confirmed by Commendone himself; he had been permitted to confer in
private with more than one good Catholic in the realm; and every one had given him the same
assurances,[121] although he had urged upon them the opposite opinion entertained by Pole:[122]
he had himself witnessed the {p.055} disposition with which the people regarded Elizabeth,
and he was satisfied that the queen's alarm on this head was not exaggerated.[123]

                   [Footnote 121: "Le parole che haveva inteso da lei
                   disse di haver inteso da persone Catholice et digne
                   di fede in quel paese."--Ibid.]

                   [Footnote 122: "Et similmente espose l' opinione
                   vostra con le ragioni che vi movano."--Ibid.]

                   [Footnote 123: Julius III. to Pole: Poli
                   Epistolæ, vol. iv.]

In opinions so emphatically given, the pope was obliged to acquiesce, and the same view was
enforced upon him equally strongly by the emperor. Charles knew England tolerably well; he
was acquainted perfectly well with the moral and intellectual unfitness of the intended legate
for any office which required discretion; and Julius, therefore, was obliged to communicate
to the eager cardinal the necessity of delay, and to express his fear that, by excess of zeal,
he might injure the cause and alienate the well-affected queen.[124] Though Pole might not
go to England, however, he might go, as he went before, to the immediate neighbourhood; he
might repair to Flanders, with a nominal commission to mediate in the peace which was still
hoped for. In Flanders, though the pope forbore to tell him so, he would be under the emperor's
eyes and under the emperor's control, till the vital question of the queen's marriage had been
disposed of, or till England was in a calmer humour.

                   [Footnote 124: "Onde se per questa molta diligenza
                   nostra, le avvenisse qualche caso sinistro, si
                   rovinarebbe forse (il che Dio non voglie) ogni
                   speranza della reduttione di quella patria, levando
                   se le forze a questa buona e Catholica regina,
                   overo alienando la de noi par offesa
                   ricevuta."--Ibid.]

About the marriage Charles was more anxious than ever; Pole was understood to have declined
the honour of being a competitor;[125] Renard had informed the emperor of the present direction
of the queen's own inclinations; and treating himself, therefore, as out of the question on
the score of age and infirmities, he instructed his minister to propose the Prince of Spain
as a person whom the religious and the political interests of the world alike recommended to
her as a husband. The alliance of England, Spain, and Flanders would command a European supremacy;
their united fleets would sweep the seas, and Scotland, deprived of support from France, must
become an English province; while sufficient guarantees could be provided easily for the security
of English liberties. These, in themselves, were powerful reasons; Renard was permitted to
increase their cogency by promises of pensions, lands, and titles, or by hard money in hand,
in whatever direction such liberality could be usefully employed.[126]

                   [Footnote 125: "Ayant le Cardinal Pole si
                   expressement declairé qu'il n'a nul désir de soy
                   marier, et que nous tenons, que pour avoir si
                   longuement suivi l'état ecclesiastique, et
                   s'accommodé aux choses duysant a icelluy et estant
                   diacre."--Charles V. to Renard: Granvelle Papers,
                   vol. iv.]

                   [Footnote 126: Ibid.]

{p.056} The external advantages of the connection were obvious; it recommended itself to the
queen from the Spanish sympathies which she had contracted in her blood, and from the assistance
which it promised to afford her in the great pursuit of her life. The proposal was first suggested
informally. Mary affected to find difficulties; yet, if she raised objections, it was only
to prolong the conversation upon a subject which delighted her. She spoke of her age; Philip
was twenty-seven, she ten years older; she called him "boy;" she feared she might not be enough
for him; she was unsusceptible; she had no experience in love;[127] with such other phrases,
which Renard interpreted at their true importance. With the queen there would be no difficulty;
with the council it was far otherwise. Lord Paget was the only English statesman who listened
with any show of favour.

                   [Footnote 127: "Elle jura que jamais elle n'avoit
                   senti esquillon de ce que l'on appelle amour, ny
                   entre en pensement de volupté, etc."--Renard to the
                   Bishop of Arras: Granvelle Papers, vol. iv.]

The complication of parties is not to be easily disentangled. Some attempt, however, may be
partially successful.

The council, the peers, the Commons, the entire lay voices of England, liberal and conservative
alike, were opposed to Rome; Gardiner was the only statesman in the country who thought a return
to Catholic union practicable or desirable; while there was scarcely an influential family,
titled or untitled, which was not, by grant or purchase, in possession of confiscated church
property.

There was an equal unanimity in the dread that if Mary became the wife of a Spanish sovereign
England would, like the Low Countries, sink into a provincial dependency; while, again, there
was the utmost unwillingness to be again entangled in the European war; the French ambassador
insisted that the emperor only desired the marriage to secure English assistance; and the council
believed that, whatever promises might be made, whatever stipulations insisted on, such a marriage,
sooner or later, would implicate them. The country was exhausted, the currency ruined, the
people in a state of unexampled suffering, and the only remedy was to be looked for in quiet
and public economy; there were attractions in the offer of a powerful alliance, but the very
greatness of it added to their reluctance; they desired to isolate England from European quarrels,
and marry their queen at home. With these opinions Paget alone disagreed, while Gardiner was
loudly national.

{p.057} On the other hand, though Gardiner held the restoration of the papal authority to be
tolerable, yet he dreaded the return of Pole, as being likely to supersede him in the direction
of the English Church;[128] the party who agreed with the chancellor about the marriage, and
about Pole, disagreed with him about the pope; while Paget, who was in favour of the marriage,
was with the lords on the supremacy, and, as the Romanising views of the queen became notorious,
was inclining, with Arundel and Pembroke, towards the Protestants.

                   [Footnote 128: Renard to Charles V.: Rolls House
                   MSS.]

No wonder, therefore, that the whole council were in confusion and at cross purposes. No sooner
were Charles's proposals definitely known than the entire machinery of the government was dislocated.
Mary represented herself to Renard as without a friend whom she could trust; and the letters,
both of Renard and Noailles, contain little else but reports how the lords were either quarrelling,
or had, one after the other, withdrawn in disgust to their country houses. Now it was Pembroke
that was gone, now Mason, now Paget; then Courtenay was a prisoner in his house; then Lord
Winchester was forbidden to appear at court: the ministers were in distrust of each other and
of their mistress; the queen was condemned to keep them in their offices because she durst
not make them enemies; while the Stanleys, Howards, Talbots, and Nevilles were glooming apart,
indignant at the neglect of their own claims.

The queen herself was alternately angry and miserable; by the middle of September Renard congratulated
Charles on her growing ill-humour; the five Dudleys and Lady Jane, he hoped, would be now disposed
of, and Elizabeth would soon follow.

Elizabeth's danger was great, and proceeded as much from her friend's indiscretion as from
the hatred of her enemies. Every one who disliked the queen's measures, used Elizabeth's name.
Renard was for ever hissing his suspicions in the queen's ear, and, unfortunately, she was
a too willing listener--not, indeed, that Renard hated Elizabeth for her own sake, for he rather
admired her--or for religion's sake, for he had a most statesmanlike indifference to religion;
but he saw in her the queen's successful rival in the favour of the people, the heir-presumptive
to the crown, whose influence would increase the further the queen travelled on the road on
which he was leading her, and, therefore, an enemy who, if possible, should be destroyed. An
opportunity of creating a collision between the sisters was not long wanting. The lords of
the council were {p.058} now generally present at mass in the royal chapel. Elizabeth, with
Anne of Cleves, had as yet refused to appear. Her resistance was held to imply a sinister intention;
and on the 2nd and 3rd of September the council were instructed to bring her to compliance.[129]
Yet the days passed, the priest sang, and the heir to the crown continued absent. Gardiner,
indeed, told Renard that she was not obdurate; he had spoken to her, and she had seemed to
say that, if he could convince her, her objections would cease;[130] but they had not ceased
so far; she did not attend. In the happiness of her first triumph Mary had treated Elizabeth
like a sister, but her manner had relapsed into coldness; and the princess, at length, knowing
how her name was made use of, requested a private interview, which, with difficulty, was granted.
The sisters, each accompanied by a single lady, met in a gallery with a half-door between them.
Elizabeth threw herself on her knees. She said that she perceived her majesty was displeased
with her; she could not tell what the cause might be, unless it was religion; and for this,
she said, she might be reasonably forgiven; she had been educated, as the queen was aware,
in the modern belief, and she understood no other; if her majesty would send her books and
teachers, she would read; she would listen; she could say no more.

                   [Footnote 129: Noailles to the King of France:
                   Ambassades, vol. ii. p. 147.]

                   [Footnote 130: Renard to Charles V.: Rolls House
                   MSS.]

Mary, at the moment, was delighted. Like a true Catholic, however, she insisted that obedience
must precede faith; come to the mass, she said, and belief will be the reward of your submission;
make your first trial on the mass of the Nativity of the Blessed Virgin.[131]

                   [Footnote 131: Ibid.]

Elizabeth consented. She was present, but present reluctantly; pretending, as Renard said,
to be ill; the next Sunday she was again absent. The queen, knowing the effect which her conduct
would produce, again sent for her, and asked her earnestly what she really believed; the world
said that, although she had complied once, her compliance was feigned, and that she had submitted
out of fear; she desired to hear the truth. Elizabeth could reply merely that she had done
as the queen had required her to do, with no ulterior purpose; if her majesty wished she would
make a public declaration to that effect.[132] The queen was obliged to receive her answer;
but she told Renard that her sister trembled as she spoke, and well, Renard said, he understood
her agitation; she was the hope of the {p.059} heretics, and the heretics were raising their
heads; the Papists, they said, had had their day, but it was waning; if Elizabeth lived, England
would again apostatise.

                   [Footnote 132: Renard to Charles V., September 23:
                   Ibid.]

There was no difficulty in keeping the queen's jealousy alive against her sister. Courtenay
was another offence in the eye of the ambassador, as the rival to Philip, who found favour
with the English council. The queen affected to treat Courtenay as a child; she commanded him
to keep to his house; she forbade him to dine abroad without special permission; the title
of Earl of Devon was given to him, and he had a dress made for him to take his seat in, of
velvet and gold, but the queen would not allow him to wear it:[133] and yet, to her own and
the ambassador's mortification, she learnt that he affected the state of a prince; that he
spoke of his marriage with her as certain; that certain prelates, Gardiner especially, encouraged
his expectation, and one or more of them had knelt in his presence.[134] The danger had been
felt from the first that, if she persisted in her fancy for the Prince of Spain, Courtenay
might turn his addresses to Elizabeth; the lords would in that case fall off to his support,
and the crown would fall from her head as easily as it had settled there.

                   [Footnote 133: Noailles.]

                   [Footnote 134: Renard to Charles V., September 19:
                   Rolls House MSS.]

More afflicting to Mary than these personal grievances was the pertinacity with which the council
continued, in their public documents, to describe her as Head of the Church, the execrable
title which was the central root of the apostasy. In vain she protested; the hateful form--indispensable
till it was taken away by parliament--was thrust under her eyes in every paper which was brought
to her for signature, and she was obliged to acknowledge the designation with her own hand and pen.

Amidst these anxieties, September wore away. Parliament was to open on the fifth of October,
and either before or after the meeting the queen was to be crowned. The ceremony was an occasion
of considerable agitation; Mary herself was alarmed lest the holy oil should have lost its
efficacy through the interdict; and she entreated Renard to procure her a fresh supply from
Flanders, blessed by the excellent hands of the Bishop of Arras. But the oil was not the gravest
difficulty. As the rumour spread of the intended Spanish marriage, libellous handbills were
scattered about London; the people said it should not be till they had fought for it. A disturbance
at Greenwich, on the 25th of September, extended to Southwark, {p.060} where Gardiner's house
was attacked,[135] and a plot was discovered to murder him: in the day he wore a shirt of mail
under his robes, and he slept with a guard of a hundred men. Threatening notices were even
found on the floor of the queen's bed-room, left there by unknown hands. Noailles assured the
lords that his own government would regard the marriage as little short of a declaration of
war, so inevitably would war be the result of it; and Gardiner, who was unjustly suspected
of being in the Spanish interest, desired to delay the coronation till parliament should have
met; intending that the first act of the assembly should be to tie Mary's hands with a memorial
which she could not set aside. She inherited under her father's will, by which her accession
was made conditional on her marrying not without the consent of the council; parliament might
remind her both of her own obligation to obey her father's injunctions, and of theirs to see
that they were obeyed.

                   [Footnote 135: Noailles; Renard.]

With the same object, though not with the same object only, the lords of the council supported
the Bishop of Winchester. They proposed to alter the form of the coronation oath, and to bind
the queen by an especial clause to maintain the independence of the English Church--a precaution,
as it proved, not unnecessary--for the existing form was already inconvenient, and Mary was
meditating how, when called on to swear to observe the laws and constitutions of the realm,
she could introduce an adjective sub silentio; she intended to swear only that she would observe
the JUST laws and constitutions.[136] But she looked with the gravest alarm to the introduction
of more awkward phrases; if words were added which would be equivalent (as she would understand
them) to a denial of Christ and his Church, she had resolved to refuse at all hazards.[137]

                   [Footnote 136: Renard to Charles V.: Rolls House
                   MSS.]

                   [Footnote 137: Ibid.]

But her courage was not put to the test. The true grounds on which the delay of the coronation
was desired could not be avowed. The queen was told that her passage through the streets would
be unsafe until her accession had been sanctioned by parliament, and the act repealed by which
she was illegitimatised. With Paget's help she faced down these objections, and declared that
she would be crowned at once; she appointed the 1st of October for the ceremony; on the 28th
of September she sent for the council to attempt an appeal to their generosity. She spoke to
them at length of her past life and sufferings, of the conspiracy to set her aside, and of
the wonderful Providence {p.061} which had preserved her and raised her to the throne; her
only desire, she said, was to do her duty to God and to her subjects; and she hoped, turning
as she spoke, pointedly to Gardiner, that they would not forget their loyalty, and would stand
by her in her extreme necessity. Observing them hesitate, she cried, "My lords, on my knees
I implore you"--and flung herself on the ground at their feet.[138]

                   [Footnote 138: "Devant les quelz elle se mist à
                   genoulx."--Renard to Charles V.: Rolls House
                   MSS.]

The most skilful acting could not have served Mary's purpose better than this outburst of natural
emotion; the spectacle of their kneeling sovereign overcame for a time the scheming passions
of her ministers; they were affected, burst into tears, and withdrew their opposition to her
wishes.[139]

                   [Footnote 139: Ibid.]

On the 30th, the procession from the Tower to Westminster through the streets was safely accomplished.
The retinues of the lords protected the queen from insult, and London put on its usual outward
signs of rejoicing; St. Paul's spire was rigged with yards like a ship's mast, an adventurous
sailor sitting astride on the weathercock five hundred feet in the air:[140] there was no interruption;
and the next day (October 1), Arras having sent the necessary unction,[141] the ceremony was
performed at the Abbey without fresh burdens being laid on Mary's conscience.

                   [Footnote 140: The Hot Gospeller, half-recovered
                   from his gaol fever, got out of bed to see the
                   spectacle, and took his station at the west end of
                   St. Paul's. The procession passed so close as
                   almost to touch him, and one of the train seeing
                   him muffled up, and looking more dead than alive,
                   said, There is one that loveth her majesty well, to
                   come out in such condition. The queen turned her
                   head and looked at him. To hear that any one of her
                   subjects loved her just then was too welcome to be
                   overlooked.--Underhill's Narrative: MS. Harleian,
                   425.]

                   [Footnote 141: Arras to Renard: Granvelle Papers,
                   vol. iv. p. 105.]

The banquet in the great hall passed off with equal success; Sir Edward Dymocke, the champion,
rode in and flung down his gage, and was listened to with becoming silence: on the whole, Mary's
friends were agreeably disappointed; only Renard observed that, between the French ambassador
and the Lady Elizabeth there seemed to be some secret understanding; the princess saluted Noailles
as he passed her; Renard she would neither address nor look at--and Renard was told that she
complained to Noailles of the weight of her coronet, and that Noailles "bade her have patience,
and before long she would exchange it for a crown."[142]

                   [Footnote 142: Renard to the Regent Mary: Rolls
                   House MSS.]

{p.062} The coronation was a step gained; it was one more victory, yet it produced no material
alteration. Rome, and the Spanish marriage, remained as before, insoluble elements of difficulty;
the queen, to her misfortune, was driven to rely more and more on Renard; and at this time
she was so desperate and so ill-advised as to think of surrounding herself with an Irish bodyguard;
she went so far as to send a commission to Sir George Stanley for their transport.[143]

                   [Footnote 143: "Mary, by the grace of God, Queen of
                   England, etc.... to all mayors, sheriffs, justices
                   of the peace, and other our subjects, these our
                   letters, hearing or seeing: whereas we have
                   appointed a certain number of able men to be
                   presently levied for our service within our realm
                   of Ireland, and to be transported hither with
                   diligence, we let you wit that for that purpose we
                   have authorised our trusty Sir George Stanley,
                   Knight," etc.--October 5, 1553. From the original
                   Commission: Tanner MSS. 90, Bodleian Library.]

The scheme was abandoned, but not because her relations with her own people were improved.
Before parliament met, an anonymous pamphlet appeared by some English nobleman on the encroachments
of the House of Austria, and on the treatment of other countries which had fallen through marriages
into Austrian hands. In Lombardy and Naples every office of trust was described as held by
a Spaniard; the Prince of Salerno was banished, the Prince of Benevento was a prisoner in Flanders,
the Duke of Calabria a prisoner in Spain. Treating Mary's hopes of children as ridiculous,
the writer pictured England, bound hand and foot, at the mercy of the insolent Philip, whose
first step, on entering the country, would be to seize the Tower and the fleet, the next, to
introduce a Spanish army and suppress the parliament. The free, glorious England of the Plantagenets
would then be converted into a prostrate appanage of the dominions of Don Carlos. The pamphlet
was but the expression of the universal feeling. Gardiner, indeed, perplexed between his religion
and his country, for a few days wavered. Gardiner had a long debt to pay off against the Protestants,
and a Spanish force, divided into garrisons for London and other towns, would assist him materially.[144]
Partly, however, from attachment to Courtenay, partly from loyalty to his country, he shook
off the temptation and continued to support the opposition.[145]

                   [Footnote 144: "J'estime qu'il desire presentment y
                   veoir une bonne partie de l'Espaigne et Allemaigne,
                   y tenir grosses et fortes garnisons, pour mortifier
                   ce peuple, et s'en venger," etc.--Noailles to the
                   King of France: Ambassades, vol. ii. p. 169.]

                   [Footnote 145: A look at Gardiner, at this time,
                   through contemporary eyes, assists much towards the
                   understanding him. Thomas Mountain, parson of St.
                   Michael's by the Tower, an ultra-Reformer, had been
                   out with Northumberland at Cambridge. The following
                   story is related by himself.

                   "Sunday, October 8," Mountain says, "I ministered
                   service, according to the godly order set forth by
                   that blessed prince King Edward, the parish
                   communicating at the Holy Supper. Now, while I was
                   even a breaking of bread at the table, saying to
                   the communicants, Take and eat this, Drink this,
                   there were standing by several serving-men, to see
                   and hear, belonging to the Bishop of Winchester;
                   among whom one of them most shamefully blasphemed
                   God, saying:

                   "Yea, by God's blood, standest thou there yet,
                   saying--Take and eat, Take and drink; will not this
                   gear be left yet? You shall be made to sing another
                   song within these few days, I trow, or else I have
                   lost my mark."

                   A day or two after came an order for Mountain to
                   appear before Gardiner at Winchester House.
                   Mountain said he would appear after morning
                   prayers; but the messenger's orders were not to
                   leave him, and he was obliged to obey on the
                   instant.

                   The bishop was standing when he entered, "in a bay
                   window, with a great company about him; among them
                   Sir Anthony St. Leger, reappointed Lord Deputy of
                   Ireland."

                   "Thou heretic," the Bishop began; "how darest thou
                   be so bold as to use that schismatical service
                   still, seeing God hath sent us a Catholic queen.
                   There is such an abominable company of you, as is
                   able to poison a whole realm with heresies."

                   "My lord," Mountain replied, "I am no heretic, for
                   in that way you count heresy, so worship we the
                   living God."

                   "God's passion," said the Bishop, "did I not tell
                   you, my Lord Deputy, how you should know a heretic.
                   He is up with his living God as though there was a
                   dead God. They have nothing in their mouths, these
                   heretics, but the Lord liveth; the living God; the
                   Lord! the Lord! and nothing but the Lord."

                   "Here," says Mountain, "he chafed like a bishop;
                   and as his manner was, many times he put off his
                   cap, and rubbed to and fro up and down the forepart
                   of his head, where a lock of hair was always
                   standing up."

                   "My good Lord Chancellor," St. Leger said to him,
                   "trouble not yourself with this heretic; I think
                   all the world is full of them; God bless me from
                   them. But, as your Lordship said, having a
                   Christian queen reigning over us, I trust there
                   will shortly be a reformation and an order taken
                   with these heretics." "Submit yourself unto my
                   lord," he said to Mountain, "and you shall find
                   favour."

                   "Thank you, sir," Mountain answered, "ply your own
                   suit, and let me alone."

                   A bystander then put in that the parson of St.
                   Michael's was a traitor as well as a heretic. He
                   had been in the field with the duke against the
                   queen.

                   "Is it even so?" cried Gardiner; "these be always
                   linked together, treason and heresy. Off with him
                   to the Marshalsea; this is one of our new broached
                   brethren that speaketh against good works; your
                   fraternity was, is, and ever will be unprofitable
                   in all ages, and good for nothing but the
                   fire."--Troubles of Thomas Mountain: printed by
                   Strype.

                   The portraits of Gardiner represent a fine,
                   vehement-looking man. The following description of
                   him, by Ponet, his rival in the See of Winchester,
                   gives the image as it was reflected in Ponet's
                   antipathies.

                   "The doctor hath a swart colour, hanging look,
                   frowning brows, eyes an inch within his head, a
                   nose, hooked like a buzzard's, nostrils like a
                   horse, ever snuffing in the wind; a sparrow mouth,
                   great paws like the devil, talons on his feet like
                   a gripe, two inches longer than the natural toes,
                   and so tied with sinews that he cannot abide to be
                   touched."]

{p.063} Mary, except for the cautious support of Paget, stood otherwise alone coquetting with
her fancy, and played upon by the skilful Renard. The queen and the ambassador were incessantly
together, and Philip was the never-tiring subject of conversation between them. She talked
of his disposition. She had heard, {p.064} she said, that he was proud; that he was inferior
to his father in point of ability; and then he was young, and she had been told sad stories
about him; if he was of warm temperament, he would not suit her at all, she said, considering
the age at which she had arrived.[146] Moreover, when she was married, she must obey as God
commanded; her husband, perhaps, might wish to place Spaniards in authority in England, and
she would have to refuse; and that he would not like. To all of which, being the fluttering
of the caught fly, Renard would answer that his highness was more like an angel than a man;
his youth was in his favour, for he might live to see his child of age, and England had had
too much experience of minorities. Life, he added remarkably, was shorter than it used to be;
sixty was now a great age for a king; and as the world was, men were as mature at thirty as
in the days of his grandfather they were considered at forty.[147] Then touching the constant
sore--"her majesty," he said, "had four enemies, who would never rest till they had destroyed
her or were themselves destroyed--the heretics, the friends of the late Duke of Northumberland,
the courts of France and Scotland, and, lastly, her sister Elizabeth. Her subjects were restless,
turbulent, and changeable as the ocean of which they were so fond;[148] the sovereigns of England
had been only able to rule with a hand of iron, and with severities which had earned them the
name of tyrants;[149] they had not spared the blood royal in order to secure their thrones,
and she too must act as they had acted, leaning for support, meanwhile, on the arm of a powerful
prince."

                   [Footnote 146: "Que s'il vouloit estre voluptueux
                   ce n'est ce quelle desire pour estre de telle
                   eaige."--Renard to the Emperor: Rolls House MSS.]

                   [Footnote 147: Renard to the Emperor: Rolls House
                   MSS.]

                   [Footnote 148: "Vostre Majesté seit les humeurs des
                   Angloys et leur voluntez estre forte discordantes,
                   désireux de nouvelleté, de mutation, et
                   vindicatifz, soit pour estre insulaires, ou pour
                   tenir ce natural de la marine."--Renard to Mary:
                   Granvelle Papers, vol. iv. p. 129.]

                   [Footnote 149: "Les roys du passé on esté forcés de
                   traicter en rigueur de justice et effusion de sang
                   par l'execution de plusieurs du royaulme, voir du
                   sang royal, pour s'asseurer et maintenir leur
                   royaulme, dont ils out acquis le renom de tyrans et
                   cruelz."--Ibid.]

To these dark hints Mary ever listened eagerly--meantime she was harassed painfully from another
quarter.

{p.065} Reginald Pole, as might have been expected from his temperament, could ill endure the
delay of his return to England. The hesitation of the queen and the objections of the emperor
were grounded upon arguments which he assured himself were fallacious; the English nation,
he continued to insist, were devoted to the Holy See; so far from being himself unpopular,
the Cornish in the rebellion under Edward had petitioned for his recall, and had even designated
him by the forbidden name of cardinal; they loved him and they longed for him; and, regarding
himself as the chosen instrument of Providence to repair the iniquities of Henry VIII., he
held the obstructions to his return not only to be mistaken, but to be impious. The duty of
the returning prodigal was to submit; to lay aside all earthly considerations--to obey God,
God's vicegerent the pope, and himself the pope's representative.

Mendoza had been sent by Charles to meet Pole on his way to Flanders, and reason him into moderation.
In return the legate wrote himself to Charles's confessor, commanding him to explain to his
master the sin which he was committing. "The objection to his going to England," as Pole understood,
"was the supposed danger of an outbreak". Were the truth as the emperor feared, the queen's
first duty would be, nevertheless, to God, her own soul, and the souls of the millions of her
subjects who were perishing in separation from the church; for no worldly policy or carnal
respect ought she to defer for a moment to apply a remedy to so monstrous a calamity.[150]
But the danger was imaginary--or, rather, such danger as there was, arose from the opposite
cause. The right of the queen to the throne did not rest on an act of parliament; it rested
on her birth as the lawful child of the lawful marriage between Henry and Catherine of Arragon.
Parliament, he was informed, would affirm the marriage legitimate, if nothing was said about
the pope; but, unless the pope's authority was first recognised, parliament would only stultify
itself; the papal dispensation alone made valid a connection which, if the pope had no power
to dispense, was incestuous, and the offspring of it illegitimate. God had made the peaceful
settlement of the kingdom dependent {p.066} on submission to the Holy See,[151] and for parliament
to interfere and give an opinion upon the subject would be but a fresh act of schism and disobedience.
Most logical it was; so logical that it quite outwitted the intention of the writer. While
it added to the queen's distress, it removed, nevertheless, all objections which might have
been raised by the anti-papal party against the act to legitimatise her. So long as there was
a fear that, by a repeal of the Act of Divorce between her father and mother, the pope's authority
might indirectly be admitted, some difficulty was to be anticipated; as a new assertion of
English independence, it could be carried with unanimous alacrity.

What parliament would or would not consent to, however, would soon cease to be a mystery. The
advice of the emperor on the elections had been, for the most part, followed. It was obvious,
indeed, that a sovereign who was unable to control her council was in no position to dictate
to constituencies. There were no circulars to the lords-lieutenant of counties, such as Northumberland
had issued, or such as Mary herself, a year later, was able to issue; while the unusual number
of members returned to the Lower House--four hundred and thirty, it will be seen, voted on
one great occasion--shows that the issue of writs had been on the widest scale. On the whole,
it was, perhaps, the fairest election which had taken place for many years. In the House of
Lords the ejection of the Reforming bishops and the restoration of their opponents--the death,
imprisonment, or disgrace of three noblemen on the Reforming side, and the return to public
life of the peers who, in the late reign, had habitually absented themselves, had restored
a conservative majority. How the representatives of the people would conduct themselves was
the anxious and all-agitating question. The queen, however, could console herself with knowing
that Protestantism, as a system of belief, had made its way chiefly among the young; the votes
were with the middle-aged and the old.

The session opened on the 5th of October with the ancient {p.067} form, so long omitted, of
the mass of the Holy Ghost. Two Protestant bishops, Taylor of Lincoln and Harley of Hereford,
who had been left as yet undisturbed in their sees, on the service commencing, rose and went
out; they were not allowed to return. Two prebends, Alexander Nowel and Doctor Tregonwell had
been returned to the Lower House; Nowel as a member of Convocation was declared ineligible;[152]
Tregonwell, being a layman, was on consideration allowed to retain his seat. These were the
only ejections which can be specifically traced, and the silence of those who were interested
in making the worst of Mary's conduct, may be taken to prove that they did not know of any
more.[153] The Houses, purged of these elements, then settled to their work; and, plunging
at once into the great question of the time, the Commons came to an instant understanding that
the lay owners of church lands should not be disturbed in their tenures under any pretext whatsoever.

                   [Footnote 152: "Friday, October 13, it was declared
                   by the commissioners that Alex. Nowel, being
                   prebendary in Westminster, and thereby having a
                   voice in the Convocation House, cannot be a member
                   of this House, and so agreed by the
                   House."--Commons Journal, 1 Mary.]

                   [Footnote 153: Burnet and other Protestant writers
                   are loud-voiced with eloquent generalities on the
                   interference with the elections, and the
                   ill-treatment of the Reforming members; but of
                   interference with the elections they can produce no
                   evidence, and of members ejected they name no more
                   than the two bishops and the two prebends.
                   Noailles, indeed, who had opportunities of knowing,
                   says something on both points. "Ne fault douter,
                   sire," he wrote to the King of France, "que la
                   dicte dame n'obtienne presque tout ce qu'elle
                   vouldra en ce parlement, de tant qu'elle a faict
                   faire election de ceulx qui pourront estre en sa
                   faveur, et jetter quelques uns à elle suspectz."
                   The queen had probably done what she could; but the
                   influence which she could exercise must obviously
                   have been extremely small, and the event showed
                   that the ambassador was entirely wrong in his
                   expectations.]

Commendone, on returning to Rome, had disregarded his obligations to secrecy, and had related
all that the queen had said to him in the open consistory; from the consistory the account
travelled back to England, and arrived inopportunely at the opening of parliament. The fatal
subject of the lands had been spoken of, and the queen had expressed to Commendone her intention
to restore them, if possible, to the church. The council cross-questioned her, and she could
neither deny her words nor explain them away; the Commons first, the Lords immediately after,
showed her that, whatever might be her own hopes or wishes, their minds on that point were
irrevocably fixed.[154]

                   [Footnote 154: Renard to Charles V., October 19:
                   Rolls House MSS.]

No less distinct were the opinions expressed in the Lower House on the Papacy. The authority
of the pope, as understood {p.068} in England, was not a question of doctrine, nor was the
opposition to it of recent origin. It had been thrown off after a struggle which had lasted
for centuries, and a victory[155] so hardly won was not to be lightly parted with. Lord Paget
warned the queen that Pole's name must not be so much as mentioned, or some unwelcome resolution
about him would be immediately passed;[156] and she was in hourly dread that before they would
consent to anything, they would question her whether she would or would not maintain the royal
supremacy.[157] On the other hand, if no difficulties were raised about the pope or the church
lands, the preliminary discussion, both among Lords and Commons, showed a general disposition
to re-establish religion in the condition in which Henry left it--provided, that is to say,
no penalties were to attach to nonconformity; and the Houses were ready also to take the step
so much deprecated by Pole, and pass a measure legitimatising the queen, provided no mention
was to be made of the papal dispensation. Some difference of opinion on the last point had
shown itself in the House of Commons,[158] but the legate's ingenuity had removed all serious
obstacles.

                   [Footnote 155: Even the most reactionary clergy,
                   men like Abbot Feckenham and Doctor Bourne, had no
                   desire, as yet, to be re-united to Rome. In a
                   discussion with Ridley in the Tower, on the real
                   presence, Feckenham argued that "forty years before
                   all the world was agreed about it. Forty years ago,
                   said Ridley, all held that the Bishop of Rome was
                   supreme head of the Universal Church. What then?
                   was Master Feckenham beginning to say; but Master
                   Secretary (Bourne) took the tale, and said that was
                   a positive law. A positive law, quoth Ridley; he
                   would not have it so; he challenged it by Christ's
                   own word, by the words, 'Thou art Peter; thou art
                   Cephas,' Tush, quoth Master Secretary, it was not
                   counted an article of our faith."--Foxe, vol. vi.]

                   [Footnote 156: Renard to Charles V., October 28:
                   Rolls House MSS.]

                   [Footnote 157: Ibid. October 15: Rolls House
                   MSS.]

                   [Footnote 158: Ibid.]

Again parliament seemed determined that the Act of Succession, and the will of Henry VIII.,
should not be tampered with, to the disfavour of Elizabeth. It is singular that Renard, and
probably, therefore, Mary, were unaware of the position in which Elizabeth was placed towards
the crown. They imagined that her only title was as a presumptively legitimate child; that
if the Act of Divorce between Catherine of Arragon and Henry was repealed, she must then, as
a bastard, be cut off from her expectations. Had Elizabeth's prospects been liable to be affected
by the legitimisation of her sister, the queen would have sued as vainly for it as she sued
afterwards in favour of her husband. With unmixed mortification Renard learnt that Elizabeth,
in the eye of the law, had been as illegitimate as Mary, and that her {p.069} place in the
order of succession rested on her father's will. He flattered himself, at first, that Henry's
dispositions could be set aside;[159] but he very soon found that there was no present hope of it.

                   [Footnote 159: Renard to Charles V., October 21:
                   Rolls House MSS.]

These general features of the temper of parliament were elicited in conversation in the first
few days of the session. The Marchioness of Exeter, during the same days, was released from
her attainder, Courtenay was restored in blood, and a law, similar to that with which Somerset
commenced his Protectorate, repealed all late treason acts, restricted the definition of treason
within the limits of the statute of Edward III., and relieved the clergy of the recent extensions
of the Premunire. The queen gave her assent to these three measures on the 21st of October;
and there was then an interval of three days, during which the bishops were consulted on the
view taken by parliament of the queen's legitimacy. Renard told the Bishop of Norwich, Thirlby,
that they must bend to the times, and leave the pope to his fortunes. They acted on the ambassador's
advice. An act was passed, in which the marriage from which the queen was sprung, was declared
valid, and the pope's name was not mentioned; but the essential point being secured, the framers
of the statute were willing to gratify their mistress by the intensity of the bitterness with
which the history of the divorce was related.[160] The bishops must have been glad to escape
from so mortifying a subject, and to apply themselves to the more congenial subject of religion.

                   [Footnote 160: 1 Mary, cap. 1.]

As soon as the disposition of parliament had been generally ascertained, the restoration of
the mass was first formally submitted, for the sake of decency, to the clergy of Convocation.

The bench had been purged of dangerous elements. The Lower House contained a small fraction
of Protestants just large enough to permit a controversy, and to insure a triumph to their
antagonists. The proceedings opened with a sermon from Harpsfeld, then chaplain of the Bishop
of London, in which, in a series of ascending antitheses, Northumberland was described as Holofernes,
and Mary as Judith; Northumberland was Haman, and Mary was Esther; Northumberland was Sisera,
and Mary was the mother in Israel. Mary was the sister who had chosen the better part: religion
ceased and slept until Mary arose a virgin in Israel, and with the mother of God Mary might
sing, "Behold, from henceforth all generations shall call {p.070} me blessed." The trumpet
having thus sounded, the lists were drawn for the combat; the bishops sat in their robes, the
clergy stood bareheaded, and the champions appeared. Hugh Weston, Dean of Windsor, Dean of
Westminster afterwards, Dr. Watson, Dr. Moreman, and the preacher Harpsfeld undertook to defend
the real presence against Phillips Dean of Rochester, Philpot, Cheny, Aylmer, and Young.

The engagement lasted for a week. The reforming theologians fought for
their dangerous cause bravely and temperately; and Weston, who was at
once advocate and prolocutor, threw down his truncheon at last, and
told Philpot that he was meeter for Bethlehem than for a company of
grave and learned men, and that he should come no more into their
house.[161] The orthodox thus ruled themselves the victors: but beyond
the doors of the Convocation House they did not benefit their cause.
The dispute, according to Renard, resolved itself, in the opinion of
the laity, into scandalous railing and recrimination;[162] the people
were indignant; and the Houses of Parliament, disgusted and
dissatisfied, resumed the discussion among themselves, as more
competent to conduct it with decency. In eight days the various
changes introduced by Edward VI. were argued in the House of Commons,
and points were treated of there, said Renard, which a general council
could scarcely resolve. November 8: Rolls House
                   MSS.]

The precipitation with which Somerset, Cranmer, and Northumberland had attempted to carry out
the Reformation, was thus followed by a natural recoil. Protestant theology had erected itself
into a system of intolerant dogmatism, and had crowded the gaols with prisoners who were guilty
of no crime but Nonconformity; it had now to reap the fruits of its injustice, and was superseded
till its teachers had grown wiser. The first parliament of Mary was indeed more Protestant,
in the best sense of that word, than the statesmen and divines of Edward. While the House of
Commons re-established the Catholic services, they decided, after long consideration, that
no punishment should be inflicted on those who declined to attend those services.[164] There
was to be no pope, no persecution, no restoration of the abbey {p.071} lands--resolutions,
all of them disagreeable to a reactionary court. On the Spanish marriage both Lords and Commons
were equally impracticable. The Catholic noblemen--the Earls of Derby, Shrewsbury, Bath, and
Sussex were in the interest of Courtenay. The chancellor had become attached to him in the
Tower when they were fellow-prisoners there; and Sir Robert Rochester, Sir Francis Englefield,
Sir Edward Waldegrave, the queen's tried and faithful officers of the household, went with
the chancellor. Never, on any subject, was there greater unanimity in England than in the disapproval
of Philip as a husband for the queen, and, on the 29th of October, the Lower House had a petition
in preparation to entreat her to choose from among her subjects.

                   [Footnote 164: Ibid. December 8.]

To Courtenay, indeed, Mary might legitimately object. Since his emancipation from the Tower
he had wandered into folly and debauchery; he was vain and inexperienced, and his insolence
was kept in check only by the quality so rare in an Englishman of personal timidity. But to
refuse Courtenay was one thing, to fasten her choice on the heir of a foreign kingdom was another.
Paget insisted, indeed, that, as the Queen of Scots was contracted to the Dauphin, unless England
could strengthen herself with a connection of corresponding strength, the union of the French
and Scottish crowns was a menace to her liberties.[165] But the argument, though important
in itself, was powerless against the universal dread of the introduction of a foreign sovereign,
and it availed only to provide Mary with an answer to the protests and entreaties of her other
ministers.

                   [Footnote 165: Renard.]

Perhaps, too, it confirmed her in her obstinacy, and allowed her to persuade herself that,
in following her own inclination, she was consulting the interests of her subjects. Obstinate,
at any rate, she was beyond all reach of persuasion. Once only she wavered, after her resolution
was first taken. Some one had told her that, if she married Philip, she would find herself
the step-mother of a large family of children who had come into the world irregularly. A moral
objection she was always willing to recognise. She sent for Renard, and conjured him to tell
her whether the prince was really the good man which he had described him; Renard assured her
that he was the very paragon of the world.

She caught the ambassador's hand.

"Oh!" she exclaimed, "do you speak as a subject whose duty is to praise his sovereign, or do
you speak as a man?"

{p.072} "Your majesty may take my life," he answered, "if you find him other than I have told you."

"Oh that I could but see him!" she said.

She dismissed Renard gratefully. A few days after she sent for him again, when she was expecting
the petition of the House of Commons. "Lady Clarence," one of the queen's attendants, was the
only other person present. The holy wafer was in the room on an altar, which she called her
protector, her guide, her adviser.[166] Mary told them that she spent her days and nights in
tears and prayers before it, imploring God to direct her; and as she was speaking her emotions
overcame her; she flung herself on her knees with Renard and Lady Clarence at her side, and
the three together before the altar sang the Veni Creator. The invocation was heard in the
breasts from which it was uttered. As the chant died into silence, Mary rose from the ground
as if inspired, and announced the divine message. The Prince of Spain was the chosen of Heaven
for the virgin queen; if miracles were required to give him to her, there was a stronger than
man who would work them; the malice of the world should not keep him from her; she would cherish
him and love him, and him alone; and never thenceforward, by a wavering thought, would she
give him cause for jealousy.[167]

                   [Footnote 166: "Elle l'avoit toujours invoqué comme
                   son protecteur, conducteur, et
                   conseilleur."--Renard to Charles V., October 31:
                   Rolls House MSS.]

                   [Footnote 167: Renard to Charles V., October 31:
                   Rolls House MSS.]

It was true that she had deliberately promised not to do what she was now resolved on doing,
but that was no matter.

The Commons' petition was by this time (November) ready, but the agitation of the last scene
brought on a palpitation of the heart which for the time enabled the queen to decline to receive
it; while Renard assailed the different ministers, and extracted from them their general views
on the state of the country, and the measures which should be pursued.

The Bishop of Winchester he found relaxing in his zeal for Rome, and desiring a solid independent
English government, the re-enactment of the Six Articles, and an Anglican religious tyranny
supported by the lords of the old blood. Nobles and people were against the pope, Gardiner
said, and against foreign interference of all sorts; Mary could not marry Philip without a
papal dispensation, which must be kept secret; the country would not tolerate it;[168] the
French would play into the hands of {p.073} the heretics, and the Spanish alliance would give
them the game; there would be a cry raised that Spanish troops would be introduced to inflict
the pope upon the people by force. If the emperor desired the friendship of England, he would
succeed best by not pressing the connection too close. Political marriages were dangerous.
Cromwell tied Henry VIII. to Anne of Cleves; the marriage lasted a night, and destroyed him
and his policy. Let the queen accept the choice of her people, marry Courtenay, send Elizabeth
to the Tower, and extirpate heresy with fire and sword.

                   [Footnote 168: "Il fauldra obtenir dispense du
                   Pape, pour le parentage, qui ne pourra estre
                   publique ains secrete, autrement le peuple se
                   revolteroit, pour l'auctorité du Pape qu'il ne
                   veult admettre et revoir."--Renard to Charles V.,
                   November 9: Rolls House MSS.]

These were the views of Gardiner, from whom Renard turned next to Paget.

If the queen sent Elizabeth to the Tower, Lord Paget said, her life would not be safe for a
day. Paget wished her to be allowed to choose her own husband; but she must first satisfy parliament
that she had no intention of tampering with the succession. Should she die without children,
the country must not be left exposed to claims from Spain on behalf of Philip, or from France
on behalf of the Queen of Scots. His own advice, therefore, was, that Mary should frankly acknowledge
her sister as her presumptive successor; Elizabeth might be married to Courtenay, and, in default
of heirs of her own body, it might be avowed and understood that those two should be king and
queen. Could she make up her mind to this course, could she relinquish her dreams of restoring
the authority of the pope, of meddling with the church lands, and interfering with the liberties
of her people, she might rely on the loyalty of the country, and her personal inclinations
would not be interfered with.[169]

                   [Footnote 169: Renard to Charles V., November 4:
                   Rolls House MSS.]

Both the lines of conduct thus sketched were consistent and intelligible, and either might
have been successfully followed. But neither the one nor the other satisfied Mary. She would
have Philip, she would have the pope, and she would not recognise her sister. If she insisted
on choosing a husband for herself, she felt it would be difficult to refuse her; her object
was to surprise the council into committing themselves, and she succeeded. On the 8th of November,
when they were in session in a room in the palace, Renard presented Mary in the emperor's name
with a formal offer of Philip's hand, and requested a distinct answer, Yes or no. The queen
said she would consult her ministers, and repaired in agitation to the council-room.[170] Distrusting
{p.074} one another, unprepared for the sudden demand, and unable to consult in her presence,
the lords made some answer, which she interpreted into acquiescence: Mary returned radiant
with joy, and told the ambassador that his proposal was accepted.

                   [Footnote 170: "Visage intimidé et gestes
                   tremblans."--Renard to Charles V.: Rolls House
                   MSS.]

A momentary lull followed, during which Thomas Cranmer, Archbishop of Canterbury, Lady Jane
Grey, Lord Guilford, Lord Ambrose, and Lord Henry Dudley were taken from the Tower on foot
to the Guildhall, and were there tried, found guilty of high treason, and sentenced to die.
Lady Jane the queen still intended to spare; the Dudleys she meant to pause upon. Cranmer,
in a grave, mild letter, explained what his conduct had been with respect to his so-called
treason; but his story, creditable to him as it was, produced no effect; Cranmer was immediately
to be put to death. That was the first intention, though it was found necessary to postpone
his fate through a superstitious scruple. The archbishop had received the pallium from Rome,
and, until degraded by apostolic authority, he could not, according to Catholic rule, be condemned
by a secular tribunal. But there was no intention of sparing him at the time of his trial;
in a few days, Renard wrote on the 17th of November, "the archbishop" will be executed; and
Mary, triumphant, as she believed herself, on the question nearest to her heart, had told him
that the melancholy which had weighed upon her from childhood was rolling away; she had never
yet known the meaning of happiness, and she was about to be rewarded at last.[171]

                   [Footnote 171: Renard to Charles V., November 17:
                   Rolls House MSS.]

The struggle had told upon her. She was looking aged and worn,[172] and her hopes of children,
if she married, were thought extremely small. But she considered that she had won the day,
and was now ready to face the Commons; the House had chafed at the delay: they had talked largely
of their intentions; if the queen's answer was unsatisfactory, they would dissolve themselves,
they said, and return to their counties. On the 16th of November a message was brought that
the Speaker would at last be admitted to the presence. The interview which followed, Mary thus
herself described to Renard. The council were present; the Speaker was introduced, and the
queen received him standing.

                   [Footnote 172: "Fort envieillie et
                   agée."--Noailles.]

In an oration, she said, replete to weariness with fine phrases and historic precedents, the
Speaker requested her, in the name of the commonwealth, to marry. The succession was perplexed;
the Queen of Scots made pretensions to the crown; and, in the {p.075} event of her death, a
civil war was imminent. Let her majesty take a husband, therefore, and with God's grace the
kingdom would not be long without an heir whose title none would dispute. Yet, in taking a
husband, the Speaker said, her majesty's faithful Commons trusted she would not choose from
abroad. A foreign prince had interests of his own which might not be English interests; he
would have command of English armies, fleets, and fortresses, and he might betray his trust;
he might involve the country in wars; he might make promises and break them; he might carry
her highness away out of the realm; or he might bring up her children in foreign courts and
in foreign habits. Let her marry, therefore, one of her own subjects.

The Speaker was so prolix, so tedious, so confused, the queen said--his sentences were so long
drawn and so little to the purpose--that she sate down before he had half-finished. When he
came to the words "Marry a subject," she could remain silent no longer.

Replies to addresses of the House of Commons were usually read by the chancellor; but, careless
of forms, she again started to her feet, and spoke:--[173]

                   [Footnote 173: Renard is the only authority for
                   this speech, which he heard from the queen.
                   Translated by him into French, and retranslated by
                   myself into English, it has, doubtless, suffered
                   much in the process.]

"For your desire to see us married we thank you; your desire to dictate to us the consort whom
we shall choose we consider somewhat superfluous; the English parliament has not been wont
to use such language to their sovereigns, and where private persons in such cases follow their
private tastes, sovereigns may reasonably challenge an equal liberty. If you, our Commons,
force upon us a husband whom we dislike, it may occasion the inconvenience of our death;[174]
if we marry where we do not love, we shall be in our grave in three months, and the heir of
whom you speak will not have been brought into being. We have heard much from you of the incommodities
which may attend our marriage; we have not heard from you of the commodities thereof--one of
which is of some weight with us, the commodity, namely, of our private inclination. We have
not forgotten our coronation oath. We shall marry as God shall direct our choice, to his honour
and to our country's good."

                   [Footnote 174: "Ce seroit procurer l'inconvenient
                   de sa mort."]

She would hear no reply. The Speaker was led out, and as he left the room Arundel whispered
to Gardiner that he had lost his office; the queen had usurped it. At the same moment the {p.076}
queen herself turned to the chancellor--"I have to thank you, my lord, for this business,"
she said.

The chancellor swore in tears that he was innocent; the Commons had drawn their petition themselves;
for himself it was true he was well inclined towards Courtenay; he had known him in the Tower.

"And is your having known him in the Tower," she cried, "a reason that you should think him
a fitting husband for me? I will never, never marry him--that I promise you--and I am a woman
of my word; what I say I do."

"Choose where you will," Gardiner answered, "your majesty's consort shall find in me the most
obedient of his subjects."

Mary had now the bit between her teeth, and, resisting all efforts to check or guide her, was
making her own way with obstinate resolution.

The next point was the succession, which, notwithstanding the humour of parliament, should
be re-arranged, if force or skill could do it. There were four possible claimants after herself,
she told Renard, and in her own opinion the best title was that of the Queen of Scots. But
the country objected, and the emperor would not have the English crown fall to France. The
Greys were out of the question, but their mother, the Duchess of Suffolk, was eligible; and
there was Lady Lennox, also, Darnley's mother, who perhaps, after all, would be the best choice
that could be made.[175] Elizabeth, she was determined, should never, never succeed. She had
spoken to Paget about it, she said, and Paget had remonstrated; Paget had said marry her to
Courtenay, recognise her as presumptive heir, and add a stipulation, if necessary, that she
become a Catholic; but, Catholic or no Catholic, she said, her sister should never reign in
England with consent of hers; she was a heretic, a hypocrite, and a bastard, and her infamous
mother had been the cause of all the calamities which had befallen the realm.

                   [Footnote 175: Renard to Charles V., November 28:
                   Rolls House MSS.]

Even Renard was alarmed at this burst of passion. He had fed Mary's suspicions till they were
beyond either his control or her own; and the attitude of parliament had lately shown him that,
if any step were taken against Elizabeth without provocation on her part, it would infinitely
increase the difficulty of concluding the marriage. He was beginning to believe, and he ventured
to hint to the queen, that Paget's advice might be worth consideration; but on this subject
she would listen to nothing.

{p.077} Elizabeth had hitherto, when at court, taken precedence of all other ladies. The queen
now compelled her to walk behind Lady Lennox and the Duchess of Suffolk, as a sign of the meditated
change;[176] and the ladies of the court were afraid to be seen speaking to her. But in reply
to Mary's derogatory treatment, the young lords, knights, and gentlemen gathered ostentatiously
round the princess when she rode abroad, or thronged the levees at her house; old-established
statesmen said, in Renard's ear, that, let the queen decide as she would, no foreigner should
reign in England; and Lord Arundel believed that Elizabeth's foot was already on the steps
of the throne. A large and fast-growing party, which included more than one member of the Privy
Council, were now beginning to consider, as the best escape from Philip, that Courtenay had
better fly from the court, taking Elizabeth with him--call round him in their joint names all
who would strike with him for English independence, and proclaim the queen deposed.

                   [Footnote 176: "Elle l'a faict quelquefois aller
                   apres la Comtesse de Lennox, que l'on appelle icy
                   Madame Marguerite, et Madame Françoise, qu'est la
                   susdicte Duchesse de Suffolk."--Noailles to the
                   King of France, November 30.]

There was uncertainty about Elizabeth herself; both Noailles and Renard believed that she would
consent to this dangerous proposal; but she had shown Courtenay, hitherto, no sign of favour;
while Courtenay, on his side, complained that he was frightened by her haughty ways. Again
there was a serious difficulty in Courtenay's character; he was too cowardly for a dangerous
enterprise, too incapable for an intricate one, and his weak humour made men afraid to trust
themselves to a person who, to save himself, might at any moment betray them. Noailles, however,
said emphatically that, were Courtenay anything but what he was, his success would be certain.[177]

                   [Footnote 177: Noailles to the King of France,
                   December 6.]

The plot grew steadily into definite form. Devonshire and Cornwall were prepared for insurrection,
and thither, as to the stronghold of the Courtenay family, Elizabeth was to be first carried.
Meantime the ferment of popular feeling showed in alarming symptoms through the surface. The
council were in continual quarrel. Parliament, since the rebuff of the Speaker, had not grown
more tractable, and awkward questions began to be asked about a provision for the married clergy.
All had been already gained which could be hoped for from the present House of Commons; and,
on the 6th of December, the session ended in a dissolution. The same day a dead dog was thrown
{p.078} through the window of the presence chamber with ears cropped, a halter about its neck,
and a label saying that all the priests in England should be hanged.

Renard, who, though not admitted, like Noailles, into the confidence of the conspirators, yet
knew the drift of public feeling, and knew also Arundel's opinion of the queen's prospects,
insisted that Mary should place some restraint upon herself, and treat her sister at least
with outward courtesy; Philip was expected at Christmas, should nothing untoward happen in
the interval; and the ambassador prevailed on her, at last, to pretend that her suspicions
were at an end. His own desire, he said, was as great as Mary's that Elizabeth should be detected
in some treasonable correspondence; but harshness only placed her on her guard; she would be
less careful, if she believed that she was no longer distrusted. The princess, alarmed perhaps
at finding herself the unconsenting object of dangerous schemes, had asked permission to retire
to her country house. It was agreed that she should go; persons in her household were bribed
to watch her; and the queen, yielding to Renard's entreaties, received her when she came to
take leave with an appearance of affection so well counterfeited, that it called out the ambassador's
applause.[178] She made her a present of pearls, with a head-dress of sable; and the princess,
on her side, implored the queen to give no more credit to slanders against her. They embraced;
Elizabeth left the court; and, as she went out of London, five hundred gentlemen formed about
her as a voluntary escort.[179] There were not wanting fools, says Renard, who would persuade
the queen that her sister's last words were honestly spoken; but she remembers too acutely
the injuries which her mother and herself suffered at Anne Boleyn's hands; and she has a fixed
conviction that Elizabeth, unless she can be first disposed of, will be a cause of infinite
calamities to the realm.[180]

                   [Footnote 178: "La Reine a tres bien dissimulée, en
                   son endroict."--Renard to Charles V., December 8:
                   Rolls House MSS.]

                   [Footnote 179: Noailles.]

                   [Footnote 180: Renard to Charles V., December 8:
                   Rolls House MSS.]

{p.079} CHAPTER II.

THE SPANISH MARRIAGE.

The fears of Renard and the hopes of Noailles were occasioned by the unanimity of Catholics
and heretics in the opposition to the marriage; yet, so singular was the position of parties,
that this very unanimity was the condition which made the marriage possible. The Catholic lords
and gentlemen were jealous of English independence, and, had they stood alone, they would have
coerced the queen into an abandonment of her intentions: but, if they dreaded a Spanish sovereign,
they hated unorthodoxy more, and if they permitted, or assisted in the schemes of the Reformers,
they feared that they might lose the control of the situation when the immediate object was
obtained. Those who were under the influence of Gardiner desired to restore persecution; and
persecution, which was difficult with Mary on the throne, would be impossible under a sovereign
brought in by a revolution. They made a favourite of Courtenay, but they desired to marry him
to the queen, not to Elizabeth: Gardiner told the young earl that he would sooner see him the
husband of the vilest drab who could be picked out of the London kennels.[181]

                   [Footnote 181: Renard to Charles V.: Rolls House
                   MSS.]

Thus, from their murmurs, they seemed to be on the edge of rebellion; yet, when the point of
action came, they halted, uncertain what to do, unwilling to acquiesce, yet without resolution
to resist. From a modern point of view the wisest policy was that recommended by Paget. The
claim of the Queen of Scots on the throne unquestionably made it prudent for England to strengthen
herself by some powerful foreign alliance; sufficient precautions could be devised for the
security of the national independence; and, so far from England being in danger of being drawn
into the war on the continent, Lord Paget said that, if England would accept Philip heartily,
the war would be at an end. Elizabeth of France might marry Don Carlos, taking with her the
French pretensions to Naples and Milan as a dowry. Another French princess might be given to
the expatriated Philibert, and Savoy and Piedmont restored with her. "You," {p.080} Paget said
to Noailles, "by your Dauphin's marriage forced us to be friends with the Scots; we, by our
queen's marriage, will force you to be friends with the emperor."[182]

                   [Footnote 182: "Le dict Paget me respondict qu'il
                   n'estoit ja besoing d'entrer en si grande jalousie,
                   et que tout ainsi que nous les avions faicts amys
                   avecques les Escossoys, ce marriage seroit aussy
                   cause que nous serions amys avecques
                   l'Empereur."--Noailles to the King of France,
                   December 26. Compare also the letter of December
                   23, Ambassades, vol. ii. pp. 334-356.]

Paget, however, was detested as an upstart, and detested still more as a latitudinarian; he
could form no party, and the queen made use of him only to support her in her choice of the
Prince of Spain, as in turn she would use Gardiner to destroy the Protestants; and thus the
two great factions in the state neutralised each other's action in a matter in which both were
equally anxious; and Mary, although with no remarkable capacity, without friends and ruined,
if at any moment she lost courage, was able to go her own way in spite of her subjects.

The uncertainty was, how long so anomalous a state of things would continue. The marriage,
being once decided on, Mary could think of nothing else, and even religion sank into the second
place. Reginald Pole, chafing the imperial bridle between his lips, vexed her, so Renard said,
from day to day, with his untimely importunities;[183] the restoration of the mass gave him
no pleasure so long as the papal legate was an exile; and in vain the queen laboured to draw
from him some kind of approval. He saw her only preferring carnal pleasures to her duty to
Heaven; and, indifferent himself to all interests save those of the See of Rome, he was irritated
with the emperor, irritated with the worldly schemes to which he believed that his mission
had been sacrificed. He talked angrily of the marriage. The queen heard, through Wotton the
ambassador at Paris, that he had said openly, it should never take place;[184] while Peto,
the Greenwich friar, who was in his train, wrote to her, reflecting impolitely on her age,
and adding Scripture commendations of celibacy as the more perfect state.[185] It was even
feared {p.081} that the impatient legate had advised the pope to withhold the dispensations.

                   [Footnote 183: Renard to Charles V.: November 14,
                   November 28, December 3, December 8, December 11:
                   Rolls House MSS.]

                   [Footnote 184: Renard to Charles V.: Rolls House
                   MSS. The queen wrote to Wotton to learn his
                   authority. The Venetian ambassador, Wotton said,
                   was the person who had told him; but the quarter
                   from which the information originally came, he
                   believed, might be relied on.--Wotton to the Queen
                   and Council: MS. State Paper Office.]

                   [Footnote 185: "Un des principaulx qu'il a avec luy
                   que se nomme William Peto, theologien, luy a
                   escript luy donnant conseil de non se marrier, et
                   vivre en celibat; meslant en ses lettres plusieurs
                   allegations du Vieux et Nouveau Testament, repetant
                   x ou xii fois qu'elle tombera en la puissance et
                   servitude du mari, qu'elle n'aura enfans, sinon
                   soubz danger de sa vie pour l'âge dont elle
                   est."--Renard to Charles V.: Tytler, vol. ii. p.
                   303.]

Mary, beyond measure afflicted, wrote to Pole at last, asking what in his opinion she ought
to do. He sent his answer through a priest, by whom it could be conveyed with the greatest
emphasis. First, he said, she must pray to God for a spirit of counsel and fortitude: next,
she must, at all hazards, relinquish the name of Head of the Church; and, since she could trust
neither peer nor prelate, she must recall parliament, go in person to the House of Commons,
and demand permission with her own mouth for himself to return to England. The holy see was
represented in his person, and was freshly insulted in the refusal to receive him; the pope's
vast clemency had volunteered unasked to pardon the crimes of England; if the gracious offer
was not accepted, the legacy would be cancelled, the national guilt would be infinitely enhanced.
The emperor talked of prudence; in the service of God prudence was madness; and, so long as
the schism continued, her attempts at reform were vanity, and her seat upon the throne was
usurpation. Let her tell the truth to the House of Commons, and the House of Commons would
hear.[186]

                   [Footnote 186: Instructions of Cardinal Pole to
                   Thomas Goldwell: Cotton MSS. Titus, B. 11.]

"Your majesty will see," wrote Renard, enclosing to Charles a copy of these advices, "the extent
of the cardinal's discretion, and how necessary it is that for the present he be kept at a
distance." The pope was not likely to reject the submission of England at any moment, late
or early, when England might be pleased to offer it, and could well afford to wait. Julius
was wiser than his legate. Pole was not recalled, but exhorted to patience, and a letter or
message from Rome cooled Mary's anxieties. Meanwhile the marriage was to be expedited with
as much speed as possible; the longer the agitation continued, the greater the danger; while
the winter was unfavourable to revolutionary movements, and armed resistance to the prince's
landing would be unlikely so long as the season prevented large bodies of men from keeping
the field.[187]

                   [Footnote 187: Renard dwelt much on this point as a
                   reason for haste.]

The emperor, therefore, in the beginning of December, sent over the draft of a marriage treaty;
and if the security that the articles would be observed had equalled the form in which they
were conceived, the English might have afforded to lay aside their alarms. Charles seemed to
have anticipated almost every {p.082} point on which the insular jealousy would be sensitive.
The Prince of Spain should bear the title of King of England so long, but so long only as the
queen should be alive; and the queen should retain the disposal of all affairs in the realm,
and the administration of the revenues. The queen, in return, should share Philip's titles,
present and prospective, with the large settlement of £60,000 a year upon her for her life.
Don Carlos, the prince's child by his first wife, would, if he lived, inherit Spain, Sicily,
the Italian provinces, and the Indies. But Burgundy and the Low Countries should be settled
on the offspring of the English marriage, and be annexed to the English crown; and this prospect,
splendid in itself, was made more magnificent by the possibility that Don Carlos might die.
Under all contingencies, the laws and liberties of the several countries should be held inviolate
and inviolable.

In such a treaty the emperor conferred everything, and in return received nothing; and yet,
to gain the alliance, a negotiation already commenced for the hand of the Infanta of Portugal
was relinquished. The liberality of the proposals was suspicious, but they were submitted to
the council, who, unable to refuse to consider them, were obliged to admit that they were reasonable.
Five additional clauses were added, however, to which it was insisted that Philip should swear
before the contract should be completed--

1. That no foreigner, under any circumstances, should be admitted to any office in the royal
household, in the army, the forts, or the fleet.

2. That the queen should not be taken abroad without her own consent; and that the children--should
children be born--should not be carried out of England without consent of parliament, even
though among them might be the heir of the Spanish empire.

3. Should the queen die childless, the prince's connection with the realm should be at an end.

4. The jewel-house and treasury should be wholly under English control, and the ships of war
should not be removed into a foreign port.

5. The prince should maintain the existing treaties between England and France; and England
should not be involved, directly or indirectly, in the war between France and the empire.[188]

                   [Footnote 188: Marriage Treaty between Mary, Queen
                   of England, and Philip of Spain: Rymer, vol. vi.]

These demands were transmitted to Brussels, where they were {p.083} accepted without difficulty,
and further objection could not be ventured unless constraint was laid upon the queen. The
sketch of the treaty, with the conditions attached to it, was submitted to such of the Lords
and Commons as remained in London after the dissolution of parliament, and the result was a
sullen acquiescence.

An embassy was immediately announced as to be sent from Flanders. Count Egmont, M. de Courières,
the Count de Lalaing, and M. de Nigry, Chancellor of the Golden Fleece, were coming over as
plenipotentiaries of the emperor. Secret messengers went off to Rome to hasten the dispensations--a
dispensation for Mary to marry her cousin, and a dispensation which also was found necessary
permitting the ceremony to be performed by a bishop in a state of schism. The marriage could
be solemnised at once on their arrival, the ambassadors standing as Philip's representatives,
while Sir Philip Hoby, Bonner, Bedford, and Lord Derby would go to Spain to receive the prince's
oaths, and escort him to England. Again and again the queen pressed haste. Ash-Wednesday fell
on the 6th of February, and in Lent she might not marry. Renard assured her that the prince
should be in her arms before Septuagesima, and all her trials would be over. The worst danger
which he now anticipated was from some unpleasant collision which might arise after the prince's
landing; and he had advised the emperor to have the Spaniards who would form the retinue selected
for their meekness. They would meet with insolence from the English, which they would not endure,
if they had the spirit to resent it; their dispositions, therefore, must be mild and forgiving.[189]

                   [Footnote 189: Renard to Charles V., December 11:
                   Rolls House MSS.]

And yet Renard could not hide from himself, and the lords did not hide from Mary, that their
consent was passive only; that their reluctance was vehement as ever. Bedford said, if he went
to Spain, he must go without attendance, for no one would accompany him. Lord Derby refused
to be one of the ambassadors, and with Sir Edward Waldegrave and Sir Edward Hastings told the
queen that he would leave her service if she persisted. The seditious pamphlets which were
scattered everywhere created a vague terror in the court, and the court ladies wept and lamented
in the queen's presence. The council in a body again urged her to abandon her intention. The
peers met again to consider the marriage articles. Gardiner read them aloud, and Lord Windsor,
a dull Brutus, who till then had {p.084} never been known to utter a reasonable word, exclaimed,
amidst general applause, "You have told us fine things of the queen, and the prince, and the
emperor; what security have we that words are more than words?" Corsairs from Brest and Rochelle
hovered in the mouth of the Channel to catch the couriers going to and fro between Spain and
London and Brussels, and to terrify Philip with the danger of the passage. The Duke of Suffolk's
brother and the Marquis of Winchester had been heard to swear that they would set upon him
when he landed; and Renard began to doubt whether the alliance, after all, was worth the risk
attending it.[190] Mary, however, brave in the midst of her perplexities, vowed that she would
relinquish her hopes of Philip only with her life. An army of spies watched Elizabeth day and
night, and the emperor, undeterred by Renard's hesitation, encouraged the queen's resolution.
There could be no conspiracy as yet, Charles said, which could not be checked with judicious
firmness; and dangerous persons could be arrested and made secure. A strong hand could do much
in England, as was proved by the success for a time of the late Duke of Northumberland.[191]

The advice fell in with Mary's own temperament; she had already been acting in the spirit of
it. A party of Protestants met in St. Matthew's Church on the publication of the acts of the
late session, to determine how far they would obey them. Ten or twelve were seized on the spot,
and two were hanged out of hand.[192] The queen told Hastings and Waldegrave that she would
endure no opposition; they should obey her or they should leave the council. She would raise
a few thousand men, she said, to keep her subjects in order, and she would have a thousand
Flemish horse among them. There was a difficulty about ways and means; as fast as money came
into the treasury she had paid debts with it, and, as far as her means extended, she had replaced
chalices and roods in the parish churches. But, if she was poor, five millions of gold had
just arrived in Spain from the New World; and, as the emperor suggested, her credit was good
at Antwerp from her honesty. Lazarus Tucker came again to the rescue. In November, Lazarus
provided £50,000 for her at fourteen per cent. In January she required £100,000 more, and she
ordered Gresham to find it for her at low interest {p.085} or high.[193] Fortunately for Mary
the project of a standing army could not be carried out by herself alone, and the passive resistance
of the council saved her from commencing the attempt. Neither Irish mercenaries, nor Flemish,
nor Welsh, as, two months after she was proposing to herself, were permitted to irritate England
into madness.

                   [Footnote 190: "The English," he said, "sont si
                   traictres, si inconstantes, si doubles, si
                   malicieux, et si faciles à esmover qu'il ne se
                   fault fier; et si l'alliance est grande, aussi est
                   elle hazardeuse pour la personne de son
                   Altesse."--Renard to Charles V., December 12:
                   Rolls House MSS.]

                   [Footnote 191: Charles V. to Renard, December 24:
                   Rolls House MSS.]

                   [Footnote 192: Renard to Charles V., December 20:
                   Ibid.]

                   [Footnote 193: The queen to Sir Thomas Gresham:
                   Flanders MSS. Mary, State Paper Office.]

While Mary was thus buffeting with the waves, on the 23rd, Count Egmont and his three companions
arrived at Calais. The French had threatened to intercept the passage, and four English ships-of-war
had been ordered to be in waiting as their escort: these ships, however, had not left the Thames,
being detained either by weather, as the admiral pretended, or by the ill-humour of the crews,
who swore they would give the French cruisers small trouble, should they present themselves.[194]
On Christmas-day ill-looking vessels were hanging in mid-channel, off Calais harbour, but the
ambassadors were resolved to cross at all risks. They stole over in the darkness on the night
of the 26th, and were at Dover by nine in the morning. Their retinue, a very large one, was
sent on at once to London; snow was on the ground, and the boys in the streets saluted the
first comers with showers of balls. The ambassadors followed the next day, and were received
in silence, but without active insult. The emperor's choice of persons for his purpose had
been judicious. The English ministers intended to be offensive, but they were disarmed by the
courtesy of Egmont, who charmed every one. In ten days the business connected with the treaty
was concluded. The treaty itself was sent to Brussels to be ratified, and the dispensations
from Rome, and the necessary powers from the Prince of Spain, were alone waited for that the
marriage might be concluded in public or in private, whichever way would be most expeditious.
The queen cared only for the completion of the irrevocable ceremony, which would bring her
husband to her side before Lent.[195]

                   [Footnote 194: Noailles to the King of France,
                   December 6: Ambassades, vol. ii.]

                   [Footnote 195: The Bishop of Arras to the
                   Ambassadors in England: Granvelle Papers, vol.
                   iv. p. 181, etc.]

The interval of delay was consumed in hunting-parties[196] and dinners at the palace, where
the courtiers played off before the guests the passions of their eager mistress.[197] The enemies
of {p.086} the marriage, French and English, had no time to lose, if they intended to prevent
the completion of it.

                   [Footnote 196: The 10th day of January the
                   ambassadors rode into Hampton Court, and there they
                   had as great cheer as could be had, and hunted and
                   killed, tag and rag, with hounds and
                   swords.--Machyn's Diary.]

                   [Footnote 197: After dinner Lord William Howard
                   entered, and, seeing the queen pensive, whispered
                   something to her in English; then turning to us, he
                   asked if we knew what he had said? The queen bade
                   him not tell, but he paid no attention to her. He
                   told us he had said he hoped soon to see somebody
                   sitting there, pointing to the chair next her
                   majesty. The queen blushed, and asked him how he
                   could say so. He answered that he knew very well
                   she liked it; whereat her majesty laughed, and the
                   court laughed, etc.--Egmont and Renard to Charles
                   V.: Rolls House MSS.]

When the queen's design was first publicly announced, the King of France directed Noailles
to tell her frankly the alarm with which it was regarded at Paris. Henry and Montmorency said
the same repeatedly, and at great length, to Dr. Wotton. The queen might have the best intentions
of remaining at peace, but events might be too strong for her; and they suggested, at last,
that she might give a proof of the good-will which she professed by making a fresh treaty with
them.[198] That a country should be at peace while its titular king was at war, was a situation
without a precedent. Intricate questions were certain to arise; for instance, if a mixed fleet
of English and Spanish ships should escort the prince, or convoy his transports or treasure,
or if the English ships having Spaniards on board, should enter French harbours. A thousand
difficulties such as these might occur, and it would be wise to provide for them beforehand.

                   [Footnote 198: Noailles.]

The uneasiness of the court of Paris was not allayed when the queen met this most reasonable
proposal with a refusal.[199] A clause, she replied, was added to the marriage articles for
the maintenance of the existing treaties with France, and with that and with her own promises
the French government ought to be content. In vain Noailles pointed out that the existing treaties
would not meet the new conditions; she was obstinate, and both Noailles and the King of France
placed the worst interpretation upon her attitude. Philip, after his arrival, would unquestionably
drag or lead her into his quarrels; and they determined, therefore, to employ all means, secret
and open, to prevent his coming, and to co-operate with the English opposition.

                   [Footnote 199: Ibid.]

The time to act had arrived. Rumours were industriously circulated that the Prince of Spain
was already on the seas, bringing with him ten thousand Spaniards, who were to be landed at
the Tower, and that eight thousand Germans were to follow from the Low Countries. Noailles
and M. d'Oysel, then on his way through London to Scotland, had an interview with a number
of lords and gentlemen, who undertook to place themselves at the head of an insurrection, and
to depose the queen. {p.087} The whole country was crying out against her, and the French ministers
believed that the opposition had but to declare itself in arms to meet with universal sympathy.
They regarded the persons with whom they were dealing as the representatives of the national
discontent; but on this last point they were fatally mistaken.

Noailles spoke generally of lords and gentlemen; but those with whom d'Oysel and himself had
communicated were a party of ten or twelve of the pardoned friends of the Duke of Northumberland,
or of men otherwise notorious among the ultra-Protestants; the Duke of Suffolk and his three
brothers, Lord Thomas, Lord John, and Lord Leonard Grey; the Marquis of Northampton; Sir Thomas
Wyatt, son of the poet; Sir Nicholas Throgmorton; Sir Peter Carew; Sir Edmund Warner; Lord
Cobham's brother-in-law; and Sir James Crofts, the late deputy of Ireland.[200] Courtenay,
who had affected orthodoxy as long as he had hopes of the queen, was admitted into the confederacy.
Cornwall and Devonshire were to be the first counties to rise, where Courtenay would be all-powerful
by his name. Wyatt undertook to raise Kent, Sir James Crofts the Severn border, Suffolk and
his brothers the midland counties. Forces from these four points were to converge on London,
which would then stir for itself. The French Admiral Villegaignon promised to keep a fleet
on the seas, and to move from place to place among the western English harbours, wherever his
presence would be most useful. Plymouth had been tampered with, and the mayor and aldermen,
either really, or as a ruse to gain information, affected a desire to receive a French garrison.[201]
For the sake of their cause the Protestant party were prepared to give to France an influence
in England as objectionable in itself, and as offensive to the majority of the people, as the
influence of Spain; and the management of the opposition to the queen was snatched from the
hands of those who might have brought it to some tolerable issue, by a set of men to whom the
Spanish marriage was but the stalking-horse for the reimposition of their late {p.088} tyranny.
If the Duke of Northumberland, instead of setting up a rival to Mary, had loyally admitted
her to the throne which was her right, he might have tied her hands, and secured the progress
of moderate reform. Had the great patriotic anti-papal party been now able to combine, with
no disintegrating element, they could have prevented the marriage or made it harmless. But
the ultra-party plunged again into treason, in which they would succeed only to restore the
dominion of a narrow and blighting sectarianism.[202]

                   [Footnote 200: Noailles and d'Oysel to the King of
                   France, January 15: Ambassades, vol. iii.]

                   [Footnote 201: "Sire, tout maintenant en achevant
                   cette lettre, les maire et aldermans de Plymouth,
                   m'ont envoyé prier de vous supplier les vouloir
                   prendre en votre protection, voulans et deliberans
                   mettre leur ville entre vos mains, et y recepvoir
                   dedans telle garrison qu'il vous plaira y envoyer;
                   s'estans resoubz de ne recevoir aulcunement le
                   Prince d'Espaigne, ne s'asservir en façon que ce
                   soit à ses commandemens, et s'asseurans que tous
                   les gentilz-hommes de l'entour d'icy en feroient de
                   mesme."--Noailles to the King of France:
                   Ambassades, vol. ii. p. 342.]

                   [Footnote 202: One of the projects mooted was the
                   queen's murder; a scheme suggested by a man from
                   whom better things might have been expected,
                   William Thomas, the late Clerk of the Council.
                   Wyatt, however, would not stain the cause with dark
                   crimes of that kind, and threatened Thomas with
                   rough handling for his proposal.]

The conspirators remained in London till the second week in January. Wyatt went into Kent,
Peter Carew ran down the Channel to Exmouth in a vessel of his own, and sent relays of horses
as far as Andover for Courtenay, Sir Nicholas Throgmorton undertaking to see the latter thus
far upon his way. The disaffection was already simmering in Devonshire. There was a violent
scene among the magistrates at the Christmas quarter-sessions at Exeter. A countryman came
in and reported that he had been waylaid and searched by a party of strange horsemen in steel
saddles, "under the gallows at the hill top," at Fair-mile, near Sir Peter Carew's house. His
person had been mistaken, it seemed, but questions were asked, inquiries made, and ugly language
had been used about the queen. On Carew's arrival the ferment increased. One of his lacqueys,
mistaking intention for fact, whispered in Exeter that "my Lord of Devonshire was at Mohun's
Ottery."[203] Six horses heavily loaded passed in, at midnight, through the city gates. The
panniers were filled with harness and hand-guns from Sir Peter's castle at Dartmouth.[204]
Sir John Chichester, Sir Arthur Champernowne, Peter and Gawen Carew, and Gybbes of Silverton,
had met in private, rumour said for no good purpose; and the Exeter Catholics were anxious
and agitated. They had been all disarmed after the insurrection of 1549, the castle was in
ruins, the city walls were falling down. Should Courtenay come, the worst consequences were
anticipated.

                   [Footnote 203: The house of Sir Peter Carew.]

                   [Footnote 204: Miscellaneous Depositions on the
                   State of Devonshire: MS. Domestic, Mary, vol. ii.
                   State Paper Office.]

But Courtenay did not come. After Carew had left London, he became nervous; when the horses
were reported to be ready, he lingered about the court; he flattered himself that the queen
{p.089} had changed her mind in his favour; and two nights before the completion of the treaty
he sate up, affecting to expect to be sent for to marry her on the spot.[205] Finding the message
did not arrive, he gave an order to his tailor to prepare a splendid court costume, adding
perhaps some boasting words, which were carried to Gardiner. The chancellor's regard for him
was sincere, and went beyond a desire to make him politically useful. He sent for him, cross-questioned
him, and by the influence of a strong mind over a weak one, drew out as much as Courtenay knew
of the secrets of the plot.[206]

                   [Footnote 205: Instructions to la Marque: Noailles,
                   vol. iii. p. 25, etc.]

                   [Footnote 206: Noailles to the King of France:
                   Ambassades, vol. iii. p. 31.]

The intention was to delay, if possible, an open declaration of rebellion a few weeks longer--till
the Prince of Spain's arrival should raise the ferment to boiling point. Gardiner, who was
determined, at all events, to prevent the Protestants from making head, informed the queen,
without mentioning Courtenay's name, that he had cause to suspect Sir Peter Carew. A summons
was despatched to Devonshire to require Sir Peter and his brother to return to London; and
thus either to compel them to rise prematurely, without Courtenay's assistance, or, if they
complied, to enable the court to secure their persons. The desired effect was produced; Carew
had waded too deep in treason to trust himself in Gardiner's hands. He wrote an excuse, yet
protesting his loyalty; and he invited the inhabitants of Exeter to join in a petition to the
crown against the marriage, as a first step towards a rising.

But the Carews were notorious and unpopular; the justices of the peace at the sessions had
been just occupied with a Protestant outrage committed by one of their nearest friends,[207]
and their true object was suspected. The barns of Crediton were not forgotten, nor the massacre
of the prisoners at Clyst, and without Courtenay they were powerless. Their invitation met
with no response; and Chichester and Champernowne, seeing how the tide was setting, washed
their hands of the {p.090} connection. Sir Thomas Dennys, a Catholic gentleman of the county,
took command of Exeter, sent express for the sheriff, Sir Richard Edgecumbe, of Cotteyll, to
come to his help, and as well as he could he put the city in a state of defence.[208] Carew
retired to Mohun's Ottery, when an order came to Dennys from the court for his arrest.

                   [Footnote 207: "On the morning of Christmas-day
                   came twelve neighbours of Silverton, being the
                   parish where Mr. Gybbes dwelleth, and they
                   complained to me of a cross of latten, and of an
                   altar-cloth stolen out of the church before that
                   time; and that the cross was set up upon a gate or
                   upon a hedge by the way, where the picture of
                   Christ was dressed with a paste or such like tyre,
                   and the picture of our Lady and St. John tied by
                   threads to the arms of the cross, like thieves."
                   "Mr. Gybbes" could not be actually convicted of
                   having been the perpetrator, but he was "vehemently
                   suspected," and, when examined, had used "vile
                   words."--Depositions of John Prideaux: MS. Mary,
                   Domestic, vol. ii. Mohun's Ottery could
not be taken without cannon, and wet weather had made the roads
impassable. Meantime he gave Sir Peter notice of his danger; and Sir
Peter, disposing in haste of his farm stock to raise a supply of
money, crossed the country to Weymouth, embarked in a vessel which
"Mr. Walter Raleigh" had brought round to meet him, and sailed for
France.[209]

                   [Footnote 209: Ibid.]

One arm of the conspiracy was thus lopped off at the first blow. But, although Courtenay's
treachery was known, some days elapsed before the ill success of Carew was heard of in London.
Courtenay had been trusted only so far as his intended share in the action had made it necessary
to trust him, and the confederates were chiefly anxious that, having broken down, he should
be incapacitated from doing further mischief by being restored to the Tower. Courtenay, wrote
Noailles, has thrown away his chance of greatness, and will now probably die miserably. Lord
Thomas Grey was heard to say that, as Courtenay had proved treacherous he would take his place,
and run his chance for the crown or the scaffold.[210]

                   [Footnote 210: Noailles.]

They would, perhaps, have still delayed till they had received authentic accounts from Devonshire;
but the arrest of Sir Edmund Warner, and one or two others, assured them that too much of their
projects had transpired; and on the 22nd of January Sir Thomas Wyatt called a meeting of his
friends at Allingham Castle, on the Medway. The commons of Kent were the same brave, violent,
and inflammable people whom John Cade, a century before, had led to London; the country gentlemen
were generally under Wyatt's influence. Sir R. Southwell, the sheriff for the year, had been
among the loudest objectors in parliament to the marriage; and if Southwell joined in the rising
he would bring with him Lord Abergavenny.[211] Lord Cobham, Wyatt's uncle, was known to wish
him well. Sir {p.091} Thomas Cheyne, the only other person of weight in the county, would be
loyal to the queen, but Wyatt had tampered with his tenants; Cheyne could bring a thousand
men into the field, but they would desert when led out, and there was nothing to fear from
them. Whether Southwell and Cobham would act openly on Wyatt's side was the chief uncertainty;
it was feared that Southwell might desire to keep within the limits of loyal opposition; Cobham
offered to send his sons, but "the sending of sons," some member of the meeting said, "was
the casting away of the Duke of Northumberland; their lives were as dear to them as my Lord
Cobham's was to him; let him come himself and set his foot by them."[212] The result of the
conference was a determination to make the venture. Thursday the 25th was the day agreed on
for the rising, and the gentlemen present went in their several directions to prepare the people.

                   [Footnote 211: Confession of Anthony Norton: MS.
                   Mary, Domestic, vol. iii.
He knew generally the leaders of the conspiracy, yet uncertain, in the
universal perplexity, how any one would act, he knew not whom to
trust. To send Courtenay out of the way, he allowed a project to be
set on foot for despatching him on an embassy to Brussels (January
23); and anxious, perhaps, not to alarm Mary too much, he simply told
her what she and Renard knew already, that treasonable designs were on
foot to make Elizabeth queen. In a conversation about Elizabeth the
chancellor agreed with Renard that it would be well to arrest her
without delay. "Were but the emperor in England," Gardiner said, "she
would be disposed of with little difficulty."[213] Unfortunately, the
spies had as yet detected no cause for suspicion on which the
government could act legitimately.

                   [Footnote 213: Renard to Charles V.: Rolls House
                   MSS.]

Mary, ignorant that she was in immediate danger, and only vaguely uneasy, looked to Philip's
coming as the cure of her discomforts. "Let the prince come," she said to Renard, "and all
will be well." She said she would raise eight thousand men and keep them in London as his guard
and hers; she would send a fleet into the Channel and sweep the French into their harbours;
only let him come before Lent, which was now but a fortnight distant: "give him my affectionate
love," she added; "tell him that I will be all to him that a wife ought to be; and tell him,
too [delightful message to an already hesitating bridegroom], tell him to bring his own cook
with him" for fear he should be poisoned,[214] The ceremony, could it have been accomplished,
{p.092} would have been a support to her; but the forms from Rome were long in coming. On the
24th of January the emperor was at last able to send a brief, which, in the absence of the
bulls, he trusted might be enough to satisfy the queen's scruples. Cuthbert Tunstal, who had
been consecrated before the schism, might officiate, and the pope would remove all irregularities
afterwards.[215] But when the letter and the brief arrived Mary was at no leisure to be married.

                   [Footnote 214: Ibid.]

                   [Footnote 215: Charles V. to the Ambassadors in
                   England, January 24 Granvelle Papers, vol. iv.]

Wyatt, having arranged the day for the rising, sent notice to the Duke of Suffolk, who was
still in London. On the morning of the 25th an officer of the court appeared at the duke's
house, with an intimation that he was to repair to the queen's presence. Suffolk was in a riding
dress--"Marry!" he said, "I was coming to her grace; ye may see I am booted and spurred; I
will but break my fast and go."[216] The officer retired. The duke collected as much money
as he could lay hands on--sent a servant to warn his brothers, and, though in bad health, mounted
his horse and rode without stopping to Lutterworth, where, on the Sunday following, Lord John
and Lord Thomas Grey joined him.

                   [Footnote 216: Chronicle of Queen Mary. Baoardo
                   says that Suffolk was sent for to take command of
                   the force which was to be sent against Wyatt. But
                   Wyatt's insurrection had not commenced, far less
                   was any resolution taken to send a force against
                   him. Noailles is, doubtless, right in saying that
                   he was to have been arrested.--Ambassades, vol.
                   iii. p. 48.]

The same morning of the 25th an alarm was rung on the church bells in the towns and villages
in all parts of Kent; and copies of a proclamation were scattered abroad, signifying that the
Spaniards were coming to conquer the realm, and calling on loyal Englishmen to rise and resist
them. Wyatt's standard was raised at Rochester, the point at which the insurgent forces were
to unite; his friends had done their work well, and in all directions the yeomen and the peasants
rose in arms. Cheyne threw himself into Dover Castle: Southwell and Abergavenny held to the
queen as had been feared; Abergavenny raised two thousand men, and attacked and dispersed a
party of insurgents under Sir Henry Isly on Wrotham Heath; but Abergavenny's followers deserted
him immediately afterwards, and marched to Rochester to Wyatt; Southwell could do nothing;
he believed that the rebellion would spread to London, and that Mary would be lost.[217]

                   [Footnote 217: Southwell to Sir William Petre: MS.
                   Mary. Domestic, State Paper Office.]

{p.093} On the 26th, Wyatt, being master of Rochester and the Medway, seized the queen's ships
that were in the river, took possession of their guns and ammunition, proclaimed Abergavenny,
Southwell, and another gentleman traitors to the commonwealth,[218] and set himself to organise
the force which continued to pour in upon him. Messengers, one after another, hurried to London
with worse and worse news; Northampton was arrested and sent to the Tower, but Suffolk and
his brothers were gone; and, after all which had been said of raising troops, when the need
came for them there were none beyond the ordinary guard. The queen had to rely only on the
musters of the city and the personal retainers of the council and the other peers; both of
which resources she had but too much reason to distrust. In fact, the council, dreading the
use to which the queen might apply a body of regular troops, had resisted all her endeavours
to raise such a body; Paget had laboured loyally for a fortnight, and at the end he assured
the queen on his knees that he had not been allowed to enlist a man.[219] Divided on all other
points, the motley group of ministers agreed to keep Mary powerless; with the exception of
Gardiner and Paget, they were all, perhaps, unwilling to check too soon a demonstration which,
kept within bounds, might prove the justice of their own objections.

                   [Footnote 218: "You shall understand that Henry
                   Lord of Abergavenny; Robert Southwell, knight, and
                   George Clarke, gentleman, have most traitorously,
                   to the disturbance of the commonwealth, stirred and
                   raised up the queen's most loving subjects of this
                   realm, to [maintain the] most wicked and devilish
                   enterprise of certain wicked and perverse
                   councillors, to the utter confusion of this her
                   Grace's realm, and the perpetual servitude of all
                   her most loving subjects. In consideration whereof,
                   we Sir Thos. Wyatt, knight, Sir George Harper,
                   knight, Anthony Knyvet, esq., with all the faithful
                   gentlemen of Kent, with the trusty commons of the
                   same, do pronounce and declare the said Henry Lord
                   of Abergavenny, Robert Southwell, and George Clarke
                   to be traitors to God, the Crown, and the
                   commonwealth."--MS. Mary, Domestic, State Paper
                   Office.]

                   [Footnote 219: Renard to Charles V.: Rolls House
                   MSS.]

The queen, however, applied to the corporation of the city (January 27), and obtained a promise
of five hundred men; she gave the command to the Duke of Norfolk, on whose integrity she knew
that she could rely; and, sending a herald to Rochester with a pardon, if the rebels would
disperse, she despatched Norfolk, Sir Henry Jerningham, and the young Lord Ormond, to Gravesend,
without waiting for an answer. The city bands were to follow them immediately. Afraid that
Elizabeth would fly before she could be secured, the queen wrote a letter to her studiously
gracious, in which she told her that, in the disturbed state of the country, she was uneasy
for her safety, and recommended {p.094} her to take shelter with herself in the palace.[220]
Had Elizabeth obeyed, she would have been instantly arrested; but she was ill, and wrote that
she was unable to move. The next day evidence came into Gardiner's hands which he trusted would
consign her at last to the scaffold.

                   [Footnote 220: Strype, vol. v. p. 127. Mr. Tytler
                   appeals to this letter as an evidence of the good
                   feeling of the queen towards her sister; but many
                   and genuine as were Mary's good qualities, she may
                   not be credited with a regard for Elizabeth.
                   Renard's letters explain her real sentiments, and
                   account for her outward graciousness. She had
                   already consulted with Renard and Gardiner on the
                   necessity of sending her to the Tower; and, on the
                   29th of January, as the princess did not avail
                   herself of the queen's proposal, Renard describes
                   himself to the emperor as pressing her immediate
                   arrest.--Rolls House MSS.]

The King of France had sent a message to the confederates that he had eighty vessels in readiness,
with eighteen companies of infantry, and that he waited to learn on what part of the coast
they should effect a landing.[221] The dangerous communication had been made known to the court.
The French ambassador had been narrowly watched, and one of his couriers who left London on
the 26th with despatches for Paris was followed to Rochester, where he saw, or attempted to
see, Wyatt. The courier, after leaving the town, was waylaid by a party of Lord Cobham's servants
in the disguise of insurgents; his despatches were taken from him and sent to the chancellor,
who found in the packet a letter of Noailles to the king in cypher, and a copy of Elizabeth's
answer to the queen. Although in the latter there was no treason, yet it indicated a suspicious
correspondence. The cypher, could it be read, might be expected to contain decisive evidence
against her.[222]

                   [Footnote 221: Renard to Charles V., January 29:
                   Rolls House MSS.]

                   [Footnote 222: A letter from Gardiner to Sir
                   William Petre is in the State Paper Office, part of
                   which he wrote with the cypher open under his eyes
                   in the first heat of the discovery. The breadth and
                   depth of the pen-strokes express the very pulsation
                   of his passion:--

                   "As I was in hand with other matters," the
                   paragraph runs, "was delivered such letters as in
                   times past I durst not have opened; but now,
                   somewhat heated with these treasons, I waxed
                   bolder, wherein I trust I shall be borne with;
                   wherein hap helpeth me, for they be worth the
                   breaking up an I could wholly decypher them,
                   wherein I will spend somewhat of my leisure, if I
                   can have any. But this appeareth, that the letter
                   written from my Lady Elizabeth to the Queen's
                   Highness, now late in her excuse, is taken a matter
                   worthy to be sent into France; for I have the copy
                   of it in the French Ambassador's packet. I will
                   know what can be done in the decyphering, and
                   to-morrow remit that I cannot do unto
                   you."--Gardiner to Petre: MS. Mary, Domestic,
                   State Paper Office.]

Meantime the herald had not been admitted into Rochester. He had read the queen's message on
the bridge (January 27), and, being answered by Wyatt's followers that they required no pardon,
for they had done no wrong, he retired. Sir George {p.095} Harper, who was joint commander
with Wyatt, stole away the same evening to Gravesend, and presented himself to Norfolk. The
rebels, he said, were discontented and irresolute; for himself he desired to accept the queen's
pardon, which he was ready to earn by doing service against them; if the duke would advance
without delay, he would find no resistance, and Wyatt would fall into his hands.

The London bands arrived the following afternoon (January 28), and Norfolk determined to take
Harper's advice. The weather was "very terrible." On Monday morning it blew so hard that no
boat could live; Wyatt, therefore, would be unable to escape by the river, and an immediate
advance was resolved upon. Sir Thomas Cheyne was coming up from Dover; Lord William Howard
was looked for hourly, and Abergavenny was again exerting himself: Lord Cobham had urged the
duke to wait a few days, and had told him that he had certain knowledge from Wyatt himself
that "the Londoners would not fight:"[223] but Norfolk was confident; the men had assured him
of their loyalty; and at four o'clock on Monday afternoon he was on the sloping ground facing
towards Rochester, within cannon-shot of the bridge. The duke was himself in front, with Ormond,
Jerningham, and eight "field-pieces," which he had brought with him. A group of insurgents
were in sight across the water, a gun was placed in position to bear upon them; and the gunner
was blowing his match, when Sir Edward Bray galloped up, crying out that the "white coats,"
as the London men were called, were changing sides. The duke had fallen into a trap which Harper
had laid for him. Turning round, he saw Brett, the London captain, with all his men, and with
Harper at his side, advancing and shouting, "A Wyatt! a Wyatt! we are all Englishmen!" The
first impulse was to turn the gun upon them; the second, and more prudent, was to spring on
his horse, and gallop with half a dozen others for his life. His whole force had deserted,
and guns, money, baggage, and five hundred of the best troops in London fell into the insurgents'
hands, and swelled their ranks.

                   [Footnote 223: Norfolk to the Council from
                   Gravesend, Sunday, January 28, Monday, January 29:
                   MS. Domestic, Mary, State Paper Office.]

No sooner was the duke gone, than Wyatt in person came out over the bridge. "As many as will
tarry with us," he cried, "shall be welcome; as many as will depart, let them go," Very few
accepted the latter offer. Three parts, even of Norfolk's private attendants, took service
with the rebel leader.

{p.096} The prestige of success decided all who were wavering in the county. Abergavenny was
wholly forsaken; Southwell escaped to the court; Cheyne wrote to the council that he was no
longer sure of any one; "the abominable treason of those that came with the Duke of Norfolk
had infected the whole population."[224] Cobham continued to hold off, but his sons came into
Rochester the evening of the duke's flight; and Wyatt sent a message to the father expressing
his sorrow that he had been hitherto backward; promising to forgive him, however, and requiring
him to be in the camp the next day, when the army would march on London. Cobham still hesitating,
two thousand men were at the gates of his house[225] by daybreak the next morning (January
30). He refused to lower the drawbridge, but the chains were cut with a cannon-shot, the gates
were blown open, and the rebels were storming in when his servants forced him to surrender.
The house was pillaged; an oath was thrust on Cobham that he would join, which he took with
the intention of breaking it; and the rebels, perhaps seeing cause to distrust him, carried
him off to Wyatt as a prisoner.[226] That night the insurgents rested at Gravesend. The next
day (January 31) they reached Dartford. Their actual numbers were insignificant, but their
strength was the disaffection of London, where the citizens were too likely to follow the example
which had been set at Rochester.

                   [Footnote 224: "It is a great deal more than
                   strange," he added, "to see the beastliness of the
                   people, to see how earnestly they be bent in this
                   their most devilish enterprise, and will by no
                   means be persuaded the contrary but that it is for
                   the commonweal of all the realm."--Cheyne to the
                   Council: MS. Mary, Domestic, vol. iii.]

                   [Footnote 225: Cowling Castle, a place already
                   famous in English Reforming history as the
                   residence of Sir John Oldcastle.]

                   [Footnote 226: He contrived to send a letter to the
                   queen the evening of the day on which his house was
                   taken. After describing the scene, he added: "If
                   your Grace will assemble forces in convenient
                   numbers, they not being above 2000 men, and yet not
                   500 of them able and good armed men, but rascals
                   and rakehells such as live by spoil, I doubt not
                   but your Grace shall have the victory."--Cobham to
                   the Queen: MS. State Paper Office. But Cobham
                   under-estimated the numbers, and undervalued the
                   composition of Wyatt's forces, perhaps
                   intentionally. Renard, who is generally accurate,
                   says that the rebels at this time amounted to three
                   thousand; Noailles says, twelve or fifteen
                   thousand.]

Mary's situation was now really alarming: she was without money, notwithstanding the Jews;
she had no troops; of all her ministers Paget alone was sincerely anxious to do her service;
for Gardiner, on the subject of the marriage, was as unwilling as ever. It was rumoured that
the King of Denmark intended to unite with the French in support of the revolutionists, and
Renard began calmly to calculate that, should this report prove {p.097} true, the queen could
not be saved. Pembroke and Clinton offered to raise another force in the city and fight Wyatt;
but, so far as Mary could tell, they would be as likely to turn against her as to fight in
her defence; and she declined their services. Renard offered Gardiner assistance from the Low
Countries--Gardiner replied with extreme coldness that he had no desire to see Flemish soldiers
in England--and the council generally were "so strange" in their manner, and so languid in
their action, that the ambassador could not assure himself that they were not Wyatt's real
instigators. Not a man had been raised to protect the queen, and part of her own guard had
been among the deserters at Rochester. She appealed to the honour of the lords to take measure
for her personal safety; but they did nothing, and, it seemed, would do nothing; if London
rose, they said merely, she must retire to Windsor.

The aspect of affairs was so threatening, that Renard believed that the marriage at least would
have to be relinquished. It seemed as if it could be accomplished only with the help of an
invading army; and although Mary would agree to any measure which would secure Philip, the
presence of foreign troops, as the emperor himself was aware, could only increase the exasperation.[227]
The queen's resolution, however, grew with her difficulties. If she could not fight she would
not yield; and, taking matters into her own hands, she sent Sir Thomas Cornwallis and Sir Edward
Hastings to Dartford, with directions to speak with Wyatt, if possible, alone; to tell him
that she "marvelled at his demeanour," "rising as a subject to impeach her marriage;" she was
ready to believe, however, that he thought himself acting in the interests of the commonwealth;
she would appoint persons to talk over the subject with him, and if it should appear that the
marriage would not, as she supposed, be beneficial to the realm, she would sacrifice her wishes.[228]

                   [Footnote 227: Renard to the Emperor, January 29:
                   Rolls House MSS. The Emperor to Renard, February
                   4: Granvelle Papers, vol. iv. p. 204.]

                   [Footnote 228: Instructions to Sir Thomas
                   Cornwallis and Sir Edward Hastings: MS. State
                   Paper Office.]

The message was not strictly honest, for the queen had no real intention of sacrificing anything.
She desired merely to gain time; and, should Wyatt refuse, as she expected, she wished to place
herself in a better position to appeal to her subjects for help.[229] But the move under this
aspect was skilful and successful; when Cornwallis and Hastings discharged their commission,
Wyatt replied that he would rather be trusted than {p.098} trust; he would argue the marriage
with pleasure, but he required first the custody of the Tower, and of the queen's person, and
four of the council must place themselves in his hands as hostages.[230]

                   [Footnote 229: Renard to the Emperor: Rolls House
                   MSS.]

                   [Footnote 230: Holinshed; Noailles.]

Had Wyatt, said Noailles, been able to reach London simultaneously with this answer, he would
have found the gates open and the whole population eager to give him welcome. To his misfortune
he lingered on the way, and the queen had time to use his words against him. The two gentlemen
returned indignant at his insolence. The next morning (February 1), Count Egmont waited on
Mary to say that he and his companions were at her service, and would stand by her to their
death. Perplexed as she was, Egmont said he found her "marvellously firm." The marriage, she
felt, must, at all events, be postponed for the present; the prince could not come till the
insurrection was at an end; and, while she was grateful for the offer, she not only thought
it best to decline the ambassadors' kindness, but she recommended them, if possible, to leave
London and the country without delay. Their party was large enough to irritate the people,
and too small to be of use. She bade Egmont, therefore, tell the emperor that from the first
she had put her trust in God, and that she trusted in Him still; and for themselves, she told
them to go at once, taking her best wishes with them. They obeyed. Six Antwerp merchant sloops
were in the river below the bridge, waiting to sail. They stole on board, dropped down the
tide, and were gone.

The afternoon of the same day the queen herself, with a studied air of dejection,[231] rode
through the streets to the Guildhall, attended by Gardiner and the remnant of the guard. In
St. Paul's Churchyard she met Pembroke, and slightly bowed as she passed him. Gardiner was
observed to stoop to his saddle. The hall was crowded with citizens: some brought there by
hatred, some by respect, many by pity, but more by curiosity. When the queen entered she stood
forward on the steps, above the throng, and, in her deep man's voice, she spoke to them.[232]

                   [Footnote 231: Vous, asseurant, sire, comme celluy
                   qui l'a veu, que scaichant la dicte dame aller au
                   diet lieu, je me deliberay en cape de veoir de
                   quelle visaige elle et sa compaignie y alloient;
                   que je congneus estre aussy triste et desplorée
                   qu'il se peult penser.--Noailles to the King of
                   France, Feb. 1.]

                   [Footnote 232: La voce grossa et quasi di
                   huomo.--Giovanni Michele: Ellis, vol. ii.] series
                   ii.]

Her subjects had risen in rebellion against her, she said; she had been told that the cause
was her intended marriage with the {p.099} Prince of Spain; and, believing that it was the
real cause, she had offered to hear and to respect their objections. Their leader had betrayed
in his answer his true motives; he had demanded possession of the Tower of London and of her
own person. She stood there, she said, as lawful Queen of England, and she appealed to the
loyalty of her great city to save her from a presumptuous rebel, who, under specious pretences,
intended to "subdue the laws to his will, and to give scope to rascals and forlorn persons
to make general havoc and spoil." As to her marriage, she had supposed that so magnificent
an alliance could not have failed to be agreeable to her people. To herself, and, she was not
afraid to say, to her council, it seemed to promise high advantage to the commonwealth. Marriage,
in itself, was indifferent to her; she had been invited to think of it by the desire of the
country that she should have an heir; but she could continue happy in the virgin state in which
she had hitherto passed her life. She would call a parliament and the subject should be considered
in all its bearings; if, on mature consideration, the Lords and Commons of England should refuse
to approve of the Prince of Spain as a fitting husband for her, she promised, on the word of
a queen, that she would think of him no more.

The spectacle of her distress won the sympathy of her audience; the boldness of her bearing
commanded their respect; the promise of a parliament satisfied, or seemed to satisfy, all reasonable
demands: and among the wealthy citizens there was no desire to see London in possession of
an armed mob, in whom the Anabaptist leaven was deeply interfused. The speech, therefore, had
remarkable success. The queen returned to Westminster, leaving the corporation converted to
the prudence of supporting her. Twenty-five thousand men were enrolled the next day for the
protection of the crown and the capital; Lord William Howard was associated with the mayor
in the command; and Wyatt, who had reached Greenwich on Thursday, and had wasted two days there,
uncertain whether he should not cross the river in boats to Blackwall, arrived on Saturday
morning at Southwark, to find the gates closed on London Bridge, and the drawbridge flung down
into the water.

Noailles, for the first time, believed now that the insurrection would fail. Success or failure,
in fact, would turn on the reception which the midland counties had given to the Duke of Suffolk;
and of Suffolk authentic news had been brought to London that morning.

{p.100} On the flight of the duke being known at the court, it was supposed immediately that
he intended to proclaim his daughter and Guilford Dudley. Rumour, indeed, turned the supposition
into fact,[233] and declared that he had called on the country to rise in arms for Queen Jane.
But Suffolk's plan was identical with Wyatt's; he had carried with him a duplicate of Wyatt's
proclamation, and, accompanied by his brother, he presented himself in the market-place at
Leicester on the morning of Monday the 29th. Lord Huntingdon had followed close upon his track
from London; but he assured the Mayor of Leicester that the Earl of Huntingdon was coming,
not to oppose, but to join with him. No harm was intended to the queen; he was ready to die
in her defence; his object was only to save England from the dominion of foreigners.

                   [Footnote 233: "The Duke has raised evil-disposed
                   persons, minding her Grace's destruction, and to
                   advance the Lady Jane, his daughter, and Guilford
                   Dudley, her husband."--Royal Proclamation: MS.
                   State Paper Office. Printed in the additional
                   Notes to Mr. Nichols's Chronicle of Queen Mary.
                   Baoardo says that the duke actually proclaimed Lady
                   Jane.]

In consequence of these protestations, he was allowed to read his proclamation; the people
were indifferent; but he called about him a few scores of his tenants and retainers from his
own estates in the country; and, on Tuesday morning, while the insurgents in Kent were attacking
Cowling Castle, Suffolk rode out of Leicester, in full armour, at the head of his troops, intending
first to move on Coventry, then to take Kenilworth and Warwick, and so to advance on London.
The garrison at Warwick had been tampered with, and was reported to be ready to rise. The gates
of Coventry he expected to find open. He had sent his proclamation thither the day before,
by a servant, and he had friends within the walls who had undertaken to place the town at his
disposal.

The state of Coventry was probably the state of most other towns in England. The inhabitants
were divided. The mayor and aldermen, the fathers of families, and the men of property, were
conservatives, loyal to the queen, to the mass, and to "the cause of order." The young and
enthusiastic, supported by others who had good reasons for being in opposition to established
authorities, were those who had placed themselves in correspondence with the Duke of Suffolk.

Suffolk's servant (his name was Thomas Rampton), on reaching the town, on Monday evening, made
a mistake in the first person to whom he addressed himself, and received a cold answer. Two
others of the townsmen, however, immediately {p.101} welcomed him, and told him that "the whole
place was at his lord's commandment, except certain of the town council, who feared that, if
good fellows had the upper hand, their extremities heretofore should be remembered."[234] They
took Rampton into a house, where, presently, another man entered of the same way of thinking,
and, in his own eyes, a man of importance. "My lord's quarrel is right well known," this person
said, "it is God's quarrel, let him come; let him come, and make no stay, for this town is
his own. I say to you assuredly this town is his own. I am it."

                   [Footnote 234: Rampton's Confession: MS. Domestic.
                   Mary, vol. iii. State Paper Office.]

It was now night; no time was to be lost, the townsmen said. They urged Rampton to return at
once to Suffolk, and hasten his movements. They would themselves read the proclamation at the
market-cross forthwith, and raise the people. Rampton, who had ridden far, and was weary, wished
to wait till the morning; if they were so confident of success, a few hours could make no difference:
but it appeared shortly that the "good fellows" in Coventry were not exclusively under the
influence of piety and patriotism. If a rising commenced in the darkness, it was admitted that
"undoubted spoil and peradventure destruction of many rich men would ensue," and with transactions
of this kind the duke's servant was unwilling to connect himself.

Thus the hours wore away, and no resolution was arrived at; and, in the meantime, the town
council had received a warning to be on their guard. Before daybreak the constables were on
the alert, the decent citizens took possession of the gates, and the conspirators had lost
their opportunity. In the afternoon Suffolk arrived with a hundred horse under the walls, but
there was no admission for him. Whilst he was hesitating what course to pursue, a messenger
came in to say that the Earl of Huntingdon was at Warwick. The plot for the revolt of the garrison
had been detected, and the whole country was on the alert. The people had no desire to see
the Spaniards in England; but sober, quiet farmers and burgesses would not rise at the call
of the friend of Northumberland, and assist in bringing back the evil days of anarchy.

The Greys had now only to provide for their personal safety.

Suffolk had an estate a few miles distant, called Astley Park, to which the party retreated
from Coventry. There the duke shared such money as he had with him among his men, and bade
them shift for themselves. Lord Thomas Grey changed coats {p.102} with a servant, and rode
off to Wales to join Sir James Crofts. Suffolk himself, who was ill, took refuge with his brother,
Lord John, in the cottage of one of his gamekeepers, where they hoped to remain hidden till
the hue and cry should be over, and they could escape abroad.

The cottage was considered insecure. Two bowshots south of Astley Church there stood in the
park an old decaying tree, in the hollow of which the father of Lady Jane Grey concealed himself;
and there, for two winter days and a night, he was left without food. A proclamation had been
put out by Huntingdon for Suffolk's apprehension (January 30), and the keeper, either tempted
by the reward, or frightened by the menace against all who should give him shelter, broke his
trust--a rare example of disloyalty--and going to Warwick Castle, undertook to betray his master's
hiding-place. A party of troopers were despatched, with the keeper for a guide; and, on arriving
at Astley, they found that the duke, unable to endure the cold and hunger longer, had crawled
out of the tree, and was warming himself by the cottage fire. Lord John was discovered buried
under some bundles of hay.[235] They were carried off at once to the Tower, whither Lord Thomas
Grey and Sir James Crofts, who had failed as signally in Wales, soon after followed them.[236]

                   [Footnote 235: Renard to the Emperor: Rolls House
                   MSS.]

                   [Footnote 236: I follow Baoardo in the account of
                   the duke's capture. Renard says that he was found
                   in the tree by a little dog: "qu'a esté grand
                   commencement du miracle pour le succès prospere des
                   affaires de la dicte dame."--Renard to the Emperor,
                   February 8: MS.]

The account of his confederates' failure saluted Wyatt on his arrival in Southwark, on the
3rd of February. The intelligence was being published, at the moment, in the streets of London;
Wyatt himself, at the same time, was proclaimed traitor, and a reward of a hundred pounds was
offered for his capture, dead or alive. The peril, however, was far from over; Wyatt replied
to the proclamation by wearing his name, in large letters, upon his cap; the success of the
queen's speech in the city irritated the council, who did not choose to sit still under the
imputation of having approved of the Spanish marriage. They declared everywhere, loudly and
angrily, that they had not approved of it, and did not approve; in the city itself public feeling
again wavered, and fresh parties of the train-bands crossed the water and deserted. The behaviour
of Wyatt's followers gave the lie to the queen's charges against them: the prisons in Southwark
were not opened; property was respected scrupulously; the only attempt at injury was at Winchester
House, and there it {p.103} was instantly repressed; the inhabitants of the Borough entertained
them with warm hospitality; and the queen, notwithstanding her efforts, found herself as it
were besieged, in her principal city, by a handful of commoners, whom no one ventured, or no
one could be trusted, to attack. So matters continued through Saturday, Sunday, Monday, and
Tuesday. The lawyers at Westminster Hall pleaded in harness, the judges wore harness under
their robes; Doctor Weston sang mass in harness before the queen; tradesmen attended in harness
behind their counters. The metropolis, on both sides of the water, was in an attitude of armed
expectation, yet there was no movement, no demonstration on either side of popular feeling.
The ominous strangeness of the situation appalled even Mary herself.[237]

                   [Footnote 237: Noailles.]

By this time (February 5) the intercepted letter of Noailles had been decyphered. It proved,
if more proof was wanted, the correspondence between the ambassador and the conspirators; it
explained the object of the rising--the queen was to be dethroned in favour of her sister;
and it was found, also, though names were not mentioned, that the plot had spread far upwards
among the noblemen by whom Mary was surrounded. Evidence of Elizabeth's complicity it did not
contain; while, to Gardiner's mortification, it showed that Courtenay, in his confessions to
himself, had betrayed the guilt of others, but had concealed part of his own. In an anxiety
to shield him the chancellor pronounced the cypher of Courtenay's name to be unintelligible.
The queen placed the letter in the hands of Renard, by whom it was instantly read, and the
chancellor's humour was not improved; Mary had the mortification of feeling that she was herself
the last object of anxiety either to him or to any of her council; though Wyatt was at the
gates of London, the council could only spend the time in passionate recriminations; Paget
blamed Gardiner for his religious intolerance; Gardiner blamed Paget for having advised the
marriage; some exclaimed against Courtenay, some against Elizabeth; but, of acting, all alike
seemed incapable. If the queen was in danger, the council said, she might fly to Windsor, or
to Calais, or she might go to the Tower. "Whatever happens," she exclaimed to Renard, "I am
the wife of the Prince of Spain; crown, rank, life, all shall go before I will take any other
husband."[238]

                   [Footnote 238: Renard to Charles V.: Rolls House
                   MSS. February 5.]

The position, however, could not be of long continuance. {p.104} Could Wyatt once enter London,
he assured himself of success; but the gates on the bridge continued closed. Cheyne and Southwell
had collected a body of men on whom they could rely, and were coming up behind from Rochester.
Wyatt desired to return and fight them, and then cross the water at Greenwich, as had been
before proposed; but his followers feared that he meant to escape; a backward movement would
not be permitted, and his next effort was to ascertain whether the passage over the bridge
could be forced.

London Bridge was then a long, narrow street. The gate was at the Southwark extremity; the
drawbridge was near the middle. On Sunday or Monday night Wyatt scaled the leads of the gatehouse,
climbed into a window, and descended the stairs into the lodge. The porter and his wife were
nodding over the fire. The rebel leader bade them, on their lives, be still, and stole along
in the darkness to the chasm from which the drawbridge had been cut away. There, looking across
the black gulf where the river was rolling below, he saw the dusky mouths of four gaping cannon,
and beyond them, in the torch-light, Lord Howard himself, keeping watch with the guard: neither
force nor skill could make a way into the city by London Bridge.

The course which he should follow was determined for him. The lieutenant of the Tower, Sir
John Brydges, a soldier and a Catholic, had looked over the water with angry eyes at the insurgents
collected within reach of his guns, and had asked the queen for permission to fire upon them.
The queen, afraid of provoking the people, had hitherto refused; on the Monday, however, a
Tower boat, passing the Southwark side of the water, was hailed by Wyatt's sentries; the watermen
refused to stop, the sentries fired, and one of the men in the boat was killed. The next morning
(February 6) (whether permission had been given at last, or not, was never known), the guns
on the White Tower, the Devil's Tower, and all the bastions, were loaded and aimed, and notice
was sent over that the fire was about to open. The inhabitants addressed themselves, in agitation,
to Wyatt; and Wyatt, with a sudden resolution, half felt to be desperate, resolved to march
for Kingston Bridge, cross the Thames, and come back on London. His friends in the city promised
to receive him, could he reach Ludgate by daybreak on Wednesday.

On Tuesday morning, therefore, Shrove Tuesday, which the queen had hoped to spend more happily
than in facing an army of insurgents, Wyatt, accompanied by not more than fifteen hundred men,
pushed out of Southwark. He had cannon with {p.105} him, which delayed his march, but at four
in the afternoon he reached Kingston. Thirty feet of the bridge were broken away, and a guard
of three hundred men were on the other side; but the guard fled after a few rounds from the
guns, and Wyatt, leaving his men to refresh themselves in the town, went to work to repair
the passage. A row of barges lay on the opposite bank; three sailors swam across, attached
ropes to them, and towed them over; and, the barges being moored where the bridge was broken,
beams and planks were laid across them, and a road was made of sufficient strength to bear
the cannon and the waggons.

By eleven o'clock at night the river was crossed, and the march was resumed. The weather was
still wild, the roads miry and heavy, and through the winter night the motley party plunged
along. The Rochester men had, most of them, gone home, and those who remained were the London
deserters, gentlemen who had compromised themselves too deeply to hope for pardon, or fanatics,
who believed they were fighting the Lord's battle, and some of the Protestant clergy. Ponet,
the late Bishop of Winchester, was with them; William Thomas, the late clerk of the council;
Sir George Harper, Anthony Knyvet, Lord Cobham's sons, Pelham, who had been a spy of Northumberland's
on the continent,[239] and others more or less conspicuous in the worst period of the late reign.

                   [Footnote 239: The Regent Mary to the Ambassadors
                   in England: Granvelle Papers, vol. iv.]

From the day that Wyatt came to Southwark the whole guard had been under arms at Whitehall,
and a number of them, to the agitation of the court ladies, were stationed in the queen's ante-chamber.
But the guard was composed of dangerous elements. Sir Humfrey Radcliff, the lieutenant, was
a "favourer of the gospel;"[240] and the "Hot Gospeller" himself, on his recovery from his
fever, had returned to his duties.[241] No {p.106} additional precautions had been taken, nor
does it seem that, on Wyatt's departure, his movements were watched. Kingston Bridge having
been broken, his immediate approach was certainly unlooked for; nor was it till past midnight
that information came to the palace that the passage had been forced, and that the insurgents
were coming directly back upon London. Between two and three in the morning the queen was called
from her bed. Gardiner, who had been, with others of the council, arguing with her in favour
of Courtenay the preceding day, was in waiting; he told her that her barge was at the stairs
to carry her up the river, and she must take shelter instantly at Windsor.

                   [Footnote 240: Underhill's Narrative.]

                   [Footnote 241: Underhill, however, was too
                   notorious a person to be allowed to remain on duty
                   at such a time of danger.

                   "When Wyatt was come to Southwark," he says, "the
                   pensioners were commanded to watch in armour that
                   night at the Court.... After supper, I put on my
                   armour, as the rest did, for we were appointed to
                   watch all the night. So, being all armed, we came
                   up into the chamber of presence with our pole-axes
                   in our hands, wherewith the ladies were very
                   fearful. Some lamenting, crying, and wringing their
                   hands, said, Alas! there is some great mischief
                   toward: we shall all be destroyed this night. What
                   a sight is this, to see the Queen's chamber full of
                   armed men: the like was never seen nor heard of!
                   Mr. Norris, chief usher of Queen Mary's privy
                   chamber, was appointed to call the watch to see if
                   any were lacking; unto whom, Moore, the clerk of
                   our check, delivered the book of our names; and
                   when he came to my name, What, said he, what doth
                   he here? Sir, said the clerk, he is here ready to
                   serve as the rest be. Nay, by God's body, said he,
                   that heretic shall not watch here. Give me a pen.
                   So he struck my name out of the book."]

Without disturbing herself, the queen sent for Renard. Shall I go or stay? she asked.

Unless your majesty desire to throw away your crown, Renard answered, you will remain here
till the last extremity; your flight will be known, the city will rise, seize the Tower, and
release the prisoners; the heretics will massacre the priests, and Elizabeth will be proclaimed
queen.

The lords were divided. Gardiner insisted again that she must and should go. The others were
uncertain, or inclined to the opinion of Renard. At last Mary said that she would be guided
by Pembroke and Clinton. If those two would undertake to stand by her, she would remain and
see out the struggle.[242]

                   [Footnote 242: Renard to Charles V., February 8:
                   Rolls House MSS.]

They were not present, and were sent for on the spot. Pembroke for weeks past had certainly
wavered; Lord Thomas Grey believed at one time that he had gained him over, and to the last
felt assured of his neutrality. Happily for Mary, happily, it must be said, for England--for
the Reformation was not a cause to be won by such enterprises as that of Sir Thomas Wyatt--he
decided on supporting the queen, and promised to defend her with his life. At four o'clock
in the morning drums went round the city, calling the train-bands to an instant muster at Charing
Cross. Pembroke's conduct determined the young lords and gentlemen about the court, who with
their servants were swiftly mounted and under arms; and by eight, more than ten thousand men
were stationed along the ground, then an open field, which slopes from Piccadilly to Pall Mall.
The road or causeway on which Wyatt was expected to advance ran nearly {p.107} on the site
of Piccadilly itself. An old cross stood near the head of St. James's Street, where guns were
placed; and that no awkward accident like that at Rochester might happen on the first collision,
the gentlemen, who formed four squadrons of horse, were pushed forwards towards Hyde Park Corner.

Wyatt, who ought to have been at the gate of the city two hours before, had been delayed in
the meantime by the breaking down of a gun in the heavy road at Brentford. Brett, the captain
of the city deserters, Ponet, Harper, and others, urged Wyatt to leave the gun where it lay
and keep his appointment. Wyatt, however, insisted on waiting till the carriage could be repaired,
although in the eyes of every one but himself the delay was obvious ruin. Harper, seeing him
obstinate, stole away a second time to gain favour for himself by carrying news to the court.
Ponet, unambitious of martyrdom, told him he would pray God for his success, and, advising
Brett to shift for himself, made away with others towards the sea and Germany.[243] It was
nine o'clock before Wyatt brought the draggled remnant of his force, wet, hungry, and faint
with their night march, up the hill from Knightsbridge. Near Hyde Park Corner a lane turned
off; and here Pembroke had placed a troop of cavalry. The insurgents straggled on without order.
When half of them had passed, the horse dashed out, and cut them in two, and all who were behind
were dispersed or captured. Wyatt, caring now only to press forward, kept his immediate followers
together, and went straight on. The queen's guns opened, and killed three of his men; but,
lowering his head, he dashed at them and over them; then, turning to the right, to avoid the
train-bands, he struck down towards St. James's, where his party again separated. Knyvet and
the young Cobhams, leaving St. James's to their left, crossed the park to Westminster. Wyatt
went right along the present Pall Mall, past the line of the citizens. They had but to move
a few steps to intercept his passage, close in, and take him; but not a man advanced, not a
hand was lifted; where the way was narrow they drew aside to let him pass. At Charing Cross
Sir John Gage was stationed, with part of the guard, some horse, and among them, Courtenay,
who in the morning had been heard to say he would not obey orders; he was as good a man as
Pembroke. As Wyatt came up Courtenay turned his horse towards Whitehall, and began to move
off, followed by Lord Worcester. "Fie! my lord," Sir Thomas {p.108} Cornwallis cried to him,
"is this the action of a gentleman?"[244] But deaf, or heedless, or treacherous, he galloped
off, calling Lost, lost! all is lost! and carried panic to the court. The guard had broken
at his flight, and came hurrying behind him. Some cried that Pembroke had played false. Shouts
of treason rung through the palace. The queen, who had been watching from the palace gallery,
alone retained her presence of mind. If others durst not stand the trial against the traitors,
she said, she herself would go out into the field and try the quarrel, and die with those that
would serve her.[245]

                   [Footnote 243: Letter of William Markham: Tanner
                   MSS. Bodleian Library. Compare Stow.]

                   [Footnote 244: Renard to Charles V., February 8:
                   Rolls House MSS.]

                   [Footnote 245: Holinshed.]

At this moment Knyvet and the Cobhams, who had gone round by the old palace, came by the gates
as the fugitive guard were struggling in. Infinite confusion followed. Gage was rolled in the
dirt, and three of the judges with him. The guard shrunk away into the offices and kitchens
to hide themselves. But Knyvet's men made no attempt to enter. They contented themselves with
shooting a few arrows, and then hurried on to Charing Cross to rejoin Wyatt. At Charing Cross,
however, their way was now closed by a company of archers, who had been sent back by Pembroke
to protect the court. Sharp fighting followed, and the cries rose so loud as to be heard on
the leads of the White Tower. At last the leaders forced their way up the Strand; the rest
of the party were cut up, dispersed, or taken.[246]

                   [Footnote 246: The dress of the Londoners who came
                   with Wyatt being the city uniform, they were
                   distinguished by the dirt upon their legs from
                   their night march. The cry of Pembroke's men in the
                   fight was "Down with the daggle-tails!"]

Wyatt himself, meanwhile, followed by three hundred men, had hurried on through lines of men
who still opened to give him passage. His followers scattered from him among the by-lanes and
streets; and, of the three hundred, twenty-four alone remained, among {p.109} whom were now
Knyvet and one of the young Cobhams. With these few he turned at last, in the forlorn hope
that the train-bands would again open to let him pass. Some of Pembroke's horse were coming
up. He fought his way through them to Temple Bar, where a herald cried, "Sir, ye were best
to yield; the day is gone against you; perchance ye may find the queen merciful." Sir Maurice
Berkeley was standing near him on horseback, to whom, feeling that further resistance was useless,
he surrendered his sword; and Berkeley, to save him from being cut down in the tumult, took
him up upon his horse. Others in the same way took up Knyvet and Cobham, Brett and two more.
The six prisoners were carried through the Strand back to Westminster, the passage through
the city being thought dangerous; and from Whitehall Stairs, Mary herself looking on from a
window of the palace, they were borne off in a barge to the Tower.

The queen had triumphed, triumphed through her own resolution, and would now enjoy the fruits
of victory.

Had Wyatt succeeded, Mary would have lost her husband and her crown; and had the question been
no more than a personal one, England could have well dispensed both with her and Philip. But
Elizabeth would have ascended a throne under the shadow of treason. The Protestants would have
come back to power in the thoughtless vindictiveness of exasperated and successful revolutionists;
and the problem of the Reformation would have been more hard than ever of a reasonable solution.
The fanatics had made their effort, and they had failed; they had shaken the throne, but they
had not overthrown it; the queen's turn was come, and, as the danger had been great, so was
the resentment. She had Renard at one ear protesting that, while these turbulent spirits were
uncrushed, the precious person of the prince could not be trusted to her. She had Gardiner,
who, always pitiless towards heretics, was savage at the frustration of his own schemes. Renard
in the closet, Gardiner in the pulpit, alike told her that she must show no more mercy.[247]
On Ash Wednesday evening, after Wyatt's {p.110} surrender, a proclamation forbade all persons
to shelter the fugitive insurgents under pain of death. The "poor caitiffs" were brought out
of the houses where they had hidden themselves, and were given up by hundreds. Huntingdon came
in on Saturday with Suffolk and his brothers. Sir James Crofts, Sir Henry Isly, and Sir Gawen
Carew followed. The common prisons overflowed into the churches, where crowds of wretches were
huddled together till the gibbets were ready for their hanging; the Tower wards were so full
that Cranmer, Ridley, and Latimer were packed into a single cell; and all the living representatives
of the families of Grey and Dudley, except two young girls, were now within the Tower walls,
sentenced, or soon to be sentenced, to death.

                   [Footnote 247: "On Sunday, the 11th of February,
                   the Bishop of Winchester preached in the chapel
                   before the queen." "The preachers for the seven
                   years last past, he said, by dividing of words and
                   other their own additions, had brought in many
                   errours detestable unto the Church of Christ." "He
                   axed a boon of the Queen's Highness, that, like as
                   she had beforetime extended her mercy particularly
                   and privately, [and] so through her lenity and
                   gentleness much conspiracy and open rebellion was
                   grown ... she would now be merciful to the body of
                   the commonwealth and conservation thereof, which
                   could not be unless the rotten and hurtful members
                   thereof were cut off and consumed."--Chronicle of
                   Queen Mary, p. 54.]

The queen's blood is up at last, Renard wrote exultingly to the emperor on the 8th of February;[248]
"the Duke of Suffolk, Lord Thomas Grey, and Sir James Crofts have written to ask for mercy,
but they will find none; their heads will fall, and so will Courtenay's and Elizabeth's. I
have told the queen that she must be especially prompt with these two. We have nothing now
to hope for except that France will break the peace, and then all will be well." On the 12th
of February the ambassador was still better satisfied. Elizabeth had been sent for, and was
on her way to London. A rupture with France seemed inevitable, and as to clemency, there was
no danger of it. "The queen," he said, "had told him that Anne of Cleves was implicated;" but
for himself he was sure that the two centres of all past and all possible conspiracies were
Elizabeth and Courtenay, and that when their heads, and the heads of the Greys, were once off
their shoulders, she would have nothing more to fear. The prisoners were heretics to a man;
she had a fair plea to despatch them, and she would then settle the country as she pleased;[249]
"The house of Suffolk would soon be extinct."

                   [Footnote 248: Rolls House MSS.]

                   [Footnote 249: Renard to Charles V., February 12:
                   Rolls House MSS.]

The house of Suffolk would be extinct: that too, or almost that, had been decided on. Jane
Grey was guiltless of this last commotion; her name had not been so much as mentioned among
the insurgents; but she was guilty of having been once called queen, and Mary, who before had
been generously deaf to the emperor's advice, and to Renard's arguments, yielded in her present
humour. Philip was beckoning in the distance; and while Jane Grey lived, Philip, she was again
and again assured, must remain for ever separated from her arms.

{p.111} Jane Grey, therefore, was to die--her execution was resolved upon the day after the
victory; and the first intention was to put her to death on the Friday immediately approaching.
In killing her body, however, Mary desired to have mercy on her soul; and she sent the message
of death (February 9) by the excellent Feckenham, afterwards Abbot of Westminster, who was
to bring her, if possible, to obedience to the Catholic faith.

Feckenham, a man full of gentle and tender humanity, felt to the bottom of his soul the errand
on which he was despatched. He felt as a Catholic priest--but he felt also as a man.

On admission to Lady Jane's room he told her that she was to die the next morning, and he told
her, also, for what reason the queen had selected him to communicate the sentence.

She listened calmly. The time was short, she said; too short to be spent in theological discussion;
which, if Feckenham would permit, she would decline.

Believing, or imagining that he ought to believe, that, if she died unreconciled, she was lost,
Feckenham hurried back to the queen to beg for delay; and the queen, moved with his entreaties,
respited the execution till Monday, giving him three more days to pursue his labour. But Lady
Jane, when he returned to her, scarcely appreciated the favour; she had not expected her words
to be repeated, she said; she had given up all thoughts of the world, and she would take her
death patiently whenever her majesty desired.[250]

                   [Footnote 250: Baoardo. The writer of the
                   Chronicle of Queen Mary, says, "She was appointed
                   to have been put to death on Friday, but was
                   stayed--for what cause is not known." Baoardo
                   supplies the explanation.]

Feckenham, however, still pressed his services, and courtesy to a kind and anxious old man
forbade her to refuse them. He remained with her to the end; and certain arguments followed
on faith and justification, and the nature of sacraments; a record of which may be read by
the curious in Foxe.[251] Lady Jane was wearied without being convinced. The tedium of the
discussion was relieved, perhaps, by the now more interesting account which she gave to her
unsuccessful confessor of the misfortune which was bringing her to her death.[252] The night
before she suffered she wrote a few sentences of advice to her sister on the blank leaf of
a New Testament. To her father, knowing his weakness, and knowing, too, how he would be worked
upon to imitate the recantation of Northumberland, {p.112} she sent a letter of exquisite beauty,
in which the exhortations of a dying saint are tempered with the reverence of a daughter for
her father.[253]

                   [Footnote 251: Vol. vi. pp. 415-417.]

                   [Footnote 252: The story told by Baoardo, to whom,
                   it would seem, Feckenham related it.]

                   [Footnote 253: Foxe, vol. vi.]

The iron-hearted Lieutenant of the Tower, Sir John Brydges, had been softened by the charms
of his prisoner, and begged for some memorial of her in writing. She wrote in a manual of English
prayers the following words:--

"Forasmuch as you have desired so simple a woman to write in so worthy a book, good Master
Lieutenant, therefore I shall, as a friend, desire you, and as a Christian, require you, to
call upon God to incline your heart to his laws, to quicken you in his way, and not to take
the word of truth utterly out of your mouth. Live still to die, that by death you may purchase
eternal life, and remember how Methuselah, who, as we read in the Scriptures, was the longest
liver that was of a man, died at the last; for, as the Preacher saith, there is a time to be
born and a time to die; and the day of death is better than the day of our birth. Yours, as
the Lord knoweth, as a friend, Jane Dudley."[254]

                   [Footnote 254: Chronicle of Queen Mary, p. 57,
                   note. In the same manual are a few words in
                   Guilford Dudley's hand, addressed to Suffolk, and a
                   few words also addressed to Suffolk by Lady Jane.
                   Mr. Nichols supposes that the book (it is still
                   extant among the Harleian MSS.) was used as a
                   means of communicating with the duke when direct
                   intercourse was unpermitted. If this conjecture is
                   right, Lady Jane's letter, perhaps, never reached
                   her father at all. There is some difficulty about
                   the memorial which the Lieutenant of the Tower
                   obtained from her. Baoardo says, that she gave him
                   a book, in which she had written a few words in
                   Greek, Latin, and English.

                   "La Greca era tale. La morte dara la pena al mio
                   corpo del fallo ma la mia anima giustificara inanzi
                   al conspetto di Dio la innocenza mia.

                   "La Latina diceva. Se la giustitia ha luogo nel
                   corpo mio l'anima mia l'havera nella misericordia
                   di Dio.

                   "La Inglese. Il fallo e degno di morte ma il modo
                   della mia ignoranza doueva meritar pieta e
                   excusatione appresso il mondo e alle leggi."]

Her husband was also to die, and to die before her. The morning on which they were to suffer
he begged for a last interview and a last embrace. It was left to herself to consent or refuse.
If, she replied, the meeting would benefit either of their souls, she would see him with pleasure;
but, in her own opinion, it would only increase their trial. They would meet soon enough in
the other world.

He died, therefore, without seeing her again. She saw him once alive as he was led to the scaffold,
and again as he returned a mutilated corpse in the death-cart. It was not wilful cruelty. The
officer in command had forgotten that the ordinary road led past her window. But the delicate
girl of seventeen was as {p.113} masculine in her heart as in her intellect. When her own turn
arrived, Sir John Brydges led her down to the green; her attendants were in an agony of tears,
but her own eyes were dry. She prayed quietly till she reached the foot of the scaffold, when
she turned to Feckenham, who still clung to her side. "Go now," she said; "God grant you all
your desires, and accept my own warm thanks for your attentions to me; although, indeed, those
attentions have tried me more than death can now terrify me."[255] She sprung up the steps,
and said briefly that she had broken the law in accepting the crown; but as to any guilt of
intention, she wrung her hands, and said she washed them clean of it in innocency before God
and man. She entreated her hearers to bear her witness that she died a true Christian woman;
that she looked to be saved only by the mercy of God and the merits of his Son: and she begged
for their prayers as long as she was alive. Feckenham had still followed her, notwithstanding
his dismissal. "Shall I say the Miserere psalm?" she said to him.[256] When it was done, she
let down her hair with her attendants' help, and uncovered her neck. The rest may be told in
the words of the chronicler:--

                   [Footnote 255: Andate: che nostro Signore Dio vi
                   contenti d'ogni vostro desiderio, e siate sempre
                   infinitamente ringratiato della compagnia che
                   m'havete fatta avenga che da quella sia stata molto
                   piu noiata che hora non mi spaventa la
                   morte.--Baoardo.]

                   [Footnote 256: The 51st: "Have mercy on me, oh
                   Lord, after thy goodness."]

"The hangman kneeled down and asked her forgiveness, whom she forgave most willingly. She tied
a kerchief about her eyes; then, feeling for the block, she said, What shall I do; where is
it? And so ended."[257]

                   [Footnote 257: Chronicle of Queen Mary, pp. 58,
                   59.]

The same day Courtenay was sent to the Tower, and a general slaughter commenced of the common
prisoners. To spread the impression, gibbets were erected all over London, and by Thursday
evening eighty or a hundred bodies[258] were dangling {p.114} in St. Paul's Churchyard, on
London Bridge, in Fleet Street, and at Charing Cross, in Southwark and Westminster. At all
cross-ways and in all thoroughfares, says Noailles, "the eye was met with the hideous spectacle
of hanging men;" while Brett and a fresh batch of unfortunates were sent to suffer at Rochester
and Maidstone. Day after day, week after week, commissioners sat at Westminster or at the Guildhall
trying prisoners, who passed with a short shrift to the gallows. The Duke of Suffolk was sentenced
on the 17th; on the 23rd he followed his daughter, penitent for his rebellion, but constant,
as she had implored him to be, in his faith. His two brothers and Lord Cobham's sons were condemned.
William Thomas, to escape torture, stabbed himself, but recovered to die at Tyburn. Lord Cobham
himself, who was arrested notwithstanding his defence of his house, Wyatt, Sir James Crofts,
Sir William St. Lowe, Sir Nicholas Arnold, Sir Nicholas Throgmorton, and, as the council expressed
it, "a world more," were in various prisons waiting their trials. Those who were suspected
of being in Elizabeth's confidence were kept with their fate impending over them--to be tempted
either with hopes of pardon, or by the rack, to betray their secrets.[259]

                   [Footnote 258: Renard says: "A hundred were hanged
                   in London and a hundred in Kent." Stow says:
                   "Eighty in London and twenty-two in Kent." The
                   Chronicle of Queen Mary does not mention the
                   number of executions in London, but agrees with
                   Stow on the number sent to Kent. The smaller
                   estimate, in these cases, is generally the right
                   one.]

                   [Footnote 259: On Sunday the 11th of February, the
                   day on which he exhorted the queen to severity from
                   the pulpit, Gardiner wrote to Sir William Petre,
                   "To-morrow, at your going to the Tower, it shall be
                   good ye be earnest with one little Wyatt there
                   prisoner, who by all likelihood can tell all. I do not know to whom Gardiner referred in
                   the words "little Wyatt."]

But, sooner or later, the queen was determined that every one who could be convicted should
die,[260] and beyond, and above them all, Elizabeth. Elizabeth's illness, which had been supposed
to have been assumed, was real, and as the feeling of the people towards her compelled the
observance of the forms of justice and decency, physicians were sent from the court to attend
upon her. State Paper Office.]

                   [Footnote 262: Renard to the Emperor: February 17:
                   Rolls House MSS.]

{p.115} To give the lie to all such slanders, when she entered the city, the princess had the
covering of her litter thrown back; she was dressed in white, her face was pale from her illness,
but the expression was lofty, scornful, and magnificent.[263] Crowds followed her along the
streets to Westminster. The queen, when she arrived at Whitehall, refused to see her; a suite
of rooms was assigned for her confinement in a corner of the palace, from which there was no
egress except by passing the guard, and there, with short attendance, she waited the result
of Gardiner's investigations. Wyatt, by vague admissions, had already partially compromised
her, and, on the strength of his words, and the discovery of the copy of her letter in the
packet of Noailles, she would have gone direct to the Tower, had the lords permitted. The emperor
urged instant and summary justice both on her and on Courtenay; the irritation, should irritation
arise, could be allayed afterwards by an amnesty.[264] The lords, however, insisted obstinately
on the forms of law, the necessity of witnesses, and of a trial; and Renard watched their unreasonable
humours with angry misgivings. It was enough, he said, that the conspiracy was undertaken in
Elizabeth's interests; if she escaped now, the queen would never be secure.[265] In fact, while
Elizabeth lived, the prince could not venture among the wild English spirits, and Charles was
determined that the marriage should not escape him.

                   [Footnote 263: "Pour desguyser le regret qu'elle
                   a," says Renard, unable to relinquish his first
                   conviction.]

                   [Footnote 264: Renard was instructed to exhort the
                   queen: "Que l'execution et chastoy de ceulx qui le
                   meritent se face tost; usant à l'endroit de Madame
                   Elizabeth et de Cortenay comme elle verra convenir
                   à sa seureté, pour après user de clémence en
                   l'endroit de ceulx qu'il luy semblera, afin de tost
                   reassurer le surplus."--The Emperor to Renard:
                   Granvelle Papers, vol. iv. pp. 224, 225.]

                   [Footnote 265: Il est certain l'enterprinse estoit
                   en sa faveur. Et certes, sire, si pendant que
                   l'occasion s'adonne elle ne la punyt et Cortenay,
                   elle ne sera jamais asseurée.--Renard to Charles
                   V.: Tytler, vol. ii. p. 311.]

As soon as the rebellion was crushed, Egmont, attended by Count Horn, returned to complete
his work. He brought with him the dispensations in regular form. He brought also a fresh and
pressing entreaty that Elizabeth should be sacrificed. An opportunity had been placed in the
queen's hand, which her duty to the church required that she should not neglect; and Egmont
was directed to tell her that the emperor, in trusting his son in a country where his own power
could not protect him, relied upon her honour not to neglect any step essential to his security.[266]
Egmont gave his message. The unhappy queen {p.116} required no urging; she protested to Renard,
that she could neither rest nor sleep, so ardent was her desire for the prince's safe arrival.[267]
Courtenay, if necessary, she could kill; against him the proofs were complete; as to Elizabeth,
she knew her guilt; the evidence was growing; and she would insist to the council that justice
should be done.

                   [Footnote 266: Renard to the Emperor, March 8:
                   Rolls House MSS.]

                   [Footnote 267: La quelle me respondit et afferme
                   qu'elle ne dort ny repose pour le soucy elle tient
                   de la seuré venue de son Altesse.--Renard to the
                   Emperor: Tytler, vol. ii.]

About the marriage itself, the lords had by this time agreed to yield. Courtenay's pretensions
could no longer be decently advanced, and Gardiner, abandoning a hopeless cause, and turning
his attention to the restoration of the church, would consent to anything, if, on his side,
he might emancipate the clergy from the control of the civil power, and re-establish persecution.
Two factions, distinctly marked, were now growing in the council--the party of the statesmen,
composed of Paget, Sussex, Arundel, Pembroke, Lord William Howard, the Marquis of Winchester,
Sir Edward Hastings, and Cornwallis: the party of the church, composed of Gardiner, Petre,
Rochester, Gage, Jerningham, and Bourne. Divided on all other questions, the rival parties
agreed only no longer to oppose the coming of Philip. The wavering few had been decided by
the presents and promises which Egmont brought with him from Charles. Pensions of two thousand
crowns had been offered to, and were probably accepted by the Earls of Pembroke, Arundel, Derby,
and Shrewsbury; pensions of a thousand crowns were given to Sussex, Darcy, Winchester, Rochester,
Petre, and Cheyne; pensions of five hundred crowns to Southwell, Waldegrave, Inglefield, Wentworth,
and Grey;[268] ten thousand crowns were distributed among the officers and gentlemen who had
distinguished themselves against Wyatt. The pensions were large, but, as Renard observed, when
Charles seemed to hesitate, several of the recipients were old, and would soon die; and, as
to the rest, things in England were changing from day to day, and means of some kind would
easily be found to put an early end to the payments.[269]

                   [Footnote 268: Granvelle Papers, vol. iv. p.
                   267.]

                   [Footnote 269: Renard to Charles V., March 8:
                   Rolls House MSS.]

Unanimity having been thus secured, on the day of Egmont's arrival Renard demanded an audience
of the lords, and in the queen's presence requested their opinion whether the condition of
England allowed the completion of the contract. The life of the prince of Spain was of great
importance to Europe; should {p.117} they believe in their hearts that he would be in danger,
there was still time to close the negotiation. The rebellion having broken out and having failed,
the lords replied that there was no longer any likelihood of open violence. Arundel hinted,
again, that the prince must bring his own cook and butler with him;[270] but he had nothing
else to fear, if he could escape the French cruisers.

                   [Footnote 270: Arundel nous dit qu'il convenoit que
                   son alteze amena ses cuyseniers, sommeliers du
                   cave, et autres officiers pour son bouche, que
                   quant aux autres luy y pourvoyeroit selon les
                   coustumes d'Angleterre.--Renard to Charles V.:
                   Rolls House MSS.]

These assurances, combined with the queen's secret promises about Elizabeth, were held sufficient;
and on the 6th of March, at three o'clock in the afternoon, the ambassadors were conducted
by Pembroke into the presence chamber. The queen, kneeling before the sacrament, called it
to witness that, in consenting to the alliance with the Prince of Spain, she was moved by no
carnal concupiscence, but only by her zeal for the welfare of her realm and subjects; and then,
rising up, with the bystanders all in tears, she gave her hand to Egmont as Philip's representative.
The blessing was pronounced by Gardiner, and the proxy marriage was completed.[271] The prince
was to be sent for without delay, and Southampton was chosen as the port at which he should
disembark, "being in the country of the Bishop of Winchester," where the people were, for the
most part, good Catholics.

                   [Footnote 271: Puis par la main de l'Évesque de
                   Winchester les promesses et paroles de præsenti,
                   furent dictes et prononcées intelligiblement par la
                   diet Egmont seul et la dicte Dame.--Ibid. Compare
                   Tytler, vol. ii. p. 327. The great value of Mr.
                   Tytler's work is diminished by the many omissions
                   which he has permitted himself to make in the
                   letters which he has edited.]

Parliament was expected to give its sanction without further difficulty; the opposition of
the country having been neutralised by the same causes which had influenced the council. The
queen, indeed, in going through the ceremony before consulting parliament, though she had broken
the promise which she made in the Guildhall, had placed it beyond their power to raise difficulties;
but other questions were likely to rise which would not be settled so easily. She herself was
longing to show her gratitude to Providence by restoring the authority of the pope; and the
pope intended, if possible, to recover his first-fruits and Peter's pence, and to maintain
the law of the church which forbade the alienation of church property.[272] The English laity
{p.118} were resolute on their side to keep hold of what they had got; and to set the subject
at rest, and to prevent unpleasant discussions on points of theology, Paget, with his friends,
desired that the session should last but a few days, and that two measures only should be brought
forward; the first for the confirmation of the treaty of marriage, the second to reassert the
validity of the titles under which the church estates were held by their present owners. If
the queen consented to the last, her title of Head of the Church might be dropped informally,
and allowed to fall into abeyance.[273]

                   [Footnote 272: Pole's first commission granted him
                   powers only "concordandi et transigendi cum
                   possessoribus bonorum ecclesiasticorum, (restitutis
                   prius si expedire videtur immobilibus per eos
                   indebite detentis,) super fructibus male perceptis
                   ac bonis mobilibus consumptis."--Commission granted
                   to Reginald Pole: Wilkins's Concilia, vol. iv.
                   Cardinal Morone, writing to Pole as late as June,
                   1554, said that the pope was still unable to
                   resolve on giving his sanction to the
                   alienation.--Burnet's Collectanea.]

                   [Footnote 273: Paget to Renard: Tytler, vol. ii.]

Gardiner, however, saw in the failure of the insurrection an opportunity of emancipating the
church, and of extinguishing heresy with fire and sword.[274] He was preparing a bill to restore
the ancient rigorous tyranny of the ecclesiastical courts; and by his own authority he directed
that, in the writs for the parliament, the summons should be to meet at Oxford,[275] where
the conservatism of the country would be released from the dread of the London citizens. The
spirit which, thirteen years before, had passed the Six Articles Bill by acclamation, continued
to smoulder in the slow minds of the country gentlemen, and was blazing freely among the lately
persecuted priests. The Bishop of Winchester had arranged in his imagination a splendid melodrama.
The session was to begin on the 2nd of April; and the ecclesiastical bill was to be the first
to be passed. On the 8th of March, Cranmer, Ridley, and Latimer were sent down to the University
to be tried before a committee of Convocation which had already decided on its verdict; and
the Fathers of the Reformation were either to recant or to suffer the flaming penalties of
heresy in the presence of the legislature, as the first-fruits of a renovated church discipline.

                   [Footnote 274: Par feug et sang.--Renard to Charles
                   V., March 14: Rolls House MSS.; partially printed
                   by Tytler.]

                   [Footnote 275: Ibid.]

Vainly Renard protested. In the fiery obstinacy of his determination, Gardiner was the incarnate
expression of the fury of the ecclesiastical faction, smarting, as they were, under their long
degradation, and under the irritating consciousness of those false oaths of submission which
they had sworn to a power which they loathed. Once before, in the first reaction against Protestant
excesses, the Bishop of Winchester had seen the Six {p.119} Articles Bill carried--but his
prey had then been snatched from his grasp. Now, embittered by fresh oppression, he saw his
party once more in a position to revenge their wrongs when there was no Henry any longer to
stand between them and their enemies. He would take the tide at the flood, forge a weapon keener
than the last, and establish the Inquisition.[276] Paget swore it should not be.[277] Charles
V. himself, dreading a fresh interruption to the marriage, insisted that this extravagant fervour
should be checked;[278] and the Bishop of Arras, the scourge of the Netherlands, interceded
for moderation in England. But Gardiner and the clergy were not to be turned from the hope
of their hearts by the private alarms of the Imperialists; and in the heart of the queen religious
orthodoxy was Philip's solitary rival. Renard urged her to be prudent in religion and cruel
to the political prisoners. Gardiner, though eager as Renard to kill Elizabeth, would buy the
privilege of working his will upon the Protestants by sparing Courtenay and Courtenay's friends.
Mary listened to the worst counsels of each, and her distempered humour settled into a confused
ferocity. So unwholesome appeared the aspect of things in the middle of March that, notwithstanding
the formal contract, Renard almost advised the emperor to relinquish the thought of committing
his son among so wild a people.[279]

                   [Footnote 276: Establir forme d'Inquisition contre
                   les hérétiques.--Renard to Charles V.: Rolls House
                   MSS.]

                   [Footnote 277: Ibid.]

                   [Footnote 278: La chaleur exhorbitante.--Charles V.
                   to Renard: Granvelle Papers, vol. iv. p. 229.]

                   [Footnote 279: Pour estre la plus part des Angloys
                   sans foy, sans loy, confuz en la religion, doubles,
                   inconstans, et de nature jaloux et abhorrissans
                   estrangiers.--Rolls House MSS.]

As opposition to extreme measures was anticipated in the House of Lords, as well as among the
Commons, it was important to strengthen the bench of bishops. The pope had granted permission
without difficulty to fill the vacant sees; and on the 1st of April six new prelates were consecrated
at St. Mary Overies, while Sir John Brydges and Sir John Williams of Thame were raised to the
peerage.

The Protestants, it must be admitted, had exerted themselves to make Gardiner's work easy to
him. On the 14th of March the wall of a house in Aldgate became suddenly vocal, and seventeen
thousand persons were collected to hear a message from Heaven pronounced by an angel. When
the people said "God save Queen Mary," the wall was silent; when they said "God save Queen
Elizabeth," the wall said "Amen!" When {p.120} they asked, "What is the mass?" the wall said,
"It is idolatry." As the nation was holding its peace, the stones, it seemed, were crying out
against the reaction. But the angel, on examination, turned out to be a girl concealed behind
the plaster. Shortly after, the inhabitants of Cheapside, on opening their shop windows in
the morning, beheld on a gallows, among the bodies of the hanged insurgents, a cat in priestly
robes, with crown shaven, the fore-paws tied over her head, and a piece of paper clipped round
between them, representing the wafer.

More serious were the doings of a part of the late conspirators who had escaped to France.
Peter Carew, when he left Weymouth, promised soon to return, and he was received at Paris with
a cordiality that answered his warmest hopes. Determined, if possible, to prevent Philip from
reaching England, the French had equipped every vessel which they possessed available for sea,
and Carew was sent again to the coast of the Channel to tempt across into the French service
all those who, like himself, were compromised in the conspiracy, or whose blood was hotter
than their fathers'. Every day the queen was chafed with the news of desertions to their dangerous
rendezvous. Young men of honourable families, Pickerings, Strangways's, Killegrews, Staffords,
Stauntons, Tremaynes, Courtenays, slipped over the water, carrying with them hardy sailors
from the western harbours. The French supplied them with arms, ships, and money; and fast-sailing,
heavily-armed privateers, officered by these young adventurers in the cause of freedom, were
cruising on their own account, plundering Flemish and Spanish ships, and swearing that the
Prince of Spain should set no foot on English shores.[280]

                   [Footnote 280: The French and Calais correspondence
                   in the State Paper Office contains a vast number of
                   letters on this subject. The following extracts are
                   specimens:--

                   On the 24th of March Thomas Corry writes to Lord
                   Grey that "two hundred vessels be in readiness" in
                   the French harbours. "There is lately arrived at
                   Caen in Normandy Sir Peter Carew, Sir William
                   Pickering, Sir Edward Courtenay, John Courtenay,
                   Brian Fitzwilliam, and divers other English
                   gentlemen. It is thought Sir Peter Carew shall have
                   charge of the fleet. There be three ships of
                   Englishmen, which be already gone to sea with
                   Killegrew, which do report that they serve the king
                   to prevent the coming of the King of
                   Spain."--Calais MSS.

                   On the 28th of March, Edgar Hormolden writes from
                   Guisnes to Sir John Bourne: "The number of Sir
                   Peter Carew's retinue increaseth in France by the
                   confluence of such English qui potius alicujus
                   præclari facinoris quam artis bonæ famam quærunt;
                   and they be so entreated there as it cannot be
                   otherwise conjectured but that they practise with
                   France: insomuch I have heard credible intelligence
                   that the said Carew used this persuasion, of late,
                   to his companions: Are not we, said he, allianced
                   with Normandy; yea! what ancient house is either
                   there or in France, but we claim by them and they
                   by us? why should we not rather embrace their love
                   than submit ourselves to the servitude of
                   Spain?"--Calais MSS.

                   April 17, Dr. Wotton writes in cypher from Paris to
                   the queen: "Yesterday, an Italian brought a letter
                   to my lodging, and delivered it to a servant of
                   mine, and went his way, so that I know not what he
                   is. The effect of his letter is, that for because
                   he taketh it to be the part of every good Christian
                   man to further your godly purpose and Catholic
                   doings, he hath thought good to advertise me that
                   those fugitives of England say to their friends
                   here that they have intelligence of great
                   importance in England with some of the chiefest on
                   the realm, which shall appear on the arrival of the
                   Prince of Spain. Within few days they go to
                   Normandy to embark themselves there, so strong,
                   that, if they do not let the Prince of Spain to
                   land, as they will attempt to do, yet they will not
                   fail, by the help of them that have intelligence
                   with them, to let him come to London."--French
                   MSS. bundle xi.]

{p.121} The queen indignantly demanded explanations of Noailles, and, through her ambassador
at Paris, she required the French government to seize "her traitors," and deliver them to her.
Noailles, alarmed, perhaps, for his own security, suggested that it might be well to conceal
Carew, and to affect to make an attempt to arrest him. But Henry, at once more sagacious and
more bold, replied to the ambassador that "he was not the queen's hangman:" "these men that
you require," he said, "deny that they have conspired anything against the queen; marry, they
say they will not be oppressed by mine enemy, and that is no just cause why I should owe them
ill-will."[281] He desired Noailles, with quiet irony, to tell her majesty "that there was
nothing in the existing treaties to forbid his accepting the services of English volunteers
in the war with the emperor: her majesty might remember that he had invited her to make a new
treaty, and that she had refused:" "he would act by the just letter of his obligations."[282]

                   [Footnote 281: Wotton to the Queen: French MSS.
                   bundle xi. State Paper Office.]

                   [Footnote 282: Noailles to the King of France:
                   Ambassades, vol. iii.]

Would her subjects have permitted, the queen would have replied by a declaration of war. As
it was, she could only relieve herself with indignant words.[283] But Carew and his friends
might depend on support so long as they would make themselves {p.122} useful to France. Possessed
of ships and arms, they were a constant menace to the Channel, and a constant temptation to
the disaffected; and, growing bitter at last, and believing that Elizabeth's life was on the
point of being sacrificed, they were prepared to support Henry in a second attempt to seize
the Isle of Wight, and to accept the French competitor for the English crown in the person
of the Queen of Scots.[284] Thus fatally the friends of the Reformation played into the hands
of its enemies. By the solid mass of Englishmen the armed interference of France was more dreaded
than even a Spanish sovereign; and the heresy became doubly odious which was tampering with
the hereditary enemies of the realm. In London only the revolutionary spirit continued vigorous,
and broke out perpetually in unexpected forms. At the beginning of March three hundred schoolboys
met in a meadow outside the city walls: half were for Wyatt and for France, half for the Prince
of Spain; and, not all in play (for evidently they chose their sides by their sympathies),
they joined battle, and fought with the fierceness of grown men. The combat ended in the capture
of the representative of Philip, who was dragged to a gallows, and would have been hanged upon
it, had not the spectators interfered.[285] The boys were laid hands upon. The youngest were
whipped, the elder imprisoned. It was said that the queen thought of gibbeting one of these
innocents in real fact, for an example; or, as Noailles put it, as an expiation for the sins
of the people.[286]

                   [Footnote 283: "When the Ambassador replied that
                   his master minded to do justly, her Grace
                   remembering how those traitors be there aided,
                   especially such of them as had conspired her death
                   and were in arms in the field against her; and
                   being not able to bear those words, so contrary to
                   their doings, told the Ambassador that, for her own
                   part, her Majesty minded simply and plainly to
                   perform as she had promised, and might with safe
                   conscience swear she ever meant so; but, for their
                   part, her Grace would not swear so, and being those
                   arrant traitors so entertained there as they be,
                   she could not have found in her heart to have used,
                   in like matter, the semblable part towards his
                   master for the gain of two realms, and with those
                   words she departed."--Gardiner to Wotton: French
                   MSS. bundle xi.]

                   [Footnote 284: On the 29th of April Wotton wrote in
                   a cypher to Mary; "Towards the end of the summer
                   the French king, by Peter Carew's provocation,
                   intendeth to land the rebels, with a number of
                   Scots, in Essex, and in the Isle of Wight, where
                   they mean to land easily, and either go on, if any
                   number of Englishmen resort unto them, as they say
                   many will, or else fortify themselves there. They
                   council the French king to make war against your
                   Highness in the right and title of the young Queen
                   of Scots."--French MSS. bundle xi.]

                   [Footnote 285: The execution was commenced in
                   earnest. The prince, says Noailles, "fust
                   souldainement mesné au gibet par ceulx de la part
                   du Roy et de M. Wyatt; et sans quelques hommes qui
                   tout à propoz y accoururent, ils l'eussent
                   estranglé; ce que se peult clairement juger par les
                   marques qu'il en a et aura encores d'icy à long
                   temps au col."--Noailles to Montmorency:
                   Ambassades, vol. iii.]

                   [Footnote 286: Dict on qu'elle veult que l'ung
                   d'eulx soit sacrifié pour tout le peuple.--Ibid.]

Over Elizabeth, in the meantime, the fatal net appeared to be closing; Lord Russell had received
a letter for her from Wyatt, which, though the princess declared that it had never been in
her hands, he said that he had forwarded; and Wyatt himself was flattered with hopes of life
if he would extend his confession. Renard carried his ingenuity farther; he called {p.123}
in the assistance of Lady Wyatt, and promised her that her husband should be spared; he even
urged the queen to gain over, by judicious leniency, a man whose apostasy would be a fresh
disgrace to his cause, and who might be as useful as a servant as he had been dangerous as
a foe.[287] Wyatt, being a man without solidity of heart, showed signs of yielding to what
was required of him; but his revelations came out slowly, and to quicken his confession he
was brought to his trial on the 15th of March. He pleaded guilty to the indictment, and he
then said that Courtenay had been the instigator of the conspiracy; he had written to Elizabeth,
he said, to advise her to remove as far as possible from London, and Elizabeth had returned
him a verbal message of thanks. This being not enough, he was sentenced to death; but he was
made to feel that he might still earn his pardon if he would implicate Elizabeth more deeply;
and though he said nothing definite, he allowed himself to drop vague hints that he could tell
more if he pleased.[288]

                   [Footnote 287: Ce qui faict juger à beaulcoup de
                   gens que Wyatt ne mourra point, mais que la dicte
                   dame le rendra tant son obligé par ceste grace de
                   luy rendre la vie qu'elle en pourra tirer beaulcoup
                   de bons et grandes services. Ce qui se faict par le
                   moyen dudict ambassadeur de l'Empereur par l'advis
                   duquel se conduisent aujourdhuy toutes les opinions
                   d'icelle dame, et lequele traice ceste composition
                   avecques la femme dudict Wyatt à laquelle comme
                   l'on diet il a asseuré la vie de son dict
                   mari.--Noailles to the Constable of France, March
                   31. The
                   different parties were so much interested in
                   Wyatt's confession, that his very last words are so
                   wrapped round with contradictions, that one cannot
                   tell what they were. It is certain, however, that
                   he did implicate Elizabeth to some extent; it is
                   certain, also, that he did not say enough for the
                   purposes of the court, and that the court believed
                   he could say more if he would, for, on Easter
                   Sunday he communicated, and the queen was
                   distressed that he should have been allowed to
                   partake, while his confession was incomplete. As to
                   Courtenay, Renard said he had communicated enough,
                   "mais quant à Elizabeth l'on ne peult encores
                   tomber en preuves suffisantes pour les loys
                   d'Angleterre contre elle."--Renard to Charles V.:
                   Rolls House MSS.]

At all events, however, sufficient evidence had been obtained in the opinion of the court for
the committal of the princess to the Tower. On the day of Wyatt's trial, the council met, but
separated without a resolution; on Friday, the 16th, Elizabeth was examined before them in
person; and when she withdrew, Gardiner required that she should be sent to the Tower instantly.
Paget, supported by Sussex, Hastings, and Cornwallis, said that {p.124} there was no evidence
to justify so violent a measure.[289] Which of you, then, said Gardiner, with dexterous ingenuity,
will be responsible for the safe keeping of her person?

                   [Footnote 289: Holinshed says that a certain lord
                   exclaimed that there would be no safety for the
                   realm until Elizabeth's head was off her shoulders;
                   and either Holinshed himself, or his editor, wrote
                   in the margin opposite, the words: "The wicked
                   advice of Lord Paget."--Renard describes so
                   distinctly the attitude of Paget, that there can be
                   no doubt whatever of the injustice of such a charge
                   against him.]

The guardian of Elizabeth would be exposed to a hundred dangers and a thousand suspicions;
the lords answered that Gardiner was conspiring their destruction. No one could be found courageous
enough to undertake the charge, and they gave their reluctant consent to his demand. The same
night Elizabeth's attendants were removed, a hundred soldiers were picketed in the garden below
her window, and on Saturday morning (March 17) the Marquis of Winchester and Lord Sussex waited
on her to communicate her destination, and to attend her to a barge.

The terrible name of the Tower was like a death-knell; the princess entreated a short delay
till she could write a few words to the queen; the queen could not know the truth, she said,
or else she was played upon by Gardiner. Alas! she did not know the queen: Winchester hesitated;
Lord Sussex, more generous, accepted the risk, and promised, on his knees, to place her letter
in the queen's hands.

The very lines traced by Elizabeth in that bitter moment may still be read in the State Paper
Office,[290] and her hand was more than usually firm.

                   [Footnote 290: MS. Mary, Domestic, vol. iv.
                   Printed by Ellis, 2nd series, vol. ii. p. 255.]

"If ever any one," she wrote, "did try this old saying that a king's word was more than another
man's oath, I most humbly beseech your majesty to verify it in me, and to remember your last
promise, and my last demand, that I be not condemned without answer and due proof, which it
seems that I now am: for that without cause proved I am by your council from you commanded
to go unto the Tower, a place more wonted for a false traitor than a true subject: which, though
I know I deserve it not, yet in the face of all this realm appears that it is proved; which
I pray God that I may die the shamefullest death that any died, afore I may mean any such thing:
and to this present hour I protest, afore God who shall judge my truth, whatsoever malice shall
devise, that I never practised, counselled, nor consented to anything that might be prejudicial
to your person any {p.125} way, or dangerous to the state by any means. And I therefore humbly
beseech your majesty to let me answer afore yourself, and not suffer me to trust to your councillors;
yea, and that afore I go to the Tower, if it is possible; if not, afore I be further condemned.
Howbeit, I trust assuredly your highness will give me leave to do it afore I go, for that thus
shamefully I may not be cried out on, as now I shall be, yea, and without cause. Let conscience
move your highness to take some better way with me, than to make me be condemned in all men's
sight, afore my desert known. Also, I most humbly beseech your highness to pardon this my boldness,
which innocency procures me to do, together with hope of your natural kindness, which I trust
will not see me cast away without desert: which what it is I would desire no more of God than
that you truly knew; which thing, I think and believe, you shall never by report know, unless
by yourself you hear. I have heard in my time of many cast away for want of coming to the presence
of their prince; and in late days I heard my Lord of Somerset say that, if his brother had
been suffered to speak with him, he had never suffered; but the persuasions were made to him
so great, that he was brought in belief that he could not live safely if the admiral lived,
and that made him give his consent to his death. Though these persons are not to be compared
to your majesty, yet I pray God as evil persuasions persuade not one sister against the other,
and all for that they have heard false reports, and not hearken to the truth known; therefore,
once again kneeling with all humbleness of my heart, because I am not suffered to bow the knees
of my body, I humbly crave to speak with your highness, which I would not be so bold to desire
if I knew not myself most clear, as I know myself most true. Elizabeth.

                   [Footnote 291: As soon as Noailles learnt that his
                   enclosure formed part of the case against
                   Elizabeth, he came forward to acquit her of having
                   furnished him with it; "jurant et blasphémant tous
                   les sermens du monde pour la justification de la
                   dicte Dame Elizabeth."--Renard to Charles V., April
                   3: Rolls House MSS.]

"I humbly crave but one word of answer from yourself."

{p.126} Had Elizabeth known the history of those words of the queen to her, to which she appealed,
she would have spared herself the trouble of writing this letter. Sussex fulfilled his promise,
and during the delay the tide turned, and the barge could not pass London Bridge till the following
day. The queen could not venture to send the princess through the streets; and in dread lest,
at the last moment, her prey should be snatched from her, she answered the appeal only by storming
at the bearer, and at his friends in the council. "They were going no good way," she said,
"for their lives they durst not have acted so in her father's time; she wished that he was
alive and among them but for a single month."[292]

                   [Footnote 292: Renard.]

At nine o'clock the next morning--it was Palm Sunday (March 18)--the two lords returned to
Elizabeth to tell her that her letter had failed. As she crossed the garden to the water she
threw up her eyes to the queen's window, but there was no sign of recognition. What do the
lords mean, she said, that they suffer me thus to be led into captivity? The barge was too
deep to approach sufficiently near to the landing-place at the Tower to enable her to step
upon the causeway without wetting her feet; it was raining too, and the petty inconveniences,
fretting against the dreadful associations of the Traitors' Gate, shook her self-command. She
refused to land; then sharply rejecting an offer of assistance, she sprang out upon the mud.
"Are all those harnessed men there for me?" she said to Sir John Gage, who was waiting with
the Tower guard. "No, madam," Gage answered. "Yes," she said, "I know it is so; it needed not
for me, being but a weak woman. I never thought to have come in here a prisoner," she went
on, turning to the soldiers; "I pray you all good fellows and friends, bear me witness that
I come in no traitor, but as true a woman to the queen's majesty as any is now living, and
thereon will I take my death." She threw herself down upon a wet stone; Lord Chandos begged
her to come under shelter out of the rain: "better sitting here than in a worse place," she
cried; "I know not whither you will bring me."

But it was not in Elizabeth's nature to protract a vain resistance; she rose, and passed on,
and as she approached the room intended for her, the heavy doors along the corridor were locked
and barred behind her. At the grating of the iron bolts the heart of Lord Sussex sank in him:
Sussex knew the queen's true feelings, and the efforts which were made to lash her into {p.127}
cruelty; "What mean ye, my lords," he said to Chandos and Gage, "what will you do?" "she was
a king's daughter, and is the queen's sister; go no further than your commission, which I know
what it is."[293]

                   [Footnote 293: Contemporary Narrative: Harleian
                   MSS. 419. Chronicle of Queen Mary, p. 71.
                   Holinshed.]

The chief danger was of murder--of some swift desperate act which could not be undone; the
lords who had so reluctantly permitted Elizabeth to be imprisoned would not allow her to be
openly sacrificed, or indeed permit the queen to continue in the career of vengeance on which
she had entered. The executions on account of the rebellion had not ceased even yet. In Kent,
London, and in the midland counties, day after day, one, two, or more persons had been put
to death; six gentlemen were, at that very moment, on their way to Maidstone and Rochester
to suffer. The lords, on the day of Elizabeth's committal, held a meeting while Gardiner was
engaged elsewhere; they determined to remonstrate, and, if necessary, to insist on a change
of course, and Paget undertook to be the bearer of the message. He found Mary in her oratory
after vespers; he told her that the season might remind a sovereign of other duties besides
revenge; already too much blood had been shed; the noble house of Suffolk was all but destroyed;
and he said distinctly that if she attempted any more executions, he and his friends would
interfere; the hideous scenes had lasted too long, and, as an earnest of a return to mercy,
he demanded the pardon of the six gentlemen.

Mary, as she lamented afterwards to Renard, was unprepared; she was pressed in terms which
showed that those who made the request did not intend to be refused--and she consented.[294]
The six gentlemen escaped; and, following up this beginning, the council, in the course of
the week, extorted from her the release of Northampton, Cobham, and one of his sons, with five
others. In a report to the emperor, Renard admitted that, if the queen attempted to continue
her course of justice, there would be resistance; and the party of the chancellor, being the
weakest, would in that case be overwhelmed. It was the more necessary, therefore, that, by
one means or another, Elizabeth should be disposed of. The queen had condescended to apologise
to him for her second act of clemency, which she excused as being an Easter custom. It was
not for him to find fault, he said that he had replied, if her majesty was pleased to {p.128}
show mercy at the holy season; but it was his duty to remind her that he doubted whether the
prince could be trusted with her.

                   [Footnote 294: Renard to Charles V., March 22;
                   Rolls House MSS.]

This argument never failed to drive Mary to madness; and, on the other side, Renard applied
to Gardiner to urge despatch in bringing Elizabeth to trial: as long as she lived, there was
no security for the queen, for the prince, or for religion. Gardiner echoed the same opinion.
If others, he said, would go to work as roundly as himself, all would be well.[295]

                   [Footnote 295: Il me repliqua que vivant Elizabeth
                   il n'a espoir à la tranquillité du Royaulme, que
                   quant à luy si chascun alloit si rondement en
                   besoyn comme il fait, les choses se porteroient
                   mieux.--Renard to the Emperor, April 3: Rolls
                   House MSS. From these dark plotters, what might
                   not be feared? Holinshed says that while Elizabeth
                   was in the Tower, a writ was sent down for her
                   execution devised, as was believed, by Gardiner;
                   and that Lord Chandos (Sir John Brydges, the
                   Lieutenant of the Tower) refused to put it in
                   force. The story has been treated as a fable, and
                   in the form in which it is told by Holinshed, it
                   was very likely untrue: yet in the presence of
                   these infernal conversations, I think it highly
                   probable that, as the hope of a judicial conviction
                   grew fainter, schemes were talked of, and were
                   perhaps tried, for cutting the knot in a decisive
                   manner. In revolutionary times men feel that if
                   to-day is theirs, to-morrow may be their enemies';
                   and they are not particularly scrupulous. The
                   anxious words of Sussex did not refer to the merely
                   barring a prisoner's door.]

In this condition of the political atmosphere parliament assembled on the 2nd of April. The
Oxford scheme had been relinquished as impracticable. The Lord Mayor informed the queen that
he would not answer for the peace of the city in the absence of the court; the Tower might
be surprised and the prisoners released; and to lose the Tower would be to lose the crown.
The queen said that she would not leave London while her sister's fate was undetermined.[296]
The Houses met, therefore, as usual, as Westminster, and the speech from the throne was read
in Mary's presence by the chancellor.

                   [Footnote 296: Renard.]

Since the last parliament, Gardiner said, the people of England had given proofs of unruly
humour. The queen was their undoubted sovereign, and a measure would be submitted to the Lords
and Commons to declare, in some emphatic manner, her claim to her subjects' obedience.

Her majesty desiring, further, in compliance with her subjects' wishes, to take a husband,
she had fixed her choice on the Prince of Spain, as a person agreeable to herself and likely
to be a valuable friend to the realm: the people, however, had insolently and ignorantly presumed
to mutiny against her intentions, and, in her affection for the commonwealth, her majesty had
consented to submit the articles of the marriage to the approval of parliament.

{p.129} Again, her majesty would desire them to take into their consideration the possible
failure of the blood royal, and adopt necessary precautions to secure an undisturbed succession
to the crown. It would be for the parliament to decide whether the privilege which had been
granted to Henry VIII. of bequeathing the crown by will might not be, with propriety, extended
to her present majesty.[297]

                   [Footnote 297: Noailles, vol. iii. p. 141.]

Finally, and at great length, the chancellor spoke of religion. The late rebellion, he said,
was properly a religious rebellion: it was the work of men who despised the sacraments, and
were the enemies of truth, order, and godliness. A measure would be laid before the legislature
for the better restraint of irregular licence of opinion.

The marriage was to pass quietly. Those of the Lords and Commons who persevered in their disapproval
were a small minority, and did not intend to appear.[298] The bill, therefore, passed both
Houses by the 12th of April.[299] The marriage articles were those originally offered by the
emperor, with the English clauses attached, and some explanatory paragraphs, that no room might
be left for laxity of interpretation.[300] Lord Bedford and Lord Fitzwalter had already gone
to Plymouth, where a ship was in readiness to carry them to Spain. They waited only till the
parliamentary forms were completed, and immediately sailed. Lord William Howard would go to
sea with the fleet, at his earliest convenience, to protect the passage, and the prince might
be expected in England by the end of May. The bill for the queen's authority was carried also
without objection. The forms of English law running only in the name of a king, it had been
pretended that a queen could not be a lawful sovereign. A declaratory statute explained that
the kingly prerogative was the same, whether vested in male or female.[301] Here, however,
unanimity was at an end. The paragraph about the succession in the queen's speech being obviously
aimed at Elizabeth, produced such an irritation in the council, as well as in parliament, that
Renard expected it would end in actual armed conflict.[302]

                   [Footnote 298: Renard to Charles V., April 7.]

                   [Footnote 299: 1 Mary, cap. ii.]

                   [Footnote 300: See the treaty of marriage between
                   Philip and Mary in Rymer.]

                   [Footnote 301: 1 Mary, cap. i.]

                   [Footnote 302: Y a telle confusion que l'on
                   n'attend sinon que la querelle se demesle par les
                   armes et tumults.--Renard to Charles V., April 22.]

From the day of Elizabeth's imprisonment Gardiner had laboured to extort evidence against her
by fair means or foul.[303] {p.130} She had been followed to the Tower by her servants. Sir
John Gage desired that her food should be dressed by people of his own. The servants refused
to allow themselves to be displaced,[304] and, to the distress of Renard, angry words had been
addressed to Gage by Lord Howard, so that they could not be removed by force.[305]

                   [Footnote 303: Holinshed says, Edmund Tremayne was
                   racked, and I have already quoted Gardiner's letter
                   to Petre, suggesting the racking of "little
                   Wyatt."]

                   [Footnote 304: Her grace's cook said to him, My
                   lord, I will never suffer any stranger to come
                   about her diet but her own sworn men as long as I
                   live.--Harleian MSS. 419, and see Holinshed.]

                   [Footnote 305: L'Admiral s'est coleré au grand
                   chamberlain de la Royne que a la garde de la dicte
                   Elizabeth et luy a dit qu'elle feroit encores
                   trancher tant de testes que luy et autres s'en
                   repentiroient.--Renard to Charles V., April 7:
                   Rolls House MSS.]

The temptation of life having failed, after all, to induce Wyatt to enlarge his confession
beyond his first acknowledgments, it was determined to execute him. On the 11th of April he
was brought out of his cell, and on his way to the scaffold he was confronted with Courtenay,
to whom he said something, but how much or what it is impossible to ascertain.[306] Finding
that his death was inevitable, he determined to make the only reparation which was any longer
in his power to Elizabeth. When placed on the platform, after desiring the people to pray for
him, lamenting his crime, and expressing a hope that he might be the last person to suffer
for the rebellion, he concluded thus:

                   [Footnote 306: Lord Chandos stated the same day in
                   the House of Lords that he threw himself at
                   Courtenay's feet and implored him to confess the
                   truth. The sheriffs of London, on the other hand,
                   said that he entreated Courtenay to forgive him for
                   the false charges which he had brought against him
                   and against Elizabeth.--Foxe, vol. vi. Compare
                   Chronicle of Queen Mary, p. 72, note.]

"Whereas it is said abroad that I should accuse my Lady Elizabeth's Grace and my Lord Courtenay;
it is not so, good people, for I assure you neither they nor any other now yonder in hold or
durance was privy of my rising or commotion before I began."[307]

                   [Footnote 307: So far the Chronicle of Queen
                   Mary, Holinshed, Stow, and the narratives among
                   the Harleian MSS. essentially agree. But the
                   chronicle followed by Stow makes Wyatt add, "As I
                   have declared no less to the Queen's council;"
                   whereas Foxe says that he admitted that he had
                   spoken otherwise to the council, but had spoken
                   untruly. Noailles tells all that was really
                   important in a letter to d'Oysel: "M. Wyatt eust la
                   teste coupée, dischargeant advant que de mourir
                   Madame Elizabeth et Courtenay qu'il avoit
                   aulparavant chargé de s'estre entendus en son
                   entreprinse sur promesses que l'on luy avoit
                   faictes de luy saulver la vie."--Noailles, vol.
                   iii.]

The words, or the substance of them, were heard by every one. Weston, who attended as confessor,
shouted, "Believe him not, good people! he confessed otherwise before the council." {p.131}
"That which I said then I said," answered Wyatt, "but that which I say now is true." The executioner
did his office, and Wyatt's work, for good or evil, was ended.

All that the court had gained by his previous confessions was now more than lost. London rang
with the story that Wyatt, in dying, had cleared Courtenay and Elizabeth.[308] Gardiner still
thundered in the Star Chamber on the certainty of their guilt, and pilloried two decent citizens
who had repeated Wyatt's words; but his efforts were vain, and the hope of a legal conviction
was at an end. The judges declared that against Elizabeth there was now no evidence;[309] and,
even if there had been evidence, Renard wrote to his master, that the court could not dare
to proceed further against her, from fear of Lord William Howard, who had the whole naval force
of England at his disposal, and, in indignation at Elizabeth's treatment, might join the French
and the exiles.[310] Perplexed to know how to dispose of her, the ambassador and the chancellor
thought of sending her off to Pomfret Castle; doubtless, if once within Pomfret walls, to find
the fate of the second Richard there: but again the spectre of Lord Howard terrified them.

                   [Footnote 308: Courtenay, however, certainly was
                   guilty; and had Wyatt acquitted Elizabeth without
                   naming Courtenay, his words would have been far
                   more effective than they were. This, however, it
                   was hard for Wyatt to do, as it would have been
                   equivalent to a repetition of his accusations.]

                   [Footnote 309: Les gens de loy ne treuvent matière
                   pour la condamner.--Renard to Charles V., April 22:
                   Tytler, vol. ii.]

                   [Footnote 310: Ibid. And see a passage in the MS.,
                   which Mr. Tytler has omitted.]

The threatened escape of her sister, too, was but the beginning of the queen's sorrows. On
the 17th of April Sir Nicholas Throgmorton was tried at the Guildhall for having been a party
to the conspiracy. The confessions of many of the prisoners had more or less implicated Throgmorton.
Cuthbert Vaughan, who was out with Wyatt, swore in the court that Throgmorton had discussed
the plan of the insurrection with him; and Throgmorton himself admitted that he had talked
to Sir Peter Carew and Wyatt about the probability of a rebellion. He it was, too, who was
to have conducted Courtenay to Andover on his flight into Devonshire; and the evidence[311]
leaves very little doubt that he was concerned as deeply as any one who did not actually take
up arms. Sir Nicholas, however, defended himself with resolute pertinacity; he fought through
all the charges against him, and dissected the depositions with the skill of a practised pleader;
and in the end, the jury returned the bold verdict of {p.132} "Not guilty." Sir Thomas Bromley
urged them to remember themselves. The foreman answered they had found the verdict according
to their consciences.

                   [Footnote 311: It is printed at length in
                   Holinshed.]

Their consciences probably found less difficulty in the facts charged against Throgmorton than
in the guilt to be attached to them. The verdict was intended as a rebuke to the cruelty with
which the rebellion had been punished, and it was received as an insult to the crown. The crowd,
as Throgmorton left the court, threw up their caps and shouted. The queen was ill for three
days with mortification,[312] and insisted that the jurors should be punished. They were arrested,
and kept as prisoners till the following winter, when they were released on payment of the
ruinous fine of £2000. Throgmorton himself was seized again on some other pretext, and sent
again to the Tower. The council, or Paget's party there, remonstrated against the arrest; they
yielded, however, perhaps that they might make the firmer stand on more important matters.

                   [Footnote 312: Que tant altère la dicte dame
                   qu'elle a esté trois jours malade, et n'est encore
                   bien d'elle.--Renard to Charles V.: Tytler, vol.
                   ii. p. 374.]

Since Elizabeth could not be executed, the court were the more anxious to carry the Succession
Bill. Gardiner's first desire was that Elizabeth should be excluded by name; but Paget said
that this was impossible.[313] As little could a measure be passed empowering the queen to
leave the crown by will, for that would be but the same thing under another form. Following
up his purpose, notwithstanding, Gardiner brought out in the House of Lords a pedigree, tracing
Philip's descent from John of Gaunt; and he introduced a bill to make offences against his
person high treason. But at the second reading the important words were introduced, "during
the queen's lifetime;"[314] the bill was read a third time, and then disappeared; and Paget
had been the loudest of its opponents.[315]

                   [Footnote 313: He whom you wrote of comes to me
                   with a sudden and strange proposal, that, since
                   matters against Madame Elizabeth do not take the
                   turn which was wished, there should be an Act
                   brought into Parliament to disinherit her. I
                   replied that I would give no consent to such a
                   scheme.--Paget to Renard: Tytler, vol. ii. p. 382.]

                   [Footnote 314: Lords Journals.]

                   [Footnote 315: Renard complains of Paget's conduct
                   bitterly.--Renard to Charles V., May 1: Tytler,
                   vol. ii.]

Beaten on the succession, the chancellor, in spite of Renard's remonstrances, brought forward
next his Religious Persecution Bills. The House of Commons went with him to some extent; and,
to secure success in some form or other, he introduced three separate measures, either of which
would answer his purpose--{p.133} a bill for the restoration of the Six Articles, a bill to
re-enact the Lollard Statute of Henry IV., De Hæretico Comburendo, and a bill to restore (in
more than its original vigour) the Episcopal Jurisdiction. The Six Articles had so bad a name
that the first bill was read once only, and was dropped; the two others passed the Commons,[316]
and, on the 26th of April, the Bishops' Authority Bill came before the Lords. Lord Paget was
so far in advance of his time that he could not hope to appeal with a chance of success to
his own principles of judicious latitudinarianism; but he determined, if possible, to prevent
Gardiner's intended cruelties from taking effect, and he spread an alarm that, if the bishops
were restored to their unrestricted powers, under one form or other the holders of the abbey
lands would be at their mercy. To allay the suspicion, another bill was carried through the
Commons, providing expressly for the safety of the holders of those lands; but the tyranny
of the episcopal courts was so recent, and the ecclesiastics had shown themselves uniformly
so little capable of distinguishing between right and wrong when the interests of religion
were at stake, that the jealousy, once aroused, could not be checked. The irritation became
so hot and so general as to threaten again the most dangerous consequences; and Paget, pretending
to be alarmed at the excitement which he had raised, urged Renard to use his influence with
the queen to dissolve parliament.[317]

                   [Footnote 316: Commons Journals.]

                   [Footnote 317: Paget to Renard; Tytler, vol. ii. p.
                   382. And compare Renard's correspondence with the
                   emperor during the month of April.--Rolls House
                   MSS.]

Renard, who was only anxious that the marriage should go off quietly, agreed in the desirableness
of a dissolution. He told the queen that the reform of religion must be left to a better opportunity;
and the prince could not, and should not, set his foot in a country where parties were for
ever on the edge of cutting each other's throats. It was no time for her to be indulging Gardiner
in humours which were driving men mad, and shutting her ears to the advice of those who could
ruin her if they pleased; she must think first of her husband. The queen protested that Gardiner
was acting by no advice of hers; Gardiner, she said, was obstinate, and would listen to no
one; she herself was helpless and miserable. But Renard was not to be moved by misery. At all
events, he said, the prince should not come till late in the summer, perhaps not till autumn,
not, in fact, till it could be seen what form these wild humours would {p.134} assume; summer
was the dangerous time in England, when the people's blood was apt to boil.[318]

                   [Footnote 318: Pour ce qui ordinairement les
                   humeurs des Angloys boulissent plus en l'esté que
                   en autre temps.]

Gardiner, however, was probably not acting without Mary's secret approbation. Both the queen
and the minister especially desired, at that moment, the passing of the Heresy Bill, and Renard
was obliged to content himself with a promise that the dissolution should be as early as possible.
Though parliament could not meet at Oxford, a committee of Convocation had been sitting there,
with Dr. Weston, the adulterous Dean of Windsor, for a president. Cranmer, Ridley, and Latimer
had been called upon to defend their opinions, which had been pronounced false and damnable.
They had been required to recant, and, having refused, they were sentenced (April 20), so far
as the power of the court extended, to the punishment of heretics.

Cranmer appealed from the judgment to God Almighty, in whose presence he would soon stand.

Ridley said the sentence would but send them the sooner to the place where else they hoped to go.

Latimer said, "I thank God that my life has been prolonged that I may glorify God by this kind
of death."

Hooper, Ferrars, Coverdale, Taylor, Philpot, and Sandars, who were in the London prisons, were
to have been simultaneously tried and sentenced at Cambridge. These six, however, drew and
signed a joint refusal to discuss their faith in a court before which they were to be brought
as prisoners; and for some reason the proceedings against them were suspended; but whether
they refused or consented was of little moment to the Bishop of Winchester; they were in his
hands--he could try them when he pleased. A holocaust of heresiarchs was waiting to be offered
up, and before a faggot could be lighted, the necessary powers had to be obtained from parliament.

The bishop, therefore, was determined, if possible, to obtain those powers. He had the entire
bench of prelates on his side; and Lord Howard, the Earl of Bedford, and others of the lay
lords who would have been on the side of humanity, were absent. The opposition had to be conducted
under the greatest difficulties. Paget, however, fought the battle, and fought it on broad
grounds: the bishops' bill was read twice; on the third reading, on the 1st of May, he succeeded
in throwing it out: the Lollards' bill came on the day after, and here his difficulty was far
greater; for toleration was imperfectly understood by {p.135} Catholic or Protestant, and many
among the peers, who hated the bishops, equally hated heresy. Paget, however, spoke out his
convictions, and protested against the iniquity of putting men to death for their opinions.[319]
The bill was read a first time on the day on which it was introduced; on the 4th of May it
was read again,[320] but it went no further. The next day parliament was dissolved. The peers
assured the queen that they had no desire to throw a shield over heresy; the common law existed
independent of statute, and the common law prescribed punishments which could still be inflicted.[321]
But, so long as heresy was undefined, Anabaptists, Socinians, or professors of the more advanced
forms of opinion, could alone fall within the scope of punishments merely traditional.

                   [Footnote 319: Quant l'on a parlé de la peyne des
                   hérétiques, il a sollicité les sieurs pour non y
                   consentir, y donner lieu à peyne de mort.--Renard
                   to Charles V., May 1.]

                   [Footnote 320: Lords Journals.]

                   [Footnote 321: There can, I think, be no doubt that
                   it was this which the peers said. The statute of
                   Henry IV. was not passed; yet the queen told
                   Renard, "que le peyne antienne contre les
                   hérétiques fut agrée par toute la noblesse, et
                   qu'ilz fairent dire expressement et publiquement
                   qu'ilz entendoient l'hérésie estre extirpée et
                   punie." The chancellor informed Renard that,
                   "Although the Heresy Bill was lost, there were
                   penalties of old standing against heretics which
                   had still the form of law, and could be put in
                   execution." And, on the 3rd of May, the privy
                   council directed the judges and the queen's learned
                   counsel to be called together, and their opinions
                   demanded, "what they think in law her highness may
                   do touching the cases of Cranmer, Ridley, Latimer,
                   being already, by both the Universities of Oxford
                   and Cambridge, judged to be obstinate heretics,
                   which matter is the rather to be consulted upon,
                   for that the said Cranmer is already
                   attainted."--MS. Privy Council Register. The
                   answer of the judges I have not found, but it must
                   have been unfavourable to the intentions of the
                   court. Joan Bocher was burnt under the common law,
                   for her opinions were condemned by all parties in
                   the church, and were looked upon in the same light
                   as witchcraft, or any other profession definitely
                   devilish. But it was difficult to treat as heresy,
                   under the common law, a form of belief which had so
                   recently been sanctioned by act of parliament.]

The tempers of men were never worse than at that moment, Renard wrote. In the heat of the debate,
on the 28th of April, Lord Thomas Grey was executed as a defiance to the liberal party. Gardiner
persuaded the queen, perhaps not without reason, that he was himself in danger of being arrested
by Paget and Pembroke;[322] and an order was sent to the Lieutenant of the Tower that if the
chancellor was brought thither under warrant of the council only, he was not to be received.[323]

                   [Footnote 322: Renard to Charles V., May 13: Rolls
                   House MSS.]

                   [Footnote 323: Noailles.]

On the other hand, twelve noblemen and gentlemen undertook to stand by Mary if she would arrest
Paget and Pembroke. The chancellor, Sir Robert Rochester, and the Marquis of Winchester {p.136}
discussed the feasibility of seizing them; but Lord Howard and the Channel fleet were thought
to present too formidable an obstacle. With the queen's sanction, however, they armed in secret.
It was agreed that, on one pretence or another, Derby, Shrewsbury, Sussex, and Huntingdon should
be sent out of London to their counties. Elizabeth, if it could be managed, should be sent
to Pomfret, as Gardiner had before proposed; Lord Howard should be kept at sea; and, if opportunity
offered, Arundel and Paget might, at least, be secured.[324]

                   [Footnote 324: Renard to Charles V., May 13:
                   Tytler, vol. ii.]

But Pomfret was impossible, and vexation thickened on vexation. Lord Howard was becoming a
bugbear at the court. Report now said that two of the Staffords, whom he had named to command
in the fleet, had joined the exiles in France; and for Lord Howard himself the queen could
feel no security, if he was provoked too far. She was haunted by a misgiving that, while the
prince was under his convoy, he might declare against her, and carry him prisoner to France;
or if Howard could himself be trusted, his fleet could not. On the eve of sailing for the coast
of Spain, a mutiny broke out at Plymouth. The sailors swore that if they were forced on a service
which they detested, both the admiral and the prince should rue it. Lord Howard, in reporting
to the queen the men's misconduct, said that his own life was at her majesty's disposal, but
he advised her to reconsider the prudence of placing the prince in their power. Howard's own
conduct, too, was far from reassuring. A few small vessels had been sent from Antwerp to join
the English fleet, under the Flemish admiral Chappelle. Chappelle complained that Howard treated
him with indifference, and insulted his ships by "calling them cockle-shells." If the crews
of the two fleets were on land anywhere together, the English lost no opportunity of making
a quarrel, "hustling and pushing" the Flemish sailors;[325] and, as if finally to complete
the queen's vexation, Lord Bedford wrote that the prince declined the protection of her subjects
on his voyage, and that his departure was postponed for a few weeks longer.

                   [Footnote 325: Les ont provoqué à debatz, les
                   cerrans et poulsans.--Renard to Charles V.: Tyler
                   vol. ii. p. 413.]

The fleet had to remain in the Channel; it could not be trusted elsewhere; and the necessity
of releasing Elizabeth from the Tower was another annoyance to the queen. A confinement at
Woodstock was the furthest stretch of severity that the country would, for the present, permit.
On the 19th of May, {p.137} Elizabeth was taken up the river. The princess believed herself
that she was being carried off tanquam ovis, as she said--as a sheep for the slaughter. But
the world thought that she was set at liberty, and as her barge passed under the bridge Mary
heard, with indignation, from the palace windows, three salvoes of artillery fired from the
Steelyard, as a sign of the joy of the people.[326] A letter from Philip would have been a
consolation to her in the midst of the troubles which she had encountered for his sake; but
the languid lover had never written a line to her; or, if he had written, not a line had reached
her hand; only a ship which contained despatches from him for Renard had been taken, in the
beginning of May, by a French cruiser, and the thought that precious words of affection had,
perhaps, been on their way to her and were lost, was hard to bear.

                   [Footnote 326: Samedy dernier Elizabeth fut tirée
                   de la Tour et menée a Richmond; et dois ledict
                   Richmond l'on l'a conduit à Woodstock pour y estre
                   gardée surement jusques l'on la fasse aller à
                   Pomfret. Et s'est resjouy le peuple de sa departye,
                   pensant qu'elle fut en liberté, et passant par
                   devant la Maison des Stillyards ilz tirerent trois
                   coups d'artillerie en signe d'allegrie, que la
                   reyne et son conseil ont prins a desplaisir et
                   regret, et estimons que l'on en fera
                   demonstration.--Renard to Charles V.: Granvelle
                   Papers, vol. iv.]

In vain she attempted to cheer her spirits with the revived ceremonials of Whitsuntide. She
marched day after day, in procession, with canopies and banners, and bishops in gilt slippers,
round St. James's, round St. Martin's, round Westminster.[327] Sermons and masses alternated
now with religious feasts, now with Diriges for her father's soul. But all was to no purpose;
she could not cast off her anxieties, or escape from the shadow of her subjects' hatred, which
clung to her steps. Insolent pamphlets were dropped in her path and in the offices of Whitehall;
she trod upon them in the passages of the palace; they were placed by mysterious hands in the
sanctuary of her bedroom. At length, chafed with a thousand irritations, and craving for a
husband who showed so small anxiety to come to her, she fled from London, at the beginning
of June, to Richmond.

                   [Footnote 327: Machyn's Diary; Strype's Memorials
                   of the Reformation.]

The trials of the last six months had begun to tell upon Mary's understanding: she was ill
with hysterical longings; ill with the passions which Gardiner had kindled and Paget disappointed.
A lady who slept in her room told Noailles that she could speak to no one without impatience,
and that she believed the whole world was in league to keep her husband from her. She found
fault with every one--even with the prince himself. Why had he not written? she asked again
and again. Why had she never {p.138} received one courteous word from him? If she heard of
merchants or sailors arriving from Spain, she would send for them and question them; and some
would tell her that the prince was said to have little heart for his business in England; others
terrified her with tales of fearful fights upon the seas; and others brought her news of the
French squadrons that were on the watch in the Channel.[328] She would start out of her sleep
at night, picturing a thousand terrors, and among them one to which all else were insignificant,
that her prince, who had taken such wild possession of her imagination, had no answering feeling
for herself--that, with her growing years and wasted figure, she could never win him to love
her.[329]

                   [Footnote 328: Le doubte luy est souvent augmentée
                   par plusieurs marchants mariniers et aultres
                   malcontens de son marriage qui venans de France et
                   Espaign luy desguisent et luy controuvent un
                   infinité de nouvelles estranges, les ungs du peu de
                   volunté que le prince a de venir par deçà, les
                   aultres d'avoir ouy et entendus combats sur la mer,
                   et plusieurs d'avoir descouvert grand nombre de
                   voisles Françoises avec grand appareil.--Noailles
                   to the King of France: Ambassades, vol. iii. p.
                   253.]

                   [Footnote 329: L'on m'a dict que quelques heures de
                   la nuict elle entre en telle resverie de ses amours
                   et passions que bien souvent elle se met hors de
                   soy, et croy que la plus grande occasion de sa
                   douleur vient du desplaisir qu'elle a de veoir sa
                   personne si diminuée et ses ans multiplier en telle
                   nombre qu'ilz luy courent tous les jours à grande
                   interest.--Noailles to the King of France:
                   Ambassades, vol. iii. p. 252.]

"The unfortunate queen," wrote Henry of France, "will learn the truth at last. She will wake
too late, in misery and remorse, to know that she has filled the realm with blood for an object
which, when she has gained it, will bring nothing but affliction to herself or to her people."[330]

                   [Footnote 330: Ibid. p. 255.]

But the darkest season has its days of sunshine, and Mary's trials were for the present over.
If the statesmen were disloyal, the clergy and the Universities appreciated her services to
the church, and, in the midst of her trouble, Oxford congratulated her on having been raised
up for the restoration of life and light to England.[331] More pleasant than this pleasant
flattery was the arrival, on the 19th of June, of the Marquis delas Navas from Spain, with
the news that by that time the prince was on his way.

                   [Footnote 331: Nuper cum litterarum studia pene
                   extincta jacerent cum salus omnium exiguâ spe
                   dubiâque penderet quis non fortunæ incertos eventus
                   extimescebat? Quis non ingemuit et arsit dolore?
                   Pars studia deserere cogebantur; pars huc illucque
                   quovis momento rapiebantur; nec ulli certus ordo
                   suumve propositum diu constabat.--The happy change
                   of the last year was then contrasted with proper
                   point and prolixity.--The University of Oxford to
                   the Queen: MS. Domestic, Mary, vol. iv.]

It was even so. Philip had submitted to his unwelcome {p.139} destiny, and six thousand troops
being required pressingly by the emperor in the Low Countries, they attended him for his escort.
A paper of advices was drawn for the prince's use by Renard, directing him how to accommodate
himself to his barbarous fortune. Neither soldiers nor mariners would be allowed to land. The
noblemen, therefore, who formed his retinue, were advised to bring Spanish musketeers, disguised
in liveries, in the place of pages and lacqueys; their arms could be concealed amidst the baggage.
The war would be an excuse for the noblemen being armed themselves, and the prince, on landing,
should have a shirt of mail under his doublet. As to manner, he must endeavour to be affable:
he would have to hunt with the young lords, and to make presents to them; and, with whatever
difficulty, he must learn a few words of English, to exchange the ordinary salutations. As
a friend, Renard recommended Paget to him; he would find Paget "a man of sense."[332]

                   [Footnote 332: "Homme d'esprit."--Instructions
                   données à Philippe, Prince d'Espagne: Granvelle
                   Papers, vol. iv. p. 267.]

Philip, who was never remarkable for personal courage, may be pardoned for having come reluctantly
to a country where he had to bring men-at-arms for servants, and his own cook for fear of being
poisoned. The sea, too, was hateful to him, for he suffered miserably from sickness. Nevertheless,
he was coming, and with him such a retinue of gallant gentlemen as the world has rarely seen
together. The Marquis de los Valles, Gonzaga, d'Aguilar, Medina Celi, Antonio de Toledo, Diego
de Mendoza, the Count de Feria, the Duke of Alva, Count Egmont, and Count Horn--men whose stories
are written in the annals of two worlds: some in letters of glorious light, some in letters
of blood which shall never be washed out while the history of mankind survives. Whether for
evil or good, they were not the meek innocents for whom Renard had at one time asked so anxiously.

In company with these noblemen was Sir Thomas Gresham, charged with half a million of money
in bullion, out of the late arrivals from the New World; which the emperor, after taking security
from the London merchants, had lent the queen, perhaps to enable her to make her marriage palatable
by the restoration of the currency.[333]

                   [Footnote 333: Gresham's Correspondence: Flanders
                   MSS. State Paper Office. The bullion was
                   afterwards drawn in procession in carts through the
                   London streets.]

Thus preciously freighted, the Spanish fleet, a hundred and fifty ships, large and small, sailed
from Corunna at the beginning {p.140} of July. The voyage was weary and wretched. The sea-sickness
prostrated both the prince and the troops, and to the sea-sickness was added the terror of
the French--a terror, as it happened, needless, for the English exiles, by whom the prince
was to have been intercepted, had, in the last few weeks, melted away from the French service,
with the exception of a few who were at Scilly. Sir Peter Carew, for some unknown reason, had
written to ask for his pardon, and had gone to Italy;[334] but the change was recent and unknown,
and the ships stole along in silence, the orders of the prince being that not a salute should
be fired to catch the ear of an enemy.[335] At last, on the 19th of July, the white cliffs
of Freshwater were sighted; Lord Howard lay at the Needles with the English fleet; and on Friday,
the 20th, at three o'clock in the afternoon, the flotilla was safely anchored in Southampton Water.

                   [Footnote 334: Wotton's Correspondence: French
                   MSS. State Paper Office. The title of the Queen of
                   Scots was, perhaps, the difficulty; or Carew may
                   have felt that he could do nothing of real
                   consequence, while he might increase the difficulty
                   of protecting Elizabeth.]

                   [Footnote 335: Noailles to the King of France, July
                   23: Ambassades, vol. iii.]

The queen was on her way to Winchester, where she arrived the next morning, and either in attendance
upon her, or waiting at Southampton, was almost the entire peerage of England. Having made
up their minds to endure the marriage, the lords resolved to give Philip the welcome which
was due to the husband of their sovereign, and in the uncertain temper of the people, their
presence might be necessary to protect his person from insult or from injury.

It was an age of glitter, pomp, and pageantry; the anchors were no sooner down, than a barge
was in readiness, with twenty rowers in the queen's colours of green and white; and Arundel,
Pembroke, Shrewsbury, Derby, and other lords went off to the vessel which carried the royal
standard of Castile. Philip's natural manner was cold and stiff, but he had been schooled into
graciousness. Exhausted by his voyage, he accepted delightedly the instant invitation to go
on shore, and he entered the barge accompanied by the Duke of Alva. A crowd of gentlemen was
waiting to receive him at the landing-place. As he stepped out--not perhaps without some natural
nervousness and sharp glances round him--the whole assemblage knelt. A salute was fired from
the batteries, and Lord Shrewsbury presented him with the order of the Garter.[336] An enthusiastic
eye-witness thus describes Philip's appearance:--

                   [Footnote 336: Antiquaries dispute whether Philip
                   received the Garter on board his own vessel or
                   after he came on shore. Lord Shrewsbury himself
                   settles the important point. "I, the Lord Steward,"
                   Shrewsbury wrote to Wotton, "at his coming to land,
                   presented the Garter to him."--French MSS. Mary,
                   State Paper Office.]

{p.141} "Of visage he is well favoured, with a broad forehead and grey eyes, straight-nosed
and manly countenance. From the forehead to the point of his chin his face groweth small. His
pace is princely, and gait so straight and upright as he loseth no inch of his height; with
a yellow head and a yellow beard; and thus to conclude, he is so well proportioned of body,
arm, leg, and every other limb to the same, as nature cannot work a more perfect pattern, and,
as I have learned, of the age of 28 years. His majesty I judge to be of a stout stomach, pregnant-witted,
and of most gentle nature."[337]

                   [Footnote 337: John Elder to the Bishop of
                   Caithness: Queen Jane and Queen Mary, appendix
                   10. Elder adds that his stature was about that of a
                   certain "John Hume, my Lord of Jedward's kinsman,"
                   which does not help our information. Philip,
                   however, was short.]

Sir Anthony Brown approached, leading a horse with a saddlecloth of crimson velvet, embroidered
with gold and pearls. He presented the steed, with a Latin speech, signifying that he was his
highness's Master of the Horse; and Philip, mounting, went direct to Southampton church, the
English and Spanish noblemen attending bareheaded, to offer thanks for his safe arrival. From
the church he was conducted to a house which had been furnished from the royal stores for his
reception. Everything was, of course, magnificent. Only there had been one single oversight.
Wrought upon the damask hangings, in conspicuous letters, were observed the ominous words,
"Henry, by the Grace of God, King of England, France, and Ireland, and Supreme Head of the
Church of England."[338]

                   [Footnote 338: Baoardo.]

Here the prince was to remain till Monday to recover from his voyage; perhaps to ascertain,
before he left the neighbourhood of his own fleet, the humour of the barbarians among whom
he had arrived. In Latin (he was unable to speak French) he addressed the lords on the causes
which had brought him to England, the chief among those causes being the manifest will of God,
to which he felt himself bound to submit. It was noticed that he never lifted his cap in speaking
to any one,[339] but he evidently endeavoured to be courteous. With a stomach unrecovered from
the sea, and disdaining precautions, he sate down on the night of his arrival to a public English
supper; he even drained a tankard of ale, as an example, he said, to his Spanish companions.[340]
The first evening passed off well, and he {p.142} retired to seek such rest as the strange
land and strange people, the altered diet, and the firing of guns, which never ceased through
the summer night, would allow him.

                   [Footnote 339: Non havendo mai levato la berretta a
                   persona.--Baoardo.]

                   [Footnote 340: Noailles.]

Another feature of his new country awaited Philip in the morning (July 21); he had come from
the sunny plains of Castile; from his window at Southampton he looked out upon a steady downfall
of July rain. Through the cruel torrent[341] he made his way to the church again to mass, and
afterwards Gardiner came to him from the queen. In the afternoon the sky cleared, and the Duchess
of Alva, who had accompanied her husband, was taken out in a barge upon Southampton Water.
Both English and Spaniards exerted themselves to be mutually pleasing; but the situation was
not of a kind which it was desirable to protract. Six thousand Spanish troops were cooped in
the close uneasy transports, forbidden to land lest they should provoke the jealousy of the
people; and when, on Sunday (July 22), his highness had to undergo a public dinner, in which
English servants only were allowed to attend upon him, the Castilian lords, many of whom believed
that they had come to England on a bootless errand, broke out into murmurs.[342]

                   [Footnote 341: Crudele pioggia.--Baoardo.]

                   [Footnote 342: La Dominica Mattina se n'ando a
                   messa et tornato a casa mangio in publico servito
                   da gli officiali che gli haveva data la Reina con
                   mala satisfattione degli Spagnuoli, i quali
                   dubitando che la cosa non andasse a lungo,
                   mormoravano assai tra di loro.--Baoardo.]

Monday came at last; the rain fell again, and the wind howled. The baggage was sent forward
in the morning in the midst of the tempest. Philip lingered in hopes of a change; but no change
came, and after an early dinner the trumpet sounded to horse. Lords, knights, and gentlemen
had thronged into the town, from curiosity or interest, out of all the counties round. Before
the prince mounted it was reckoned, with uneasiness, that as many as four thousand cavaliers,
under no command, were collected to join the procession.

A grey gelding was led up for Philip; he wrapped himself in a scarlet cloak, and started to
meet his bride--to complete a sacrifice the least congenial, perhaps, which ever policy of
state extracted from a prince.

The train could move but slowly. Two miles beyond the gates a drenched rider, spattered with
chalk mud, was seen galloping towards them; on reaching the prince he presented him with a
ring from the queen, and begged his highness, in her majesty's name, to come no further. The
messenger could not explain the cause, being unable to speak any language which {p.143} Philip
could understand, and visions of commotion instantly presented themselves, mixed, it may be,
with a hope that the bitter duty might yet be escaped. Alva was immediately at his master's
side; they reined up, and were asking each other anxiously what should next be done, when an
English lord exclaimed in French, with courteous irony, "Our queen, sire, loves your highness
so tenderly that she would not have you come to her in such wretched weather."[343] The hope,
if hope there had been, died in its birth; before sunset, with drenched garments and draggled
plume, the object of so many anxieties arrived within the walls of Winchester.

                   [Footnote 343: "Sire, la Nostra Reina ama tanto
                   l'Altezza vostra ch'ella non vorebbe che pigliasse
                   disagio di caminar per tempi cosi
                   tristi."--Baoardo.]

To the cathedral he went first, wet as he was. Whatever Philip of Spain was entering upon,
whether it was a marriage or a massacre, a state intrigue or a midnight murder, his opening
step was ever to seek a blessing from the holy wafer. He entered, kissed the crucifix, and
knelt and prayed before the altar; then taking his seat in the choir, he remained while the
choristers sang a Te Deum laudamus, till the long aisles grew dim in the summer twilight, and
he was conducted by torch-light to the Deanery.

The queen was at the bishop's palace, but a few hundred yards distant. Philip, doubtless, could
have endured the postponement of an interview till morning; but Mary could not wait, and the
same night he was conducted into the presence of his haggard bride, who now, after a life of
misery, believed herself at the open gate of Paradise. Let the curtain fall over the meeting,
let it close also over the wedding solemnities which followed with due splendour two days later.
There are scenes in life which we regard with pity too deep for words. The unhappy queen, unloved,
unlovable, yet with her parched heart thirsting for affection, was flinging herself upon a
breast to which an iceberg was warm; upon a man to whom love was an unmeaning word, except
as the most brutal of passions. For a few months she created for herself an atmosphere of unreality.
She saw in Philip the ideal of her imagination, and in Philip's feelings the reflex of her
own; but the dream passed away--her love for her husband remained; but remained only to be
a torture to her. With a broken spirit and bewildered understanding, she turned to Heaven for
comfort, and, instead of heaven, she saw only the false roof of her creed painted to imitate
and shut out the sky.

{p.144} The scene will change for a few pages to the Low Countries. Charles V. more than any
other person was responsible for this marriage. He had desired it not for Mary's sake, not
for Philip's sake, not for religion's sake; but that he might be able to assert a decisive
preponderance over France; and, to gain his end, he had already led the queen into a course
which had forfeited the regard of her subjects. She had murdered Lady Jane Grey at the instigation
of his ambassador, and under the same influence she had done her best to destroy her sister.
Yet Charles, notwithstanding, was one of nature's gentlemen. If he was unscrupulous in the
sacrifice of others to his purposes, he never spared himself; and in the days of his successes
he showed to less advantage than now, when, amidst failing fortunes and ruined health, his
stormy career was closing.

In the spring he had been again supposed to be dying. His military reputation had come out
tarnished from his failure at Metz, and while he was labouring with imperfect success to collect
troops for a summer's campaign, Henry of France, unable to prevent the English marriage, was
preparing to strike a blow so heavy, as should enable him to dictate peace on his own terms
before England was drawn into the quarrel.

In June two French armies took the field. Pietro Strozzi advanced from Piedmont into Tuscany.
Henry himself, with Guise, Montmorency, and half the peerage of France, entered the Low Countries,
sweeping all opposition before him. First Marienbourg fell, then Dinant fell, stormed with
especial gallantry. The young French nobles were taught that they must conquer or die: a party
of them flinched in the breach at Dinant, and the next morning Henry sat in judgment upon them
sceptre in hand; some were hanged, the rest degraded from their rank: "and whereas one privilege
of the gentlemen of France was to be exempt from taylles payable to the crown, they were made
tayllable as any other villains."[344]

                   [Footnote 344: Wotton to the Queen; cypher: French
                   MSS. Mary, bundle xi.]

From Dinant the French advanced to Namur. When Namur should have fallen, Brussels was the next
aim; and there was nothing, as it seemed, which could stop them. The imperial army under the
Prince of Savoy could but hover, far outnumbered, on their skirts. The reinforcements from
Spain had not arrived, and a battle lost was the loss of Belgium.

In the critical temper of England, a decisive superiority obtained by France would be doubly
dangerous; and Charles, seeing Philibert perplexed into uncertain movements which {p.145} threatened
misfortune, disregarding the remonstrances of his physicians, his ministers, and his generals,
started from his sick bed, flew to the head of his troops, and brought them to Namur, in the
path of the advancing French. Men said that he was rushing upon destruction. The headstrong
humour which had already worked him so heavy injury was again dragging him into ruin.[345]
But fortune had been disarmed by the greatness with which Charles had borne up against calamity,
or else his supposed rashness was the highest military wisdom. Before Henry came up he had
seized a position at an angle of the Meuse, where he could defend Namur, and could not be himself
attacked, except at a disadvantage. The French approached only to retire, and, feeling themselves
unable to force the imperial lines, fell back towards the Boullonnois. Charles followed cautiously.
An attack on Renty brought on an action in which the French claimed the victory; but the emperor
held his ground, and the town could not be taken; and Henry's army, from which such splendid
results had been promised, fell back on the frontier and dispersed. The voices which had exclaimed
against the emperor's rashness were now as loud in his praise, and the disasters which he was
accused of provoking, it was now found that he only had averted.[346] Neither the {p.146} French
nor the Imperialists, in their long desperate struggle, can claim either approval or sympathy;
the sufferings which they inflicted upon mankind were not the less real, the selfishness of
their rivalry none the less reprehensible, because the disunion of the Catholic powers permitted
the Reformation to establish itself. Yet, in this perplexed world the deeds of men may be without
excuse, while, nevertheless, in the men themselves there may be something to love, and something
more to admire.

                   [Footnote 345: "You shall understand that the
                   Emperor hath suddenly caused his army to march
                   towards Namur, and that himself is gone after in
                   person; the deliberation whereof, both of the one
                   and the other, is against the advice of his
                   council, and all other men to the staying of him.
                   Wherein Albert the Duke of Savoy, John Baptiste
                   Castaldo, Don Hernando de Gonzaga, and Andrea Doria
                   have done their best, as well by letter as by their
                   coming from the camp to this town, vivâ voce
                   alleging to him the puissance of his enemy, the
                   unableness as yet of his army to encounter with
                   them, the danger of the chopping of them between
                   him and this town, the hazard of himself, his
                   estate, and all these countries, in case, being
                   driven to fight, their army should have an
                   overthrow; in the preservation whereof standeth the
                   safety of the whole, and twenty other arguments.
                   Yet was there no remedy, but forth he would, and
                   commanded them that they should march sans plus
                   répliquez. His headiness hath often put him to
                   great hindrance, specially at Metz, and another
                   time at Algiers. This enterprise is more dangerous
                   than they both. God send him better fortune than
                   multi ominantur."--Mason to Petre, Brussels, July
                   10; German MSS. Mary, bundle 16, State Paper
                   Office.]

                   [Footnote 346: "The Emperor, in these nine or ten
                   days following of his enemy, hath showed a great
                   courage, and no less skilfulness in the war; but
                   much more notably showed the same when, with so
                   small an army as he then had, he entered into
                   Namur, a town of no strength, but commodious for
                   the letting of his enemy's purpose, against the
                   advice and persuasion of all his captains; which,
                   if he had not done, out of doubt first Liége, and
                   after, these countries, had had such a foil as
                   would long after have been remembered.

RECONCILIATION WITH ROME.

Mary had restored Catholic orthodoxy, and her passion for Philip had been gratified. To complete
her work and her happiness, it remained to bring back her subjects to the bosom of the Catholic
Church. Reginald Pole had by this time awoke from some part of his delusions. He had persuaded
himself that he had but to appear with a pardon in his hand to be welcomed to his country with
acclamation: he had ascertained that the English people were very indifferent to the pardon,
and that his own past treasons had created especial objections to himself. Even the queen herself
had grown impatient with him. He had fretted her with his importunities; his presence in Flanders
had chafed the parliament, and made her marriage more difficult; while he was supposed to share
with the English nobles their jealousy of a foreign sovereign. So general was this last impression
about him, that his nephew, Lord Stafford's son, who was one of the refugees, went to seek
him in the expectation of countenance and sympathy: and, farther, he had been in correspondence
with Gardiner, and was believed to be at the bottom of the chancellor's religious indiscretions.[347]
Thus his anxiety to be in England found nowhere any answering desire; and Renard, who dreaded
his want of wisdom, never missed an opportunity of throwing difficulties in the way. In the
spring of 1554 Pole had gone to Paris, where, in an atmosphere of so violent opposition to
the marriage, he had not thought it necessary to speak in favour of it. The words which Dr.
Wotton heard that he had used were reported to the emperor; and, at last, Renard went so far
as to suggest that the scheme of sending him to England had been set on foot at Rome by the
French party in the Consistory, with a view of provoking insurrection and thwarting the Imperial
policy.[348]

                   [Footnote 347: Renard.]

                   [Footnote 348: Que pourroit estre l'on auroit mis
                   en avant au consistoire cette commission par
                   affection particulière pour plustôt nuire, que
                   servir aux consciences; attendu qu'ilz sont
                   partiaulx pour les princes Chrestiens, et souvent
                   meslent les choses séculières et prophanes avec les
                   conseils divins et ecclésiastiques.--Renard to
                   Philip: Granvelle Papers, vol. iv.]

{p.148} The emperor, taught by his old experiences of Pole, acquiesced in the views of his
ambassador. If England was to be brought back to its allegiance, the negotiation would require
a delicacy of handling for which the present legate was wholly unfit; and Charles wrote at
last to the pope to suggest that the commission should be transferred to a more competent person.
Impatient language had been heard of late from the legate's lips, contrasting the vexations
of the world with the charms of devotional retirement. To soften the harshness of the blow,
the emperor said that he understood Pole was himself weary of his office, and wished to escape
into privacy.

The respect of Julius for the legate's understanding was not much larger than the emperor's;
but he would not pronounce the recall without giving him an opportunity of explaining himself.
Cardinal Morone wrote to him to inquire whether it was true that he had thought of retirement;
he informed him of the emperor's complaints; and, to place his resignation in the easiest light
(while pointing, perhaps, to the propriety of his offering it), he hinted at Pole's personal
unpopularity, and at the danger to which he would be exposed by going to England.

But the legate could not relinquish the passionate desire of his life; while, as to the marriage,
he was, after all, unjustly suspected. He requested Morone, in reply, to assure the pope that,
much as he loved retirement, he loved duty more. He appealed to the devotion of his life to
the church as an evidence of his zeal and sincerity; and, although he knew, he said, that God
could direct events at his will and dispense with the service of men, yet, so long as he had
strength to be of use, he would spend it in his Master's cause. In going to England he was
venturing upon a stormy sea; he knew it well;[349] but, whatever befell him, his life was in
God's hands.

                   [Footnote 349: He begged Morone not to suppose him
                   ignorant, "quale sia il mare d'Inghilterra nel
                   quale io ho da navigare et che fortuna et travagli
                   potrei haver a sostinere per condurre la navi in
                   porto."--Pole to Morone: Epist. Reg. Pol. vol.
                   iv. I have not seen Morone's first letter. The
                   contents are to be gathered, however, from Pole's
                   answer, and from a second letter of apology which
                   Morone wrote two months later.]

A fortnight after (May 25), he wrote again, replying more elaborately to the emperor's charges.
It was true, he admitted, that in his letters to the queen he had dwelt more upon her religious
duties than upon her marriage: it was true that he had been backward in his demonstrations
of pleasure, because he was a person of few words. But, so far from disapproving of that marriage,
he looked upon it as the distinct work of God; {p.149} and when his nephew had come with complaints
to him, he had forbidden him his presence. He had spoken of the rule of a stranger in England
as likely to be a lesson to the people; but he had meant only that, as their disasters had
befallen them through their own king Henry, their deliverance would be wrought for them by
one who was not their own. When the late parliament had broken up without consenting to the
restoration of union, he had consoled the queen with assuring her that he saw in it the hand
of Providence; the breach of a marriage between an English king and a Spanish princess had
caused the wound which a renewed marriage of a Spanish king and an English queen was to heal.[350]

                   [Footnote 350: Scrissi alla Regina non la volendo
                   contristare condolermi di cio, che lo interpretava
                   et intendeva che questa tardita non venisse tanto
                   da lei quanto delle Providentia di Dio, il qual
                   habbia ordinato che si come per discordia
                   matrimoniale d'un Re Inglese et d'una Regina
                   Hispana fu levata l'obedientia della chiesa de quel
                   Regno cosi dalla concordia matrimoniale d'un Re
                   Hispano et d'una Regina Inglese ella vi doverse
                   ritornare.--Pole to Morone: Epist. Reg. Pol. vol.
                   iv.]

The defence was elaborate, and, on the whole, may have been tolerably true. The pope would
not take the trouble to read it, or even to hear it read;[351] but the substance, as related
to him by Morone, convinced him that the emperor's accusations were exaggerated: to recall
a legate at the instance of a secular sovereign was an undesirable precedent;[352] and the
commission was allowed to stand. Julius wrote to Charles, assuring him that he was mistaken
in the legate's feelings, leaving the emperor at the same time, however, full power to keep
him in Flanders or to send him to England at his own discretion.

                   [Footnote 351: E benchè S. Sanctità non havesse
                   patienza secundo l'ordinario suo di leggere o di
                   udir la lettera, nondimeno le dissi talmente la
                   summa che nostro restare satisfattissima, e disse
                   esser più che certa che quella non haveva dato
                   causa ne all' Imperatore ne ad altri d'usar con lei
                   termini cosi extravaganti.--Morone to Pole:
                   Burnet's Collectanea.]

                   [Footnote 352: Ibid.]

Pole was to continue the instrument of the reconciliation; the conditions under which the reconciliation
could take place were less easy to settle. The popes, whose powers are unlimited where the
exercise of them is convenient for the interests of the Holy See, have uniformly fallen back
upon their inability where they have been called on to make sacrifices. The canons of the church
forbade, under any pretext, the alienation of ecclesiastical property; and until Julius could
relinquish ex animo all intention of disturbing the lay holders of the English abbey lands,
there was not a chance that the question of his supremacy would be so much as entertained by
either Lords or Commons.

{p.150} The vague powers originally granted to the legate were not satisfactory; and Pole himself,
who was too sincere a believer in the Roman doctrines to endure that worldly objections should
stand in the way of the salvation of souls, wrote himself to the Holy See, entreating that
his commission might be enlarged. The pope in appearance consented. In a second brief, dated
June 28th, he extended the legate's dispensing powers to real property as well as personal,
and granted him general permission to determine any unforeseen difficulties which might arise.[353]
Ormaneto, a confidential agent, carried the despatch to Flanders, and on Ormaneto's arrival,
the legate, believing that his embarrassments were at last at an end, sent him on to the Bishop
of Arras, to entreat that the perishing souls of the English people might now be remembered.
The pope had given way; the queen was happily married, and the reasons for his detention were
at an end.[354]

                   [Footnote 353: Powers granted by the Pope to
                   Cardinal Pole: Burnet's Collectanea.]

                   [Footnote 354: Charles V. to Renard: Granvelle
                   Papers, vol. iv.]

Both Arras and the emperor, however, thought more of Philip's security than of perishing souls.
Arras, who understood the ways of the Vatican better than the legate, desired that, before
any steps were taken, he might be favoured with a copy of these enlarged powers. He wished
to know whether the question of the property was fairly relinquished to the secular powers
in England, and whether the church had finally washed its hands of it;[355] at all events,
he must examine the brief. On inspection, the new commission was found to contain an enabling
clause indeed, as extensive as words could make it; but the See of Rome reserved to itself
the right of sanctioning the settlement after it had been made;[356] and the reservation had
been purposely made, in order to leave the pope free to act as he might please at a future
time. Morone, writing to Pole a fortnight after the date of the brief, told him that his holiness
was still unable to come to a resolution;[357] while Ormaneto said openly to Arras, that, although
the pope would be as moderate as possible, yet his moderation must not be carried so far as
to {p.151} encourage the rest of Christendom in an evil example. Catholics must not be allowed
to believe that they could appropriate church property without offence, nor must the Holy See
appear to be purchasing by concessions the submission of its rebellious subjects.[358]

                   [Footnote 355: Che gran differenza sarebbe se fosse
                   stata commessa la cosa o al S. Cardinale, o alli
                   Serenissimi Principi.--Ormaneto to Priuli, July 31:
                   Burnet's Collectanea.]

                   [Footnote 356: Salvo tamen in his, in quibus
                   propter rerum magnitudinem et gravitatem hæc sancta
                   sedes merito tibi videretur consulenda, nostro et
                   præfatæ sedis beneplacito et confirmatione.--Powers
                   granted by the Pope to Cardinal Pole: Ibid.]

                   [Footnote 357: Nondimeno non si risolveva in tutto,
                   com anco non si risolveva nella materia delli beni
                   ecclesiastici, sopra la qual sua Sanctità ha
                   parlato molte volte variamente.--Morone to Pole,
                   July 13: Ibid.]

                   [Footnote 358: Il sçauroit bien user de modération
                   quant aux biens occupez; mais que toutesfois il
                   fauldroit que se fust de sorte que la reste de la
                   Chrestienté n'en prînt malvais exemple; et
                   signamment que aucuns Catholiques qui tiennent
                   biens ecclésiastiques soubz leur main ne
                   voulsissent pretendre d'eulx approprier avec cest
                   exemple; et que de vouloir laisser les biens à
                   ceulx qui les occupent, il ne conviendroit pour ce
                   qu'il sembleroit que ce seroit racheter, comme à
                   deniers comptans l'auctorité du siége apostolique
                   en ce coustel-là. The Emperor to Renard: Granvelle
                   Papers, vol. iv. pp. 282, 283.]

This language was not even ambiguous; Pole was desired to wait till an answer could be received
from England; and the emperor wrote to Renard (August 3), desiring him to lay the circumstances
before the queen and his son. He could believe, he said, that the legate himself meant well,
but he had not the same confidence in those who were urging him forward, and the pope had given
no authority for haste or precipitate movements.[359]

                   [Footnote 359: Nous sçavons que le diet Cardinal
                   n'a commission de presser si chauldement en cette
                   affaire--ains avons heu soubz main advertissement
                   du nunce propre de sa Saincteté que la résolution
                   de la commission dudict Cardinal est que toutes
                   choses se traictent comm'il nous semblera pour le
                   mieulx et qu'il tienne cecy pour règle.--Granv.
                   Papers, vol. iv.]

The emperor's letter was laid before a council of state at Windsor, on the 6th of August; and
the council agreed with Charles that the legate's anxieties could not for the present be gratified.
He was himself attainted, and parliament had shown no anxiety that the attainder should be
removed. The reimposition of the pope's authority was a far more ticklish matter than the restoration
of orthodoxy,[360] and the temper of the people was uncertain. The cardinal had, perhaps, intelligence
with persons in England of a suspicious and dangerous kind, and the execution of his commission
must depend on the pleasure of the next parliament. He was not to suppose that he might introduce
changes in the constitution of the country by the authority of a papal commission, or try experiments
which might put in peril the sacred person of the prince.[361]

                   [Footnote 360: Trop plus chastolleux que celuy de
                   la vraye religion.--Renard to the Emperor: Ibid. p.
                   287.]

                   [Footnote 361: Ibid.]

Once more the cup of hope was dashed to the ground, and Reginald Pole was sent back to his
monastery at Dhilinghen like a child unfit to be trusted with a dangerous plaything. In times
of trial his pen was his refuge, and in an appeal to Philip he poured out his characteristic
protest.

{p.152} "For a whole year," he wrote, "I have been now knocking at the door of that kingdom,
and no person will answer, no person will ask, Who is there? It is one who has endured twenty
years of exile that the partner of your throne should not be excluded from her rights, and
I come in the name of the vicar of the King of kings, the Shepherd of mankind. Peter knocks
at your door; Peter himself. The door is open to all besides. Why is it closed to Peter? Why
does not that nation make haste now to do Peter reverence? Why does it leave him escaped from
Herod's prison, knocking?

"Strange, too, that this is the house of Mary. Can it be Mary that is so slow to open? True,
indeed, it is, that when Mary's damsel heard the voice she opened not the door for joy; she
ran and told Mary. But Mary came with those that were with her in the house; and though at
first she doubted, yet, when Peter continued knocking, she opened the door; she took him in,
she regarded not the danger, although Herod was yet alive and was king.

"Is it joy which now withholds Mary, or is it fear? She rejoices, that I know, but she also
fears. Yet why should Mary fear now when Herod is dead? The providence of God permitted her
to fear for awhile, because God desired that you, sire, who are Peter's beloved child, should
share the great work with her. Do you, therefore, teach her now to cast her fears away. It
is not I only who stand here--it is not only Peter--Christ is here--Christ waits with me till
you will open and take him in. You who are King of England, are defender of Christ's faith;
yet, while you have the ambassadors of all other princes at your court, you will not have Christ's
ambassador; you have rejected your Christ.

"Go on upon your way. Build on the foundation of worldly policy, and I tell you, in Christ's
words, that the rain will fall, the floods will rise, the winds will blow, and beat upon that
house, and it will fall, and great will be the fall thereof."[362]

                   [Footnote 362: Pole to Philip: Epist. Reg. Pol.
                   vol. iv.]

The pleading was powerful, yet it could bear no fruits--the door could not open till the pope
pronounced the magic words which held it closed. Neither Philip nor Mary was in a position
to use violence or force the bars.

After the ceremony at Winchester, the king and queen had gone first to Windsor, and thence
the second week in August they went to Richmond. The entry into London was fixed for the 18th;
after which, should it pass off without disturbance, {p.153} the Spanish fleet might sail from
Southampton Water. The prince himself had as yet met with no discourtesy; but disputes had
broken out early between the English and Spanish retinues, and petty taunts and insolences
had passed among them.[363] The prince's luggage was plundered, and the property stolen could
not be recovered nor the thieves detected. The servants of Alva and the other lords, who preceded
their masters to London, were insulted in the streets, and women and children called after
them that they need not have brought so many things, they would be soon gone again. The citizens
refused to give them lodgings in their houses, and the friars who had accompanied Philip were
advised to disguise themselves, so intense was the hatred against the religious orders.[364]
The council soon provided for their ordinary comforts, but increase of acquaintance produced
no improvement of feeling.

                   [Footnote 363: Avecques d'aultres petits
                   depportements de mocquerie qui croissent tous les
                   jours d'ung cousté et d'aultre.--Noailles to the
                   King of France, August 1.]

                   [Footnote 364: Noailles, and compare Pole to
                   Miranda, Oct. 6: Epist. Reg. Pol. vol. v.]

The entry passed off tolerably. Gog and Magog stood as warders on London Bridge, and there
were the usual pageants in the city. Renard conceived that the impression produced by Philip
had been rather favourable than otherwise; for the people had been taught to expect some monster
but partially human, and they saw instead a well-dressed cavalier, who had learnt by this time
to carry his hand to his bonnet. Yet, although there were no open signs of ill-feeling, the
day did not end without a disagreeable incident. The conduit in Gracechurch Street had been
newly decorated: "the nine Worthies" had been painted round the winding turret, and among them
were Henry VIII. and Edward. The first seven carried maces, swords, or pole-axes. Henry held
in one hand a sceptre, in the other he was presenting a book to his son, on which was written
Verbum Dei. As the train went by, the unwelcome figure caught the eye of Gardiner. The painter
was summoned, called "knave, traitor, heretic," an enemy to the queen's Catholic proceedings.
The offensive Bible was washed out, and a pair of gloves inserted in its place.[365]

                   [Footnote 365: Chronicle of Queen Mary.
                   Contemporary Narrative: MS. Harleian, 419.]

Nor did the irritation of the people abate. The Spaniards, being without special occupation,
were seen much in the streets; and a vague fear so magnified their numbers that four of them,
it was thought, were to be met in London for one Englishman.[366] {p.154} The halls of the
city companies were given up for their use; a fresh provocation to people who desired to be
provoked. A Spanish friar was lodged at Lambeth, and it was said at once he was to be Archbishop
of Canterbury; at the beginning of September twelve thousand Spanish troops were reported to
be coming to "fetch the crown." Rumour and reality inflated each other. The peers, who had
collected for the marriage, dispersed to their counties; and on the 10th of September, Pembroke,
Shrewsbury, and Westmoreland were believed to have raised a standard of revolt at York. Frays
were continually breaking out in the streets, and there was a scandalous brawl in the cloisters
at Westminster. Brief entries in diaries and council books tell continually of Englishmen killed,
and Spaniards hanged, hanged at Tyburn, or hanged more conspicuously at Charing Cross; and
on the 12th, Noailles reported that the feeling in all classes, high and low, was as bad as
possible.

                   [Footnote 366: Chronicle of Queen Mary.]

There was dread, too, that Philip was bent on drawing England into the war. The French ambassador
had been invited to be present at the entry into London; but the invitation had been sent informally
by a common messenger not more than half an hour before the royal party were to appear. The
brief notice was intended as an affront, and only after some days Noailles appeared at court
to offer his congratulations. When he came at last, he expressed his master's hope to Philip
that the neutrality of England would continue to be observed. Philip answered with cold significance,
that he would keep his promise and maintain the treaties, as long as by doing so he should
consult the interest of the realm.[367]

                   [Footnote 367: Tant et si longuement que se seroit
                   l'utilité et commodité de ce dict Royaulme
                   d'Angleterre.--Noailles to the King of France.]

Other menacing symptoms were also showing themselves: the claim for the pensions was spoken
of as likely to be revived; the English ships in the Channel were making the neutrality one-sided,
and protecting the Spanish and Flemish traders; and Philip, already weary of his bride, was
urging on Renard the propriety of his hastening, like an obedient son, to the assistance of
his father. Under pretence of escort he could take with him a few thousand English cavalry
and men-at-arms, who could be used as a menace to France, and whose presence would show the
attitude which England was about to assume. Sick, in these brief weeks, of maintaining the
show of an affection which he did not feel, and sick of a country where his friends were insulted
if he was treated respectfully himself, he was {p.155} already panting for freedom, and eager
to utilise the instruments which he had bought so dearly.[368]

                   [Footnote 368: Renard to Charles V.: Granvelle
                   Papers, vol. iv. p. 294.]

Happily for the queen's peace of mind, Renard was not a man to encourage impatience. The factions
in the council were again showing themselves; Elizabeth lay undisposed of at Woodstock. Pomfret,
Belgium, even Hungary, had been thought of as a destination for her, and had been laid aside
one after the other, in dread of the people. If she was released, she would again be dangerous,
and it was uncertain how long Lord Howard would endure her detention. A plan suggested by Lord
Paget seemed, after all, to promise the best--to marry her to Philibert of Savoy, and thus
make use of her as a second link to connect England with the House of Austria. But here the
difficulty would be with the queen, who in that case would have to recognise her sister's rank
and expectations.

The question should be settled before Philip left England, and he must have faced parliament
too, and, if possible, have been crowned. If he went now, he would never come back; let him
court the people advised the keen Renard; let him play off the people against the lords; there
was ill blood between the rich and poor, let him use the opportunity.

The state of public feeling did not improve when, at the end of September, Bonner commenced
an inquisition into the conduct and opinions of the clergy of his diocese. In every parish
he appointed a person or persons to examine whether the minister was or ever had been married;
whether, if married and separated from his wife, he continued in secret to visit her; whether
his sermons were orthodox; whether he was a "brawler, scolder, hawker, hunter, fornicator,
adulterer, drunkard, or blasphemer;" whether he duly exhorted his parishioners to come to mass
and confession; whether he associated with heretics, or had been suspected of associating with
them; his mind, his habits, his society, even the dress that he wore, were to be made matter
of close scrutiny.

The points of inquiry were published in a series of articles which created an instantaneous
ferment. Among the merchants they were attributed to the king, queen, and Gardiner, and were
held to be the first step of a conspiracy against their liberties. A report was spread at the
same time that the king meditated a seizure of the Tower; barriers were forthwith erected in
the great thoroughfares leading into the city, and no one was allowed to pass unchallenged.[369]

                   [Footnote 369: Renard to the Bishop of Arras: Ibid.
                   p. 330.]

{p.156} The Bishop of London was called to account for having ventured so rash a step without
permission of crown or council. He replied that he was but doing his duty; the council, had
he communicated with them, would have interfered with him, and in the execution of his office
he must be governed by his own conscience.[370] But the attitude of the city was too decided
even for the stubborn Bonner, he gave way sullenly, and suspended the execution of his order.

                   [Footnote 370: Renard to the Emperor: Granvelle
                   Papers, vol. iv. p. 321.]

Worse clouds than these nevertheless had many times gathered over the court and dispersed again.
It was easy to be discontented; but when the discontent would pass into action, there was nothing
definite to be done; and between the leading statesmen there were such large differences of
opinion, that they could not co-operate.[371] The court, as Renard saw, could accomplish everything
which they desired with caution and prudence. The humours of the people might flame out on
a sudden if too hastily irritated, but the opposite tendencies of parties effectually balanced
each other; and even the papal difficulty might be managed, and Pole might in time be brought
over, if only there was no precipitation, and the pope was compelled to be reasonable.

                   [Footnote 371: Entre les seigneurs et gens de la
                   noblesse et de credit et administration, il y a
                   telle partialité que l'un ne se fie de
                   l'autre.--Ibid.]

But prudence was the first and last essential; the legate must be content to wait, and also
Philip must wait. The winter was coming on, and the court, Renard said, was giving balls; the
English and Spanish noblemen were learning to talk with one another, and were beginning to
dance with each other's wives and daughters. The ill-feeling was gradually abating; and, in
fact, it was not to be believed that God Almighty would have brought about so considerable
a marriage without intending that good should come of it.[372] The queen believed herself enceinte,
and if her hopes were well founded, a thousand causes of restlessness would be disposed of;
but Philip must not be permitted to harass her with his impatience to be gone. She had gathered
something of his intentions, and was already pretending more uncertainty than in her heart
she felt, lest he {p.157} should make the assurance of her prospects an excuse for leaving
her. In a remarkable passage, Renard urged the emperor on no account to encourage him in a
step so eminently injudicious, from a problematic hope of embroiling England and France. "Let
parliament meet," he said, "and pass off quietly, and in February his highness may safely go.
Irreparable injury may and will follow, however, should he leave England before. Religion will
be overthrown, the queen's person will be in danger, and parliament will not meet. A door will
be opened for the practices of France; the country may throw itself in self-protection on the
French alliance, and an undying hatred will be engendered between England and Spain. As things
now are, prudence and moderation are more than ever necessary; and we must allow neither the
king nor the queen to be led astray by unwise impatient advisers, who, for the advancement
of their private opinions, or because they cannot have all the liberty which they desire, are
ready to compromise the commonwealth."[373]

                   [Footnote 372: Les choses se vont accommoder à quoy
                   sert la saison de l'hiver et ce que en la court
                   l'on y danse souvent; que les Espaignolz et Angloys
                   commencent à converser les ungs avec les aultres
                   ... et n'y a personne qui puisse imaginer que Dieu
                   ait voulu ung si grand marriage et de telz princes,
                   pour en esperer sinon ung grand bien publique pour
                   la Chrestienté, et pour restablir et asseurer les
                   estatz de vostre majesté troublez par ses
                   ennemis.--Renard to the Emperor: Granvelle
                   Papers, vol. iv. p. 319.]

                   [Footnote 373: Granvelle Papers, vol. iv. p.
                   320.]

So matters stood at the beginning of October, when parliament was about to be summoned, and
the great experiment to be tried whether England would consent to be re-united to Catholic
Christendom. The writs went out on the 6th, and circulars accompanied them, addressed to those
who would have the conduct of the elections, stating that, whatever false reports might have
been spread, no "alteration was intended of any man's possessions." At the same time the queen
required the mayors of towns, the sheriffs, and other influential persons to admonish the voters
to choose from among themselves "such as, being eligible by order of the laws, were of a wise,
grave, and Catholic sort; such as indeed meant the true honour of God and the prosperity of
the commonwealth."[374]These general directions were copied from a form which had been in use
under Henry VII., and the citizens of London set the example of obedience in electing four
members who were in every way satisfactory to the court.[375] In the country the decisive failure
of Carew, Suffolk, and Crofts showed that the weight of public feeling was still in favour
of the queen notwithstanding the {p.158} Spanish marriage; and the reaction against the excesses
of the Reformation had not yet reached its limits. On the accession of Mary, the restoration
of the mass had appeared impossible, but it had been effected safely and completely almost
by the spontaneous will of the people. In the spring the pope's name could not be mentioned
in parliament; now, since the queen was bent upon it, and as she gave her word that property
was not to be meddled with, even the pope seemed no longer absolutely intolerable.

                   [Footnote 374: Royal Circular; printed in Burnet's
                   Collectanea.]

                   [Footnote 375: Les lettres de la convocation du
                   parlement sont esté pourjectées sur la vieille
                   forme dont l'on usoit au temps du Roy Henry
                   septième pour avoir en icelluy gens de bien
                   Catholiques: et à propos et selon ce ceulx de
                   Londre en publique assemblée ont choisiz quatre
                   personnaiges que l'on tient estre fort saiges et
                   modestes.--Renard to the Emperor: Granvelle
                   Papers, vol. iv. p. 324.]

The reports of the elections were everywhere favourable. In the Upper House, except on very
critical points, which would unite the small body of the lay peers, the court was certain of
a majority, being supported of course by the bishops--and the question of Pole's coming over,
therefore, was once more seriously considered. The pope had been given to understand that,
however inconsistent with his dignity he might consider it to appear to purchase English submission
by setting aside the canons of the church, he must consent to the English terms, or there was
no hope whatever that his supremacy would be recognised. If in accepting these terms he would
agree to a humiliating reconciliation, only those who objected on doctrinal grounds to the
papal religion were inclined to persist in refusing a return of his friendship. The dream of
an independent orthodox Anglicanism which had once found favour with Gardiner was fading away.
The indifferent and the orthodox alike desired to put an end to spiritual anarchy; and the
excommunication, though lying lightly on the people, and despised even by the Catholic powers,
had furnished, and might furnish, a pretext for inconvenient combinations. Singularity of position,
where there was no especial cause for it, was always to be avoided.

These influences would have been insufficient to have brought the English of themselves to
seek for a reunion. They were enough to induce them to accept it with indifference when offered
them on their own conditions, or to affect for a time an outward appearance of acquiescence.

Philip, therefore, consulted Renard, and Charles invited Pole to Brussels. Renard, to whom
politics were all-important, and religion useful in its place, but inconvenient when pushed
into prominence, adhered to his old opinion. He advised the "king to write privately to the
pope, telling him that he had already so many embarrassments on his hands that he could not
afford to increase them;" "the changes already made were insincere, and the legatine authority
was odious, not only in England, {p.159} but throughout Europe;" "the queen, on her accession,
had promised a general toleration,[376] and it was useless to provoke irritation, when not
absolutely necessary." Yet even Renard spoke less positively than before. "If the pope would
make no more reservations on the land question--if he would volunteer a general absolution,
and submit to conditions, while he exacted none--if he would sanction every ecclesiastical
act which had been done during the schism, the marriages and baptisms, the ordinations of the
clergy, and the new creations of episcopal sees--above all, if he would make no demand for
money under any pretence, the venture might, perhaps, be made." But, continued Renard, "his
holiness, even then, must be cautious in his words; he must dwell as lightly as possible on
his authority, as lightly as possible on his claims to be obeyed: in offering absolution, he
must talk merely of piety and love, of the open arms of the church, of the example of the Saviour,
and such other generalities."[377] Finally, Renard still thought the legate had better remain
abroad. The reconciliation, if it could be effected at all, could be managed better without
his irritating presence.

                   [Footnote 376: Le mandement et declaration que
                   vostre Majesté a faict publier sur le point de la
                   religion, laissant la liberté à ung chacun pour
                   tenir quelle religion l'on vouldra.--Renard to
                   Philip and Mary: Granvelle Papers, vol. iv. p.
                   327.]

                   [Footnote 377: Et que sa Saincteté le fonde in
                   pietate Christianâ et ecclesiasticâ quia, nunquam
                   Ecclesia claudit gremium, semper indulget exemplo
                   Salvatoris, et Evangelium semper consolatur, semper
                   remittit, et sur plusieurs aultres fondemens
                   generaulx.--Ibid. p. 326.]

Pole himself had found the emperor more gracious. Charles professed the greatest anxiety that
the papal authority should be restored. He doubted only if the difficulties could be surmounted.
Pole replied that the obstacles were chiefly two--one respecting doctrine, on which no concession
could be made at all; the other respecting the lands, on which his holiness would make every
concession. He would ask for nothing, he would exact nothing; he would abandon every shadow
of a claim.

If this was the case, the emperor said, all would go well. Nevertheless, there was the reservation
in the brief, and the pope, however generous he might wish to be, was uncertain of his power.
The doctrine was of no consequence. People in England believed one doctrine as little as another;[378]
but they {p.160} hated Rome, they hated the religious orders, they hated cardinals; and, as
to the lands, could the church relinquish them?[379] Pole might believe that she could; but
the world would be more suspicious, or less easy to convince. At all events, the dispensing
powers must be clogged with no reservations; nor could he come to any decision till he heard
again from England.

                   [Footnote 378: Perciocche quanto alla Doctrina
                   disse che poco se ne curavano questo tali non
                   credendo ne all' una ne all' altra via.--Pole to
                   the Pope, October 13: Burnet's Collectanea.]

                   [Footnote 379: Disse anche che essendo stati questi
                   beni dedicati a Dio non era da concedere cosi ogna
                   cosa a quelli che la tenevano.--Burnet's
                   Collectanea.]

The legate was almost hopeless; yet his time of triumph--such triumph as it was--had nearly
arrived. The queen's supposed pregnancy had increased her influence; and, constant herself
in the midst of general indecision, she was able to carry her point. She would not mortify
the legate, who had suffered for his constancy to the cause of her mother, with listening to
Renard's personal objections; and when the character of the approaching House of Commons had
been ascertained, she gained the consent of the council, a week before the beginning of the
session, to send commissioners to Brussels to see Pole and inspect his faculties. With a conclusive
understanding on the central question, they might tell him that the hope of his life might
be realised, and that he might return to his country. But the conditions were explicit. He
must bring adequate powers with him, or his coming would be worse than fruitless. If those
which he already possessed were insufficient, he must send them to Rome to be enlarged;[380]
and although the court would receive him as legate de latere, he had better enter the country
only as a cardinal and ambassador, till he could judge of the state of things for himself.[381]
On these terms the commissioners might conduct him to the queen's presence.

                   [Footnote 380: The greatest and only means to
                   procure the agreement of the noblemen and others of
                   our council was our promise that the Pope's
                   Holiness would, at our suit, dispense with all
                   possessors of any lands or goods of monasteries,
                   colleges, or other ecclesiastical houses, to hold
                   and enjoy their said lands and goods without any
                   trouble or scruple; without which promise it had
                   been impossible to have had their consent, and
                   shall be utterly impossible to have any fruit and
                   good concord ensue. For which purpose you shall
                   earnestly pray our said cousin to use all possible
                   diligence, and say that if he have not already, he
                   may so receive authority from the See Apostolic to
                   dispense in this manner as the same, being now in
                   good towardness, may so in this Parliament take the
                   desired effect; whereof we see no likelihood except
                   it may be therewithal provided for this matter of
                   the lands and goods of the Church.--Instructions to
                   Paget and Hastings, November 5; Tytler, vol. ii. p.
                   446.]

                   [Footnote 381: Tytler, vol. ii. p. 446.]

The bearers of this communication were Lord Paget and Sir {p.161} Edward Hastings, accompanied,
it is curious to observe, by Sir William Cecil.[382]

                   [Footnote 382: Cecil had taken no formal part in
                   Mary's government, but his handwriting can be
                   traced in many papers of State, and in the Irish
                   department he seems to have given his assistance
                   throughout the reign. In religion Cecil, like
                   Paget, was a latitudinarian. His conformity under
                   Mary has been commented upon bitterly; but there is
                   no occasion to be surprised at his conduct--no
                   occasion, when one thinks seriously of his
                   position, to blame his conduct. There were many
                   things in the Catholic creed of which Cecil
                   disapproved; and when his opportunity came, he gave
                   his effectual assistance for the abolition of them;
                   but as long as that creed was the law of the land,
                   as a citizen he paid the law the respect of
                   external obedience.

                   At present religion is no longer under the control
                   of law, and is left to the conscience. To profess
                   openly, therefore, a faith which we do not believe
                   is justly condemned as hypocrisy. But wherever
                   public law extends, personal responsibility is
                   limited. A minority is not permitted to resist the
                   decisions of the legislature on subjects in which
                   the legislature is entitled to interfere; and in
                   the sixteenth century opinion was as entirely under
                   rule and prescription as actions or things. Men may
                   do their best to improve the laws which they
                   consider unjust. They are not, under ordinary
                   circumstances, to disobey them so long as they
                   exist. However wide the basis of a government,
                   questions will ever rise between the individual and
                   the state--questions, for instance, of peace or
                   war, in which the conscience has as much a voice as
                   any other subject; where, nevertheless,
                   individuals, if they are in the minority, must
                   sacrifice their own opinions; they must contribute
                   their war taxes without resistance; if they are
                   soldiers, they must take part as combatants for a
                   cause of which they are convinced of the injustice.
                   That is to say, they must do things which it would
                   be impious and wicked in them to do, were they as
                   free in their obligations as citizens as they are
                   now free in the religion which they will profess.

                   This was the view in which the mass was regarded by
                   statesmen like Cecil, and generally by many men of
                   plain straightforward understanding, who believed
                   transubstantiation as little as he. In
                   Protestantism, as a constructive theology, they had
                   as little interest as in Popery; when the
                   alternative lay between the two, they saw no reason
                   to sacrifice themselves for either.

                   It was the view of common sense. It was not the
                   view of a saint. To Latimer, also, technical
                   theology was indifferent--indifferent in proportion
                   to his piety. But he hated lies--legalised or
                   unlegalised--he could not tolerate them, and he
                   died sooner than seem to tolerate them. The
                   counsels of perfection, however, lead to conduct
                   neither possible, nor, perhaps, desirable for
                   ordinary men.]

They presented themselves to the emperor, who, after the report which they brought with them,
made no more difficulty. The enlarged powers had been sent for three weeks before; but there
was no occasion to wait for their arrival. They might be expected in ten days or a fortnight,
and could follow the legate to England.[383]

                   [Footnote 383: Charles was particular in his
                   inquiries of Mary's prospect of a family. He spoke
                   to Sir John Mason about it, who was then the
                   resident ambassador:--

                   "Sir, quoth I," so Mason reported the conversation,
                   "I have from herself nothing to say, for she will
                   not confess the matter till it be proved to her
                   face; but by others I understand, to my great joy,
                   that her garments wax very straight. I never
                   doubted, quoth he, of the matter, but that God,
                   that for her had wrought so many miracles, would
                   make the same perfect to the assisting of nature to
                   his good and most desired work: and I warrant it
                   shall be, quoth he, a man-child. Be it man, quoth
                   I, or be it woman, welcome it shall be; for by that
                   we shall be at the least come to some certainty to
                   whom God shall appoint by succession the government
                   of our estates."--Mason to the King and Queen,
                   November 9: Tytler, vol. ii. p. 444.]

{p.162} The effect on Pole of the commissioners' arrival "there needed not," as they said themselves,
"many words to declare."[384] His eager temperament, for ever excited either with wild hopes
or equally wild despondency, was now about to be fooled to the top of its bent. On the pope's
behalf, he promised everything; for himself, he would come as ambassador, he would come as
a private person, come in any fashion that might do good, so only that he might come.

                   [Footnote 384: Paget and Hastings to the Queen:
                   Ibid. p. 459]

Little time was lost in preparation. Parliament met on the 12th of November. The opening speech
was read, as usual, by Gardiner, and was well received, although it announced that further
measures would be taken for the establishment of religion, and the meaning of these words was
known to every one. The first measure brought forward was the repeal of Pole's attainder. It
passed easily without a dissentient voice, and no obstacle of any kind remained to delay his
appearance. Only the cautious Renard suggested that Courtenay should be sent out of the country
as soon as possible, for fear the legate should take a fancy to him; and the Prince of Savoy
had been invited over to see whether anything could be done towards arranging the marriage
with Elizabeth. Elizabeth, indeed, had protested that she had no intention of marrying; nevertheless,
Renard said, she would be disposed of, as the emperor had advised,[385] could the queen be
induced to consent.

                   [Footnote 385: Neantmoins il sera necessaire
                   achever avec elle selon l'advis de vostre
                   Majesté.--Renard to the Emperor: Granvelle
                   Papers, vol. iv.]

England was ready therefore, and the happy legate set out from Brussels like a lover flying
to his mistress. His emotions are reflected in the journal of an Italian friend who attended
him. The journey commenced on Tuesday, the 13th; the retinues of Paget and Hastings, with the
cardinal's household, making in all a hundred and twenty horse. The route was by Ghent, Bruges,
and Dunkirk. On the 19th the party reached Gravelines, where, on the stream which formed the
boundary of the Pale, they were received in state by Lord Wentworth, the Governor of Calais.
In the eyes of his enthusiastic admirers the {p.163} apostle of the church moved in an atmosphere
of marvel. The Calais bells, which rang as they entered the town, were of preternatural sweetness.
The salutes fired by the ships in the harbour were "wonderful." The cardinal's lodging was
a palace, and as an august omen, the watchword of the garrison for the night was "God long
lost is found."[386] The morning brought a miracle. A westerly gale had blown for many days.
All night long it had howled through the narrow streets; the waves had lashed against the piers,
and the fishermen foretold a week of storms. At daybreak the wind went down, the clouds broke,
a light air from the eastward levelled the sea, and filled the sails of the vessel which was
to bear them to England. At noon the party went on board, and their passage was a fresh surprise.
They crossed in three hours and a half, and the distance, as it pictured itself to imagination,
was forty miles.[387] At Dover the legate slept. The next day Lord Montague came with the Bishop
of Ely, bringing letters of congratulation from the queen and Philip, and an intimation that
he was anxiously looked for. He was again on horseback after breakfast; and as the news of
his arrival spread, respect or curiosity rapidly swelled his train. The Earl of Huntingdon,
who had married his sister, sent his son Lord Hastings, with his tenants and servants, as an
escort. But there was no danger. Whatever might be the feelings of the people towards the papal
legate, they gave to Reginald Pole the welcome due to an English nobleman.

                   [Footnote 386: Dio gran tempo perduto e hora
                   ritrovato.--Descriptio Reductionis Angliæ: Epist.
                   Reg. Pol. vol. v.]

                   [Footnote 387: Imbarcatosi adunque sua S. R. ad un
                   hora di giorno, passo a Doure nell' Isola in tre
                   hore et mezza che fu camino di quaranta miglia
                   fatto con extraordinaria prestezza.--Epist. Reg.
                   Pol. vol. v.]

The November evening had closed in when the cavalcade entered Canterbury. The streets were
thronged, and the legate made his way through the crowd, amidst the cries of "God save your
grace." At the door of the house--probably the archbishop's palace--where he was to pass the
night, Harpsfeld, the archdeacon, was standing to receive him, with a number of the clergy;
and with the glare of torches lighting up the scene, Harpsfeld commenced an oration as the
legate alighted, so beautiful, so affecting, says Pole's Italian friend, that all the hearers
were moved to tears. The archdeacon spoke of the mercies of God, and the marvellous workings
of his providence. He dwelt upon the history of the cardinal, whom God had preserved through
a thousand dangers for the salvation of his country; and, firing up at last in a blaze of enthusiasm,
he {p.164} exclaimed, "Thou art Pole, and thou art our Polar star, to light us to the kingdom
of the heavens. Sky, rivers, earth, these disfigured walls--all things--long for thee. While
thou wert absent from us all things were sad, all things were in the power of the adversary.
At thy coming all things are smiling, all glad, all tranquil."[388] The legate listened so
far, and then checked the flood of the adoring eloquence. "I heard you with pleasure," he said,
"while you were praising God. My own praises I do not desire to hear. Give the glory to Him."

                   [Footnote 388: "Tu es Polus, qui aperis nobis Polum
                   regni cælorum. Aer, flumina, terra, parietes ipsi,
                   omnia denique te desiderant. Quamdiu abfuisti omnia
                   fuerunt tristia et adversa. In adventu tuo, omnia
                   rident, omnia læta, omnia tranquilla." I have
                   endeavoured to preserve the play on the word Polus,
                   altering the meaning as little as the necessities
                   of translation would allow. It has been suggested
                   to me that the word "parietes" implies properly
                   internal walls, and the allusion was to the
                   defacement of the cathedral.]

From Canterbury, Richard Pate, who, as titular Bishop of Worcester, had sat at the council
of Trent, was sent forward to the queen with an answer to her letter, and a request for further
directions. The legate himself went on leisurely to Rochester, where he was entertained by
Lord Cobham, at Cowling Castle. So far he had observed the instructions brought to him by Paget,
and had travelled as an ordinary ecclesiastic, without distinctive splendour. On the night
of the 23rd, however, Pate returned from the court with a message that the legatine insignia
might be displayed. A fleet of barges was in waiting at Gravesend, where Pole appeared early
on the 24th; and, as a further augury of good fortune, he found there Lord Shrewsbury, with
his early friend the Bishop of Durham, who had come to meet him with the repeal of his attainder,
to which the queen had given her assent in parliament the day before.

To the fluttered hearts of the priestly company the coincidence of the repeal, the informality
of an act of parliament receiving the royal assent before the close of a session, were further
causes of admiration. They embarked; and the Italians, who had never seen a tidal river, discovered,
miracle of miracles, that they were ascending from the sea, and yet the stream was with them.
The distance to London was soon accomplished. They passed under the bridge at one o'clock on
the top of the tide, the legate's barge distinguished splendidly by the silver cross upon the
bow. In a few minutes more they were at the palace-stairs at Whitehall, where a pier was built
on arches out into the river, and on the pier stood the Bishop of Winchester, with the lords
of the council.

{p.165} The king and queen were at dinner, the arrival not being expected till the afternoon.
Philip rose instantly from the table, hurried out, and caught the legate in his arms. The queen
followed to the head of the grand staircase; and when Pole reached her, she threw herself on
his breast, and kissed him, crying that his coming gave her as much joy as the possession of
her kingdom.

                   [Footnote 389: "Cardinalis cum reginam salutaret,
                   nec ulla humana verba occurrerent tali muliere
                   digna, Sanctis Scripturarum verbis abuti non
                   verebatur, sed in primo congressu iisdem quibus
                   matrem Dei salutavit Angelus, Reginam Polus
                   alloquitur, Ave Maria," etc.--Salkyns to Bullinger:
                   Epistolæ Tigurinæ, p. 169.]

"High thanks, indeed," he exclaimed, "your majesty owes to the favour of the Almighty, seeing
that, while he permits you to bring your godly desires to perfection, he has united at this
moment in your favour the two mightiest powers upon earth--the majesty of the emperor represented
in the king your husband, and the pope's holiness represented in myself." The queen, as she
walked, replied "in words of sweet humility," pouring out gentle excuses for past delays. The
legate, still speaking with ecstatic metaphor, answered that it was the will of God; God waited
till the time was mature, till he could say to her highness, "Blessed be the fruit of thy womb."[390]

                   [Footnote 390: "Il Signor Legato rispose che Dio
                   havea voluto, che fusse tardato a tempo piú maturo,
                   perchè egli havesse potuto dire a sua Altezza come
                   diceva Benedictus fructus ventris tui."--Descriptio
                   Reductionis Angliæ.]

In the saloon they remained standing together for another quarter of an hour. When the cardinal
took his leave for the day, the king; in spite of remonstrance, re-attended him to the gate.
Alva and the Bishop of Winchester were in waiting to conduct him to Lambeth Palace, which had
been assigned him for a residence. The See of Canterbury was to follow as soon as Cranmer could
be despatched.

Arrived at Lambeth, he was left to repose after his fatigues and excitements. He had scarcely
retired to his apartments when he was disturbed again by a message from the queen. Lord Montague
had hurried over with the news that the angelic salutation had been already answered. "The
babe had leapt {p.166} in her womb."[391] Not a moment was lost in communicating the miracle
to the world. Letters of council were drawn out for Te Deums to be sung in every church in
London. The next day being Sunday, every pulpit was made to ring with the testimony of heaven
to the truth.

                   [Footnote 391: Descriptio Reductionis Angliæ.]

On Monday the 26th the cardinal went to the palace for an audience, and again there was more
matter for congratulation. As he was approaching the king's cabinet, Philip met him with a
packet of despatches. The last courier sent to Rome had returned with unheard-of expedition,
and the briefs and commissions in which the pope relinquished formally his last reservations,
had arrived. Never, exclaimed the Catholic enthusiast, in a fervour of devout astonishment--never
since the days of the apostles had so many tokens of divine approbation been showered upon
a human enterprise. The moment of its consummation had arrived.[392] Since the thing was to
be, no one wished for delay. Three days sufficed for the few necessary preparations, and the
two Houses of Parliament were invited to be present unofficially at Whitehall on the afternoon
of Wednesday the 28th. In the morning there was a procession in the city and a Te Deum at St.
Paul's. After dinner, the Great Chamber was thrown open, and the Lords and Commons crowded
in as they could find room. Philip and Mary entered, and took their seats under the cloth of
state; while Pole had a chair assigned him on their right hand, beyond the edge of the canopy.
The queen was splendidly dressed, and it was observed that she threw out her person to make
her supposed condition as conspicuous as possible.[393] When all were in their places, the
chancellor rose.

                   [Footnote 392: The queen's assurances respecting
                   her child were so emphatic, that even Noailles
                   believed her. Profane persons were still
                   incredulous. On Sunday the 25th, the day after the
                   Te Deums, Noailles says, "S'est trouve ung
                   placard attaché à la porte de son palais, y estant
                   ces mots en substance: 'serons nous si bestes, oh
                   nobles Angloys, que croy renotre reyne estre
                   enciente si non d'un marmot ou d'un dogue?'"]

                   [Footnote 393: Contemporary Diary: MS. Harleian,
                   iv. 19.]

"My Lords of the Upper House," he said, "and you my masters of the Nether House, here is present
the Right Reverend Father in God the Lord Cardinal Pole, come from the Apostolic See of Rome
as ambassador to the king's and queen's majesties, upon one of the weightiest causes that ever
happened in this realm, and which pertaineth to the glory of God and your universal benefit;
the which embassy it is their majesties' {p.167} pleasure that it be signified unto you all
by his own mouth, trusting that you will accept it in as benevolent and thankful wise as their
highnesses have done, and that you will give an attent and inclinable ear to him."

The legate then left his chair and came forward. He was now fifty-four years old, and he had
passed but little of his life in England; yet his features had not wholly lost their English
character. He had the arched eye-brow, and the delicately-cut cheek, and prominent eye of the
beautiful Plantagenet face; a long, brown, curling beard flowed down upon his chest, which
it almost covered; the mouth was weak and slightly open, the lips were full and pouting, the
expression difficult to read. In a low voice, audible only to those who were near him, he spoke
as follows:--"My Lords all, and you that are the Commons of this present parliament assembled,
as the cause of my repair hither hath been wisely and gravely declared by my Lord Chancellor,
so, before I enter into the particulars of my commission, I have to say somewhat touching myself,
and to give most humble and hearty thanks to the king's and queen's majesties, and after them
to you all--which of a man exiled and banished from this commonwealth, have restored me to
be a member of the same, and of a man having no place either here or elsewhere within this
realm, have admitted me to a place where to speak and where to be heard. This I protest unto
you all, that though I was exiled my native country, without just cause, as God knoweth, yet
the ingratitude could not pull from me the affection and desire that I had to your profit and
to do you good.

"But, leaving the rehearsal hereof, and coming more near to the matter of my commission, I
signify unto you all, that my principal travail is for the restitution of this noble realm
to the antient nobility, and to declare unto you that the See Apostolic, from whence I come,
hath a special respect to this realm above all others; and not without cause, seeing that God
himself, as it were, by providence hath given to this realm prerogative of nobility above others,
which, to make plain unto you, it is to be considered that this island first of all islands
received the light of Christ's religion."

Going into history for a proof of this singular proposition, the legate said that the Britons
had been converted by the See Apostolic, "not one by one, as in other countries, as clocks
increase the hours by distinction of times," "but altogether, at once, as it were, in a moment."
The Saxons had brought back heathenism, but had again been soon converted; and the popes {p.168}
had continued to heap benefit upon benefit on the favoured people, even making them a present
of Ireland, "which pertained to the See of Rome." The country had prospered, and the people
had been happy down to the time of the late schism; from that unhappy day they had been overwhelmed
with calamities.

The legate dwelt in some detail on the misfortunes of the preceding years. He then went on:
"But, when all light of true religion seemed extinct, the churches defaced, the altars overthrown,
the ministers corrupted, even like as in a lamp, the light being covered yet it is not quenched--even
so in a few remained the confession of Christ's faith, namely, in the breast of the queen's
excellency, of whom to speak without adulation, the saying of the prophet may be verified,
ecce quasi derelicta: and see how miraculously God of his goodness preserved her highness contrary
to the expectations of men, that when numbers conspired against her, and policies were devised
to disinherit her, and armed power prepared to destroy her, yet she, being a virgin, helpless,
naked, and unarmed, prevailed, and had the victory of tyrants. For all these practices and
devices, here you see her grace established in her estate, your lawful queen and governess,
born among you, whom God hath appointed to govern you for the restitution of true religion
and the extirpation of all errors and sects. And to confirm her grace more strongly in this
enterprise, lo how the providence of God hath joined her in marriage with a prince of like
religion, who, being a king of great might, armour, and force, yet useth towards you neither
armour nor force, but seeketh you by way of love and amity; and as it was a singular favour
of God to conjoin them in marriage, so it is not to be doubted but he shall send them issue
for the comfort and surety of this commonwealth.

"Of all princes in Europe the emperor hath travailed most in the cause of religion, yet, haply
by some secret judgment of God, he hath not obtained the end. I can well compare him to David,
which, though he were a man elect of God, yet for that he was contaminate with blood and wars,
he could not build the temple of Jerusalem, but left the finishing thereof to Solomon, who
was Rex pacificus. So it may be thought that the appeasing of controversies of religion in
Christendom is not appointed to this emperor, but rather to his son; who shall perform the
building that his father had begun, which church cannot be builded unless universally in all
realms we adhere to one head, and do acknowledge him to be the vicar of God, and to have power
from above--for {p.169} all power is of God, according to the saying, non est potestas nisi in Deo.

"All power being of God, he hath derived that power into two parts here on earth, which is
into the powers imperial and ecclesiastical; and these two powers, as they be several and distinct,
so have they two several effects and operations. Secular princes be ministers of God to execute
vengeance upon transgressors and evil livers, and to preserve the well-doers and innocents
from injury and violence; and this power is represented in these two most excellent persons
the king's and queen's majesties here present. The other power is of ministration, which is
the power of keys and orders in the ecclesiastical state; which is by the authority of God's
word and example of the apostles, and of all holy fathers from Christ hitherto attributed and
given to the Apostolic See of Rome by special prerogative: from which See I am here deputed
legate and ambassador, having full and ample commission from thence, and have the keys committed
to my hands. I confess to you that I have the keys--not as mine own keys, but as the keys of
Him that sent me; and yet cannot I open, not for want of power in me to give, but for certain
impediments in you to receive, which must be taken away before my commission can take effect.
This I protest before you, my commission is not of prejudice to any person. I am come not to
destroy, but to build; I come to reconcile, not to condemn; I am not come to compel, but to
call again; I am not come to call anything in question already done; but my commission is of
grace and clemency to such as will receive it--for, touching all matters that be past, they
shall be as things cast into the sea of forgetfulness.

"But the mean whereby you shall receive this benefit is to revoke and repeal those laws and
statutes which be impediments, blocks, and bars to the execution of my commission. For, like
as I myself had neither place nor voice to speak here amongst you, but was in all respects
a banished man, till such time as ye had repealed those laws that lay in my way, even so cannot
you receive the benefit and grace offered from the Apostolic See until the abrogation of such
laws whereby you had disjoined and dissevered yourselves from the unity of Christ's Church.

"It remaineth, therefore, that you, like true Christians and provident men, for the weal of
your souls and bodies, ponder what is to be done in this so weighty a cause, and so to frame
your acts and proceedings as they may first tend to the glory of {p.170} God, and, next, to
the conservation of your commonwealth, surety, and quietness."

The speech was listened to by such as could hear it with profound attention, and several persons
were observed to clasp their hands again and again, and raise them convulsively before their
faces. When the legate sat down, Gardiner gave him the thanks of parliament, and suggested
that the two Houses should be left to themselves to consider what they would do. Pole withdrew
with the king and queen, and Gardiner exclaimed: A prophet has "the Lord raised up among us
from among our brethren, and he shall save us." For the benefit of those who had been at the
further end of the hall, he then recapitulated the substance of what had been said. He added
a few words of exhortation, and the meeting adjourned.

The next day, Thursday, Lords and Commons sat as usual at Westminster. The repeal of all the
acts which directly, or by implication, were aimed at the papacy, would occupy, it was found,
a considerable time; but the impatient legate was ready to accept a promise as a pledge of
performance, and the general question was therefore put severally in both Houses whether the
country should return to obedience to the Apostolic See. Among the Peers no difficulty was
made at all. Among the Commons, in a house of 360, there were two dissentients--one, whose
name is not mentioned, gave a silent negative vote; the other, Sir Ralph Bagenall, stood up
alone to protest. Twenty years, he said, "that great and worthy prince, King Henry," laboured
to expel the pope from England. He for one had "sworn to King Henry's laws," and, "he would
keep his oath."[394]

                   [Footnote 394: The writer of the Italian
                   "Description" says that Bagenall gave way the next
                   day. The contemporary narrative among the Harleian
                   MSS. says that he persisted, and refused to kneel
                   at the absolution.]

But Bagenall was listened to with smiles. The resolution passed, the very ease and unanimity
betraying the hollow ground on which it rested; and, again, devout Catholics beheld the evident
work of supernatural agency. Lords and Commons had received separately the same proposition;
they had discussed it, voted on it, and come to a conclusion, each with closed doors, and the
messengers of the two Houses encountered each other on their way to communicate their several
decisions.[395] The chancellor arranged with Pole the forms which should be {p.171} observed,
and it was agreed that the Houses should present a joint petition to the king and queen, acknowledging
their past misconduct, engaging to undo the anti-papal legislation, and entreating their majesties,
as undefiled with the offences which tainted the body of the nation, to intercede for the removal
of the interdict. A committee of Lords and Commons sate to consider the words in which the
supplication should be expressed, and all preparations were completed by the evening.

                   [Footnote 395: "Mentre la casa alta mandava a far
                   sapere la sua conclusione alla casa bassa, la casa
                   bassa mandava anch' ella per fare intendere il
                   medesimo alla casa alta, sicchè i messi s'
                   incontrarono per via; segno evidentissimo che lo
                   Spirito di Dio lavorava in amendue i luoghi in un
                   tempo i di una medesima conformita."--Descriptio
                   Reductionis Angliæ.]

And now St. Andrew's Day was come; a day, as was then hoped, which would be remembered with
awe and gratitude through all ages of English history. Being the festival of the institution
of the Order of the Golden Fleece, high mass was sung in the morning in Westminster Abbey;
Philip, Alva, and Ruy Gomez attended in their robes, with six hundred Spanish cavaliers. The
Knights of the Garter were present in gorgeous costume, and nave and transept were thronged
with the blended chivalry of England and Castile. It was two o'clock before the service was
concluded. Philip returned to the palace to dinner, and the brief November afternoon was drawing
in when the parliament reassembled at the palace. At the upper end of the great hall a square
platform had now been raised several steps above the floor, on which three chairs were placed
as before; two under a canopy of cloth of gold, for the king and queen; a third on the right,
removed a little distance from them, for the legate. Below the platform, benches were placed
longitudinally towards either wall. The bishops sat on the side of the legate, the lay peers
opposite them on the left. The Commons sat on rows of cross benches in front, and beyond them
were the miscellaneous crowd of spectators, sitting or standing as they could find room. The
cardinal, who had passed the morning at Lambeth, was conducted across the water in a state
barge by Lord Arundel and six other peers. The king received him at the gate, and, leaving
his suite in the care of the Duke of Alva, who was instructed to find them places, he accompanied
Philip into the room adjoining the hall, where Mary, whose situation was supposed to prevent
her from unnecessary exertion, was waiting for them. The royal procession was formed. Arundel
and the Lords passed in to their places. The king and queen, with Pole in his legate's robes,
ascended the steps of the platform, and took their seats.

When the stir which had been caused by their entrance was over, Gardiner mounted a tribune;
and in the now fast-waning light he bowed to the king and queen, and declared the resolution
{p.172} at which the Houses had arrived. Then turning to the Lords and Commons, he asked if
they continued in the same mind. Four hundred voices answered, "We do." "Will you then," he
said, "that I proceed in your names to supplicate for our absolution, that we may be received
again into the body of the Holy Catholic Church, under the pope, the supreme head thereof?"
Again the voices assented. The chancellor drew a scroll from under his robe, ascended the platform,
and presented it unfolded on his knee to the queen. The queen looked through it, gave it to
Philip, who looked through it also, and returned it. The chancellor then rose and read aloud
as follows:--

"We, the Lords Spiritual and Temporal, and the Commons of the present parliament assembled,
representing the whole body of the realm of England, and dominions of the same, in our own
names particularly, and also of the said body universally, in this our supplication directed
to your majesties--with most humble suit that it may by your gracious intercession and means
be exhibited to the Most Reverend Father in God the Lord Cardinal Pole, Legate, sent specially
hither from our Most Holy Father Pope Julius the Third and the See Apostolic of Rome--do declare
ourselves very sorry and repentant for the schism and disobedience committed in this realm
and dominions of the same, against the said See Apostolic, either by making, agreeing, or executing
any laws, ordinances, or commandments against the supremacy of the said See, or otherwise doing
or speaking what might impugn the same; offering ourselves, and promising by this our supplication
that, for a token and knowledge of our said repentance, we be, and shall be always, ready,
under and with the authority of your majesties, to do that which shall be in us for the abrogation
and repealing of the said laws and ordinances in this present parliament, as well for ourselves
as for the whole body whom we represent. Whereupon we most humbly beseech your majesties, as
persons undefiled in the offences of this body towards the Holy See--which nevertheless God
by his providence hath made subject to your majesties--so to set forth this, our most humble
suit, that we may obtain from the See Apostolic, by the said Most Reverend Father, as well
particularly as universally, absolution, release, and discharge from all danger of such censures
and sentences as by the laws of the church we be fallen in; and that we may, as children repentant,
be received into the bosom and unity of Christ's Church; so as this noble realm, with all the
members {p.173} thereof, may, in unity and perfect obedience to the See Apostolic and pope
for the time being, serve God and your majesties, to the furtherance and advancement of his
honour and glory."[396]

                   [Footnote 396: Foxe, vol. vi. p. 571. The petition
                   was in Latin; but, as I have nowhere seen the
                   original, I have not ventured to interfere with
                   Foxe's translation. Foxe, who could translate very
                   idiomatically when he pleased, perhaps relieved his
                   indignation on the present occasion by translating
                   as awkwardly as possible.]

Having completed the reading, the chancellor again presented the petition. The king and queen
went through the forms of intercession, and a secretary read aloud, first, the legate's original
commission, and, next, the all-important extended form of it.

Pole's share of the ceremony was now to begin.

He first spoke a few words from his seat: "Much indeed," he said, "the English nation had to
thank the Almighty for recalling them to his fold. Once again God had given a token of his
special favour to the realm; for as this nation, in the time of the Primitive Church, was the
first to be called out of the darkness of heathenism, so now they were the first to whom God
had given grace to repent of their schism; and if their repentance was sincere, how would the
angels, who rejoice at the conversion of a single sinner, triumph at the recovery of a great
and noble people."

He moved to rise; Mary and Philip, seeing that the crisis was approaching, fell on their knees,
and the assembly dropped at their example; while, in dead silence, across the dimly-lighted
hall, came the low, awful words of the absolution.

"Our Lord Jesus Christ, which with his most precious blood hath redeemed and washed us from
all our sins and iniquities, that he might purchase unto himself a glorious spouse without
spot or wrinkle, whom the Father hath appointed head over all his Church--he by his mercy absolves
you, and we, by apostolic authority given unto us by the Most Holy Lord Pope Julius the Third,
his vicegerent on earth, do absolve and deliver you, and every of you, with this whole realm
and the dominions thereof, from all heresy and schism, and from all and every judgment, censure,
and pain for that cause incurred; and we do restore you again into the unity of our Mother
the Holy Church, in the name of the Father, of the Son, and of the Holy Ghost."

Amidst the hushed breathing every tone was audible, and at the pauses were heard the smothered
sobs of the queen. "Amen, amen," rose in answer from many voices. Some were really affected;
some were caught for the moment with a contagion which it was hard to resist; some threw themselves
weeping in {p.174} each other's arms. King, queen, and parliament, rising from their knees,
went immediately--the legate leading--into the chapel of the palace, where the choir, with
the rolling organ, sang Te Deum; and Pole closed the scene with a benediction from the altar.

"Blessed day for England," cries the Italian describer, in a rapture of devotion. "The people
exclaim in ecstasies, we are reconciled to God, we are brought back to God: the king beholds
his realm, so lately torn by divisions, at the mercy of the first enemy who would seize upon
it, secured on a foundation which never can be shaken: and who can express the joy--who can
tell the exultation of the queen? She has shown herself the handmaid of the Lord, and all generations
shall call her blessed: she has given her kingdom to God as a thank-offering for those great
mercies which He has bestowed upon her."[397]

                   [Footnote 397: Descriptio Reductionis Angliæ:
                   Epist. Reg. Pol. vol. v.]

And the legate; but the legate has described his emotions in his own inimitable manner. Pole
went back to Lambeth, not to rest, but to pour out his soul to the Holy Father.

In his last letter he said "he had told his holiness that he had hoped that England would be
recovered to the fold at last; yet he had then some fears remaining, so far estranged were
the minds of the people from the Holy See, lest at the last moment some compromise might ruin all."

But the godly forwardness of the king and queen had overcome every difficulty; and on that
evening, the day of St. Andrew--of Andrew who first brought his brother Peter to Christ--the
realm of England had been brought back to its obedience to Peter's See, and through Peter to
Christ. The great act had been accomplished, accomplished by the virtue and the labour of the
inestimable sovereigns with whom God had blessed the world.

"And oh," he said, "how many things, how great things, may the church our mother, the bride
of Christ, promise herself from these her children? Oh piety! oh antient faith! Whoever looks
on them will repeat the words of the prophet of the church's early offspring; 'This is the
seed which the Lord hath blessed.' How earnestly, how lovingly, did your holiness favour their
marriage; a marriage formed after the very pattern of that of our Most High King, who, being
Heir of the world, was sent down by his Father from his royal throne, to be at once the Spouse
and the Son of the Virgin Mary, and be made the Comforter and the Saviour of mankind: and,
in like manner, the greatest {p.175} of all the princes upon earth, the heir of his father's
kingdom, departed from his own broad and happy realms, that he might come hither into this
land of trouble, he, too, to be spouse and son of this virgin; for, indeed, though spouse he
be, he so bears himself towards her as if he were her son, to aid in the reconciliation of
this people to Christ and the church.[398]

                   [Footnote 398: This amazing comparison (for one
                   cannot forget what Philip had been, was, and was to
                   be) must be given in the original words of the
                   legate:

                   "Quam sancte sanctitas vestra omni auctoritate
                   studioque huic matrimonio favit; quod sane videtur
                   præ se ferre magnam summi illius regis
                   similitudinem, qui mundi hæres a regalibus sedibus
                   a patre demissus fuit, ut esset virginis sponsus et
                   filius, et hâc ratione universum genus humanum
                   consolaretur ac servaret. Sic enim hic rex maximus
                   omnium qui in terris sunt hæres, patriis relictis
                   regnis de illis quidem amplissimis ac felicissimis
                   in hoc turbulentum regnum de contulit, hujusque
                   virginis sponsus et filius est factus; ita enim
                   erga illam se gerit tanquam filius esset cum sit
                   sponsus, ut quod jam plane perfecit sequestrem se
                   atque adjutorem ad reconciliandos Christo et
                   Ecclesiæ hos populos præberet."--Pole to the Pope:
                   Epist. Reg. Pol. vol. v.]

"When your holiness first chose me as your legate, the queen was rising up as a rod of incense
out of trees of myrrh, and as frankincense out of the desert. And how does she now shine out
in loveliness? What a savour does she give forth unto her people. Yea, even as the prophet
saith of the mother of Christ, "before she was in labour she brought forth, before she was
delivered she hath borne a man-child." Who ever yet hath seen it, who has heard of the similitude
of it? Shall the earth bring forth in a day, or shall a nation of men be born together? but
Mary has brought forth the nation of England before the time of that delivery for which we
all are hoping!"

Unable to exhaust itself in words, the Catholic enthusiasm flowed over in processions, in sermons,
masses, and Te Deums. Gardiner at Paul's Cross, on the Sunday succeeding, confessed his sins
in having borne a part in bringing about the schism. Pole rode through the city between the
king and queen, with his legate's cross before him, blessing the people. When the news reached
Rome Julius first embraced the messenger, then flung himself on his knees, and said a Paternoster.
The guns at St. Angelo roared in triumph. There were jubilees and masses of the Holy Ghost,
and bonfires, and illuminations, and pardons, and indulgences. In the exuberance of his hopes,
the pope sent a nuncio to urge that, in the presence of this great mercy, peace should be made
with France, where the king was devoted to the church; the Catholic powers would then have
the command of Europe, and the heretics could be destroyed.[399] One thing only {p.176} seemed
forgotten, that the transaction was a bargain. The papal pardon had been thrust upon criminals,
whose hearts were so culpably indifferent that it was necessary to bribe them to accept it;
and the conditions of the compromise, even yet, were far from concluded.

                   [Footnote 399: Pallavicino.]

The sanction given to the secularisation of church property was a cruel disappointment to the
clergy, who cared little for Rome, but cared much for wealth and power. Supported by a party
in the House of Commons who had not shared in the plunder, and who envied those who had been
more fortunate,[400] the ecclesiastical faction began to agitate for a reconsideration of the
question. Their friends in parliament said that the dispensation was unnecessary. Every man's
conscience ought to be his guide whether to keep his lands or surrender them. The queen was
known to hold the same opinion, and eager preachers began to sound the note of restitution.[401]
Growing bolder, the Lower House of Convocation presented the bishops immediately after with
a series of remarkable requests. The pope, in the terms on which he was reinstated, was but
an ornamental unreality; and the practical English clergy desired substantial restorations
which their eyes could see and their hands could handle.

                   [Footnote 400: Renard to the Emperor: Granvelle
                   Papers, vol. iv.]

                   [Footnote 401: "It was this morning told me by one
                   of the Emperor's council, who misliked much the
                   matter, that a preacher of ours whose name he
                   rehearsed, beateth the pulpit jollily in England
                   for a restitution of abbey lands. It is a strange
                   thing in a well-ordered commonwealth that a subject
                   should be so hardy to cry unto the people openly
                   such learning, whereby your winter work may in the
                   summer be attempted with some storm. These
                   unbridled preachings were so much misliked in the
                   ill-governed time as men trusted in this good
                   governance it should have been amended; and so may
                   it be when it shall please my Lords of the Council
                   as diligently to consider it, as it is more than
                   necessary to be looked unto. The party methinketh
                   might well be put to silence, if he were asked now,
                   being a monk, and having professed and vowed
                   solemnly wilful poverty, he can with conscience
                   keep a deanery and three or four benefices."--Mason
                   to Petre: MS. Germany, bundle 16, Mary, State
                   Paper Office. It is not clear who the offender was.
                   Perhaps it was Weston, Dean of Westminster and
                   Prolocutor of Convocation.]

They demanded, therefore, first, that if a statute was brought into parliament for the assurance
of the church estates to the present possessors, nothing should be allowed to pass prejudicial
to their claims "on lands, tenements, pensions, or tythe rents, which had appertained to bishops,
or other ecclesiastical persons."

They demanded, secondly, the repeal of the Statute of Mortmain, and afterwards the abolition
of lay impropriations, the {p.177} punishment of heretics, the destruction of all the English
Prayer-books and Bibles, the revival of the act De Hæretico Comburendo, the re-establishment
of the episcopal courts, the restoration of the legislative functions of Convocation, and the
exemption of the clergy from the authority of secular magistrates.

Finally, they required that the church should be restored absolutely to its ancient rights,
immunities, and privileges; that no Premunire should issue against a bishop until he had first
received notice and warning; that the judges should define "a special doctrine of Premunire,"
and that the Statutes of Provisors should not be wrested from their meaning.[402]

                   [Footnote 402: Demands of the Lower House of
                   Convocation, December, 1554; printed in Wilkins's
                   Concilia.]

The petition expressed the views of Gardiner, and was probably drawn under his direction. Had
the alienated property been no more than the estates of the suppressed abbeys, the secular
clergy would have acquiesced without difficulty in the existing disposition of it. But the
benefices impropriated to the abbeys which had been sold or granted with the lands, they looked
on as their own; the cathedral chapters and the bishops' sees, which had suffered from the
second locust flight under Edward, formed part of the local Anglican Church: and Gardiner and
his brother prelates declared that, if the pope chose to set aside the canons, and permit the
robbing of the religious orders, he might do as he pleased; but that he had neither right nor
powers to sanction the spoliation of the working bishops and clergy. Thus the feast of reconciliation
having been duly celebrated, both Houses of Parliament became again the theatre of fierce and
fiery conflict.

There were wide varieties of opinion. The lawyers went beyond the clergy in limiting the powers
of the pope; the lawyers also said the pope had no rights over the temporalities of bishops
or abbots, deans, or rectors; but they did not any more admit the rights of the clergy. The
English clergy, regular and secular, they said, had held their estates from immemorial time
under the English crown, and it was not for any spiritual authority, domestic or foreign, to
decide whether an English king and an English parliament might interfere to alter the disposition
of those estates.

On other questions the clerical party were in the ascendant; They had a decided majority in
the House of Commons; in the Upper House there was a compact body of twenty bishops; and Gardiner
held the proxies of Lord Rich, Lord Oxford, Lord {p.178} Westmoreland, and Lord Abergavenny.
The queen had created four new peers; three of whom, Lord North, Lord Chandos, and Lord Williams,
were bigoted Catholics; the fourth, Lord Howard, was absent with the fleet, and was unrepresented.
Lord North held the proxy of Lord Worcester; and the Marquis of Winchester, Lord Montague,
and Lord Stourton acted generally with the chancellor. Lord Russell was keeping out of the
way, being suspected of heresy; Wentworth was at Calais; Grey was at Guisnes; and the proxies
of the two last noblemen, which in the late parliament were held by Arundel and Paget, were,
for some unknown reason, now held by no one. Thus, in a house of seventy-three members only,
reduced to sixty-nine by the absence of Howard, Russell, Wentworth, and Grey, Gardiner had
thirty-one votes whom he might count upon as certain; he knew his power, and at once made fatal
use of it.

For two parliaments the liberal party had prevented him from recovering the power of persecution.
He did not attempt to pass the Inquisitorial Act on which he was defeated in the last session.
But the act to revive the Lollard Statutes was carried through the House of Commons in the
second week in December; on the 15th it was brought up to the Lords; and although those who
had before fought the battle of humanity, struggled again bravely in the same cause, this time
their numbers were too small; they failed, and the lives of the Protestants were in their enemies'
hands.[403] Simultaneously Gardiner obtained for the bishops' courts their long-coveted privilege
of arbitrary arrest and discretionary punishment, and the clergy obtained, as they desired,
the restoration of their legislative powers. The property question alone disintegrated the
phalanx of orthodoxy, and left an opening for the principles of liberty to assert themselves.
The faithful and the faithless among the laity were alike participators in church plunder,
and were alike nervously sensitive when the current of the reaction ran in the direction of
a demand for restitution.

                   [Footnote 403: "La chambre haulte y faict
                   difficulté pour ce que l'auctorité et jurisdiction
                   des evesques est autorizée et renouvellée, et que
                   le peine semble trop griefve. Mais l'on tient
                   qu'ilz s'accorderont par la pluralité."--Renard to
                   the Emperor, December 21: Granvelle Papers, vol.
                   iv.]

Here, therefore, Paget and his friends chose their ground to maintain the fight.

It has been seen that Pole especially dreaded the appearance of any sort of composition between
the country and the papacy. The submission had, in fact, been purchased, but the purchase ought
to be disguised. As soon, therefore, as the parliament {p.179} set themselves to the fulfilment
of their promise to undo the acts by which England had separated itself from Rome, the legate
required a simple statute of repeal. The pope had granted a dispensation; it was enough, and
it should be accepted gratefully: the penitence of sinners ought not to be mixed with questions
of worldly interest; the returning prodigal, when asking pardon at his father's feet, had made
no conditions; the English nation must not disfigure their obedience by alluding, in the terms
of it, to the pope's benevolence to them.

The holders of the property, on the other hand, thinking more of the reality than the form,
were determined that the Act of Repeal should contain, as nearly as possible, a true statement
of their case. They had made conditions, and those conditions had been reluctantly complied
with; and, to prevent future errors, the nature of the compact ought to be explained with the
utmost distinctness. They had replaced the bishops in authority, and the bishops might be made
use of at some future time, indirectly or directly, to disturb the settlement. A fresh pontiff
might refuse to recognise the concessions of his predecessors. The papal supremacy, the secularisation
of the church property, and the authority of the episcopal courts should, therefore, be interwoven
inextricably to stand or fall together; and as the lawyers denied the authority of the Holy
See to pronounce upon the matter at all, the legal opinion might be embodied also as a further
security.

After a week of violent discussion, the lay interest in the House of Lords found itself the
strongest. Pole exclaimed that, if the submission and the dispensation were tied together,
it was a simoniacal compact; the pope's holiness was bought and sold for a price, he said,
and he would sooner go back to Rome, and leave his work unfinished, than consent to an act
so derogatory to the Holy See. But the protest was vain; if the legate was so anxious, his
anxiety was an additional reason why the opposition should persevere; if he chose to go, his
departure could be endured.[404]

                   [Footnote 404: "Le parlement faict instance que, en
                   statut de la dicte obedience la dicte dispense soit
                   inserée, ce que le dict cardinal ne veult admettre,
                   à ce que ne semble la dicte obedience avoir este
                   rachetée; et est passée si avant la dicte
                   difficulté que le dict cardinal a déclaré qu'il
                   retourneroit plutôt à Rome et delaisseront la chose
                   imparfaite que consentir à chose contre l'auctorité
                   dudict S. Siége, et de si grande
                   préjudice."--Renard to the Emperor, December:
                   Granvelle Papers, vol. iv.]

So keen was the debate that there was not so much as a Christmas recess. Christmas Day was
kept as a holyday. On {p.180} the 26th the struggle began again, and, fortunately, clouds had
risen between the House of Commons and the court. Finding more difficulty than he expected
in embroiling England with France, Philip, to feel the temper of the people, induced one of
the peers to carry a note to the Lower House to request an opinion whether it was not the duty
of a son to assist his father. An answer was instantly returned that the question had been
already disposed of by the late parliament in the marriage treaty, and the further discussion
of it was unnecessary.[405] Secretary Bourne, at the instigation of Gardiner, proposed to revive
the claims on the pensions; but he met with no better reception. And the court made a further
blunder. Mary had become so accustomed to success, that she assured herself she could obtain
all that she desired. The object of the court was to secure the regency for Philip, with full
sovereign powers, should she die leaving a child; should she die childless, to make him her
successor. The first step would be Philip's coronation, which had been long talked of, and
which the House of Commons was now desired to sanction. The House of Commons returned a unanimous
refusal.[406]

                   [Footnote 405: "Ces jours passez, il y eust ung
                   personnaige de la haulte chambre, auquel il sembla
                   pour ne perdre temps debvoir porter, (comme il
                   fist) un billette à la basse par laquelle il
                   mettait en advant s'il n'estoit pas raisonnable que
                   le filz secourust le père, voullant dire de ce roy
                   a l'Empereur. Ce qui fut si bien recueilly du tiers
                   estat, si promptment et avecques grande raison
                   respondu, comme par le dernier parlement et le
                   traité de mariaige d'entre ce roy et royne cela
                   avoit esté et estoit tellement considéré, qu'il
                   n'estoit plus besoing mettre telles choses en
                   advant pour les faire entrer à la
                   guerre."--Noailles to the King of France:
                   Ambassades, vol. iv. p. 76.]

                   [Footnote 406: "Je vous puis dire, Sire, que toutes
                   ces choses ont passé bien loing de l'espérance
                   qu'il avoit, puisqu'il s'attendoit de se faire
                   couronner, comme despuis six jours il en avoit
                   particulièrement faict rechercher ceulx de la basse
                   chambre dudict parlement qui luy out tous d'une
                   voix rejetté."--Noailles to the King of France:
                   Ambassades, vol. iv. p. 137.]

The effects of these cross influences on the papal statute, though they cannot be traced in
detail, must have been not inconsiderable. At length, on the 4th of January, after passing
backwards and forwards for a fortnight between the two Houses, the Great Bill, as it was called,
emerged, finished, in the form of a petition to the crown:--

"Whereas," so runs the preamble,[407] "since the 20th year of King Henry VIII., of famous memory,
much false and erroneous doctrine hath been taught, preached, and written, partly by divers
natural-born subjects of this realm, and partly being brought in hither from sundry foreign
countries, hath been sown {p.181} and spread abroad within the same--by reason whereof as well
the spiritualty as the temporalty of your highness's realm and dominions have swerved from
the obedience of the See Apostolic, and declined from the unity of Christ's Church, and so
have continued until such time as--your majesty being first raised up by God, and set in the
seat royal over us, and then by his divine and gracious Providence knit in marriage with the
most noble and virtuous prince the king our sovereign lord your husband--the pope's holiness
and the See Apostolic sent hither unto your majesties, as unto persons undefiled, and by God's
goodness preserved from the common infection aforesaid, and to the whole realm, the Most Reverend
Father in God the Lord Cardinal Pole, Legate de Latere, to call us again into the right way,
from which we have all this long while wandered and strayed; and we, after sundry and long
plagues and calamities, seeing, by the goodness of God, our own errours, have knowledged the
same unto the said Most Reverend Father, and by him have been and are (the rather at the contemplation
of your majesties) received and embraced into the unity of Christ's Church, upon our humble
submission, and promise made for a declaration of our repentance to repeal and abrogate such
acts and statutes as had been made in parliament since the said 20th year of the said King
Henry VIII., against the supremacy of the See Apostolic, as in our submission exhibited to
the said most Reverend Father in God, by your majesties appeareth--it may like your majesty,
for the accomplishment of our promise, that all such laws be repealed. That is to say:--

                   [Footnote 407: 1 and 2 Philip and Mary, cap. 8.]

"The Act against obtaining Dispensations from Rome for Pluralities and non-Residence.[408]

                   [Footnote 408: 21 Henry VIII. cap. 13.]

"The Act that no person shall be cited out of the Diocese where he or she dwelleth.[409]

                   [Footnote 409: 23 Henry VIII. cap. 9.]

"The Act against Appeals to the See of Rome.[410]

                   [Footnote 410: 24 Henry VIII. cap. 12.]

"The Act against the Payment of Annates and First-fruits to the See of Rome.[411]

                   [Footnote 411: 23 Henry VIII. cap. 20. The Act was
                   repealed, but the annates were not restored.]

"The Act for the Submission of the Clergy.[412]

                   [Footnote 412: 25 Henry VIII. cap. 19.]

"The Act for the Election and Consecration of Bishops.[413]

                   [Footnote 413: 25 Henry VIII. cap. 20.]

"The Act against Exactions from the See of Rome.[414]

                   [Footnote 414: 25 Henry VIII. cap. 21.]

"The Act of the Royal Supremacy.[415]

                   [Footnote 415: 26 Henry VIII. cap. 1.]

{p.182} "The Act for the Consecration of Suffragan Bishops.[416]

                   [Footnote 416: 26 Henry VIII. cap. 14.]

"The Act for the Reform of the Canon Law.[417]

                   [Footnote 417: 27 Henry VIII. cap. 15.]

"The Act against the Authority of the Pope.[418]

                   [Footnote 418: 28 Henry VIII. cap. 10.]

"The Act for the Release of those who had obtained Dispensations from Rome.[419]

                   [Footnote 419: 28 Henry VIII. cap. 16.]

"The Act authorising the King to appoint Bishops by Letters Patent.[420]

                   [Footnote 420: 31 Henry VIII. cap. 9.]

The Act of Precontracts and Degrees of Consanguinity.[421]

                   [Footnote 421: 33 Henry VIII. cap. 38.]

The Act for the King's Style.[422]

                   [Footnote 422: 35 Henry VIII. cap. 3.]

The Act permitting the Marriage of Doctors of Civil Law."[423]

                   [Footnote 423: 37 Henry VIII. cap. 17.]

In the repeal of these statutes the entire ecclesiastical legislation of Henry VIII. was swept
away; and, so far as a majority in a single parliament could affect them, the work was done
absolutely and with clean completeness.

But there remained two other acts collaterally and accidentally affecting the See of Rome;
for the repeal of which the court was no less anxious than for the repeal of the Act of Supremacy,
where the parliament were not so complaisant.

Throughout the whole reaction under Mary there was one point on which the laity never wavered.
Attempts such as that which has been just mentioned were made incessantly, directly or indirectly,
to alter the succession and cut off Elizabeth. They were like the fretful and profitless chafings
of waves upon a rock. The two acts on which Elizabeth's claims were rested[424] touched, in
one or other of their clauses, the papal prerogative, and were included in the list to be condemned.
But, of these acts, "so much only" as affected the See of Rome was repealed. The rest was studiously
declared to continue in force.

                   [Footnote 424: 28 Henry VIII. cap. 7; 35 Henry
                   VIII. cap. 1.]

Yet, with this reservation, the parliament had gone far in their concessions, and it remained
for them to secure their equivalent.

They reinstated the bishops, but, in giving back a power which had been so much abused, they
took care to protect--not, alas! the innocent lives which were about to be sacrificed--but
their own interests. The bishops and clergy of the Province of Canterbury having been made
to state their case and their claims, in a petition to the crown, they were then compelled
formally to relinquish those claims; and the petition and the relinquishment were embodied
in the act as the condition of the {p.183} restoration of the authority of the church courts.[425]
In continuation, the Lords and Commons desired that, for the removal "of all occasion of contention,
suspicion, and trouble, both outwardly and inwardly, in men's conscience," the pope's holiness,
as represented by the legate, "by dispensation, toleration, or permission, as the case required,"
would recognise all such foundations of colleges, hospitals, cathedrals, churches, schools,
or bishoprics as had been established during the schism, would confirm the validity of all
ecclesiastical acts which had been performed during the same period; and, finally, would consent
that all property, of whatever kind, taken from the church, should remain to its present possessors--"so
as all persons having sufficient conveyance of the said lands, goods, and chattels by the common
laws, or acts, or statutes of the realm, might, without scruple of conscience, enjoy them without
impeachment or trouble, by pretence of any general council, canon, or ecclesiastical law, and
clear from all dangers of the censures of the church." The petitions, both of clergy and parliament,
the act went on to say, had been considered by the cardinal; and the cardinal had acquiesced.
He had undertaken, in the pope's name, that the possessors of either lands or goods should
never be molested either then or in time to come, in virtue of any papal decree, or canon,
or council; that if any attempt should be made by any bishop or other ecclesiastic to employ
the spiritual weapons of the church to extort restitution, such act or acts were declared vain
and of none effect. The dispensation was pronounced, nor could the legate's protests avail
to prevent it from appearing in the act. He was permitted, only in consideration of the sacrifice,
to interweave amidst the legal technicalities some portion of his own feeling. The impious
detainers of holy things, while permitted to maintain their iniquity, were reminded of the
fate of Belshazzar, and were urged to restore {p.184} the patines, chalices, and ornaments
of the altars. The impropriators of benefices were implored, in the mercy of Christ, to remember
the souls of the people, and provide for the decent performance of the services of the churches.[426]

                   [Footnote 425: "Albeit, by the laws of the Church,
                   the bishops and clergy were the defenders and
                   protectors of all ecclesiastical rights, and would
                   therefore in nature be bound to use their best
                   endeavours for the recovery of the lands and goods
                   lost to the Church during the late schism, they,
                   nevertheless, perceiving the tenures of those lands
                   and goods were now complicated beyond power of
                   extrication, and that the attempt to recover them
                   might promote disaffection in the realm, and cause
                   the overthrow of the present happy settlement of
                   religion, preferring public peace to private
                   commodity, and the salvation of souls to worldly
                   possessions, did consent that the present
                   disposition of those lands and goods should remain
                   undisturbed. They besought their Majesties to
                   intercede with the legate for his consent, and, for
                   themselves, they requested, in return, that the
                   lawful jurisdiction of the Church might be
                   restored."--1 and 2 Philip and Mary, cap. 8, sec. The nature of the
transaction between the parliament and the pope had been made
sufficiently clear. Yet, had nothing more been said, the surrender of
their claims by the clergy would have implied that they had parted
with something which they might have legitimately required. Under the
inspiration of the lawyers, therefore, a series of clauses were
superadded, explaining that, notwithstanding the dispensation, "The
title of all lands, possessions, and hereditaments in their majesties'
realms and dominions was grounded in the laws, statutes, and customs
of the same, and by their high jurisdiction, authority royal, and
crown imperial, and in their courts only, might be impleaded,
ordered, tried, and judged, and none otherwise:" and, therefore,
"whosoever, by any process obtained out of any ecclesiastical court
within the realm or without, or by pretence of any spiritual
jurisdiction or otherwise, contrary to the laws of the realm, should
inquiet or molest any person or persons, or body politic, for any of
the said lands or things above specified, should incur the danger of
Premunire, and should suffer and incur the forfeitures and pains
contained in the same."[427]

                   [Footnote 427: Ibid.]

Vainly the clergy had entreated for a limitation or removal of Premunire. That spectre remained
unexorcised in all its shadowy terror; and while it survived, the penitence of England went
no deeper than the lips, however fine the words and eloquent the phrases in which it was expressed.
As some compensation, the Mortmain Act was suspended for twenty years.

This first conflict was no sooner ended than another commenced. The Commons would not consent
that Philip should be crowned; but, as the queen said she was enceinte, provision had to be
made for a regency, and a bill was introduced into the Upper House which has not survived,
but which, in spirit, was unfavourable to the king.[429] Gardiner, in the course of the debate,
attempted to put in a clause affecting Elizabeth,[430] but the success was no better than usual.
The act went down to the Commons, where, however, it was immediately cancelled. Though the
Commons would give Philip no rights as king, they were better disposed towards him than the
Lords; and they drew another bill of their own, in which they declared the father to be the
natural and fitting guardian of the child. The experience of protectorates, they said, had
been uniformly unfortunate, and should the queen die leaving an heir, Philip should be regent
of the realm during the minority; if obliged to be absent on the Continent, he might himself
nominate his deputy;[431] and so long as it should be his pleasure to remain in England, his
person should be under the protection of the laws of high treason.

                   [Footnote 429: "It was suspected," says Renard,
                   "que le dict act se proposoit à maulvais fin, qu'il
                   estoit contre les traictez et capitulation de
                   marriage pour hereder la couronne qui venoit de
                   maulvais auteurs quilz plustôt desiroient le mal
                   dudict S. roy et inquietude dudict royaulme que le
                   bien."--Renard to the Emperor: Granvelle Papers,
                   vol. iv. p. 347.]

                   [Footnote 430: Ibid. vol. iv. p. 348.]

                   [Footnote 431: "Et que en son absence il y pourra
                   nommer qui luy plaira."--Ibid. vol. iv. p. 348.]

Taking courage from the apparent disposition of the House, the friends of the court proposed
that, should the queen die childless, the crown should devolve absolutely upon him for his
life.[432] But in this they were going too far. The suggestion was listened to coldly; and
Philip, who had really calculated on obtaining from parliament, in some form or other, a security
for his succession, despatched Ruy Gomez to Brussels, to consult the {p.186} emperor on the
course which should be pursued.[433] On the whole, however, could the bill of the House of
Commons be carried, Renard was disposed to be contented; the queen was confident in her hopes
of an heir, and it might not be worth while to irritate the people unnecessarily about Elizabeth.[434]
The clause empowering Philip to govern by deputy in his absence was especially satisfactory.[435]

                   [Footnote 432: "Aulcuns particuliers proposaient en
                   ladicte chambre basse que le dict S. roy deust
                   demeurer roy absolut dudict royaulme mourant
                   ladicte dame sans hoirs sa vie durant."--Ibid. vol.
                   iv. p. 348.]

                   [Footnote 433: "Ruy Gomez est allé vers l'Empereur
                   pour faire entendre les difficultez qu'ilz trouvent
                   de faire demeurer ceste couronne à son dict filz,
                   au cas que la royne sa femme allast de vie à
                   trespaz sans enfans, et d'aultant qu'ilz ont
                   congneu la volunté de ceulx cy estre bien loin de
                   leur intention; et pour ce scavoir par quelz moyens
                   il semblera bon audict Empereur qu'on puisse mettre
                   cela en termes devant la fin de ce
                   parlement."--Noailles.]

                   [Footnote 434: "Et quant à la declaration de
                   bastardise l'on n'est d'opinion qu'elle se doige
                   entamer aux dict parlement, puisque l'apparence
                   d'heretier est certaine et pour l'evident et
                   congneue contrarieté que seroit en toute le
                   royaulme."--Renard to the Emperor: Granvelle
                   Papers, p. 348.]

                   [Footnote 435: Ibid.]

But the peers, whom the Commons had refused to consult on the new form of the measure, would
not part so easily with their own opinions; they adopted the phraseology of the Lower House,
but this particular and precious feature in it they pared away. The bill, as it eventually
passed, declared Philip regent till his child should be of age, and so long as he continued
in the realm; but, at the same time, fatally for the objects at which he was aiming, it bound
him again to observe all the articles of the marriage treaty, "which, during the time that
he should hold the government, should remain and continue in as full force and strength, as
if they were newly inserted and rehearsed in the present act."[436]

                   [Footnote 436: 1 and 2 Philip and Mary, cap. 10.]

The disposition of the House of Lords was the more dangerous, because the bishops, of course,
voted with the government, and the strength of the opposition, therefore, implied something
like unanimity in the lay peers. The persecuting act had been carried with difficulty, and
in the reconciliation with Rome the legate had been studiously mortified. On the succession
and the coronation the court had been wholly baffled; and in the Regency Bill they had obtained
but half of what they had desired. At the least Mary had hoped to secure for the king the free
disposal of the army and the finances, and she had not been able so much as to ask for it.
Compelled to rest contented with such advantages as had been secured, the court would not risk
the results of further controversy by prolonging the session; and on the 16th of January, at
four o'clock in the afternoon, the {p.187} king and queen came to the House of Lords almost
unattended, and with an evident expression of dissatisfaction dissolved the parliament.[437]

                   [Footnote 437: "Ilz sont pour cejourdhuy bien
                   esloignez de ce qu'ilz pensoient faire il y a six
                   sepmaines en ce parlement, ou ilz faisoient compte
                   que ne pouvant couronner ce roy ou luy faire
                   succeder ce royaulme, à tout le moings de luy en
                   faire tumber l'administration, avecques tel pouvoir
                   sur les forces et finances qu'il en eust pen
                   disposer à sa volunté. Toutefois la chose a prins
                   telle issue que pour ce coup il fault qu'il se
                   contente à beaucoup moings qu'il ne s'attendoit.

                   "Ce qui a tellement despleu à cedict roy et royne,
                   que le 16 de ce mois ilz allerent par eau tous
                   deulx clorre et terminer ledict parlement, sur les
                   quatre heures du soir, assez petitement
                   accompaignez et sans aulcune ceremonie, monstrans
                   et faisans congnoistre à ung chascun avoir quelque
                   grand mescontentement contre l'assemblé
                   d'icelluy."--Noailles to the Constable:
                   Ambassades, vol. iv. p. 153.]

I have been particular in relating the proceedings of this parliament, because it marks the
point where the flood tide of reaction ceased to ascend, and the ebb recommenced. From the
beginning of the Reformation in 1529, two distinct movements had gone on side by side--the
alteration of doctrines, and the emancipation of the laity from papal and ecclesiastical domination.
With the first, the contemporaries of Henry VIII., the country gentlemen and the peers, who
were the heads of families at the period of Mary's accession, had never sympathised; and the
tyranny of the Protestants while they were in power had converted a disapproval which time
would have overcome, into active and determined indignation. The papacy was a mixed question;
the Pilgrims of Grace in 1536, and the Cornish rebels in 1549, had demanded the restoration
of the spiritual primacy to the See of St. Peter, and Henry himself, until Pole and Paul III.
called on Europe to unite in a crusade against him, had not determined wholly against some
degree of concession. In the pope, as a sovereign who claimed reverence and tribute, who interfered
with the laws of the land, and maintained at Rome a supreme court of appeal--who pretended
a right to depose kings and absolve subjects from their allegiance--who held a weapon in excommunication
as terrible to the laity as Premunire was terrible to ecclesiastics--in the pope under this
aspect, only a few insignificant fanatics entertained any kind of interest.

But experience had proved that to a nation cut off from the centre of Catholic union, the maintenance
of orthodoxy was impossible: the supremacy of the pope, therefore, came back as a tolerated
feature in the return to the Catholic faith, and the ecclesiastical courts were reinstated
in authority to check unlicensed {p.188} extravagance of opinion. Their restored power, however,
was over opinion only; wherever the pretensions of the church would come in collision with
the political constitution, wherever they menaced the independence of the temporal magistrate
or the tenure of property, there the progress of restoration was checked by the rock, and could
eat no further into the soil. The pope and the clergy recovered their titular rank, and in
one direction unhappily they recovered the reality of power. But the temporal spoils of the
struggle remained with the laity, and if the clergy lifted a hand to retake them, their weapons
would be instantly wrenched from their grasp.

If the genuine friends of human freedom had acquiesced without resistance in this conclusion,
if the nobility had contented themselves with securing their worldly and political interests,
and had made no effort to restrain or modify the exercise of the authority which they were
giving back, they might be accused of having accepted a dishonourable compromise. But they
did what they could. They worked with such legal means as were in their power, and for two
parliaments they succeeded in keeping persecution at bay; they failed in the third, but failed
only after a struggle. The Protestants themselves had created, by their own misconduct, the
difficulty of defending them; and armed unconstitutional resistance was an expedient to be
resorted to, only when it had been seen how the clergy would conduct themselves. English statesmen
may be pardoned if they did not anticipate the passions to which the guardians of orthodoxy
were about to abandon themselves. Parliament had maintained the independence of the English
courts of law. It had maintained the Premunire. It had forbidden the succession to be tampered
with. If this was not everything, it was something--something which in the end would be the
undoing of all the rest.

The court and the bishops, however, were for the present absolute in their own province. The
persecuting acts were once more upon the Statute Book; and when the realities of the debates
in parliament had disappeared, the cardinal and the queen could again give the rein to their
imagination. They had called up a phantom out of its grave, and they persuaded themselves that
they were witnessing the resurrection of the spirit of truth, that heresy was about to vanish
from off the English soil, like an exhalation of the morning, at the brightness of the papal
return. The chancellor and the clergy were springing at the leash like hounds with the game
in view, fanaticism and revenge {p.189} lashing them forward. If the temporal schemes of the
court were thwarted, it was, perhaps, because Heaven desired that exclusive attention should
be given first to the salvation of souls.

For all past political offences, therefore, there was now an amnesty, and such prisoners as
remained unexecuted for Wyatt's conspiracy were released from the Tower on the 18th of January.
On the 25th a hundred and sixty priests walked in procession through the London streets, chanting
litanies, with eight bishops walking after them, and Bonner carrying the host. On the 28th
the cardinal issued his first general instructions. The bishops were directed to call together
their clergy in every diocese in England, and to inform them of the benevolent love of the
Holy Father, and of the arrival of the legate with powers to absolve them from their guilt.
They were to relate the acts of the late parliament, with the reconciliation and absolution
of the Lords and Commons; and they were to give general notice that authority had been restored
to the ecclesiastical courts, to proceed against the enemies of the faith, and punish them
according to law.

A day was then to be fixed on which the clergy should appear with their confessions, and be
received into the church. In the assignment of their several penances, a distinction was to
be made between those who had taught heresy and those who had merely lapsed into it.

When the clergy had been reconciled, they were again in turn to exhort the laity in all churches
and cathedrals, to accept the grace which was offered to them; and that they might understand
that they were not at liberty to refuse the invitation, a time was assigned to them within
which their submissions must be all completed. A book was to be kept in every diocese, where
the names of those who were received were to be entered. A visitation was to be held throughout
the country at the end of the spring, and all who had not complied before Easter day, or who,
after compliance, "had returned to their vomit", would be proceeded against with the utmost
severity of the law.[438]

                   [Footnote 438: Instructions of Cardinal Pole to the
                   Bishops: Burnet's Collectanea.]

The introduction of the Register was the Inquisition under another name. There was no limit,
except in the humanity or the prudence of the bishops, to the tyranny which they would be enabled
to exercise. The cardinal professed to desire that, before heretics were punished with death,
mild means should {p.190} first be tried with them;[439] the meaning which he attached to the
words was illustrated in an instant example.

                   [Footnote 439: The opinion of Pole, on the
                   propriety of putting men to death for
                   nonconformity, was strictly orthodox. He regarded
                   heretics, he said, as rebellious children, with
                   whom persuasion and mild correction should first be
                   tried. "Nec tamen, negârim fieri posse," he
                   continued, "ut alicujus opiniones tam perniciosæ
                   existant, ipseque jam corruptus tam sit ad
                   corrumpendos alios promptus ac sedulus ut non
                   dubitârim dicere eum e vitâ tolli oportere et
                   tanquam putridum membrum e corpore exsecari. Neque
                   id tamen priusquam ejus sanandi causâ omnis leviter
                   medendi tentata sit ratio."--Pole to the Cardinal
                   of Augsburg: Epist. Reg. Pol. vol. iv.]

The instructions were the signal for the bishops to commence business. On the day of their
appearance, Gardiner, Bonner, Tunstal, and three other prelates, formed a court in St. Mary
Overy's Church, in Southwark; and Hooper, and Rogers, a canon of St. Paul's, were brought up
before them.

Rogers had been distinguished in the first bright days of Protestantism. He had been a fellow-labourer
with Tyndal and Coverdale, at Antwerp, in the translation of the Bible. Afterwards, taking
a German wife, he lived for a time at Wittenberg, not unknown, we may be sure, to Martin Luther.
On the accession of Edward, he returned to England, and worked among the London clergy till
the end of the reign; and on Mary's accession he was one of the preachers at Paul's Cross who
had dared to speak against the reaction. He had been rebuked by the council, and his friends
had urged him to fly; but, like Cranmer, he thought that duty required him to stay at his post,
and, in due time, without, however, having given fresh provocation, he was shut up in Newgate
by Bonner.

Hooper, when the unfortunate garment controversy was brought to an end, had shown by his conduct
in his diocese that in one instance at least doctrinal fanaticism was compatible with the loftiest
excellence. While the great world was scrambling for the church property, Hooper was found
petitioning the council for leave to augment impoverished livings out of his own income.[440]
In the hall of his palace at Gloucester a profuse hospitality was offered daily to those who
were most in need of it. The poor of the city were invited by relays to solid meat dinners,
and the bishop with the courtesy of a gentleman dined with them, and treated them with the
same respect as if they had been the highest in the land. He was one of the first persons arrested
after Mary's accession, and the cross of persecution at once happily made his peace with Ridley.
In an affectionate interchange of letters, the two confessors exhorted each other {p.191} to
constancy in the end which both foresaw, determining "if they could not overthrow, at least,
to shake those high altitudes" of spiritual tyranny.[441] The Fleet prison had now been Hooper's
house for eighteen months. At first, on payment of heavy fees to the warden, he had lived in
some degree of comfort; but as soon as his deprivation was declared, Gardiner ordered that
he should be confined in one of the common prisoners' wards; where "with a wicked man and a
wicked woman" for his companions, with a bed of straw and a rotten counterpane, the prison
sink on one side of his cell and Fleet ditch on the other, he waited till it would please parliament
to permit the dignitaries of the Church to murder him.[442]

                   [Footnote 440: Privy Council Register, Edward VI.
                   MS.]

                   [Footnote 441: Correspondence between Hooper and
                   Ridley: Foxe, vol. vi.]

                   [Footnote 442: Account of Hooper's Imprisonment, by
                   himself: Foxe, vol. vi.]

These were the two persons with whom the Marian persecution opened. On their appearance in
the court, they were required briefly to make their submission. They attempted to argue; but
they were told that when parliament had determined a thing, private men were not to call it
in question, and they were allowed twenty-four hours to make up their minds. As they were leaving
the church Hooper was heard to say, "Come, brother Rogers, must we two take this matter first
in hand and fry these faggots?" "Yea, sir, with God's grace," Rogers answered. "Doubt not,"
Hooper said, "but God will give us strength."

They were remanded to prison. The next morning they were brought again before the court. "The
queen's mercy" was offered them, if they would recant; they refused, and they were sentenced
to die. Rogers asked to be allowed to take leave of his wife and children. Gardiner, with a
savage taunt, rejected the request. The day of execution was left uncertain. They were sent
to Newgate to wait the queen's pleasure. On the 30th, Taylor of Hadley, Laurence Sandars, rector
of All Hallows, and the illustrious Bradford, were passed through the same forms with the same
results. Another, a notorious preacher, called Cardmaker, flinched, and made his submission.

Rogers was to "break the ice," as Bradford described it.[443] On the morning of the 4th of
February the wife of the keeper of Newgate came to his bedside. He was sleeping soundly, and
she woke him with difficulty to let him know that he was wanted. The Bishop of London was waiting,
she said, to degrade him from the priesthood, and he was then to go out and die. Rubbing {p.192}
his eyes, and collecting himself, he hurried on his clothes. "If it be thus." he said, "I need
not tie my points." Hooper had been sent for also for the ceremony of degradation. The vestments
used in the mass were thrown over them, and were then one by one removed. They were pronounced
deposed from the priestly office, incapable of offering further sacrifice--except, indeed,
the only acceptable sacrifice which man can ever offer, the sacrifice of himself. Again Rogers
entreated permission to see his wife, and again he was refused.

                   [Footnote 443: Bradford to Cranmer, Ridley, and
                   Latimer: Foxe.]

The two friends were then parted. Hooper was to suffer at Gloucester, and returned to his cell;
Rogers was committed to the sheriff, and led out to Smithfield. The Catholics had affected
to sneer at the faith of their rivals. There was a general conviction among them, which was
shared probably by Pole and Gardiner, that the Protestants would all flinch at the last; that
they had no "doctrine that would abide the fire." When Rogers appeared, therefore, the exultation
of the people in his constancy overpowered the horror of his fate, and he was received with
rounds of cheers. His family, whom he was forbidden to part with in private, were waiting on
the way to see him--his wife with nine little ones at her side and a tenth upon her breast--and
they, too, welcomed him with hysterical cries of joy, as if he were on his way to a festival.[444]
Sir Robert Rochester was in attendance at the stake to report his behaviour. At the last moment
he was offered pardon if he would give way, but in vain. The fire was lighted. The suffering
seemed to be nothing. He bathed his hands in the flame as "if it was cold water," raised his
eyes to heaven, and died.

                   [Footnote 444: "Cejourdhuy a esté faicte la
                   confirmation de l'alliance entre le Pape et ce
                   Royaulme par ung sacrifice publique et solempnel
                   d'ung docteur predicant nommé Rogerus, lequel a
                   esté brulé tout vif pour estre Lutherien; mais il
                   est mort persistant en son opinion, à quoy la plus
                   grand part de ce peuple a prins tel plaisir qu'ilz
                   n'ont eu craincte de luy faire plusieurs
                   acclamations pour comforter son courage; et mesmes
                   ses enfans y ont assistés le consolantes de telle
                   façon qu'il sembloit qu'on le menast aux
                   nopces."--Noailles to Montmorency: Ambassades,
                   vol. iv.]

The same night a party of the royal guard took charge of Hooper, the order of whose execution
was arranged by a mandate from the crown. As "an obstinate, false, and detestable heretic,"
he was to be burned in the city "which he had infected with his pernicious doctrines;" and
"forasmuch as being a vainglorious person, and delighting in his tongue," he "might persuade
the people into agreement with him, had he liberty to use it," care was to be taken that he
should not speak either at {p.193} the stake or on his way to it.[445] He was carried down
on horseback by easy stages; and on the forenoon of Thursday, the 7th, he dined at Cirencester,
"at a woman's house who had always hated the truth, and spoken all evil she could of him."
This woman had shared in the opinion that Protestants had no serious convictions, and had often
expressed her belief that Hooper, particularly, would fail if brought to the trial. She found
that both in him and in his creed there was more than she had supposed; and "perceiving the
cause of his coming, she lamented his case with tears, and showed him all the friendship she
could."

                   [Footnote 445: Mandate for the execution of Hooper:
                   Burnet's Collectanea.]

At five in the evening he arrived at Gloucester. The road, for a mile outside the town, was
lined with people, and the mayor was in attendance, with an escort, to prevent a rescue. But
the feeling was rather of awe and expectation, and those who loved Hooper best knew that the
highest service which he could render to his faith was to die for it.

A day's interval of preparation was allowed him, with a private room. He was in the custody
of the sheriff; "and there was this difference observed between the keepers of the bishops'
prisons and the keepers of the crown prisons, that the bishops' keepers were ever cruel; the
keepers of the crown prisons showed, for the most part, such favour as they might."[446] After
a sound night's rest, Hooper rose early, and passed the morning in solitary prayer. In the
course of the day, young Sir Anthony Kingston, one of the commissioners appointed to superintend
the execution, expressed a wish to see him. Kingston was an old acquaintance, Hooper having
been the means of bringing him out of evil ways. He entered the room unannounced. Hooper was
on his knees, and, looking round at the intruder, did not at first know him. Kingston told
him his name, and then, bursting into tears, said:--

                   [Footnote 446: Foxe.]

"Oh, consider; life is sweet and death is bitter; therefore, seeing life may be had, desire
to live, for life hereafter may do good."

Hooper answered:--

"I thank you for your counsel, yet it is not so friendly as I could have wished it to be. True
it is, alas! Master Kingston, that death is bitter and life is sweet; therefore I have settled
myself, through the strength of God's Holy Spirit, patiently to pass through the fire prepared
for me, desiring you and others to commend me to God's mercy in your prayers."

{p.194} "Well, my Lord," said Kingston, "then there is no remedy, and I will take my leave.
I thank God that ever I knew you, for God appointed you to call me, being a lost child. I was
both an adulterer and a fornicator, and God, by your good instruction, brought me to the forsaking
of the same."

They parted, the tears on both their faces. Other friends were admitted afterwards. The queen's
orders were little thought of, for Hooper had won the hearts of the guard on his way from London.
In the evening the mayor and aldermen came, with the sheriffs, to shake hands with him. "It
was a sign of their good will," he said, "and a proof that they had not forgotten the lessons
which he used to teach them." He begged the sheriffs that there might be "a quick fire, to
make an end shortly;" and for himself he would be as obedient as they could wish.

"If you think I do amiss in anything," he said, "hold up your fingers, and I have done; for
I am not come hither as one enforced or compelled to die; I might have had my life, as is well
known, with worldly gain, if I would have accounted my doctrine falsehood and heresy."

In the evening, at his own request, he was left alone. He slept undisturbed the early part
of the night. From the time that he awoke till the guard entered, he was on his knees.

The morning was windy and wet. The scene of the execution was an open space opposite the college,
near a large elm tree, where Hooper had been accustomed to preach. Several thousand people
were collected to see him suffer; some had climbed the tree, and were seated in the storm and
rain among the leafless branches. A company of priests were in a room over the college gates,
looking out with pity or satisfaction, as God or the devil was in their hearts.

"Alas!" said Hooper, when he was brought out, "why be all these people assembled here, and
speech is prohibited me?" He had suffered in prison from sciatica, and was lame, but he limped
cheerfully along with a stick, and smiled when he saw the stake. At the foot of it he knelt;
and as he began to pray, a box was brought, and placed on a stool before his eyes, which he
was told contained his pardon if he would recant.

"Away with it;" Hooper only cried; "away with it!"

"Despatch him, then," Lord Chandos said, "seeing there is no remedy."

He was undressed to his shirt, in the cold; a pound of gunpowder was tied between his legs,
and as much more under either {p.195} arm; he was fastened with an iron hoop to the stake,
and he assisted with his own hands to arrange the faggots round him.

The fire was then brought, but the wood was green; the dry straw only kindled, and burning
for a few moments was blown away by the wind. A violent flame paralysed the nerves at once,
a slow one was torture. More faggots were thrown in, and again lighted, and this time the martyr's
face was singed and scorched; but again the flames sank, and the hot damp sticks smouldered
round his legs. He wiped his eyes with his hands, and cried, "For God's love, good people,
let me have more fire!" A third supply of dry fuel was laid about him, and this time the powder
exploded, but it had been ill placed, or was not enough. "Lord Jesu, have mercy on me!" he
exclaimed; "Lord Jesu, receive my spirit!" These were his last articulate words; but his lips
were long seen to move, and he continued to beat his breast with his hands. It was not till
after three-quarters of an hour of torment that he at last expired.

The same day, at the same hour, Rowland Taylor was burnt on Aldham Common, in Suffolk. Laurance
Sandars had been destroyed the day before at Coventry, kissing the stake, and crying, "Welcome
the cross of Christ! welcome everlasting life!" The first-fruits of the Whitehall pageant were
gathered. By the side of the rhetoric of the hysterical dreamer who presided in that vain melodrama,
let me place a few words addressed by the murdered Bishop of Gloucester to his friends, a week
before his sentence.

"The grace of God be with you, amen. I did write unto you of late, and told you what extremity
the parliament had concluded upon concerning religion, suppressing the truth, and setting forth
the untruth; intending to cause all men, by extremity, to forswear themselves; and to take
again for the head of the church him that is neither head nor member of it, but a very enemy,
as the word of God and all ancient writers do record. And for lack of law and authority they
will use force and extremity, which have been the arguments to defend the pope and popery since
their authority first began in the world. But now is the time of trial, to see whether we fear
more God or man. It was an easy thing to hold with Christ whilst the prince and the world held
with him; but now the world hateth him, it is the true trial who be his.

"Wherefore in the name, and in the virtue, strength, and power of his Holy Spirit, prepare
yourselves in any case to adversity and constancy. Let us not run away when it is most {p.196}
time to fight. Remember, none shall be crowned but such as fight manfully; and he that endureth
to the end shall be saved. Ye must now turn your cogitations from the perils you see, and mark
the felicity that followeth the peril--either victory in this world of your enemies, or else
a surrender of this life to inherit the everlasting kingdom. Beware of beholding too much the
felicity or misery of this world; for the consideration and too earnest love or fear of either
of them draweth from God. Wherefore think with yourselves as touching the felicity of the world,
it is good; but none otherwise than it standeth with the favour of God; it is to be kept, but
yet so far forth as by keeping it we lose not God. It is good abiding and tarrying still among
our friends here, but yet so that we tarry not therewithal in God's displeasure, and hereafter
dwell with the devils in fire everlasting. There is nothing under God but may be kept, so that
God, being above all things we have, be not lost. Of adversity judge the same. Imprisonment
is painful, but yet liberty upon evil conditions is more painful. The prisons stink; but yet
not so much as sweet houses, where the fear and true honour of God lack. I must be alone and
solitary; it is better so to be, and have God with me, than to be in company with the wicked.
Loss of goods is great, but loss of God's grace and favour is greater. I am a poor simple creature,
and cannot tell how to answer before such a great sort of noble, learned, and wise men. It
is better to make answer before the pomp and pride of wicked men, than to stand naked, in the
sight of all heaven and earth, before the just God at the latter day. I shall die by the hands
of the cruel men; but he is blessed that loseth this life full of miseries, and findeth the
life of eternal joys. It is pain and grief to depart from goods and friends; but yet not so
much as to depart from grace and heaven itself. Wherefore there is neither felicity nor adversity
of this world that can appear to be great, if it be weighed with the joys or pains in the world
to come."[447]

                   [Footnote 447: Hooper to his friends: Foxe, vol.
                   vi.]

Of five who had been sentenced, four were thus despatched. Bradford, the fifth, was respited,
in the hope that the example might tell upon him. Six more were waiting their condemnation
in Bonner's prisons. The enemies of the church were to submit or die. So said Gardiner, in
the name of the English priesthood, with the passion of a fierce revenge. So said the legate
and the queen, in the delirious belief that they were chosen instruments of Providence.

So, however, did not say the English lay statesmen. The {p.197} first and unexpected effect
was to produce a difference of opinion in the court itself. Philip, to whom Renard had insisted
on the necessity of more moderate measures, found it necessary to clear himself of responsibility;
and the day after Hooper suffered, Alphonso a Castro, the king's chaplain, preached a sermon
in the royal presence, in which he denounced the execution, and inveighed against the tyranny
of the bishops. The Lords of the Council "talked strangely;" and so deep was the indignation,
that the Flemish ambassador again expected Gardiner's destruction. Paget refused to act with
him in the council any more, and Philip himself talked more and more of going abroad. Renard,
from the tone of his correspondence, believed evidently at this moment that the game of the
church was played out and lost. He wrote to the emperor to entreat that when the king went
he might not himself be left behind; he was held responsible by the people for the queen's
misdoings; and a party of the young nobility had sworn to kill him.[448]

                   [Footnote 448: "L'évesque de Londres avec les
                   autres évesques assembléez en ce lieu pour
                   l'exécution du statut conclu en dernier Parlement
                   sur le faict de la religion, a fait brusler trois
                   hérétiques; l'ung en ce lieu et les deux autres en
                   pays; et sont après pour continuer contre les
                   obstinez: dont les nobles et le peuple hérétique
                   murmure et s'altère; selon que l'ay faict entendre
                   au roy par ung billet par escript duquel la copie
                   va avec les présentes; et la noblesse tousjours
                   désire d'avoir occasion d'attirer le peuple et le
                   faire joindre à révolte avec elle; et prévoys si
                   Dieu n'y remédie, ou que telle précipitation ne se
                   modère, les choses prendront dangereux succès, et
                   signamment les partiaulx, contre le chancelier ne
                   perdront ceste commodité de vengeance.... Les
                   dictes conseilliers se retirent de négoces. Paget
                   se voyant en la male grâce de la royne, et de la
                   pluspart du conseil, se trouve souvent au quartier
                   dudict Sieurroy ... le peuple parle contre la royne
                   estrangement.... Comme j'entendz que l'on parle
                   pour me faire demeurer, et séjourner par deçà après
                   le départ du roy, je n'ay pen délaisser de supplier
                   très humblement vostre majesté me excuser ... je
                   suys certain l'on me tueroit incontinant après
                   ledict parlement," etc.--Renard to Charles V.:
                   Granvelle Papers, vol. iv. pp. 400-402.]

Among the people the constancy of the martyrs had called out a burst of admiration. It was
rumoured that bystanders had endeavoured to throw themselves into the fire to die at their
side.[449] A prisoner, on examination before Bonner, was asked if he thought he could bear
the flame. You may try me, if you will, he said. A candle was brought, and he held his hand,
without flinching, in the blaze.[450] With such a humour abroad, {p.198} it seemed to Renard
that the Lords had only to give the signal, and the queen and the bishops would be overwhelmed.

                   [Footnote 449: "Et a l'on dict que plusieurs ... se
                   sont voulu voluntairement mettre sur le bûche à
                   costé de ceulx que l'on brusloit."--Ibid. p. 404.]

                   [Footnote 450: "Un bourgeois estant interrougé par
                   ledict évesque de Londres se souffriroit bien le
                   feug, respondist qu'il en fist l'expérience: et
                   aiant fait apporter une chandelle allumée, il meit
                   la main dessus sans la retirer ny se
                   mouvoir."--Renard to Charles V.: Granvelle
                   Papers, vol. vi. p. 404. The man's name was
                   Tomkins. Foxe, who tells the story as an
                   illustration of Bonner's brutality, says that the
                   Bishop himself held the hand. But Renard's is
                   probably the truer version.]

He expected the movement in the spring. It is singular that, precisely as in the preceding
winter, the deliberate intentions of moderate and competent persons were anticipated and defeated
by a partial and premature conspiracy. At the end of February a confederate revealed a project
for an insurrection, partly religious and partly agrarian. Placards were to be issued simultaneously
in all parts of the country, declaring that the queen's pregnancy was a delusion, and that
she intended to pass upon the nation a supposititious child; the people were, therefore, invited
to rise in arms, drive out the Spaniards, revolutionise religion, tear down the enclosures
of the commons, and proclaim Courtenay king under the title of Edward VII.[451] In such a scheme
the lords and country gentlemen could bear no part. They could not risk a repetition of the
popular rebellions of the late reign, and they resolved to wait the issue of the queen's pregnancy,
while they watched over the safety of Elizabeth. The project of the court was now to send her
to Flanders, where she was to remain under charge of the emperor; if possible, she was to be
persuaded to go thither of her own accord; if she could not be persuaded, she would be otherwise
removed. Lord William Howard, her constant guardian, requested permission to see and speak
with her, and learn her own feelings. He was refused; but he went to her notwithstanding, and
had a long private interview with her; and the court could only talk bitterly of his treason
among themselves, make propositions to send him to the Tower which they durst not execute,
and devise some other method of dealing with their difficulty.[452]

                   [Footnote 451: Renard to Charles V.: Granvelle
                   Papers, vol. iv. p. 403.]

                   [Footnote 452: Renard to Charles V.: Ibid. pp. 404,
                   405.]

Meantime, Philip, who had pined for freedom after six weeks' experience of his bride, was becoming
unmanageably impatient. A paper of advice and exhortation survives, which was addressed on
this occasion by the ambassador to his master, with reflections on the condition of England,
and on the conduct which the king should pursue.

"Your majesty must remember," said Renard, "the purpose for which you came to England. The
French had secured the Queen of Scotland for the Dauphin. They had afterwards made an alliance
with the late king, and spared no pains to secure the support of England. To counteract their
schemes, and to {p.199} obtain a counter advantage in the war, the emperor, on the accession
of the queen, resolved that your highness should marry her. Your highness, it is true, might
wish that she was more agreeable;[453] but, on the other hand, she is infinitely virtuous,
and, things being as they are, your highness, like a magnanimous prince, must remember her
condition, and exert yourself, so far as you conveniently may, to assist her in the management
of the kingdom.

                   [Footnote 453: "Et combien l'on pouvoit requérir
                   plus de civilité en la Reyne.--Renard to Philip:
                   Granvelle Papers, vol. iv. p. 394.]

"Your highness must consider that your departure will be misrepresented, your enemies will
speak of it as a flight rather than as a necessary absence. The French will be busy with their
intrigues, and the queen will not be pleased to lose you. The administration is in confusion,
the divisions in the council are more violent than ever. Religion is unsettled; the heretics
take advantage of these late barbarous punishments to say, that they are to be converted by
fire, because their enemies are unable to convince them by reason or example. The orthodox
clergy are still unreformed, and their scandalous conduct accords ill with the offices to which
they are called.[454]

                   [Footnote 454: "Les gens d'église ne sont
                   reformées, il y a plusieurs abuz qui donnent
                   scandale et maulvaise impression, et ilz ne
                   respondent aux offices auxquelz ilz sont
                   appellez."--Ibid. p. 395.]

"Further, your highness will do well to weigh the uncertainty of the succession. Should the
queen's pregnancy prove a mistake, the heretics will place their hopes in Elizabeth: and here
you are in a difficulty whatever be done; for if Elizabeth be set aside, the crown will go
to the Queen of Scots; if she succeed, she will restore heresy, and naturally attach herself
to France. Some step must be taken about this before you leave the country; and you must satisfy
the queen that you will assist her in her general difficulties, as a good lord and husband
ought to do.[455]

                   [Footnote 455: "Donner ce contentement à la royne
                   d'avoir intention de asseurer et establir ses
                   affaires et la secourir comme bon Seigneur et
                   mari."]

"The council must be reformed, if possible, and the number diminished; those who remain must
be invited to renew their oaths to your majesty. Regard must be had to the navy, and especially
to the admiral Lord William Howard; and above all there must be no more of this barbarous precipitancy
in putting heretics to death. The people must be won from their errors by gentleness and by
better instruction. Except in cases of especial scandal, the bishops must not be permitted
to irritate them by {p.200} cruelty, and the legate must see that a better example is set by
the clergy themselves.[456] The debts of the crown must be attended to; and your majesty should
endeavour to do something which will give you popularity with the masses. Before all things,
attend to the succession.

                   [Footnote 456: "Que ès choses de la religion l'on
                   ne use de précipitation par punition cruelle, ains
                   avec la modération, et mansuétude requise, et dont
                   l'église a tousjours usé; retirant le peuple de
                   l'erreur par doctrine et prédication, et que si ce
                   n'est un acte scandaleux l'on ne passe oultre en
                   chastoy que puisse altérer le peuple et le
                   désgouter, que la reformation requise pour le bon
                   example, soit introduicte sur les gens de l'église
                   comme le légat advisera pour le mieulx."--Renard to
                   Philip: Granvelle Papers, vol. iv. p. 395.]

"You cannot set aside the dispositions of King Henry in favour of Elizabeth without danger
of rebellion. To recognise her as heir-presumptive without providing her with a husband, who
can control her, will be perilous to the queen. The mean course between the extremes, will
be therefore, for your highness to bring about her marriage with the Prince of Savoy. It will
please the English, provided that her rights of inheritance are not interfered with; and although
they will not go to war for our quarrel, they will not in that case be unwilling to assist
in expelling the French from Piedmont.

"If your majesty approve, the thing can be done without delay. At all events, before you leave
the country, you should see the princess yourself; give her your advice to be faithful to her
sister, and, on your part, promise that you will be her friend, and assist her where you can
find opportunity."

{p.201} CHAPTER IV.

THE MARTYRS.

The protests of Renard against the persecution received no attention.

The inquisition established by the legate was not to commence till Easter; but the prisons
were already abundantly supplied with persons who had been arrested on various pretexts, and
the material was ready in hand to occupy the interval. The four persons who had first suffered
had been conspicuous among the leaders of the Reformation; but the bishops were for the most
part prudent in their selection of victims, and chose them principally from among the poor
and unfriended.

On the 9th of February, a weaver named Tomkins (the man who had held his hand in the candle),
Pigot, a butcher, Knight, a barber, Hunter, an apprentice boy of 19, Lawrence, a priest, and
Hawkes, a gentleman, were brought before Bonner in the Consistory at St. Paul's, where they
were charged with denying transubstantiation, and were condemned to die. The indignation which
had been excited by the first executions caused a delay in carrying the sentence into effect;
but as the menace of insurrection died away the wolves came back to their prey. On the 9th
of March, two more were condemned also, Thomas Causton and Thomas Higbed, men of some small
property in Essex. To disperse the effect, these eight were scattered about the diocese. Tomkins
died at Smithfield on the 16th of March; Causton and Higbed, Pigot and Knight, in different
parts of Essex; Hawkes suffered later; Lawrence was burnt at Colchester. The legs of the latter
had been crushed by irons in one of Bonner's prisons; he was unable to stand, and was placed
at the stake in a chair. "At his burning, he sitting in the fire, the young children came about
and cried, as well as young children could speak, Lord strengthen thy servant, and keep thy
promise--Lord, strengthen thy servant, and keep thy promise."[457]

                   [Footnote 457: Foxe, vol. vi.]

Hunter's case deserves more particular mention. The London apprentices had been affected deeply
by the Reforming preachers. It was to them that the servant of Anne Askew "made her {p.202}
moan," and gathered subscriptions for her mistress. William Hunter, who was one of them, had
been ordered to attend mass by a priest when it was re-established; he had refused, and his
master, fearing that he might be brought into trouble, had sent him home to his family at Brentwood,
in Essex.[458] Another priest, going one day into Brentwood Church, found Hunter reading the
Bible there.

                   [Footnote 458: The story of Hunter was left in
                   writing by his brother, and was printed by Foxe. I
                   have already said that whenever Foxe prints
                   documents instead of relating hearsays, I have
                   found him uniformly trustworthy; so far, that is to
                   say, as there are means of testing him.]

Could he expound Scripture, that he read it thus to himself? the priest asked. He was reading
for his comfort, Hunter replied; he did not take on himself to expound. The Bible taught him
how to live, and how to distinguish between right and wrong.

It was never merry world, the priest said, since the Bible came forth in English. He saw what
Hunter was--he was one of those who disliked the queen's laws, and he and other heretics would
broil for it before all was over.

The boy's friends thought it prudent that he should fly to some place where he was not known;
but, as soon as he was gone, a Catholic magistrate in the neighbourhood required his father
to produce him, on peril of being arrested in his place; and, after a struggle of affection,
in which the father offered to shield his son at his own hazard, young Hunter returned and
surrendered.

The magistrate sent him to the Bishop of London, who kept him in prison three quarters of a
year. When the persecution commenced, he was called up for examination.

Bonner, though a bigot and a ruffian, had, at times, a coarse good-nature in him, and often,
in moments of pity, thrust an easy recantation upon a hesitating prisoner. He tried with emphatic
anxiety to save this young apprentice. "If thou wilt recant," he said to him, "I will make
thee a freeman in the city, and give thee forty pounds in money to set up thy occupation withal;
or I will make thee steward of mine house, and set thee in office, for I like thee well."

Hunter thanked him for his kindness; but it could not be, he said; he must stand to the truth:
he could not lie, or pretend to believe what he did not believe. Bonner said, and probably
with sincere conviction, that if he persisted he would be damned for ever. Hunter said, that
God judged more righteously, and justified those whom man unjustly condemned.

He was therefore to die with the rest; and on Saturday, the {p.203} 23rd of March, he was sent
to suffer at his native village. Monday being the feast of the Annunciation, the execution
was postponed till Tuesday. The intervening time he was allowed to spend with his friends "in
the parlour of the Swan Inn." His father prayed that he might continue to the end in the way
that he had begun. His mother said, she was happy to bear a child who could find in his heart
to lose his life for Christ's sake. "Mother," he answered, "for my little pain which I shall
suffer, which is but a short braid, Christ hath promised me a crown of joy. May you not be
glad of that, mother?"

Amidst such words the days passed. Tuesday morning the sheriff's son came and embraced him,
"bade him not be afraid," and "could speak no more for weeping." When the sheriff came himself
for him, he took his brother's arm and walked calmly to the place of execution, "at the town's
end, where the butts stood."

His father was at the roadside as he passed. "God be with thee, son William!" the old man said.
"God be with thee, good father," the son answered, "and be of good comfort!"

When he was come to the stake, he took one of the faggots, knelt upon it, and prayed for a
few moments. The sheriff read the pardon with the conditions. "I shall not recant," he said,
and walked to the post, to which he was chained.

"Pray for me, good people, while you see me alive," he said to the crowd.

"Pray for thee!" said the magistrate who had committed him, "I will no more pray for thee than
I will pray for a dog."

"Son of God," Hunter exclaimed, "shine on me!" The sun broke out from behind a cloud and blazed
in glory on his face.

The faggots were set on fire.

"Look," shrieked a priest, "how thou burnest here, so shalt thou burn in hell!"

The martyr had a Prayer-book in his hands, which he cast through the flames to his brother.

"William," said the brother, "think on the holy passion of Christ, and be not afraid of death."

"I am not afraid," were his last words. "Lord, Lord, Lord, receive my spirit!"

Ten days later another victim was sacrificed at Carmarthen, whose fate was peculiarly unprovoked
and cruel.

Robert Ferrars, who twenty-seven years before carried a faggot with Anthony Dalaber in High
Street at Oxford, had been appointed by Somerset Bishop of St. David's. He was a {p.204} man
of large humanity, justice, and uprightness--neither conspicuous as a theologian nor prominent
as a preacher, but remarkable chiefly for good sense and a kindly imaginative tenderness. He
had found his diocese infected with the general disorders of the times. The Chapter were indulging
themselves to the utmost in questionable pleasures. The church patronage was made the prey
of a nest of Cathedral lawyers, and, in an evil hour for himself, the bishop endeavoured to
make crooked things straight.

After three years of struggle, his unruly canons were unable to endure him longer, and forwarded
to the Duke of Northumberland an elaborate series of complaints against him. He was charged
with neglecting his books and his preaching, and spending his time in surveying the lands of
the see, and opening mines. He kept no manner of hospitality, it was said, but dined at the
same table with his servants; and his talk was "not of godliness," "but of worldly matters,
as baking, brewing, enclosing, ploughing, mining, millstones, discharging of tenants, and such
like."

"To declare his folly in riding (these are the literal words of the accusation), he useth a
bridle with white studs and snaffle, white Scottish stirrups, white spurs; a Scottish pad,
with a little staff of three quarters [of a yard] long.

"He said he would go to parliament on foot; and to his friends that dissuaded him, alleging
that it was not meet for a man in his place, he answered, I care not for that; it is no sin.

"Having a son, he went before the midwife to the church, presenting the child to the priest;
and giving the name Samuel with a solemn interpretation of the name,[459] appointed two godfathers
and two godmothers contrary to the ordinance, making his son a monster and himself a laughing-stock.

                   [Footnote 459: Wherefore it came to pass that
                   Hannah bare a son, and called his name Samuel,
                   saying, Because I have asked him of the Lord. 1
                   Samuel i. 20.]

"He daily useth whistling of his child, and saith that he understood his whistle when he was
but three years old; and being advertised of his friends that men laughed at his folly, he
answered, They whistle their horses and dogs: they might also be contented that I whistle my
child; and so whistleth him daily, friendly admonition neglected.

"In his visitation, among other his surveys, he surveyed Milford Haven, where he espied a seal-fish
tumbling, and he crept down to the rocks by the water-side, and continued there {p.205} whistling
by the space of an hour, persuading the company that laughed fast at him, he made the fish
to tarry there.

"Speaking of the scarcity of herrings, he laid the fault to the covetousness of fishers, who
in time of plenty took so many that they destroyed the breeders.

"Speaking of the alteration of the coin, he wished that what metal soever it was made of, the
penny should be in weight worth a penny of the same metal."

Such were the charges against Ferrars, which, notwithstanding, were considered serious enough
to require an answer; and the bishop consented to reply.

He dined with his servants, he said, because the hall of the palace was in ruins, and for their
comfort he allowed them to eat in his own room. For his hospitality, he appealed to his neighbours;
and for his conversation, he said that he suited it to his hearers. He talked of religion to
religious men; to men of the world, he talked "of honest worldly things with godly intent."
He saw no folly in having his horse decently appointed; and as to walking to parliament, it
was indifferent to him whether he walked or rode. God had given him a child, after lawful prayer,
begotten in honest marriage; he had therefore named him Samuel, and presented him to the minister
as a poor member of Christ's Church; it was done openly in the cathedral, without offending
any one. The crime of whistling he admitted, "thinking it better to bring up his son with loving
entertainment," to encourage him to receive afterwards more serious lessons. He had whistled
to the seal; and "such as meant folly might turn it to their purpose." He had said that the
destruction of the fry of fish prevented fish from multiplying, because he believed it to be true.

Answered or unanswered, it is scarcely credible that such accusations should have received
attention; but the real offence behind, and is indicated in a vague statement that he had supposed
himself to a premunire. The exquisite iniquity of the Northumberland administration could not
endure a bishop who had opposed the corrupt administration of patronage; and the explanation
being held as insufficient, Ferrars was summoned to London and thrown into prison, where Mary's
accession found him.

Cut off in this way from the opportunities of escape which were long open to others, the bishop
remained in confinement till the opening of the persecution. He was deposed from his see by
Gardiner's first commission, as having been married; otherwise, {p.206} however, Ferrars was
unobnoxious politically and personally. Being in prison, he had been incapable of committing
any fresh offence against the queen, and might reasonably have been forgotten or passed over.
But he had been a bishop, and he was ready caught to the hands of the authorities; and Mary
had been compelled unwillingly to release a more conspicuous offender, Miles Coverdale, at
the intercession of the King of Denmark. Ferrars was therefore brought before Gardiner on the
4th of February. On the 14th he was sent into Wales to be tried by Morgan, his successor at
St. David's, and Constantine, the notary of the diocese, who had been one of his accusers.
By these judges, on the 11th of March, he was condemned and degraded; he appealed to the legate,
but the legate never listened to the prayer of heretics; the legate's mission was to extirpate
them. On Saturday the 30th of March, Ferrars was brought to the stake in the market-place in
Carmarthen.[460]

                   [Footnote 460: Foxe, vol. vii.]

Rawlins White, an aged Cardiff fisherman, followed Ferrars. In the course of April, George
Marsh, a curate, was burnt at Chester; and on the 20th of April, a man named William Flower,
who had been once a monk of Ely, was burnt in Palace-yard, at Westminster. Flower had provoked
his own fate. He appeared on Easter day in St. Margaret's Church, while mass was being said;
and provoked, as he persuaded himself, by the Holy Spirit, he flew upon the officiating priest,
and stabbed him with a dagger in the hand; when to the horror of pious Catholics, the blood
spurted into the chalice, and was mixed with the consecrated elements.

Sixteen persons had now been put to death, and there was again a pause for the sharp surgery
to produce its effects.

While Mary was destroying the enemies of the church, Julius the Third had died at the end of
March, and Reginald Pole was again a candidate for the vacant chair. The courts of Paris and
Brussels alike promised him their support, but alike gave their support to another. They flattered
his virtues, but they permitted Marcellus Cervino, the Cardinal of St. Cross, to be elected
unanimously; and the English legate was told that he must be contented with the event which
God had been pleased to send.[461] An opportunity, however, seemed to offer itself to him of
accomplishing a service to Europe.

                   [Footnote 461: Noailles to the King of France,
                   April 5 and April 17. Montmorency to Noailles,
                   April 21. Noailles to Montmorency, April 30:
                   Ambassades, vol. iv.]

{p.207} For thirty-five years the two great Catholic powers had been wrestling with but brief
interruption. The advantage to either had been as trifling as the causes of their quarrel were
insignificant. Their revenues were anticipated, their credit was exhausted, yet year after
year languid armies struggled into collision. Across the Alps in Italy, and along the frontiers
of Burgundy and the Low Countries, towns and villages, and homesteads were annually sacked,
and peasants and their families destroyed--for what it were vain to ask, except it was for
some poor shadow of imagined honour. Two mighty princes believed themselves justified in the
sight of Heaven in squandering their subjects' treasure and their subjects' blood, because
the pride of each forbade him to be the first in volunteering insignificant concessions. France
had conquered Savoy and part of Piedmont, and had pushed forward its northern frontier to Marienbourg
and Metz: the emperor held Lombardy, Parma, and Naples, and Navarre was annexed to Spain. The
quarrel might have easily been ended by mutual restitution; yet the Peace of Cambray, the Treaty
of Nice, and the Peace of Crêpy, lasted only while the combatants were taking breath; and those
who would attribute the extravagances of human folly to supernatural influence might imagine
that the great discord between the orthodox powers had been permitted to give time for the
Reformation to strike its roots into the soil of Europe. But a war which could be carried on
only by loans at sixteen per cent. was necessarily near its conclusion. The apparent recovery
of England to the church revived hopes which the Peace of Passau and the dissolution of the
Council of Trent had almost extinguished; and, could a reconciliation be effected at last,
and could Philip obtain the disposal of the military strength of England in the interests of
the papacy, it might not even yet be too late to lay the yoke of orthodoxy on the Germans,
and, in a Catholic interpretation of the Parable of the Supper, "compel them to come in."

Mary, who had heard herself compared to the Virgin, and Pole, who imagined the Prince of Spain
to be the counterpart of the Redeemer of mankind, indulged their fancy in large expectations.
Philip was the Solomon who was to raise up the temple of the Lord, which the emperor, who was
a man of war, had not been allowed to build: and France, at the same time, was not unwilling
to listen to proposals. The birth of Mary's child was expected in a few weeks, when England
would, as a matter of course, become more decisively Imperialist, and Henry, whose {p.208}
invasion of the Netherlands had failed in the previous summer, was ready now to close the struggle
while it could be ended on equal and honourable terms.

A conference was, therefore, agreed upon, in which England was to mediate. A village in the
Calais Pale was selected as the place of assembly, and Pole, Gardiner, Paget, and Pembroke
were chosen to arrange the terms of a general peace, with the Bishop of Arras, the Cardinal
of Lorraine, and Montmorency. The time pitched upon was that at which, so near as the queen
could judge, she would herself bring into the world the offspring which was to be the hope
of England and mankind; and the great event should, if possible, precede the first meeting
of the plenipotentiaries.

The queen herself commenced her preparations with infinite earnestness, and, as a preliminary
votive offering, she resolved to give back to the church such of the abbey property as remained
in the hands of the crown. Her debts were now as high as ever. The Flanders correspondence
was repeating the heavy story of loans and bills. Promises to pay were falling due, and there
were no resources to meet them, and the Israelite leeches were again fastened on the commonwealth.[462]
Nevertheless, the sacrifice should be made; the more difficult it was, the more favourably
it would be received; and, on the 28th of March, she sent for the Lord Treasurer, and announced
her intention. "If he told her that her estate would not bear it, she must reply," she said,
"that she valued the salvation of her soul beyond all earthly things."[463] As soon as parliament
could meet and give its sanction, she would restore the first-fruits also to the Holy See.
She must work for God as God had worked for her.

                   [Footnote 462: Letters to and from Sir Thomas
                   Gresham: MS. Flanders, Mary, State Paper Office.]

                   [Footnote 463: Strype's Memorials.]

About the 20th of April she withdrew to Hampton Court for entire quiet. The rockers and the
nurses were in readiness, and a cradle stood open to receive the royal infant. Priests and
bishops sang Litanies through the London streets; a procession of ecclesiastics in cloth of
gold and tissue marched round Hampton Court Palace, headed by Philip in person; Gardiner walked
at his side, while Mary gazed from a window.[464] Not only was the child assuredly coming,
but its sex was decided on, and circulars were drawn and signed both by the king and queen,
with blanks only for the month and day, announcing to ministers {p.209} of state, to ambassadors,
and to foreign sovereigns, the birth of a prince.[465]

                   [Footnote 464: Machyn's Diary.]

                   [Footnote 465: These curious records of
                   disappointed expectations remain in large numbers
                   in the State Paper Office. The following is the
                   letter addressed to Pole:--

                   Philip.--Mary the Queen.--Most Reverend Father in
                   God, our right trusty and right entirely beloved
                   cousin, We greet you well: And whereas it hath
                   pleased Almighty God, of His infinite goodness, to
                   add unto the great number of other His benefits
                   bestowed upon us, the gladding of us with the happy
                   deliverance of a prince, for the which we do most
                   humbly thank Him; knowing your affections to be
                   such towards us as whatsoever shall fortunately
                   succeed unto us, the same cannot be but acceptable
                   unto you also; We have thought good to communicate
                   unto you these happy news of ours, to the intent
                   you may rejoice with us; and praying for us, give
                   God thanks for this his work accordingly. Given
                   under our signet, at our house of Hampton Court,
                   the ---- of ----, the 1st and 2nd year of our and
                   my Lord the King's reign.--MS. Mary, Domestic,
                   vol. v. State Paper Office.]

On the 30th, the happy moment was supposed to have arrived; a message was sent off to London,
announcing the commencement of the pains. The bells were set ringing in all the churches; Te
Deum was sung in St. Paul's; priests wrote sermons; bonfires were piled ready for lighting,
and tables were laid out in the streets.[466] The news crossed the Channel to Antwerp, and
had grown in the transit. The great bell of the cathedral was rung for the actual birth. The
vessels in the river fired salutes. "The regent sent the English mariners a hundred crowns
to drink," and, "they made themselves in readiness to show some worthy triumph upon the waters."[467]

                   [Footnote 466: Noailles to Montmorency, April 30:
                   Ambassades, vol. iv.]

                   [Footnote 467: Sir Thomas Gresham to the Council:
                   MS. Flanders, Mary, State Paper Office.]

But the pains passed off without result; and whispers began to be heard, that there was, perhaps,
a mistake of a more considerable kind. Mary, however, had herself no sort of misgiving. She
assured her attendants that all was well, and that she felt the motion of her child. The physicians
professed to be satisfied, and the priests were kept at work at the Litanies. Up and down the
streets they marched, through city and suburb, park and square; torches flared along Cheapside
at midnight behind the Holy Sacrament, and five hundred poor men and women from the almshouses
walked two and two, telling their beads in their withered fingers: then all the boys of all
the schools were set in motion, and the ushers and the masters came after them; clerks, canons,
bishops, mayor, aldermen, officers of guilds.[468] Such marching, such chanting, such praying
was never seen or heard before or since in London streets. A profane {p.210} person ran one
day out of the crowd, and hung about a priest's neck, where the beads should be, a string of
puddings; but they whipped him, and prayed on. Surely, God would hear the cry of his people.

                   [Footnote 468: Machyn's Diary.]

In the midst of the suspense the papal chair fell vacant again. The pontificate of Marcellus
lasted three weeks, and Pole a third time offered himself to the suffrages of the cardinals.
The courts were profuse of compliments as before. Noailles presented him with a note from Montmorency,
containing assurances of the infinite desire of the King of France for the success of so holy
a person.[469] Philip wrote to Rome in his behalf, and Mary condescended to ask for the support
of the French cardinals.[470] But the fair speeches, as before, were but trifling. The choice
fell on Pole's personal enemy, Cardinal Caraffa, who was French alike in heart and brain.

                   [Footnote 469: Noailles to Montmorency, May 15:
                   Ambassades, vol. iv.]

                   [Footnote 470: Philip and Mary to Gardiner,
                   Arundel, and Paget: Burnet's Collectanea.]

The choice of a pope, however, would signify little, if only the child could be born; but where
was the child? The queen put it off strangely. The conference could be delayed no longer. It
opened without the intended makeweight, and the court of France was less inclined to make concessions
for a peace. The delay began to tell on the bourse at Antwerp. The Fuggers and the Schertzes
drew their purse-strings, and made difficulties in lending more money to the emperor.[471]
The plenipotentiaries had to separate after a few meetings, having effected nothing, to the
especial mortification of Philip and Mary, who looked to the pacification to enable them to
cure England of its unruly humours. The Duke of Alva (so rumour insisted) was to bring across
the Spanish troops which were in the Low Countries, take possession of London, and force the
parliament into submission.[472] The English were to be punished, for the infinite insolences
in which they had indulged towards Philip's retinue, by being compelled, whether they liked
it or not, to bestow upon him the crown.[473]

                   [Footnote 471: Noailles: Ambassades, vol. iv. p.
                   313.]

                   [Footnote 472: "Et là où ladicte paix ou trefve
                   adviendront ledict seigneur (l'Empereur) fera
                   bientost après repasser en ce royaulme le duc
                   d'Alva avecque la plus grande part de sesdictes
                   forces pour y fabvoriser les affaires de ce
                   roy."--Noailles, vol. iv. p. 330.]

                   [Footnote 473: "Il n'est rien que l'Empereur ne
                   fasse pour venir à la paix, tant il désire avant de
                   retourner en Espaigne de faire couronner son filz,
                   roy de ce pays. Et pensera par même moyen se saisir
                   des places fortes d'icelluy et chastier des Angloys
                   d'infinies injures qu'ilz out faict recepvoir aux
                   Espagnols, mettant grosses garnisons en ceste ville
                   de Londres, et aultres lieux, à quoy ces roy et
                   royne proposent ... s'y faire obéir absolument aux
                   parlemens, suyvant ce qu'ilz n'ont peu faire par
                   cydevant."--Noailles, vol. iv. pp. 332, 333.

                   In these reports the truth was anticipated but not
                   exceeded. It will be seen that such projects were
                   really formed at a later period.]

{p.211} But the peace could not be, nor could the child be born; and the impression grew daily
that the queen had not been pregnant at all. Mary herself, who had been borne forward to this,
the crisis of her fortunes, on a tide of success, now suddenly found her exulting hopes closing
over. From confidence she fell into anxiety, from anxiety into fear, from fear into wildness
and despondency. She vowed that with the restoration of the estates, she would rebuild the
abbeys at her own cost. In vain. Her women now understood her condition; she was sick of a
mortal disease; but they durst not tell her; and she whose career had been painted out to her
by the legate, as especial and supernatural, looked only for supernatural causes of her present
state. Throughout May she remained in her apartments waiting--waiting--in passionate restlessness.
With stomach swollen, and features shrunk and haggard, she would sit upon the floor, with her
knees drawn up to her face, in an agony of doubt; and in mockery of her wretchedness, letters
were again strewed about the place by an invisible agency, telling her that she was loathed
by her people. She imagined they would rise again in her defence. But if they rose again, it
would be to drive her and her husband from the country.[474]

                   [Footnote 474: "Ladicte dame plusieurs fois de le
                   jour demeure longtemps assise à terre, les genoulx
                   aussy haultz que la teste.

                   "Se trouva hier fort malade et plus que de
                   coustume, et pour la soulager, fust trouvé à mesme
                   heure en sa court plusieurs lettres semées contre
                   son honneur," etc.--Noailles, vol. iv. p. 342.]

After the mysterious quickening on the legate's salutation, she could not doubt that her hopes
had been at one time well founded; but for some fault, some error in herself, God had delayed
the fulfilment of his promise. And what could that crime be? The accursed thing was still in
the realm. She had been raised up, like the judges in Israel, for the extermination of God's
enemies; and she had smitten but a few here and there, when, like the evil spirits, their name
was legion.[475] She had before sent orders round among the magistrates, to have their eyes
upon them. On the 24th of May, when her distraction was at its height, she wrote a circular
to quicken the over-languid zeal of the bishops.

                   [Footnote 475: "The Queen said she could not be
                   safely and happily delivered, nor could anything
                   succeed prosperously with her, unless all the
                   heretics in prison were burnt ad
                   unum."--Burnet.]

{p.212} "Right Reverend Father in God," it ran, "We greet you well; and where of late we addressed
our letters unto the justices of the peace, within every of the counties within this our realm,
whereby, amongst other good instructions given therein for the good order of the country about,
they are willed to have special regard to such disordered persons as, forgetting their duty
to Almighty God and us, do lean to any erroneous and heretical opinions; whom, if they cannot
by good admonition and fair means reform, they are willed to deliver unto the ordinary, to
be by him charitably travelled withal, and removed, if it may be, from their naughty opinions;
or else, if they continue obstinate, to be ordered according to the laws provided in that behalf:
understanding now, to our no little marvel, that divers of the said misordered persons, being,
by the justices of the peace, for their contempt and obstinacy, brought to the ordinary, to
be used as is aforesaid, are either refused to be received at their hands, or, if they be received,
are neither so travelled with as Christian charity requireth, nor yet proceeded withal according
to the order of justice, but are suffered to continue in their errors, to the dishonour of
Almighty God, and dangerous example of others; like as we find this matter very strange, so
have we thought convenient both to signify this our knowledge, and therewithal also to admonish
you to have in this behalf such regard henceforth unto the office of a good pastor and bishop,
as where any such offenders shall be, by the said justices of the peace, brought unto you,
ye do use your good wisdom and discretion in procuring to remove them from their errors if
it may be, or else in proceeding against them, if they continue obstinate, according to the
order of the laws, so as, through your good furtherance, both God's glory may be the better
advanced, and the commonwealth more quietly governed."[476]

                   [Footnote 476: Burnet's Collectanea. This letter
                   is addressed to Bonner, and was taken from Bonner's
                   Register; but, from the form, it was evidently a
                   circular. The Bishop of London had not deserved to
                   be singled out to be especially admonished for want
                   of energy.]

Under the fresh impulse of this letter, fifty persons were put to death at the stake in the
three ensuing months,--in the diocese of London, under Bonner; in the diocese of Rochester,
under Maurice Griffin; in the diocese of Canterbury, where Pole, the archbishop designate,
so soon as Cranmer should be despatched, governed through Harpsfeld, the archdeacon, and Thornton,
the suffragan bishop of Dover. Of these sacrifices, which were distinguished all of them by
a uniformity of quiet heroism in the {p.213} sufferers, that of Cardmaker, prebendary of Wells,
calls most for notice.

The people, whom the cruelty of the Catholic party was reconverting to the Reformation with
a rapidity like that produced by the gift of tongues on the day of Pentecost, looked on the
martyrs as soldiers are looked at who are called to accomplish, with the sacrifice of their
lives, some great service for their country. Cardmaker, on his first examination, had turned
his back and flinched. But the consciousness of shame, and the example of others, gave him
back his courage; he was called up again under the queen's mandate, condemned, and brought
out on the 30th of May, to suffer at Smithfield, with an upholsterer named Warne. The sheriffs
produced the pardons. Warne, without looking at them, undressed at once, and went to the stake;
Cardmaker "remained long talking;" "the people in a marvellous dump of sadness, thinking he
would recant." He turned away at last, and knelt, and prayed; but he had still his clothes
on; "there was no semblance of burning;" and the crowd continued nervously agitated, till he
rose and threw off his cloak.

                   [Footnote 477: Foxe, vol. vii.]

Yet, for the great purpose of the court, the burnt-offerings were ineffectual as the prayers
of the priests. The queen was allowed to persuade herself that she had mistaken her time by
two months; and to this hope she clung herself, so long as the hope could last: but among all
other persons concerned, scarcely one was any longer under a delusion; and the clear-eyed Renard
lost no time in laying the position of affairs before his master.

The marriage of Elizabeth and Philibert had hung fire, from the invincible unwillingness on
the part of Mary to pardon or in any way recognise her sister;[478] and as long as there was
a hope of a child, she had not perhaps been pressed about it; but {p.214} it was now absolutely
necessary to do something, and violent measures towards the princess were more impossible than
ever.

                   [Footnote 478: A letter of Mary's to Philip on the
                   subject will be given in the following chapter,
                   which reveals the disagreement which had arisen
                   between them about this marriage.]

"The entire future," wrote Renard to the emperor, on the 27th of June, "turns on the accouchement
of the queen; of which, however, there are no signs. If all goes well, the state of feeling
in the country will improve. If she is in error, I foresee convulsions and disturbances such
as no pen can describe. The succession to the crown is so unfortunately hampered, that it must
fall to Elizabeth, and with Elizabeth there will be a religious revolution. The clergy will
be put down, the Catholics persecuted, and there will be such revenge for the present proceedings
as the world has never seen. I know not whether the king's person is safe; and the scandals
and calumnies which the heretics are spreading about the queen are beyond conception. Some
say that she has never been enceinte; some repeat that there will be a supposititious child,
and that there would have been less delay could a child have been found that would answer the
purpose.[479] The looks of men are grown strange and impenetrable; those in whose loyalty I
had most dependence I have now most reason to doubt. Nothing is certain, and I am more bewildered
than ever at the things which I see going on around me. There is neither government, nor justice,
nor order; nothing but audacity and malice."[480]

                   [Footnote 479: The impression was very generally
                   spread. Noailles mentions it, writing on the 20th
                   of June to the King of France; and Foxe mentions a
                   mysterious attempt of Lord North to obtain a
                   new-born child from its mother, as having happened
                   within his own knowledge. The existence of the
                   belief, however, proves nothing. At such a time it
                   was inevitable, nor was there any good evidence to
                   connect Lord North, supposing Foxe's story true,
                   with the court. The risk of discovery would have
                   been great, the consequences terrible, and few
                   people have been more incapable than Mary of
                   knowingly doing a wrong thing.]

                   [Footnote 480: Renard to the Emperor, June 27:
                   Granvelle Papers, vol. vi.]

The faint hopes which Renard expressed speedily vanished, and every one but the queen herself
not only knew that she had no child at present, but that she never could have a child--that
her days were numbered, and that if the Spaniards intended to secure the throne they must obtain
it by other means than the order of inheritance. Could the war be brought to an end, Mary might
live long enough to give her husband an opportunity of attempting violence; but of peace there
was no immediate prospect, and it remained for the present to make the most of Elizabeth. Setting
her marriage aside, it was doubtful whether the people would permit her longer confinement
after the queen's {p.215} disappointment; and, willingly or unwillingly, Mary must be forced
to receive her at court again.

The princess was still at Woodstock, where she had remained for a year, under the harsh surveillance
of Sir Henry Bedingfield. Lord William Howard's visit may have consoled her with the knowledge
that she was not forgotten by the nobility; but her health had suffered from her long imprisonment,
and the first symptom of an approaching change in her position was the appearance of the queen's
physician to take charge of her.

A last effort was made to betray her into an acknowledgment of guilt. "A secret friend" entreated
her to "submit herself to the queen's mercy." Elizabeth saw the snare. She would not ask for
mercy, she said, where she had committed no offence; if she was guilty, she desired justice,
not mercy; and she knew well she would have found none, could evidence have been produced against
her: but she thanked God she was in no danger of being proved guilty; she wished she was as
safe from secret enemies.

But the plots for despatching her, if they had ever existed, were laid aside; she was informed
that her presence was required at Hampton Court. The rumour of her intended release spread
abroad, and sixty gentlemen, who had once belonged to her suite, met her on the way at Colebrook,
in the hope that they might return to attendance upon her; but their coming was premature;
she was still treated as a prisoner, and they were ordered off in the queen's name.

On her arrival at Hampton Court, however, the princess felt that she had recovered her freedom.
She was received by Lord William Howard. The courtiers hurried to her with their congratulations,
and Howard dared and provoked the resentment of the king and queen by making them kneel and
kiss her hand.[481] Mary could not bring herself at first to endure an interview. The Bishop
of Winchester came to her on the queen's behalf, to repeat the advice which had been given
to her at Woodstock, and to promise pardon if she would ask for it.

                   [Footnote 481: Joanna of Castille, the emperor's
                   mad mother, dying soon after, masses were said for
                   her with some solemnity at St. Paul's. "Aux
                   obsèques que la royne commanda estre faictes à
                   Londres, l'admiral d'Angleterre démontra
                   ouvertement avoir quelque ressentment, de ce qu'il
                   disoit le roy ne luy faisoit si bonne chiere et
                   démonstration si favorable qu'il avoit accoustumé,
                   disant qu'il sçavoit bien pourquoy s'estoit,
                   inférant que ce fust pour ce qu'il avoit faict
                   baiser les mains de Elizabetz aux gentilhommes qui
                   l'avoient visitez."]

Elizabeth had been resolute when she was alone and friendless, she was not more yielding now.
She repeated that she had {p.216} committed no offence, and therefore required no forgiveness;
she had rather lie in prison all her life than confess when there was nothing to be confessed.

The answer was carried to Mary, and the day after the bishop came again. "The queen marvelled,"
he said, "that she would so stoutly stand to her innocence;" if she called herself innocent,
she implied that she had been "unjustly imprisoned;" if she expected her liberty "she must
tell another tale."

But the causes which had compelled the court to send for her, forbade them equally to persist
in an impotent persecution. They had desired only to tempt her into admissions which they could
plead in justification for past or future severities. They had failed, and they gave way.

A week later, on an evening in the beginning of July, Lady Clarence, Mary's favourite attendant,
brought a message, that the queen was expecting her sister in her room. The princess was led
across the garden in the dusk, and introduced by a back staircase into the royal apartments.
Almost two years had elapsed since the sisters had last met, when Mary hid the hatred which
was in her heart behind a veil of kindness. There was no improvement of feeling, but the necessity
of circumstances compelled the form of reconciliation.

Elizabeth dropped on her knees. "God preserve your majesty," she said; "you will find me as
true a subject to your majesty as any; whatever has been reported of me, you shall not find
it otherwise."

"You will not confess," the queen said; "you stand to your truth: I pray God it may so fall out."

"If it does not," said Elizabeth, "I desire neither favour nor pardon at your hands."

"Well," Mary bitterly answered, "you persevere in your truth stiffly; belike you will not confess
that you have been wrongly punished?"

"I must not say so, your majesty," Elizabeth replied.

"Belike you will to others?" said the queen.

"No, please your majesty," answered the princess. "I have borne the burden, and I must bear
it. I pray your majesty to have a good opinion of me, and to think me your true subject, not
only from the beginning but while life lasteth."

The queen did not answer, she muttered only in Spanish, "Sabe Dios," "God knows," and Elizabeth
withdrew.[482]

                   [Footnote 482: Foxe; Holinshed.]

It was said that, during the interview, Philip was concealed {p.217} behind a curtain, anxious
for a sight of the captive damsel whose favour with the people was such a perplexity to him.

At this time, Elizabeth was beautiful; her haughty features were softened by misfortune; and
as it is certain that Philip, when he left England, gave special directions for her good treatment,
so it is possible that he may have envied the fortune which he intended for the Prince of Savoy;
and the scheme which he afterwards attempted to execute, of making her his own wife on the
queen's death, may have then suggested itself to him as a solution of the English difficulty.
The magnificent girl, who was already the idol of the country, must have presented an emphatic
contrast with the lean, childless, haggard, forlorn Mary; and he may easily have allowed his
fancy to play with a pleasant temptation. If it was so, Philip was far too careless of the
queen's feelings to conceal his own. If it was not so, the queen's haunting consciousness of
her unattractiveness must have been aggravated by the disappointment of her hopes, and she
may have tortured herself with jealousy and suspicion.

At all events, Mary could not overcome her aversion. Elizabeth was set at liberty, but she
was not allowed to remain at the court. She returned to Ashridge, to be pursued, even there,
with petty annoyances. Her first step when she was again at home was to send for her friend
Mrs. Ashley; the queen instantly committed Mrs. Ashley to the Fleet, and sent three other officers
of her sister's household to the Tower; while a number of gentlemen suspected of being her
adherents, who had remained in London beyond their usual time of leaving for the country, were
ordered imperiously to their estates.[483]

                   [Footnote 483: Le dict conseil voyant que plusieurs
                   gentilhommes s'assembloient à Londres, et
                   communicquoient par ensemble, qu'ils se tenoient à
                   Londres, contre ce qu'est accoustumé en Angleterre,
                   qu'est que ceulx qu'ilz eu moien ne demeurent à
                   Londres en l'esté, ains au pays pour la chaleur et
                   maladies ordinaires qu'ilz y reignent, et que
                   toutes les dicts gentilhommes sont hérétiques, ains
                   esté pour le plus part rebelles, les autres parens
                   et adhérens de Elizabetz, leur a faict faire
                   commandement de se retirer chascun en sa maison et
                   se separer; qu'ilz ont prins mal et en out fait
                   grandes doleances, en prétendant qu'ilz estoient
                   gens de bien, qu'ilz n'estoient traistres.--Renard
                   to the Emperor: Granvelle Papers, vol. iv.]

But neither impatience nor violence could conceal the fatal change which had passed over Mary's
prospects. Not till the end of July could she part finally from her hopes. Then, at last, the
glittering dream was lost for the waking truth; then at once from the imagination of herself
as the virgin bride who was to bear a child for the recovery of a lost world, she was precipitated
into the poor certainty that she was a blighted and {p.218} a dying woman. Sorrow was heaped
on sorrow; Philip would stay with her no longer. His presence was required on the continent,
where his father was about to anticipate the death which he knew to be near, and, after forty
years of battling with the stormy waters, to collect himself for the last great change in the
calm of a monastery in Spain.

It was no new intention. For years the emperor had been in the habit of snatching intervals
of retreat; for years he had made up his mind to relinquish at some time the labours of life
before relinquishing life itself. The vanities of sovereignty had never any particular charm
for Charles V.; he was not a man who cared "to monarchise and kill with looks," or who could
feel a pang at parting with the bauble of a crown; and when the wise world cried out in their
surprise, and strained their fancies for the cause of conduct which seemed so strange to them,
they forgot that princes who reign to labour, grow weary like the peasant of the burden of
daily toil.

Many influences combined to induce Charles to delay no longer in putting his resolution in effect.

The Cortes were growing impatient at the prolonged absence both of himself and Philip, and
the presence of the emperor, although in retirement, would give pleasure to the Spanish people.
His health was so shattered, that each winter had been long expected to be his last; and although
he would not flinch from work as long as he was required at his post, there was nothing to
detain Philip any more in England, unless, or until, the succession could be placed on another
footing. To continue there the husband of a childless queen, with authority limited to a form,
and with no recognised interest beyond the term of his wife's life, was no becoming position
for the heir of the throne of Spain, of Naples, the Indies, and the Low Countries.

Philip was therefore now going. He concealed his intention till it was betrayed by the departure
of one Spanish nobleman after another. The queen became nervous and agitated, and at last he
was forced to avow part of the truth. He told her that his father wanted to see him, but that
his absence would not be extended beyond a fortnight or three weeks; she should go with him
to Dover, and, if she desired, she could wait there for his return.[484] Her consent was obtained
by the mild deceit, and it was considered afterwards that the journey to Dover might be too
much for her, and the parting might take place at Greenwich.

                   [Footnote 484: Noailles, vol. v. pp. 77-82.]

{p.219} On the 3rd of August, the king and queen removed for a few days from Hampton Court
to Oatlands; on the way Mary received consolation from a poor man who met her on crutches,
and was cured of his lameness by looking on her.[485]

                   [Footnote 485: Machyn's Diary.]

On the 26th, the royal party came down the river in their barge, attended by the legate; they
dined at Westminster on their way to Greenwich, and as rumour had said that Mary was dead,
she was carried through the city in an open litter, with the king and the cardinal at her side.
To please Philip, or to please the people, Elizabeth was invited to the court before the king's
departure; but she was sent by water to prevent a demonstration, while the archers of the guard
who attended on the queen, were in corslet and morion.[486]

                   [Footnote 486: Noailles, vol. v. pp. 98, 99, 123.]

On the 28th, Philip went. Parliament was to sit again in October. It would then be seen whether
anything more could be done about the succession. On the consent or refusal of the legislature
his future measures would depend. To the queen he left particular instructions, which he afterwards
repeated in writing, to show favour to Elizabeth; and doubting how far he could rely upon Mary,
he gave a similar charge to such of his own suite as he left behind him.[487] Could he obtain
it, he would take the princess's crown for himself; should he fail, he might marry her; or
should this too be impossible, he would win her gratitude, and support her title against the
dangerous competition of the Queen of Scots and Dauphiness of France.

                   [Footnote 487: Elle a bonne part en la grace dudict
                   Seigneur Roy, lequel par plusieurs lettres qu'il
                   escript à la royne sa femme la luy recommende,
                   comme aussy il a faict particulièrement et par
                   soubz main aux principaux seigneurs Espaignolz qui
                   sont demourez en ce lieu.--Ibid. p. 127.]

On these terms the pair who had been brought together with so much difficulty separated after
a little more than a year. The cardinal composed a passionate prayer for the queen's use during
her husband's absence.[488] It is to be hoped that she was {p.220} spared the sight of a packet
of letters soon after intercepted by the French, in which her husband and her husband's countrymen
expressed their opinions of the marriage and its consequences.[489] The truth, however, became
known in England, although in a form under which the queen could turn from it as a calumny.

                   [Footnote 488: Domine Jesu Christe, qui es verus
                   sponsus animæ meæ, verus Rex ac Dominus meus qui me
                   ad Regni hujus gubernacula singulari tuâ
                   providentiâ ac benignitate vocatam, cum antea essem
                   derelicta et tanquam mulier ab adolescentiâ
                   abjecta, eum virum in matrimonium et regni
                   societatem expetere voluis ti, qui plus cæteris
                   imaginem tuam quam in sanctitate et justitiâ mundo
                   ostendisti in suis meisque actionibus dirigendis
                   exprimeret, et expetitum dedisti, cujus nunc
                   discessum moerens defleo--quæso per illum
                   pretiosissimum sanguinem quem pro me sponsâ tuâ
                   proque illo et omnibus in arâ crucis effudisti, ut
                   hunc meum dolorem ita lenias, ita purges, ita
                   temperes, ut quoties ille sanctis suis consiliis
                   mihi adest, quoties per litteras quæ ad salutem
                   hujus populi tui pertinent commendat, toties illum
                   præsentem esse, teque unicum consolatorem in medio
                   nostro adesse sentiam, utque in illo te semper amem
                   atque glorificem. Obsecro, Domine, ut in nobis tua
                   imago sic indies per tuam gratiam renovetur in
                   conspectu populi tui, quern nobis gubernandum
                   commisisti, ut cum is justitiæ tuæ severitatem, in
                   iis quæ amiserat dum hi regnarent qui a rectâ fide
                   declinantes sanctitatem et justitiam expulerunt,
                   jam pridem senserit, quæ nunc per tuam
                   misericordiam recuperaverit sub illorum Regno quos
                   nunquam a rectâ fide declinare es passus, cum
                   gratiarum actione lætus intelligat ut uno ore tarn
                   nos quam populus noster Deum patrem per te ejus
                   unicum filium in unitate Spiritûs glorificemus, ad
                   nostram ipsorum et piorum omnium salutem et
                   consolationem. Amen.--Epist. Reg. Pol. vol. v.]

                   [Footnote 489: Il me fauldroit faire ung
                   merveilleux discours pour vous rendre compte de
                   tous les propoz qui font dans les dictes lettres.
                   Je vous diray seulment ce qui plus tousche et
                   regarde le lieu où vous estes. Et premièrement la
                   royne a tant enchanté et ensorcelé ce beau jeune
                   prince son mary que de luy avoir faict croyre ung
                   an entier qu'elle estoit grosse pour le retenir
                   près d'elle, dont il se trouve à présent si confus
                   et fasché qu'il n'a plus délibéré de retourner
                   habiter ceste terre, promettant à tous ses
                   serviteurs que s'il peult estre une fois en
                   Espaigne qu'il n'en sortira plus à si maulvaise
                   occasion, etc....--Le Protonotaire de Noailles à M.
                   de Noailles: Ambassades, vol. v. p. 136.]

Before the meeting of parliament, a letter was published, addressed to the Lords of the Council,
by a certain John Bradford.[490] The writer accounted for his knowledge of the secrets which
he had to tell, by saying that he had lived in the household of one of the Spanish noblemen
who were in attendance on Philip; that he had learnt the language unknown to his master, and
had thus overheard unguarded conversations. He had read letters addressed to Philip, and letters
written by him and by his confidential friends; and he was able to say, as a thing heard with
his own ears, and seen with his own eyes, that the "Spaniards minded nothing less than the
subversion of the English commonwealth." In fact, he repeated the rumours of the summer, only
more circumstantially, and with fuller details. Under pretence of improving the fortifications,
Philip intended to obtain command of the principal harbours and ports; he would lay cannon
on the land side, and gradually bring in Spanish troops, the queen playing into his hands;
and as soon as peace could be made with France, he would have the command of the fleet and
the sea, and could do what he pleased.[491]

                   [Footnote 490: Not the martyr; he had been
                   despatched by Bonner among the victims of the
                   summer; but a person otherwise-known.]

                   [Footnote 491: "Ye will say, How could this fellow
                   know their counsel?--I was chamberlain to one of
                   the privy council, and with all diligence gave
                   myself to write and read Spanish, which thing once
                   obtained I kept secret from my master and my
                   fellow-servants, because I might be trusted in my
                   master's closet or study, where I might read such
                   writing as I saw daily brought into the council
                   chamber."--John Bradford to the Lords of the
                   Council: Strype's Memorials of the Reformation.]

{p.221} "I saw," the writer continued, "letters sent from the emperor, wherein was contained
these privities,--that the king should make his excuse to the queen that he would go to see
his father in Flanders, and that immediately he would return--seeing the good simple queen
is so jealous over my son. (I term it," said Bradford, "as the letter doth.") "We," said the
emperor, "shall make her agree unto all our requests before his return, or else keep him exercised
in our affairs till we may prevail with the council, who, doubtless, will be won with fair
promises and great gifts, politicly placed in time." "In other letters I have read the cause
disputed, that the queen is bound by the laws of God to endue her husband in all her goods
and possessions, so far as in her lieth; and they think she will do it indeed to the uttermost
of her power. No man can think evil of the queen, though she be somewhat moved when such things
are beaten into her head with gentlemen; but whether the crown belongs to the queen or the
realm, the Spaniards know not, nor care not, though the queen, to her damnation, disherit the
right heir apparent, or break her father's entail, made by the whole consent of the realm,
which neither she nor the realm can justly alter."[492]

                   [Footnote 492: Elizabeth, when she came to the
                   throne, refused to admit that she was under any
                   real obligation to Philip. She was entirely right
                   in her refusal. The Spaniards had sworn, if
                   possible, to make away "with all those which by any
                   means might lay claim to the crown."

                   "I call God to record," Bradford continues, "I have
                   heard it with mine ears, and seen the said persons
                   with mine eyes, that have said, if ever the king
                   obtain the crown, he would make the Lady Elizabeth
                   safe from ever coming to the same, or any of our
                   cursed nation. For they say, that if they can find
                   the means to keep England in subjection, they would
                   do more with the land than with all the rest of his
                   kingdoms. I speak not of any fool's communication,
                   but of the wisest, and that no mean persons. Yea,
                   and they trust that there shall means be found
                   before that time to despatch the Lady Elizabeth
                   well enough by the help of assured traitors, as
                   they have already in England plenty, and then they
                   may the more easier destroy the others when she is
                   rid out of the way.

                   2. I speak not this, as some men would take it, to
                   move dissension; for that were the best way for the
                   Spaniards to come to their prey. Such a time they
                   look for, and such a time they say some nobleman
                   hath promised to provide for them.

                   3. God is my witness that my heart will not suffer
                   me for very shame to declare such vile reports as I
                   have heard them speak against the queen, and yet
                   her Grace taketh them for her faithful friends. The
                   Spaniards say, that if they obtain not the crown,
                   they may curse the time that ever the king was
                   married to a wife so unmeet for him by natural
                   course of years; but and if that may be brought to
                   pass that was meant in marriage-making, they shall
                   keep old rich robes for high festival days.

                   "Alas, for pity! Ye be yet in such good estate that
                   ye may, without loss of any man's life, keep the
                   crown and realm quietly. If ye will hear a fool's
                   counsel, keep still the crown to the right
                   succession in your hands, and give it to no foreign
                   princes. Peradventure her Grace thinketh the king
                   will keep her the more company and love her the
                   better, if she give him the crown. Ye will crown
                   him to make him chaste contrary to his nature. They
                   have a saying--'The baker's daughter is better in
                   her gown than Queen Mary without the crown.' They
                   say, 'Old wives must be cherished for their young
                   fair gifts.' 'Old wives,' they say, 'for fair words
                   will give all that they have.' But how be they used
                   afterwards? Doth the queen think the king will
                   remain in England with giving him the realm? The
                   council of Spain purposeth to establish other
                   matters; to appoint in England a viceroy with a
                   great army of Spanish soldiers, and let the queen
                   live at her beads like a good antient lady."--John
                   Bradford to the Earls of Arundel, Shrewsbury,
                   Derby, and Pembroke: Strype's Memorials, vol. vi.
                   p. 340, etc.]

Struggle as the queen might against such a representation of {p.222} her husband's feelings
towards her, it was true that he had left her with a promise to return; and the weeks went,
and he did not come, and no longer spoke of coming. The abdication of the emperor would keep
him from her, at least, till the end of the winter. And news came soon which was harder still
to bear; news, that he, whom she had been taught to regard as made in the image of our Saviour,[493]
was unfaithful to his marriage vows,[494] Bradford had spoken generally of the king's vulgar
amours; other accounts convinced her too surely that he was consoling himself for his long
purgatory in England, by miscellaneous licentiousness. Philip was gross alike in all his appetites;
bacon fat was the favourite food with which he gorged himself to illness;[495] his intrigues
were on the same level of indelicacy, and his unhappy wife was forced to know that he preferred
the society of abandoned women of the lowest class to hers.

                   [Footnote 493: Prayer written by Cardinal Pole for
                   Queen Mary: supra.]

                   [Footnote 494: Noailles to the King of France,
                   October 21: Ambassades, vol. v.]

                   [Footnote 495: Noailles to Montmorency, December 5:
                   Ibid.]

The French ambassador describes her as distracted with wretchedness, speaking to no one except
the legate. The legate was her only comfort; the legate and the thing which she called religion.

Deep in the hearts of both queen and cardinal lay the conviction that if she would please God,
she must avoid the sin of Saul. Saul had spared the Amalekites, and God had turned his face
from him. God had greater enemies in England than the Amalekites. Historians have affected
to exonerate Pole from the crime of the Marian persecution; although, without the legate's
sanction, not a bishop in England could have raised a finger, not a bishop's court could have
been opened {p.223} to try a single heretic. If not with Pole, with whom did the guilt rest?
Gardiner was jointly responsible for the commencement, but after the first executions, Gardiner
interfered no further; he died, and the bloody scenes continued. Philip's confessor protested;
Philip himself left the country; Renard and Charles were never weary of advising moderation,
except towards those who were politically dangerous. Bonner was an instrument whose zeal more
than once required the goad; and Mary herself, when she came to the throne, was so little cruel,
that she would have spared even Northumberland himself. When the persecution assumed its ferocious
aspect, she was exclusively under the direction of the dreamer who believed that he was born
for England's regeneration. All evidence concurs to show that, after Philip's departure, Cardinal
Pole was the single adviser on whom Mary relied. Is it to be supposed that, in the horrible
crusade which thenceforward was the business of her life, the papal legate, the sovereign director
of the ecclesiastical administration of the realm, was not consulted, or, if consulted, that
he refused his sanction? But it is not a question of conjecture or probability. From the legate
came the first edict for the episcopal inquisition; under the legate every bishop held his
judicial commission; while, if Smithfield is excepted, the most frightful scenes in the entire
frightful period were witnessed under the shadow of his own metropolitan cathedral. His apologists
have thrown the blame on his archdeacon and his suffragan: the guilt is not with the instrument,
but with the hand which holds it. An admiring biographer[496] has asserted that the cruelties
at Canterbury preceded the cardinal's consecration as archbishop, and the biographer has been
copied by Dr. Lingard. The historian and his authority have exceeded the limits of permitted
theological misrepresentation. The administration of the see belonged to Pole as much before
his consecration as after it; but it will be seen that eighteen men and women perished at the
stake in the town of Canterbury alone,--besides those who were put to death in other parts
of the diocese--and five were starved to death in the gaol there--after the legate's installation.
He was not cruel; but he believed that, in the catalogue of human iniquities, there were none
greater than the denial of the Roman Catholic Faith, or the rejection of the Roman bishop's
supremacy; and that he himself was chosen by Providence for the re-establishment of both. Mary
was driven to madness by the disappointment {p.224} of the grotesque imaginations with which
he had inflated her; and where two such persons were invested by the circumstances of the time
with irresponsible power, there is no occasion to look further for the explanation of the dreadful
events of the three ensuing years.

                   [Footnote 496: Phillips.]

The victims of the summer were chiefly undistinguished persons: Cardmaker and Bradford alone
were in any way celebrated; and the greater prisoners, the three bishops at Oxford, the court
had paused upon--not from mercy--their deaths had been long determined on; but Philip, perhaps,
was tender of his person; their execution might occasion disturbances; and he and his suite
might be the first objects on which the popular indignation might expend itself. Philip, however,
had placed the sea between himself and danger, and if this was the cause of the hesitation,
the work could now go forward.

A commission was appointed by Pole in September, consisting of Brookes, Bishop of Gloucester,
Holyman, Bishop of Bristol, and White, Bishop of Lincoln, to try Cranmer, Ridley, and Latimer,
for obstinate heresy. The first trial had been irregular; the country was then unreconciled.
The sentence which had been passed therefore was treated as non-existent, and the tedious forms
of the papacy continued still to throw a shield round the archbishop.

On Saturday, the 7th of September,[497] the commissioners took their places under the altar
of St. Mary's Church, at Oxford. The Bishop of Gloucester sat as president, Doctors Story and
Martin appeared as proctors for the queen, and Cranmer was brought in under the custody of
the city guard, in a black gown and leaning on a stick.

                   [Footnote 497: Foxe says the 12th; but this is
                   wrong.--See Cranmer's letter to the Queen: Jenkins,
                   vol. i. p. 369.]

"Thomas, Archbishop of Canterbury," cried an officer of the court, "appear here, and make answer
to that which shall be laid to thy charge; that is to say, for blasphemy, incontinency, and
heresy; make answer to the Bishop of Gloucester, representing his holiness the pope."

The archbishop approached the bar, bent his head and uncovered to Story and Martin, who were
present in behalf of the crown, then drew himself up, put on his cap again, and stood fronting
Brookes. "My lord," he said, "I mean no contempt to your person, which I could have honoured
as well as any of the others; but I have sworn never to admit the authority of the Bishop of
Rome in England, and I must keep my oath."

{p.225} The president remonstrated, but without effect, and then proceeded to address the archbishop,
who remained covered:[498]--

                   [Footnote 498: Exhortation of the Bishop of
                   Gloucester to Thomas Cranmer: Cotton MSS.,
                   Vespasian, A. 25. A copy, more rounded and
                   finished, is given by Foxe, in his account of
                   Cranmer's trial: but the latter has the appearance
                   of having been touched up afterwards.]

"My lord, we are come hither at this present to you, not intruding ourselves by our own authority,
but sent by commission, as you know, by the pope's holiness partly; partly from the king's
and queen's most excellent majesties; not utterly to your discomfort, but rather to your comfort
if you will yourself. For we are come not to judge you immediately, but to put you in remembrance
of that which you have been partly judged of before, and shall be thoroughly judged of ere long.

"Neither our coming or commission is to dispute with you, but to examine you in matters which
you have already disputed in, taught, and written; and of your resolute answers in those points
and others, to make relation to them that shall give sentence on you. If you, of your part,
be moved to come to a uniformity, then shall not only we take joy of our examination, but also
they that have sent us. Remember yourself then, unde excideris, from whence you have fallen.
You have fallen from the unity of your mother, the Holy Catholic Church, and that by open schism.
You have fallen from the true and received faith of the same Catholic Church, and that by open
heresy. You have fallen from your fidelity and promise towards God, in breaking your orders
and vow of chastity, and that by open apostasy. You have fallen from your fidelity and promise
towards God's vicar-general, the pope, in breaking your oath made to his holiness at your consecration,
and that by open perjury. You have fallen from your fidelity and allegiance towards God's magistrate,
your prince and sovereign lady the queen, and that by open treason, whereof you are already
attainted and convicted. Remember, unde excideris, from whence you have fallen, and in what
danger you have fallen.

"You were sometime, as I and other poor men, in mean estate. God hath called you from better
to better, from higher to higher, and never gave you over till he made you, legatum natum,
Metropolitan Archbishop, Primate of England. Who was more earnest then in defence of the real
presence of Christ's body and blood in the sacrament of the altar than ye were? Then was your
candle shining to be a light to all the world, set on high on a pinnacle. But after you began
to fall from the unity of the Catholic Church by open schism, and would no {p.226} longer acknowledge
the supremacy of the pope's holiness by God's word and ordinance;--and that by occasion, that
you, in whose hands then rested the sum of all, being primate, as was aforesaid, would not,
according to your high vocation, stoutly withstand the most ungodly and unlawful request of
your prince touching his divorce, as that blessed martyr, St. Thomas of Canterbury, sometime
your predecessor, did withstand the unlawful requests of the prince of his time, but would
still not only yield and bear with things not to be borne withal, but also set a-flame the
fire already kindled--then your perfections diminished; then began you, for your own part,
to fancy unlawful liberty. Then decayed your conscience of your former faith, your former promise,
the vow of chastity and discipline after the order of priesthood; and when good conscience
was once cast off, then followed after, as St. Paul noteth, a shipwreck in the faith. Then
fell you from the faith, and out of the Catholic Church, as out of a sure ship, into a sea
of dangerous desperation; for out of the church, to say with St. Cyprian, there is no hope
of salvation at all. To be brief; when you had forsaken God, his Spouse, his faith, and fidelity
to them both, then God forsook you; and as the apostle writeth of the ingrate philosophers,
delivered you up in reprobum sensum, and suffered you to fall from one inconvenience to another,
as from perjury into schism, from schism into a kind of apostasy, from apostasy into heresy,
from heresy into traitory, and so, in conclusion, from traitory into the highest displeasure
and worthiest indignation of your most benign and gracious queen."[499]

                   [Footnote 499: The address concluded with a prolix
                   exhortation to repentance, which I omit. It may be
                   read in a form sufficiently accurate in Foxe.]

When the bishop ceased, the crown proctors rose, and demanded justice against the prisoner
in the names of the king and queen.

"My lord," Cranmer replied, "I do not acknowledge this session of yours, nor yet yourself my
mislawful judge; neither would I have appeared this day before you, but that I was brought
hither; and therefore here I openly renounce you as my judge, protesting that my meaning is
not to make any answer as in a lawful judgment, for then I would be silent; but only for that
I am bound in conscience to answer every man of that hope which I have in Jesus Christ."

He then knelt, and turning towards the west with his back to the court and the altar, he said
the Lord's Prayer. After which, he rose, repeated the creed, and said--

{p.227} "This I do profess as touching my faith, and make my protestation, which I desire you
to note; I will never consent that the Bishop of Rome shall have any jurisdiction in this realm."

"Mark, Master Cranmer," interrupted Martin, "you refuse and deny him by whose laws you do remain
in life, being otherwise attainted of high treason, and but a dead man by the laws of the realm."

"I protest before God I was no traitor," said the archbishop. "I will never consent to the
Bishop of Rome, for then I should give myself to the devil. I have made an oath to the king,
and I must obey the king by God's law. By the Scripture, the king is chief, and no foreign
person in his own realm above him. The pope is contrary to the crown. I cannot obey both, for
no man can serve two masters at once. You attribute the keys to the pope and the sword to the
king. I say the king hath both."

Continuing the same argument, the archbishop entered at length into the condition of the law
and the history of the Statutes of Provisors and Premunire: he showed that the constitution
of the country was emphatically independent, and he maintained that no English subject could
swear obedience to a foreign power without being involved in perjury.

The objection was set aside, and the subject of oaths was an opportunity for a taunt, which
the queen's proctors did not overlook. Cranmer had unwillingly accepted the archbishopric when
the Act of Appeals was pending, and when the future relations of England with the See of Rome,
and the degree of authority which (if any) the pope was to retain, were uncertain. In taking
the usual oaths, therefore, by the advice of lawyers, he made an especial and avowed reservation
of his duty to the crown;[500] and this so-called perjury Martin now flung in his teeth.

                   [Footnote 500: Although the circumstances of the
                   time called properly for an open declaration of
                   this kind on the part of Cranmer, yet every one of
                   his predecessors, from the time of Edward I., must
                   have been inducted with a tacit understanding of
                   the same kind. If a bishop had been prosecuted
                   under the Statutes of Provisors, his oath to the
                   Papacy would have been no more admitted as an
                   excuse by the Plantagenet sovereigns, than the oath
                   of a college Fellow to obey the statutes of the
                   founder would have saved him from penalties under
                   the House of Hanover had he said mass in his
                   college chapel. Because Cranmer, foreseeing an
                   immediate collision between two powers, which each
                   asserted claims upon him, expressed in words a
                   qualification which was implied in the nature of
                   the case--it was, and is (I regret to be obliged to
                   speak in the present tense), but a shallow sarcasm
                   to taunt him with premeditated perjury.]

"It pleased the king's highness," Cranmer replied, "many and sundry times to talk with me of
the matter. I declared that, if I accepted the office of archbishop, I must receive it at {p.228}
the pope's hands, which I neither would nor could do, for his highness was the only supreme
governor of this church in England. Perceiving that I could not be brought to acknowledge the
authority of the Bishop of Rome, the king called Doctor Oliver and other civil lawyers, and
devised with them how he might bestow it on me, enforcing me nothing against my conscience,
who informed him I might do it by way of protestation. I said, I did not acknowledge the Bishop
of Rome's authority further than as it agreed with the word of God, and that it might be lawful
for me at all times to speak against him; and my protestation did I cause to be enrolled, and
there I think it remaineth."

"Let your protestation, with the rest of your talk, give judgment against you," answered Martin.
"Hinc prima mali labes: of that your execrable perjury, and the king's coloured and too shamefully
suffered adultery, came heresy and all mischief into the realm."

The special charges were then proceeded with.

In reply to a series of questions, the archbishop said, that he had been twice married--once
before, and once after he was in orders. In the time of Henry, he had kept his wife secretly,
"affirming that it was better for him to have his own wife, than to do like other priests,
having the wives of others;" and he was not ashamed of what he had done.

He admitted his writings upon the Eucharist; he avowed the authorship of the Catechism, of
the Articles, and of a book against the Bishop of Winchester; and these books, and his conduct
generally as Archbishop of Canterbury, he maintained and defended. His replies were entered
by a notary, to be transmitted to the pope, and for the present the business of the court with
him was over.

"Who can stay him that willingly runneth into perdition?" said Brookes. "Who can save that
will be lost? God would have you to be saved, and you refuse it."

The archbishop was cited to appear at Rome within eighty days to answer to the charges which
would there be laid against him; and in order that he might be able to obey the summons he
was returned to his cell in Bocardo prison, and kept there in strict confinement.

Ridley and Latimer came next, and over them the papal mantle flung no protection.

They had been prisoners now for more than two years. What Latimer's occupation had been for
all that time, little remains {p.229} to show, except three letters:--one, of but a few lines,
was to a Mrs. Wilkinson, thanking her for some act of kindness:[501] another, was a general
exhortation to "all unfeigned lovers of God's truth," to be constant in their faith: the third,
and most noteworthy, was to some one who had an opportunity of escaping from arrest, and probable
martyrdom, by a payment of money, and who doubted whether he might lawfully avail himself of
the chance: there was no question of recantation; a corrupt official was ready to accept a
bribe and ask no questions.

                   [Footnote 501: If the gift of a pot of cold water
                   shall not be in oblivion with God, how can God
                   forget your manifold and bountiful gifts, when He
                   shall say unto you. "I was in prison, and you
                   visited me." God grant us all to do and suffer
                   while we be here as may be to His will and
                   pleasure.--Latimer to Mrs. Wilkinson, from Bocardo:
                   Latimer's Remains, p. 444.]

Latimer had not been one of those fanatics who thought it a merit to go in the way of danger
and court persecution; but in this present case he shared the misgiving of his correspondent,
and did "highly allow his judgment in that he thought it not lawful to redeem himself from
the crown, unless he would exchange glory for shame, and his inheritance for a mess of pottage."

"We were created," Latimer said, "to set forth God's glory all the days of our life, which
we, as unthankful sinners, have forgotten to do, as we ought, all our days hitherto; and now
God, by affliction, doth offer us good occasion to perform one day of our life, our duty. If
any man perceive his faith not to abide the fire, let such an one with weeping buy his liberty
until he hath obtained more strength, lest the gospel suffer by him some shameful recantation.
Let the dead bury the dead. Do you embrace Christ's cross, and Christ shall embrace you. The
peace of God be with you for ever."[502]

                   [Footnote 502: Latimer's Remains, p. 429.]

Ridley's pen had been more busy: he had written a lamentation over the state of England; he
had written a farewell letter, taking leave of his friends, and taking leave of life, which,
clouded as it was, his sunny nature made it hard to part from: he had written comfort to the
afflicted for the gospel, and he had addressed a passionate appeal to the Temporal Lords to
save England from the false shepherds who were wasting the flock of Christ. But both he and
Latimer had looked death steadily in the face for two years, expecting it every day or hour.
It was now come.

On the 30th of September, the three bishops took their seats in the Divinity school. Ridley
was led in for trial, and the {p.230} legate's commission was read, empowering them to try
him for the opinions which he had expressed in the disputation at Oxford the year before, and
"elsewhere in the time of perdition." They were to degrade him from the priesthood if he persisted
in his heresies, and deliver him over to the secular arm.

On being first brought before the court, Ridley stood bareheaded. At the names of the cardinal
and the pope, he put on his cap, like Cranmer, declining to acknowledge their authority. But
his scruples were treated less respectfully than the archbishop's. He was ordered to take it
off, and when he refused, it was removed by a beadle.

He was then charged with having denied transubstantiation, and the propitiatory sacrifice of
the mass, and was urged at length to recant. His opinions on the real presence were peculiar.
Christ, he said, was not the sacrament, but was really and truly in the sacrament, as the Holy
Ghost was with the water at baptism and yet was not the water. The subtlety of the position
was perplexing, but the knot was cut by the crucial question, whether, after the consecration
of the elements, the substance of bread and wine remained. He was allowed the night to consider
his answer, but he left no doubt what that answer would be. "The bishops told him that they
were not come to condemn him, their province was to condemn no one, but only to cut off the
heretic from the church, for the temporal judge to deal with as he should think fit." The cowardly
sophism had been heard too often. Ridley thanked the court "for their gentleness," "being the
same which Christ had of the high priest:" "the high priest said it was not lawful for him
to put any man to death, but committed Christ to Pilate; neither would suffer him to absolve
Christ, though he sought all the means therefore that he might."

Ridley withdrew, and Latimer was then introduced--eighty years old now--dressed in an old threadbare
gown of Bristol frieze, a handkerchief on his head with a night-cap over it, and over that
again another cap, with two broad flaps buttoned under the chin. A leather belt was round his
waist, to which a Testament was attached; his spectacles, without a case, hung from his neck.
So stood the greatest man perhaps then living in the world, a prisoner on his trial, waiting
to be condemned to death by men professing to be the ministers of God. As it was in the days
of the prophets, so it was in the Son of man's days; as it was in the days of the Son of man,
so was it in the Reformers' days; as it was in the days of the Reformers, so will it be to
the {p.231} end, so long and so far as a class of men are permitted to hold power, who call
themselves the commissioned and authoritative teachers of truth. Latimer's trial was the counterpart
of Ridley's: the charge was the same, and the result was the same, except that the stronger
intellect vexed itself less with nice distinctions. Bread was bread, said Latimer, and wine
was wine; there was a change in the sacrament, it was true, but the change was not in the nature,
but the dignity. He too was reprieved for the day. The following morning, the court sat in
St. Mary's Church, with the authorities of town and university, heads of houses, mayor, aldermen,
and sheriff. The prisoners were brought to the bar. The same questions were asked, the same
answers were returned, and sentence was pronounced upon them, as heretics obstinate and incurable.

Execution did not immediately follow. The convictions for which they were about to die had
been adopted by both of them comparatively late in life. The legate would not relinquish the
hope of bringing them back into the superstition in which they had been born, and had lived
so long; and Soto, a Spanish friar, who was teaching divinity at Oxford in the place of Peter
Martyr, was set to work on them.

But one of them would not see him, and on the other he could make no impression. Those whom
God had cast away, thought Pole, were not to be saved by man;[503] and the 16th of October
was fixed upon as the day on which they were to suffer. Ridley had been removed from Bocardo,
and was under the custody of the mayor, a man named Irish, whose wife was a bigoted and fanatical
Catholic. On the evening of the 15th there was a supper at the mayor's house, where some members
of Ridley's family were permitted to be present. He talked cheerfully of his approaching "marriage;"
his brother-in-law promised to be in attendance, and, if possible, to bring with him his wife,
Ridley's sister. Even the hard eyes of Mrs. Irish were softened to tears, as she listened and
thought of what was coming. The brother-in-law offered to sit up through the night, but Ridley
said there was no occasion; he "minded to go to bed, and sleep as quietly as ever he did in
his life." In the morning he wrote a letter to the queen. As Bishop of London he had granted
{p.232} renewals of certain leases, on which he had received fines. Bonner had refused to recognise
them, and he entreated the queen, for Christ's sake, either that the leases should be allowed,
or that some portion of his own confiscated property might be applied to the repayment of the
tenants.[504] The letter was long; by the time it was finished, the sheriff's officers were
probably in readiness.

                   [Footnote 503: A Rev. P. Soto accepi litteras
                   Oxonio datas quibus me certiorem facit quid cum
                   duobus illis hæreticis egerit qui jam erant
                   damnati, quorum alter ne loqui quidem cum eo
                   voluit: cum altero est locutus sed nihil profecit,
                   ut facile intelligatur a nemine servari posse quos
                   Deus projecerit. Itaque de illis supplicium est
                   sumptum.--Pole to Philip: Epist. Reg. Pol. vol.
                   v. p. 47.]

                   [Footnote 504: Foxe, vol. vii. p. 545. It is to the
                   discredit of Mary that she paid no attention to
                   this appeal, and left Bonner's injustice to be
                   repaired by the first parliament of Elizabeth.
                   Commons Journals, 1 Elizabeth.]

The place selected for the burning was outside the north wall of the town, a short stone's
throw from the southward corner of Balliol College, and about the same distance from Bocardo
prison, from which Cranmer was intended to witness his friends' sufferings.

Lord Williams of Thame was on the spot by the queen's order; and the city guard were under
arms to prevent disturbance. Ridley appeared first, walking between the mayor and one of the
aldermen. He was dressed in a furred black gown, "such as he was wont to wear being bishop,"
a furred velvet tippet about his neck, and a velvet cap. He had trimmed his beard, and had
washed himself from head to foot; a man evidently nice in his appearance, a gentleman, and
liking to be known as such. The way led under the windows of Bocardo, and he looked up; but
Soto, the friar, was with the archbishop, making use of the occasion, and Ridley did not see
him.[505] In turning round, however, he saw Latimer coming up behind him in the frieze coat,
with the cap and handkerchief--the workday costume unaltered, except that under his cloak,
and reaching to his feet, the old man wore a long new shroud.

                   [Footnote 505: The execution, however, was
                   doubtless appointed to take place on that spot,
                   that Cranmer might see it. An old engraving in
                   Foxe's Martyrs represents him as on the leads of
                   the Tower while the burning was going forward,
                   looking at it, and praying.]

"Oh! be ye there?" Ridley exclaimed.

"Yea," Latimer answered. "Have after as fast as I can follow."

Ridley ran to him and embraced him. "Be of good heart, brother," he said. "God will either
assauge the flame, or else strengthen us to abide it." They knelt and prayed together, and
then exchanged a few words in a low voice, which were not overheard.

Lord Williams, the vice-chancellor, and the doctors were seated on a form close to the stake.
A sermon was preached, {p.233} "a scant one," "of scarce a quarter of an hour;" and then Ridley
begged that for Christ's sake he might say a few words.

Lord Williams looked to the doctors, one of whom started from his seat, and laid his hand on
Ridley's lips--

"Recant," he said, "and you may both speak and live."

"So long as the breath is in my body," Ridley answered, "I will never deny my Lord Christ and
his known truth. God's will be done in me. I commit our cause," he said, in a loud voice, turning
to the people, "to Almighty God, who shall indifferently judge all."

The brief preparations were swiftly made. Ridley gave his gown and tippet to his brother-in-law,
and distributed remembrances among those who were nearest to him. To Sir Henry Lee he gave
a new groat, to others he gave handkerchiefs, nutmegs, slices of ginger, his watch, and miscellaneous
trinkets; "some plucked off the points of his hose;" "happy," it was said, "was he that might
get any rag of him."

Latimer had nothing to give. He threw off his cloak, stood bolt upright in his shroud, and
the friends took their places on either side of the stake.

"O Heavenly Father," Ridley said, "I give unto thee most humble thanks, for that thou hast
called me to be a professor of thee even unto death. Have mercy, O Lord, on this realm of England,
and deliver the same from all her enemies."

A chain was passed round their bodies, and fastened with a staple.

A friend brought a bag of powder and hung it round Ridley's neck.

"I will take it to be sent of God," Ridley said. "Have you more, for my brother?"

"Yea, sir," the friend answered. "Give it him betimes then," Ridley replied, "lest ye be too late."

The fire was then brought. To the last moment, Ridley was distressed about the leases, and,
bound as he was, he entreated Lord Williams to intercede with the queen about them.

"I will remember your suit," Lord Williams answered. The lighted torch was laid to the faggots.

"In manus tuas, Domine, commendo spiritum meum," cried Ridley. "Domine, recipe spiritum meum."

{p.234} "O Father of Heaven," said Latimer, on the other side, "receive my soul."

Latimer died first: as the flame blazed up about him, he bathed his hands in it, and stroked
his face. The powder exploded, and he became instantly senseless.

His companion was less fortunate. The sticks had been piled too thickly over the gorse that
was under them; the fire smouldered round his legs, and the sensation of suffering was unusually
protracted. "I cannot burn," he called; "Lord have mercy on me; let the fire come to me; I
cannot burn." His brother-in-law, with awkward kindness, threw on more wood, which only kept
down the flame. At last some one lifted the pile with "a bill," and let in the air; the red
tongues of fire shot up fiercely, Ridley wrested himself into the middle of them, and the powder
did its work.

The horrible sight worked upon the beholders as it has worked since, and will work for ever,
while the English nation survives--being, notwithstanding, as in justice to those who caused
these accursed cruelties, must never be forgotten--a legitimate fruit of the superstition,
that, in the eyes of the Maker of the world, an error of belief is the greatest of crimes;
that while for all other sins there is forgiveness, a mistake in the intellectual intricacies
of speculative opinion will be punished not with the brief agony of a painful death, but with
tortures to which there shall be no end.

But martyrdom was often but a relief from more barbarous atrocities. In the sad winter months
which were approaching, the poor men and women, who, untried and uncondemned, were crowded
into the bishops' prisons, experienced such miseries as the very dogs could scarcely suffer
and survive. They were beaten, they were starved, they were flung into dark, fetid dens, where
rotting straw was their bed, their feet were fettered in the stocks, and their clothes were
their only covering, while the wretches who died in their misery were flung out into the fields
where none might bury them.[506]

                   [Footnote 506: Foxe, vols. vii. viii., passim,
                   especially vol. vii. p. 605. Philpot's Petition,
                   Ibid. p. 682; and an account of the Prisons at
                   Canterbury, vol. viii. p. 255. At Canterbury,
                   after Pole became archbishop, his archdeacon,
                   Harpsfeld, had fifteen prisoners confined together,
                   of whom five were starved to death; the other ten
                   were burnt. But before they suffered, and while one
                   of those who died of hunger still survived, they
                   left on record the following account of their
                   treatment, and threw it out of a window of the
                   castle:--

                   "Be it known to all men that shall read, or hear
                   read, these our letters, that we, the poor
                   prisoners of the castle of Canterbury, for God's
                   truth, are kept and lie in cold irons, and our
                   keeper will not suffer any meat to be brought to us
                   to comfort us. And if any man do bring in
                   anything--as bread, butter, cheese, or any other
                   food--the said keeper will charge them that so
                   bring us anything (except money or raiment), to
                   carry it thence again; or else, if he do receive
                   any food of any for us, he doth keep it for
                   himself, and he and his servants do spend it; so
                   that we have nothing thereof: and thus the keeper
                   keepeth away our victuals from us; insomuch that
                   there are four of us prisoners there for God's
                   truth famished already, and thus it is his mind to
                   famish us all. And we think he is appointed thereto
                   by the bishops and priests, and also of the
                   justices, so to famish us; and not only us of the
                   said castle, but also all other prisoners in other
                   prisons for the like cause to be also famished.
                   Notwithstanding, we write not these our letters to
                   that intent we might not afford to be famished for
                   the Lord Jesus' sake, but for this cause and
                   intent, that they having no law so to famish us in
                   prison, should not do it privily, but that the
                   murderers' hearts should be openly known to all the
                   world, that all men may know of what church they
                   are, and who is their father."--Foxe, vol. viii. p.
                   255.]

{p.235} Lollard's Tower and Bonner's coal-house were the chief scenes of barbarity. Yet there
were times when even Bonner loathed his work. He complained that he was troubled with matters
that were none of his; the bishops in other parts of England thrust upon his hands offenders
whom they dared not pardon and would not themselves put to death; and, being in London, he
was himself under the eyes of the court, and could not evade the work.[507] Against Bonner,
however, the world's voice rose the loudest. His brutality was notorious and unquestionable,
and a published letter was addressed to him by a lady, in which he was called the "common cut-throat
and general slaughter-slave to all the bishops in England."[508] "I am credibly informed,"
said this person to him, "that your lordship doth believe, and hath in secret said, there is
no hell. The very Papists themselves begin now to abhor your bloodthirstiness, and speak shame
of your tyranny. Every child can call you by name, and say, 'Bloody Bonner is Bishop of London!'
and every man hath it as perfect upon his fingers' ends as his Paternoster, how many you for
your part have burned with fire and famished in prison this three-quarters of a year. Though
your lordship believe neither heaven nor hell, neither God nor devil, yet if your lordship
love your own honesty, you were best to surcease from this cruel burning and murdering. Say
not but a woman gave you warning. As for the obtaining your popish purpose in suppressing of
the truth, I put you out of doubt, you shall not obtain it so long as you go this way to work
as you do. You have lost the hearts of twenty thousand that were rank Papists within this twelve
months."

                   [Footnote 507: See especially his conversation with
                   Philpot: Foxe, vol. vii. p. 611.]

                   [Footnote 508: Godly Letter addressed to Bonner:
                   Ibid. p. 712.]

In the last words lay the heart of the whole matter. The {p.236} martyrs alone broke the spell
of orthodoxy, and made the establishment of the Reformation possible.

In the midst of such scenes the new parliament was about to meet. Money was wanted for the
crown debts, and the queen was infatuated enough still to meditate schemes for altering the
succession, or, at least, for obtaining the consent of the legislature to Philip's coronation,
that she might bribe him back to her side.[509]

                   [Footnote 509: Pour le faire plustost retourner
                   elle fera toutes choses incrédible en ce dict
                   parlement en faveur dudict Sieur.... L'on dict que
                   l'occasion pour laquelle le dict parlement a esté
                   assemblé, ne tend à aultre fin que pour faire s'il
                   est possible tomber le gouvernement absolu de ce
                   royaulme entre les mains de ce roy.--Noailles to
                   the King of France, October 21: Ambassades, vol.
                   v.]

As the opening of the session approached, Elizabeth was sent again from the court to be out
of sight and out of reach of intrigue; and Mary had the mortification of knowing that her sister's
passage through London was a triumphal procession. The public enthusiasm became so marked at
last that the princess was obliged to ride forward with a few servants, leaving the gentlemen
who were her escort to keep back the people. Fresh alarms, too, had risen on the side of the
papacy. Cardinal Caraffa, Paul IV. as he was now named, on assuming the tiara, had put out
a bull among his first acts, reasserting the decision of the canons on the sanctity of the
estates of the church, and threatening laymen who presumed to withhold such property from its
lawful owners with anathemas. In a conversation with Lord Montague, the English ambassador
at Rome, he had used language far from reassuring on the concessions of his predecessor; and
some violent demonstration would undoubtedly have been made in parliament, had not Paul been
persuaded to except England especially from the general edict.

Even then the irritation was not allayed, and a whole train of sorrows was in store for Mary
from the violent character of Caraffa. Political popes have always been a disturbing element
in the European system. Paul IV., elected by French influence, showed his gratitude by plunging
into the quarrel between France and the Empire. He imprisoned Imperialist cardinals in St.
Angelo; he persecuted the Colonnas on account of their Imperialist tendencies, levelled their
fortresses, and seized their lands. The Cardinal of Lorraine hastened to Rome to conclude an
alliance offensive and defensive on behalf of France; and the queen, distracted between her
religion and her duty as a wife, saw Philip on the point of being drawn into parricidal hostility
{p.237} with his and her spiritual father. Nay, she herself might be involved in the same calamity;
for so bitter was the English humour that the liberal party in the council were inclined to
take part in the war, if they would have the pope for an enemy; and Philip would be too happy
in their support to look too curiously to the motives of it.[510]

                   [Footnote 510: Ce soit ung argument plus grand que
                   tout aultre pour faire entrer ceulx cy à la guerre
                   ouverte; estant ceste nation comme ung chascung
                   sçait fort ennemie de sadict Sainctité.--Noailles
                   to Montmorency: Ambassades, vol. v. p. 188.]

A calamity of a more real kind was also approaching Mary. She was on the point of losing the
only able minister on whose attachment she could rely. Gardiner's career on earth was about to end.

On the 6th of October, Noailles described the Bishop of Winchester as sinking rapidly, and
certain to die before Christmas,[511] yet still eager and energetic, perfectly aware of his
condition, yet determined to work till the last.

                   [Footnote 511: Same to the same.--Ibid. p. 150.]

Noailles himself had two hours' conversation with him on business: when he took his leave,
the chancellor conducted him through the crowded ante-chamber to the door, leaning heavily
on his arm. "The people thought he was dead," he said, "but there was some life in him yet."

Notwithstanding his condition, he roused himself for the meeting of parliament on the 21st;
he even spoke at the opening, and he was in his place in the House of Lords on the second day
of the session; but his remaining strength broke down immediately after, and he died at Whitehall
Palace on the 13th of November. The Protestants, who believed that he was the author of the
persecution, expected that it would cease with his end; they were deceived in their hopes,
for their sufferings continued unabated. In their opinion of his conduct they were right, yet
right but partially.

Stephen Gardiner, Bishop of Winchester, was the pupil of Wolsey, and had inherited undiminished
the pride of the ecclesiastical order. If he went with Henry in his separation from the papacy,
he intended that the English Church should retain, notwithstanding, unimpaired authority and
undiminished privileges. The humiliations heaped upon the clergy by the king had not discouraged
him, for the Catholic doctrine was maintained unshaken, and so long as the priesthood was regarded
as a peculiar order, gifted with supernatural powers, so long as the sacraments were held essential
conditions of {p.238} salvation, and the priesthood alone could administer them, he could feel
assured that, sooner or later, their temporal position would be restored to them.

Thus, while loyal to the royal supremacy, the Bishop of Winchester had hated heresy, and hated
all who protected heresy with a deadly hatred. He passed the Six Articles Bill; he destroyed
Cromwell; he laboured with all his might to destroy Cranmer; and, at length, when Henry was
about to die, he lent himself, though too prudently to be detected, to the schemes of Surrey
and the Catholics upon the regency. The failure of those schemes, and the five years of arbitrary
imprisonment under Edward, had not softened feelings already more than violent. He returned
to power exasperated by personal injury; and justified, as he might easily believe himself
to be, in his opinion of the tendencies of heresy, by the scandals of the Protestant administration,
he obtained, by unremitting assiduity, the re-enactment of the persecuting laws, which he himself
launched into operation with imperious cruelty.

Yet there was something in Gardiner's character which was not wholly execrable. For thirty
years he worked unweariedly in the service of the public; his judgment as a member of council
was generally excellent; and Somerset, had he listened to his remonstrances, might have saved
both his life and credit. He was vindictive, ruthless, treacherous, but his courage was indomitable.
He resisted Cromwell till it became a question which of the two should die, and the lot was
as likely to have fallen to him as to his rival. He would have murdered Elizabeth with the
forms of law or without, but Elizabeth was the hope of all that he most detested. He was no
dreamer, no high-flown enthusiast, but he was a man of clear eye and hard heart, who had a
purpose in his life which he pursued with unflagging energy. Living as he did in revolutionary
times, his hand was never slow to strike when an enemy was in his power; yet in general when
Gardiner struck, he stooped, like an eagle, at the nobler game, leaving the linen-drapers and
apprentices to "the mousing owls." His demerits were vast; his merits were small, yet something.

"Well, well," as some one said, winding up his epitaph, "Mortuus est, et sepultus est, et descendit
ad inferos; let us say no more about him."[512]

                   [Footnote 512: Special Grace appointed to have been
                   said at York on the Accession of
                   Elizabeth.--Tanner MSS., Bodleian Library.]

To return to the parliament. On the 23rd of October a bull {p.239} of Paul IV, confirming the
dispensation of Julius, was read in the House of Commons.[513] On the 29th the crown debts
were alleged as a reason for demanding a subsidy. The queen had been prevented from indulging
her desire for a standing army. The waste and peculation of the late reign had been put an
end to; and the embarrassments of the treasury were not of her creation. Nevertheless the change
in social habits, and the alteration in the value of money, had prevented the reduction of
the expenditure from being carried to the extent which had been contemplated; the marriage
had been in many ways costly, and large sums had been spent in restoring plundered church plate.
So great had been the difficulties of the treasury, that, although fresh loans had been contracted
with the Jews, the wages of the household were again two years in arrear.

                   [Footnote 513: Commons Journals, 2nd and 3rd
                   Philip and Mary.]

Parliament showed no disposition to be illiberal; they only desired to be satisfied that if
they gave money it would be applied to the purpose for which it was demanded. The Subsidy Bill,
when first introduced, was opposed in the House of Commons on the ground that the queen would
give the keys of the treasury to her husband; and after a debate, a minority of a hundred voted
for refusing the grant.[514] The general spirit of the Houses, however, was, on the whole,
more generous. Two fifteenths were voted in addition to the subsidy, which the queen, on her
side, was able to decline with thanks.[515] The money question was settled quietly, and the
business of the session proceeded.

                   [Footnote 514: Commons Journals, 2nd and 3rd
                   Philip and Mary.--Noailles to the Constable,
                   October 31.]

                   [Footnote 515: Commons Journal. Noailles says
                   that the queen demanded the fifteenths, and that
                   the Commons refused to grant them. The account in
                   the Journals is confirmed by a letter of Lord
                   Talbot to the Earl of Shrewsbury.--Lodge's
                   Illustrations, vol. i. p. 207.]

If her subjects were indifferent to their souls, Mary was anxious about her own. On the 11th
of November, a bill was read a first time in the House of Lords, "whereby the king's and queen's
majesties surrendered, and gave into the hands of the pope's holiness the first-fruits and
tenths of all ecclesiastical benefices." The reception of the measure can be traced in the
changes of form which it experienced. The payment of annates to the See of Rome was a grievance,
both among clergy and laity, of very ancient standing. The clergy, though willing to be relieved
from paying first-fruits to the crown, were not so loyal to the successors of St. Peter as
to desire to restore their contributions into the old channel; while the laity, who from {p.240}
immemorial time had objected on principle to the payment of tribute to a foreign sovereign,
were now, through their possession of the abbey lands and the impropriation of benefices, immediately
interested parties. On the 19th of November fifty members of the House of Commons waited, by
desire, upon the queen, to hear her own resolutions, and to listen to an admonition from the
cardinal.[516] On the 20th a second bill was introduced, "whereby the king's and queen's majesties
surrendered and gave the first-fruits and tenths into the hands of the laity."[517] The crown
would not receive annates longer in any form; and as laymen liable to the payment of them could
not conveniently be required to pay tribute to Rome, it was left to their consciences to determine
whether they would follow the queen's example in a voluntary surrender.

                   [Footnote 516: Mr. Speaker declared the queen's
                   pleasure to be spoken yesterday, for to depart with
                   the first-fruits and tenths; and my Lord Cardinal
                   spake for the tithes and impropriations of
                   benefices to be spiritual.--Commons Journals,
                   November 20: 2nd and 3rd Philip and Mary.]

                   [Footnote 517: Lords Journals.]

Even then, however, the original bill could not pass so long as the pope's name was in it,
or so long as the pope was interested in it. As it left the Lords, it was simply a surrender,
on behalf of the crown, of all claims whatever upon first-fruits of benefices, whether from
clergy or laity. The tenths were to continue to be paid. Lay impropriators should pay them
to the crown. The clergy should pay them to the legate, by whom they were to be applied to
the discharge of the monastic pensions, from which the crown was to be relieved. The crown
at the same time set a precedent of sacrifice by placing in the legate's hands unreservedly
every one of its own impropriations.[518]

                   [Footnote 518: 2nd and 3rd Philip and Mary, cap.
                   iv.]

In this form the measure went down to the Commons, where it encountered fresh and violent opposition.
To demand a subsidy in one week, and in the next to demand permission to sacrifice a sixth
part of the ordinary revenue, was inconsistent and irrational. The laity had no ambition to
take upon themselves the burdens of the clergy. On the 27th there was a long discussion;[519]
on the 3rd of December the bill was carried, but with an adverse minority of a hundred and
twenty-six, against a majority of a hundred and ninety-three.[520]

                   [Footnote 519: Commons Journals.]

                   [Footnote 520: Ibid. The temper of the opposition
                   may be gathered from the language of a pamphlet
                   which appeared on the accession of Elizabeth.

                   The writer describes the clergy as "lads of
                   circumspection, and verily filii hujus sæculi."
                   He complains of their avarice in inducing the
                   queen, "at one chop, to give away fifty thousand
                   pounds and better yearly from the inheritance of
                   her crown unto them, and many a thousand after,
                   unto those idle hypocrites besides."

                   He then goes on:--

                   "And yet this great profusion of their prince did
                   so smally serve their hungry guts, like starven
                   tikes that were never content with more than
                   enough; at all their collations, assemblies, and
                   sermons, they never left yelling and yelping in
                   pursuit of their prey, Restore! Restore! These
                   devout deacons nothing regarded how some for long
                   service and travail abroad, while they sat at
                   home--some for shedding his blood in defence of his
                   prince's cause and country, while they with safety,
                   all careless in their cabins, in luxe and lewdness,
                   did sail in a sure port--some selling his antient
                   patrimony for purchase of these lands, while they
                   must have all by gift a God's name--they nothing
                   regarding, I say, what injury to thousands, what
                   undoing to most men, what danger of uproar and
                   tumult throughout the whole realm, and what a
                   weakening to the State, should thereby arise; with
                   none of these matters were they moved a whit, but
                   still held on their cry, Restore! Restore!"

                   "And that ye may be sure they meant nothing more
                   than how to have all, and that with all haste;
                   after that their Pope, this seditious Paul IV.,
                   that now is, had sent hither his bulls and his
                   thunderbolts for that cause, and other (and yet
                   little restored, because the world, indeed, would
                   not be so faced out of their livelihood) sundry of
                   our prelates, like hardy champions, slacke not a
                   whit themselves to thrust lords out of their lands,
                   and picked quarrels to their lawful possessions.
                   Well. Let nobility consider the case as they list;
                   but, as some think, if the clergy come to be
                   masters again, they will teach them a school point.
                   Christ taught the young man that perfection was in
                   vade, vende, et da, not in mane, acquire,
                   accumula."--Grace to be said at the Accession of
                   Elizabeth: Tannes MSS., Bodleian Library.]

{p.241} Language had been heard in both Houses, during the debates, of unusual violence. Bradford's
letter on the succession was circulating freely among the members, and the parliament from
which the queen anticipated so much for her husband's interests proved the most intractable
with which she had had to deal.[521] After the difficulty which she had experienced with the
first-fruits, she durst not so much as introduce the question of the crown.[522] She attempted
a bill for the restoration of the forfeited lands of the Howards, but it was lost.[523] The
Duchess of Suffolk,[524] with {p.242} several other persons of rank, had lately joined the
refugees on the Continent; she attempted to carry a measure for the confiscation of their property,
and failed again.[525] A sharp blow was dealt also at the recovered privileges of ecclesiastics.
A man named Benet Smith, who had been implicated in a charge of murder, and was escaping under
plea of clergy, was delivered by a special act into the hands of justice.[526] The leaven of
the heretical spirit was still unsubdued. The queen dissolved her fourth parliament on the
9th of December; and several gentlemen who had spoken out with unpalatable freedom were seized
and sent to the Tower. She was unwise, thought Noailles; such arbitrary acts were only making
her day by day more detested, and, should opportunity offer, would bring her to utter destruction.

                   [Footnote 521: Noailles.]

                   [Footnote 522: Michele, the Venetian ambassador, in
                   his curious but most inaccurate account of England
                   during this reign, states that the queen had it in
                   her power to cut off Elizabeth from the succession,
                   but that she was prevented from doing it by Philip.
                   Michele's information suffered from the policy of
                   Venice. Venice held aloof from the complications of
                   the rest of Europe, and her representatives were
                   punished by exclusion from secrets of state. The
                   letters of Noailles might be suspected, but the
                   correspondence of Renard with Charles V. leaves no
                   doubt whatever either as to the views of the
                   Spaniards towards Elizabeth, of their designs on
                   the crown, or of the causes by which they were
                   baffled.]

                   [Footnote 523: Noailles to the King of France,
                   December 16.]

                   [Footnote 524: The witty Katherine Brandon, widow
                   of Henry VIII.'s Charles Brandon, married to
                   Richard Bertie. She was a lady of advanced
                   opinions, between whom and the Bishop of Winchester
                   there were some passages-at-arms. She dressed a dog
                   in a rochet on one occasion, and called it Bishop
                   Gardiner.

                   Gardiner himself said that he was once at a party
                   at the Duke of Suffolk's, and it was a question who
                   should take the duchess down to dinner. She wanted
                   to go with her husband; but as that could not be,
                   "My lady," said Gardiner, "taking me by the hand,
                   for that my lord would not take her himself, said
                   that, forasmuch as she could not sit down with my
                   lord whom she loved best, she had chosen me whom
                   she loved worst."--Holinshed.]

                   [Footnote 525: Et de mesme fust rejetté audict
                   parlement à la grande confusion de ladicte dame ung
                   aultre bill, par lequel elle vouloit confisquer les
                   personnes et biens de ceulx qui sont transfuges de
                   ce royaulme despuis son advènement à la
                   couronne.--Noailles to the King of France, December
                   16: Ambassades, vol. v.]

                   [Footnote 526: 2nd and 3rd Philip and Mary, cap.
                   17.]

Unwise she was indeed, and most unhappy. When the poor results of the session became known
to Philip, he sent orders that such of his Spanish suite as he had left behind him should no
longer afflict themselves with remaining in a country which they abhorred; he summoned them
all to come to him except Alphonso, his confessor. "The queen wept and remonstrated; more piteous
lamentations were never heard from woman." "How," exclaimed a brother of Noailles,[527] "is
she repaid now for having quarrelled with her subjects, and set aside her father's will! The
misery which she suffers in her husband's absence cannot so change her but that she will risk
crown and life to establish him in the sovereignty, and thus recall him to her side. Nevertheless,
she will fail, and he will not come. He is weary of having laboured so long in a soil so barren;
while she who feels old age stealing so fast upon her, cannot endure to lose what she has bought
so dearly."

                   [Footnote 527: François de Noailles to Madame de
                   Roye: Ambassades, vol. v.]

Nothing now was left for Mary but to make such use as she {p.243} was able of the few years
of life which were to remain to her. If Elizabeth, the hated Anne Boleyn's hated daughter,
was to succeed her on the throne, and there was no remedy, it was for her to work so vigorously
in the restoration of the church that her labours could not afterwards be all undone. At her
own expense she began to rebuild and refound the religious houses. The Grey Friars were replaced
at Greenwich, the Carthusians at Sheene, the Brigittines at Sion. The house of the Knights
of St. John in London was restored; the Dean and Chapter of Westminster gave way to Abbot Feckenham
and a college of monks. Yet these touching efforts might soften her sorrow but could not remove
it. Philip was more anxious than ever about the marriage of Elizabeth; and as Mary could not
overcome her unwillingness to sanction by act of her own Elizabeth's pretensions, Philip wrote
her cruel letters, and set his confessor to lecture her upon her duties as a wife.[528] These
letters she chiefly spent her time in answering, shut up almost alone, trusting no one but
Pole, and seeing no one but her women. If she was compelled to appear in public, she had lost
her power of self-control; she would burst into fits of violent and uncontrollable passion;
she believed every one about her to be a spy in the interest of the Lords. So disastrously
miserable were all the consequences of her marriage, that it was said, the pope, who had {p.244}
granted the dispensation for the contraction of it, had better grant another for its dissolution.[529]
Unfortunately there was one direction open in which her frenzy could have uncontrolled scope.

                   [Footnote 528: Among the surviving memorials of
                   Mary, none is more affecting than a rough copy of
                   an answer to one of these epistles, which is
                   preserved in the Cotton Library. It is painfully
                   scrawled, and covered with erasures and
                   corrections, in which may be traced the dread in
                   which she stood of offending Philip. Demander
                   license de votre Haultesse, is crossed through and
                   altered into Supplier très humblement. Where she
                   had described herself as obeissante, she enlarged
                   the word into très obeissante; and the tone
                   throughout is most piteous. She entreats the king
                   to appoint some person or persons to talk with her
                   about the marriage. She says that the conscience
                   which she has about it she has had for twenty-four
                   years; that is to say, since Elizabeth's birth.
                   Nevertheless, she will agree to Philip's wish, if
                   the realm will agree. She is ready to discuss it;
                   but she complains, so far as she dares complain, of
                   the confessor. The priests trouble her, she says.
                   "Alfonsez espécialement me proposoit questions si
                   obscures que mon simple entendement ne les pouvoit
                   comprehendre, comme pour exemple il me demandoit
                   qui estoit roy au temps de Adam, et disoit comme
                   j'estoy obligée de faire ceste marriage par ung
                   article de mon Credo, mais il ne l'exposoit....
                   Aultres choses trop difficiles pour moy d'entendre
                   ... ainsy qu'il estoit impossible en si peu de
                   temps de changer ... conscience.... Votre Haultesse
                   escript en ses dictes lettres que si le consent de
                   ce royaulme iroyt au contraire, Votre Haultesse en
                   imputeroit la coulpe en moy. Je supplie en toute
                   humilité votre Haultesse de différer ceste affaire
                   jusques à votre retour; et donques Votre Haultesse
                   sera juge si je seray coulpable ou non. Car
                   autrement je vinray en jalousie de Votre Haultesse
                   la quelle sera pire à moy que mort; car j'en ay
                   commencé déjà d'en taster trop à mon grand regret,"
                   etc.--Cotton MSS., Titus, B. 2: printed very
                   incorrectly in Strype's Memorials, vol. vi. 418.]

                   [Footnote 529: Noailles.]

The Archbishop of Canterbury, after his trial and his citation to Rome, addressed to the queen
a singular letter; he did not ask for mercy, and evidently he did not expect mercy: he reasserted
calmly the truth of the opinions for which he was to suffer; but he protested against the indignity
done to the realm of England, and the degradation of the royal prerogative, "when the king
and queen, as if they were subjects in their own realm, complained and required justice at
a stranger's hand against their own subjects, being already condemned to death by their own
laws." "Death," he said, "could not grieve him much more than to have his most dread and gracious
sovereigns, to whom under God he owed all obedience, to be his accusers in judgment before
a stranger and outward power."[530]

                   [Footnote 530: Cranmer to Queen Mary: Jenkins, vol.
                   i. p. 369. This protest was committed to Pole to
                   answer, who replied to it at length.

                   The authority of the pope in a secular kingdom, the
                   legate said, was no more a foreign power than "the
                   authority of the soul of man coming from heaven in
                   the body generate on earth." "The pope's laws
                   spiritual did no other but that the soul did in the
                   body, giving life to the same, confirming and
                   strengthening the same;" and that it was which the
                   angel signified in Christ's conception, declaring
                   what his authority should be, that he should sit
                   super domum David, which was a temporal reign,
                   ut confirmet illud et corroboret, as the
                   spiritual laws did.

                   The quotation is inaccurate. The words in the
                   Vulgate are, Dabit illi Dominus sedem David patris
                   ejus: et regnabit in domo Jacob in æternum.

                   The letter contains another illustration of Pole's
                   habit of mind. "There was never spiritual man," he
                   says, "put to execution according to the order of
                   the laws of the realm but he was first by the canon
                   laws condemned and degraded; whereof there be as
                   many examples afore the time of breaking the old
                   order of the realm these last years, as hath been
                   delinquents. Let the records be seen. And specially
                   this is notable of the Bishop of ----, which, being
                   imprisoned for high treason, the king would not
                   proceed to his condemnation and punishment afore he
                   had the pope's bull given him...."

                   The historical argument proceeded smoothly up to
                   the name, which, however, was not and is not to be
                   found. Pole was probably thinking of Archbishop
                   Scrope, who, however, unfortunately for the
                   argument, was put to death without the pope's
                   sanction.--Draft of a Letter from Cardinal Pole to
                   Cranmer: Harleian MSS. 417.]

The appeal was intended perhaps to provoke the queen to let him die with his friends, in whose
example and companionship he felt his strength supported. But it could not be; he was the spectator
of their fate, while his own was still held at a distance before him. He witnessed the agonies
of Ridley; and the long imprisonment, the perpetual chafing of Soto the Spanish friar, {p.245}
and the dreary sense that he was alone, forsaken of man, and perhaps of God, began to wear
into the firmness of a many-sided susceptible nature. Some vague indication that he might yield
had been communicated to Pole by Soto before Christmas,[531] and the struggle which had evidently
commenced was permitted to protract itself. If the Archbishop of Canterbury, the father of
the Reformed Church of England, could be brought to a recantation, that one victory might win
back the hearts which the general constancy of the martyrs was drawing off in tens of thousands.
Time, however, wore on, and the archbishop showed no definite signs of giving way. On the 14th
of December, a mock trial was instituted at Rome; the report of the examination at Oxford was
produced, and counsel were heard on both sides, or so it was pretended. Paul IV. then pronounced
the final sentence, that Thomas Cranmer, Archbishop of Canterbury, having been accused by his
sovereigns of divers crimes and misdemeanours, it had been proved against him that he had followed
the teachings of John Wicliff and Martin Luther of accursed memory;[532] that he had published
books containing matters of heresy, and still obstinately persisted in those his erroneous
opinions: he was therefore declared to be anathema, to be deprived of his office, and having
been degraded, he was to be delivered over to the secular arm.

                   [Footnote 531: Pole to Philip: Epistolæ Reg.
                   Pol., vol. v. p. 47.]

                   [Footnote 532: Damnatæ memoriæ. Sentence
                   Definitive against Thomas Cranmer: Foxe, vol.
                   viii.]

There was some delay in sending the judgment to England. It arrived at the beginning of February,
and on the 14th, Thirlby and Bonner went down to finish the work at Oxford. The court sat this
time in Christ Church Cathedral. Cranmer was brought to the bar, and the papal sentence was
read. The preamble declared that the cause had been heard with indifference, that the accused
had been defended by an advocate, that witnesses had been examined for him, that he had been
allowed every opportunity to answer for himself. "O Lord," he exclaimed, "what lies be these!
that I, being in prison and never suffered to have counsel or advocate at home, should produce
witness and appoint counsel at Rome; God must needs punish this shameless lying."

Silence would perhaps have been more dignified; to speak at all was an indication of infirmity.
As soon as the reading was finished, the archbishop was formally arrayed in his robes, and
when the decoration was completed, Bonner called out in exultation:

{p.246} "This is the man that hath despised the pope's holiness, and now is to be judged by
him; this is the man that hath pulled down so many churches, and now is come to be judged in
a church; this is the man that hath contemned the blessed sacrament of the altar, and now is
come to be condemned before that blessed sacrament hanging over the altar; this is the man
that, like Lucifer, sat in the place of Christ upon an altar[533] to judge others, and now
is come before an altar to be judged himself."[534]

                   [Footnote 533: An allusion to a scaffold in St.
                   Paul's Church, on which Cranmer had sat as a
                   commissioner; said to have been erected over an
                   altar.]

                   [Footnote 534: Foxe, vol. viii. p. 73.]

Thirlby checked the insolence of his companion. The degradation was about to commence, when
the archbishop drew from his sleeve an appeal "to the next Free General Council that should
be called." It had been drawn after consultation with a lawyer, in the evident hope that it
might save or prolong his life,[535] and he attempted to present it to his judges. But he was
catching at straws, as in his clearer judgment he would have known. Thirlby said sadly that
the appeal could not be received; his orders were absolute to proceed.

                   [Footnote 535: Cranmer to a Lawyer: Jenkins, vol.
                   i. p. 384.]

The robes were stripped off in the usual way. The thin hair was clipped. Bonner with his own
hands scraped the finger points which had been touched with the oil of consecration; "Now are
you lord no longer," he said, when the ceremony was finished. "All this needed not," Cranmer
answered; "I had myself done with this gear long ago."

He was led off in a beadle's threadbare gown, and a tradesman's cap; and here for some important
hours authentic account of him is lost. What he did, what he said, what was done or what was
said to him, is known only in its results, or in Protestant tradition. Tradition said that
he was taken from the cathedral to the house of the Dean of Christ Church, where he was delicately
entertained, and worked upon with smooth words, and promises of life. "The noblemen," he was
told, "bare him good-will; he was still strong, and might live many years, why should he cut
them short?" The story may contain some elements of truth. But the same evening, certainly,
he was again in his cell; and among the attempts to move him which can be authenticated, there
was one of a far different kind; a letter addressed to him by Pole to bring him to a sense
of his condition. There are some who tell me that, in obedience to this command, I ought not
to address you, or to have any dealings with you, save the dealings of a judge with a criminal.
But Christ came not to judge only, but also to save; I call upon you, not to enter into your
house, for so I should make myself a partaker with you; my desire is only to bring you back
to the church which you have deserted.

                   [Footnote 536: Epist. Reg. Pol., vol. v. p. 248.
                   I am obliged to abridge and epitomise.]

"You have corrupted Scripture, you have broken through the communion of saints, and now I tell
you what you must do; I tell you, or rather not I, but Christ and the church through me. Did
I follow my own impulse, or did I speak in my own name, I should hold other language; to you
I should not speak at all; I would address myself only to God; I would pray him to let fall
the fire of Heaven to consume you, and to consume with you the house into which you have entered
in abandoning the church.[537]

                   [Footnote 537: Car se je n'écourtois que les
                   mouvemens de la nature, se je ne vous parlois qu'en
                   mon nom, je vous tiendrois un autre langage au
                   plutôt je ne vous dirois rien; je m'entretiendrois
                   avec Dieu seul at je lui demanderois de faire
                   tomber le feu du ciel pour vous consumer avec cette
                   maison où vous avez passé en abandonnant l'Église.
                   The letter was only known to the editor of Pole's
                   remains in a French translation. I do not know
                   whether the original exists, or whether it was in
                   Latin or in English.]

"You pretend that you have used no instruments but reason to lead men after you; what instrument
did the devil use to seduce our parents in Paradise? you have followed the serpent; with guile
you destroyed your king, the realm, and the church, and you have brought to perdition thousands
of human souls.

"Compared with you, all others who have been concerned in these deeds of evil, are but objects
of pity; many of them long resisted temptation, and yielded only to the seductions of your
impious tongue; you made yourself a bishop--for what purpose, but to mock both God and man?
Your first act was but to juggle with your king, and you were no sooner primate, than you plotted
how you might break your oath to the Holy See; you took part in the counsels of the evil one,
you made your home with the wicked, you sat in the seat of the scornful. You exhorted your
king with your fine words, to put away his wife; you prated to him of his obligations to submit
to the judgment of the {p.248} church;[538] and what has followed that unrighteous sentence?
You parted the king from the wife with whom he had lived for twenty years; you parted him from
the church, the common mother of the faithful; and thenceforth throughout the realm law has
been trampled under foot, the people have been ground with tyranny, the churches pillaged,
the nobility murdered one by the other.

                   [Footnote 538: The innumerable modern writers who
                   agree with Pole on the iniquity of the divorce of
                   Catherine forget that, according to the rule which
                   most of us now acknowledge, the marriage of Henry
                   with his brother's wife really was
                   incestuous--really was forbidden by the laws of
                   God and nature; that the pope had no more authority
                   to dispense with those laws then than he has now;
                   and that if modern law is right, Cranmer did no
                   more than his duty.]

"Therefore, I say, were I to make my own cries heard in heaven, I would pray God to demand
at your hands the blood of his servants. Never had religion, never had the church of Christ
a worse enemy than you have been; now therefore, when you are about to suffer the just reward
of your deeds, think no more to excuse yourself; confess your sins, like the penitent thief
upon the cross.

"Say not in your defence that you have done no violence, that you have been kind and gentle
in your daily life. Thus I know men speak of you; but cheat not your conscience with so vain
a plea. The devil, when called to answer for the souls that he has slain, may plead likewise
that he did not desire their destruction; he thought only to make them happy, to give them
pleasure, honour, riches--all things which their hearts desired. So did you with your king:
you gave him the woman that he lusted after; you gave him the honour which was not his due,
and the good things which were neither his nor yours; and, last and worst, you gave him poison,
in covering his iniquities with a cloak of righteousness. Better, far better, you had offered
him courtesans for companions; better you and he had been open thieves and robbers. Then he
might have understood his crimes, and have repented of them; but you tempted him into the place
where there is no repentance, no hope of salvation.

"Turn then yourself, and repent. See yourself as you are. Thus may you escape your prison.
Thus may you flee out of the darkness wherein you have hid yourself. Thus may you come back
to light and life, and earn for yourself God's forgiveness. I know not how to deal with you.
Your examination at Oxford has but hardened you; yet the issue is with God. I {p.249} at least
can point out to you the way. If you, then, persist in your vain opinions, may God have mercy
on you."

The legate, in his office of guide, then travelled the full round of controversy, through Catholic
tradition, through the doctrine of the sacraments and of the real presence, where there is
no need to follow him. At length he drew to his conclusion:

"You will plead Scripture to answer me. Are you so vain, then, are you so foolish, as to suppose
that it has been left to you to find out the meaning of those Scriptures which have been in
the hands of the fathers of the church for so many ages? Confess, confess that you have mocked
God in denying that he is present on the altar; wash out your sins with tears; and in the abundance
of your sorrow you may find pardon. May it be so. Even for the greatness of your crimes may
it be so, that God may have the greater glory. You have not, like others, fallen through simplicity,
or fallen through fear. You were corrupted, like the Jews, by earthly rewards and promises.
For your own profit you denied the presence of your Lord, and you rebelled against his servant
the pope. May you see your crimes. May you feel the greatness of your need of mercy. Now, even
now, by my mouth, Christ offers you that mercy; and with the passionate hope which I am bound
to feel for your salvation, I wait your answer to your Master's call."

The exact day on which this letter reached the archbishop is uncertain, but it was very near
the period of his sentence. He had dared death bravely while it was distant; but he was physically
timid; the near approach of the agony which he had witnessed in others unnerved him; and in
a moment of mental and moral prostration Cranmer may well have looked in the mirror which Pole
held up to him, and asked himself whether, after all, the being there described was his true
image--whether it was himself as others saw him. A faith which had existed for centuries, a
faith in which generation after generation have lived happy and virtuous lives; a faith in
which all good men are agreed, and only the bad dispute--such a faith carries an evidence and
a weight with it beyond what can be looked for in a creed reasoned out by individuals--a creed
which had the ban upon it of inherited execration; which had been held in abhorrence once by
him who was now called upon to die for it. Only fools and fanatics believe that they cannot
be mistaken. Sick misgivings may have taken hold upon him in moments of despondency, whether,
after all, the millions who received the Roman supremacy might not be more right than the thousands
{p.250} who denied it; whether the argument on the real presence, which had satisfied him for
fifty years, might not be better founded than his recent doubts. It is not possible for a man
of gentle and modest nature to feel himself the object of intense detestation without uneasy
pangs; and as such thoughts came and went, a window might seem to open, through which there
was a return to life and freedom. His trial was not greater than hundreds of others had borne,
and would bear with constancy; but the temperaments of men are unequally constituted, and a
subtle intellect and a sensitive organisation are not qualifications which make martyrdom easy.

Life, by the law of the church, by justice, by precedent, was given to all who would accept
it on terms of submission. That the archbishop should be tempted to recant, with the resolution
formed, notwithstanding, that he should still suffer, whether he yielded or whether he was
obstinate, was a suspicion which his experience of the legate had not taught him to entertain.

So it was that Cranmer's spirit gave way, and he who had disdained to fly when flight was open
to him, because he considered that, having done the most in establishing the Reformation, he
was bound to face the responsibility of it, fell at last under the protraction of the trial.

The day of his degradation the archbishop had eaten little. In the evening he returned to his
cell in a state of exhaustion:[539] the same night, or the next day, he sent in his first submission,[540]
which was forwarded on the instant to the queen. It was no sooner gone than he recalled it,
and then vacillating again, he drew a second, in slightly altered words, which he signed and
did not recall. There had been a struggle in which the weaker nature had prevailed, and the
orthodox leaders made haste to improve their triumph. The first step being over, confessions
far more humiliating could now be extorted. Bonner came to his cell, and obtained from him
a promise in writing, "to submit to the king and queen in all their laws and ordinances, as
well touching the pope's supremacy, as in all other things;" with an engagement further "to
move and stir all others to do the like," and to live in quietness and obedience, without murmur
or grudging; his book on the sacrament he would submit to the next general council.

                   [Footnote 539: Jenkins, vol. iv. p. 129.]

                   [Footnote 540: Forasmuch as the king's and queen's
                   majesties, by consent of parliament, have received
                   the pope's authority within this realm, I am
                   content to submit myself to their laws herein, and
                   to take the pope for chief head of this Church of
                   England so far as God's laws and the customs of
                   this realm will permit.--Thomas Cranmer.]

{p.251} These three submissions must have followed one another rapidly. On the 16th of February,
two days only after his trial, he made a fourth, and yielding the point which he had reserved,
he declared that he believed all the articles of the Christian religion as the Catholic Church
believed. But so far he had spoken generally, and the court required particulars. In a fifth
and longer submission,[541] he was made to anathematise particularly the heresies of Luther
and Zuinglius; to accept the pope as the head of the church, out of which was no salvation;
to acknowledge the real presence in the Eucharist, the seven sacraments as received by the
Roman Catholics, and purgatory. He professed his penitence for having once held or taught otherwise,
and he implored the prayers of all faithful Christians, that those whom he had seduced might
be brought back to the true fold.

                   [Footnote 541: Of this fifth submission there is a
                   contemporary copy among the MSS. at Corpus Christi
                   College, Oxford. It was the only one known to Foxe;
                   and this, with the fact of its being found in a
                   separate form, gives a colour of probability to Mr.
                   Southey's suspicion that the rest were forgeries.
                   The whole collection was published by Bonner, who
                   injured his claims to credit by printing with the
                   others a seventh recantation, which was never made,
                   and by concealing the real truth. But the balance
                   of evidence I still think is in favour of the
                   genuineness of the first six. The first four lead
                   up to the fifth, and the invention of them after
                   the fifth had been made would have been needless.
                   The sixth I agree with Strype in considering to
                   have been composed by Pole, and signed by Cranmer.]

The demands of the church might have been satisfied by these last admissions; but Cranmer had
not yet expiated his personal offences against the queen and her mother, and he was to drain
the cup of humiliation to the dregs.

A month was allowed to pass. He was left with the certainty of his shame, and the uncertainty
whether, after all, it had not been encountered in vain. On the 18th of March, one more paper
was submitted to his signature, in which he confessed to be all which Pole had described him.
He called himself a blasphemer, and a persecutor; being unable to undo his evil work, he had
no hope, he said, save in the example of the thief upon the cross, who when other means of
reparation were taken from him, made amends to God with his lips. He was unworthy of mercy,
and he deserved eternal vengeance. He had sinned against King Henry and his wife; he was the
cause of the divorce, from which, as from a seed, had sprung up schism, heresy, and crime;
he had opened a window to false doctrines of which he had been himself the most pernicious
teacher; especially he reflected with anguish that he had denied the presence {p.252} of his
Maker in the consecrated elements. He had deceived the living and he had robbed the souls of
the dead by stealing from them their masses. He prayed the pope to pardon him; he prayed the
king and queen to pardon him; he prayed God Almighty to pardon him, as he had pardoned Mary
Magdalen; or to look upon him as, from his own cross, He had looked upon the thief.[542]

                   [Footnote 542: Recantations of Thomas Cranmer:
                   Jenkins, vol. iv. p. 393.]

The most ingenious malice could invent no deeper degradation, and the archbishop might now
die. One favour was granted to him alone of all the sufferers for religion--that he might speak
at his death; speak, and, like Northumberland, perish with a recantation on his lips.

The hatred against him was confined to the court. Even among those who had the deepest distaste
for his opinions, his character had won affection and respect; and when it was known that he
was to be executed, there was a widespread and profound emotion. "Although," says a Catholic
who witnessed his death, "his former life and wretched end deserved a greater misery, if any
greater might have chanced to him; yet, setting aside his offence to God and his country, beholding
the man without his faults, I think there was none that pitied not his case and bewailed not
his fortune, and feared not his own chance, to see so noble a prelate, so grave a councillor,
of so long-continued honours, after so many dignities, in his old years to be deprived of his
estate, adjudged to die, and in so painful a death to end his life."[543]

                   [Footnote 543: Death of Cranmer, related by a
                   Bystander: Harleian MSS., 442. Printed, with some
                   inaccuracies, by Strype.]

On Saturday, the 21st of March, Lord Williams was again ordered into Oxford to keep the peace,
with Lord Chandos, Sir Thomas Brydges, and other gentlemen of the county. If they allowed themselves
to countenance by their presence the scene which they were about to witness, it is to be remembered
that but a few years since, these same gentlemen had seen Catholic priests swinging from the
pinnacles of their churches. The memory of the evil days was still recent, and amidst the tumult
of conflicting passions, no one could trust his neighbour, and organised resistance was impracticable.

The March morning broke wild and stormy. The sermon intended to be preached at the stake was
adjourned, in consequence of the wet, to St. Mary's, where a high stage was erected, on which
Cranmer was to stand conspicuous. Peers, knights, {p.253} doctors, students, priests, men-at-arms,
and citizens, thronged the narrow aisles, and through the midst of them the archbishop was
led in by the mayor. As he mounted the platform many of the spectators were in tears. He knelt
and prayed silently, and Cole, the Provost of Eton, then took his place in the pulpit.

Although, by a strained interpretation of the law, it could be pretended that the time of grace
had expired with the trial; yet, to put a man to death at all after recantation was a proceeding
so violent and unusual, that some excuse or some explanation was felt to be necessary.

Cole therefore first declared why it was expedient that the late archbishop should suffer,
notwithstanding his reconciliation. One reason was "for that he had been a great causer of
all the alterations in the realm of England; and when the matter of the divorce between King
Henry VIII and Queen Catherine was commenced in the court of Rome, he, having nothing to do
with it, sate upon it as a judge, which was the entry to all the inconvenients which followed."
"Yet in that Mr. Cole excused him--that he thought he did it, not out of malice, but by the
persuasion and advice of certain learned men."

Another occasion was, "for that he had been the great setter-forth of all the heresy received
into the church in the latter times; had written in it, had disputed, had continued it even
to the last hour; and it had never been seen in the time of schism that any man continuing
so long had been pardoned, and that it was not to be remitted for example's sake."

"And other causes," Cole added, "moved the queen and council thereto, which were not meet and
convenient for every one to understand."[544]

                   [Footnote 544: Narrative of the Execution of Thomas
                   Cranmer: MS. Harleian, 422. Another account gives
                   among the causes which Cole mentioned, that "it
                   seemed meet, according to the law of equality,
                   that, as the death of the Duke of Northumberland of
                   late made even with Sir Thomas More, Chancellor,
                   that died for the Church, so there should be one
                   that should make even with Fisher, Bishop of
                   Rochester; and because that Ridley, Hooper, and
                   Ferrars were not able to make even with that man,
                   it seemed that Cranmer should be joined with them
                   to fill up their part of equality."--Foxe, vol.
                   viii. p. 85. Jenkins, vol. iv. p. 133.]

The explanations being finished, the preacher exhorted his audience to take example from the
spectacle before them, to fear God, and to learn that there was no power against the Lord.
There, in their presence, stood a man, once "of so high degree--sometime one of the chief prelates
of the church--an archbishop, the chief of the council, the second person of the realm: of
long time, it might be thought, in great assurance, a king on his side;" {p.254} and now, "notwithstanding
all his authority and defence, debased from a high estate unto a low degree--of a councillor
become a caitiff, and set in so wretched estate that the poorest wretch would not change conditions
with him."

Turning, in conclusion, to Cranmer himself, Cole then "comforted and encouraged him to take
his death well by many places in Scripture; bidding him nothing mistrust but that he should
incontinently receive that the thief did, to whom Christ said, To-day shalt thou be with me
in Paradise. Out of Paul he armed him against the terrors of fire, by the words, The Lord is
faithful, and will not suffer you to be tempted beyond that which you are able to bear; by
the example of the three Children, to whom God made the flame seem like a pleasant joy; by
the rejoicing of St. Andrew on his cross; by the patience of St. Lawrence on the fire." He
dwelt upon his conversion, which, he said, was the special work of God, because so many efforts
had been made by men to work upon him, and had been made in vain. God, in his own time, had
reclaimed him, and brought him home.

A dirge, the preacher said, should be sung for him in every church in Oxford; he charged all
the priests to say each a mass for the repose of his soul; and finally, he desired the congregation
present to kneel where they were, and pray for him.

The whole crowd fell on their knees, the archbishop with them; and "I think," says the eye-witness,[545]
"that there was never such a number so earnestly praying together; for they that hated him
before, now loved him for his conversion, and hopes of continuance: they that loved him before
could not suddenly hate him, having hope of his confession; so love and hope increased devotion
on every side."

                   [Footnote 545: MS. Harleian, 422.]

"I shall not need," says the same writer, "to describe his behaviour for the time of sermon,
his sorrowful countenance, his heavy cheer, his face bedewed with tears; sometimes lifting
his eyes to heaven in hope, sometimes casting them down to the earth for shame--to be brief,
an image of sorrow, the dolour of his heart bursting out of his eyes, retaining ever a quiet
and grave behaviour, which increased the pity in men's hearts."

His own turn to speak was now come. When the prayer was finished, the preacher said, "Lest
any man should doubt the sincerity of this man's repentance, you shall hear him speak before
you. I pray you, Master Cranmer," he added, turning to him, "that you will now perform that
you promised not long {p.255} ago; that you would openly express the true and undoubted profession
of your faith."

"I will do it," the archbishop answered.

"Good Christian people," he began, "my dear, beloved brethren and sisters in Christ, I beseech
you most heartily to pray for me to Almighty God, that he will forgive me all my sins and offences,
which be many and without number, and great above measure; one thing grieveth my conscience
more than all the rest, whereof, God willing, I shall speak more; but how many or how great
soever they be, I beseech you to pray God of his mercy to pardon and forgive them all." To
heaven I am ashamed to lift up mine eyes, and in earth I find no succour nor refuge. What shall
I do? Shall I despair? God forbid! Oh, good God, thou art merciful, and refusest none that
come to thee for succour. To thee, therefore, do I come; to thee do I humble myself, saying,
O Lord, my sins be great, yet have mercy on me for thy great mercy. The mystery was not wrought
that God became man, for few or little offences. Thou didst not give thy Son, O Father, for
small sins only, but for all and the greatest in the world, so that the sinner return to thee
with a penitent heart, as I do at this present. Wherefore have mercy upon me, O Lord, whose
property is always to have mercy; although my sins be great, yet is thy mercy greater; wherefore
have mercy upon me, O Lord, for thy great mercy. I crave nothing, O Lord, for mine own merits,
but for thy Name's sake, and, therefore, O Father of heaven, hallowed be thy Name."

Then rising, he went on with his address:--

"Every man desireth, good people, at the time of his death, to give some good exhortation that
others may remember after his death, and be the better thereby; for one word spoken of a man
at his last end[546] will be more remembered than the sermons {p.256} made of them that live
and remain. So I beseech God grant me grace, that I may speak something at my departing whereby
God may be glorified and you edified.

                   [Footnote 546: Shakspeare was perhaps thinking of
                   this speech of Cranmer when he wrote the
                   magnificent lines which he placed in the mouth of
                   the dying Gaunt:--

             "O, but they say, the tongues of dying men
             Enforce attention, like deep harmony:
             Where words are scarce, they are seldom spent in vain:
             For they breathe truth, that breathe their words in pain.
             He, that no more must say, is listened more
             Than they whom youth and ease have taught to gloze;
             More are men's ends marked, than their lives before:
             The setting sun, and music at the close,
             As the last taste of sweets, is sweetest last;
             Writ in remembrance more than things long past."

"But it is an heavy case to see that many folks be so doted upon the love of this false world,
and be so careful for it, that of the love of God or the world to come, they seem to care very
little or nothing; therefore this shall be my first exhortation--that you set not over-much
by this glozing world, but upon God and the world to come; and learn what this lesson meaneth
which St. John teacheth, that the love of the world is hatred against God.

"The second exhortation is, that next unto God, you obey your king and queen willingly, without
murmur or grudging, not for fear of them only, but much more for the fear of God, knowing that
they be God's ministers, appointed of God to rule and govern you, and therefore whosoever resisteth
them resisteth God's ordinance.

"The third exhortation is, that you live all together like brethren and sisters: but, alas!
pity it is to see what contention and hatred one man hath against another, not taking each
other for brethren and sisters, but rather as strangers and mortal enemies. But I pray you
learn and bear well away the lesson, to do good to all men as much as in you lieth, and hurt
no man no more than you would hurt your own natural brother or sister. For this you may be
sure, that whosoever hateth his brother or sister, and goeth about maliciously to hinder or
hurt him, surely, and without all doubt, God is not with that man, although he think himself
never so much in God's favour.

"The fourth exhortation shall be to them that have great substance and riches of this world,
that they may well consider and weigh these three sayings of the Scriptures. One is of our
Saviour Christ himself, who saith that it is a hard thing for a rich man to come to heaven;
a sore saying, and spoken of Him that knoweth the truth. The second is of St. John, whose saying
is this: He that hath the substance of this world, and seeth his brother in necessity, and
shutteth up his compassion and mercy from him, how can he say he loveth God? The third {p.257}
is of St. James, who speaketh to the covetous and rich men after this manner: Weep and howl
for the misery which shall come upon you; your riches doth rot, your clothes be moth-eaten,
your gold and silver is cankered and rusty, and the rust thereof shall bear witness against
you, and consume you like fire; you gather and hoard up treasure of God's indignation against
the last day.

The people listened breathless, "intending upon the conclusion." As for the pope, I utterly
refuse him, as Christ's enemy and Anti-Christ, with all his false doctrine; and as for the
sacrament, I believe as I have taught in my book against the Bishop of Winchester."

                   [Footnote 547: There are two original contemporary
                   accounts of Cranmer's words--Harleian MSS., 417
                   and 422--and they agree so far almost word for word
                   with "The Prayer and Saying of Thomas Cranmer a
                   little before his Death," which was published
                   immediately after by Bonner. But we now encounter
                   the singular difficulty, that the conclusion given
                   by Bonner is altogether different. The archbishop
                   is made to repeat his recantation, and express
                   especial grief for the books which he had written
                   upon the Sacrament.

                   There is no uncertainty as to what Cranmer really
                   said; but, inasmuch is Bonner at the head of his
                   version of the speech has described it as "written
                   with his own hand," it has been inferred that he
                   was required to make a copy of what he intended to
                   say--that he actually wrote what Bonner printed,
                   hoping to the end that his life would be spared;
                   and that he would have repeated it publicly, had he
                   seen that there was a chance of his escape.
                   Finding, however, that his execution had been
                   irrevocably determined on, he made the substitution
                   at the last moment.

                   There are many difficulties in this view, chiefly
                   from the character of the speech itself, which has
                   the stamp upon it of too evident sincerity to have
                   been composed with any underhand intentions. The
                   tone is in harmony throughout, and the beginning
                   leads naturally to the conclusion which Cranmer
                   really spoke.

                   There is another explanation, which is to me more
                   credible. The Catholics were furious at their
                   expected triumph being snatched from them. Whether
                   Cranmer did or did not write what Bonner says he
                   wrote, Bonner knew that he had not spoken it,
                   and yet was dishonest enough to print it as having
                   been spoken by him, evidently hoping that the truth
                   could be suppressed, and that the Catholic cause
                   might escape the injury which the archbishop's
                   recovered constancy must inflict upon it. A man who
                   was capable of so considerable a falsehood would
                   not have hesitated for the same good purpose to
                   alter a few sentences. Pious frauds have been
                   committed by more religious men than Edmund Bonner.
                   See the Recantation of Thomas Cranmer, reprinted
                   from Bonner's original pamphlet: Jenkins, vol. iv.
                   p. 393.]

So far the archbishop was allowed to continue, before his astonished hearers could collect
themselves. "Play the Christian man," Lord Williams at length was able to call; "remember yourself;
do not dissemble." "Alas! my lord," the archbishop answered, "I have been a man that all my
life loved plainness, and never dissembled till now, which I am most sorry for." He would have
gone on; but cries now rose on all sides, "Pull him down," "Stop his mouth," "Away with him,"
and he was borne off by the throng out of the church. The stake was a quarter of a mile distant,
at the spot already consecrated by the deaths of Ridley and Latimer. Priest and monks "who
did rue[548] to see him go so wickedly to his death, ran after him, exhorting him, while time
was, to remember himself." But Cranmer, having flung down the burden of his shame, had recovered
his strength, and such words had no longer power to trouble him. He approached the stake with
"a cheerful countenance," undressed in haste, and stood upright in his shirt. Soto and another
Spanish friar continued expostulating; but finding they could effect nothing, one said in Latin
to the other, "Let us go from him, for the devil is within him." An Oxford {p.259} theologian--his
name was Ely--being more clamorous, drew from him only the answer that, as touching his recantation,
"he repented him right sore, because he knew that it was against the truth."

                   [Footnote 548: Harleian MS., 422. Strype has
                   misread the word into "run," losing the point of
                   the expression.]

"Make short, make short!" Lord Williams cried, hastily.

The archbishop shook hands with his friends; Ely only drew back, calling, "Recant, recant,"
and bidding others not approach him.

"This was the hand that wrote it," Cranmer said, extending his right arm; "this was the hand
that wrote it, therefore it shall suffer first punishment." Before his body was touched, he
held the offending member steadily in the flame, "and never stirred nor cried." The wood was
dry and mercifully laid; the fire was rapid at its work, and he was soon dead. "His friends,"
said a Catholic bystander, "sorrowed for love, his enemies for pity, strangers for a common
kind of humanity, whereby we are bound to one another."

So perished Cranmer.

{p.260} CHAPTER V.

CALAIS.

Not far from Abingdon, on the London road, was a house belonging to a gentleman named Christopher
Ashton. Here, on their way to and fro between the western counties and the capital, members
of parliament, or other busy persons, whom the heat of the times tempted from their homes,
occasionally called; and the character of the conversation which was to be heard in that house,
may be gathered from the following depositions. On the 4th of January, Sir Nicholas Arnold
looked in, and found Sir Henry Dudley there.

"Well, Sir Nicholas, what news?" said Ashton.

"None worth hearing," Arnold answered.

"I am sure you hear they go about a coronation," Dudley said.

"I hear no such matter," said Arnold. "The news that are worth the hearing, are in such men's
heads that will not utter them, and the rest are not to be credited."[549]

                   [Footnote 549: Saying of Sir Nicholas Arnold: MS.
                   Mary, Domestic, vol. vii.]

"There be news come out of Flanders, as I heard from Sir Peter Mewtas," said Ashton, laughing,
to another visitor:[550] "The king has written to the queen that he will not come hither a
great while, or, as men think, any more; and the queen was in a rage, and caused the king's
picture to be carried out of the privy chamber, and she in a wonderful storm, and could not
be in any wise quieted."[551]

                   [Footnote 550: The conversations with Ashton were
                   sometimes at his own house; sometimes at an inn by
                   the waterside, near Lambeth; sometimes at other
                   places. The localities are not always easy to make
                   out.]

                   [Footnote 551: Deposition of Thomas White: MS.
                   Mary, Domestic, vol. vii.]

"They have put me in the Tower for their pleasures," said Sir Anthony Kingston; "but so shall
they never do more."[552]

                   [Footnote 552: Wotton to the Queen, cypher: French
                   MSS., bundle 13. State Paper Office. Kingston was
                   one of the members of the House of Commons who was
                   imprisoned at the close of the late session, for
                   the freedom of his language in parliament. He was
                   "Vice-Admiral of the Ports about the Severn," and a
                   man of large influence in the Welsh Marches.]

At another time Sir Henry Peckham was alone with Ashton. {p.261} Peckham[553] had been one
of the sharers in the forfeited estates of the Duke of Norfolk. He was obliged to relinquish
his grant, with but small compensation, and he complained of his treatment. Ashton bade him
"be of good cheer."

                   [Footnote 553: Younger son of Sir Edward Peckham,
                   Cofferer of the Household, and Member of Council
                   under Edward VI.]

"If you will keep my counsel," Ashton said, "I will tell you news that will bring your land
again or it be long."

Peckham promised to be secret.

"Sir Anthony Kingston," Ashton continued, "and a great many of the western gentlemen, are in
a confederacy to send the queen's highness over to the king, and make the Lady Elizabeth queen,
and to marry the Earl of Devonshire to the said Lady Elizabeth. The laws of the realm will
bear it, that they may do it justly; and Sir Anthony Kingston hath required me to hearken to
King Henry VIII.'s will; for there is sufficient matter for our purpose, as Sir Anthony doth
tell me. I pray, if you can, help me to it."

Peckham said it was to be had in the Rolls. Ashton did not like to put himself in the way of
suspicion by asking to see it publicly, and begged Peckham to obtain a copy for him elsewhere.

"I will show you a token," he then said, and took out half a broken penny; "the other half
is with Sir Anthony, and whensoever I do send this same to Sir Anthony, then will he be in
readiness with ten thousand men within three days upon receipt of this token." If Lord Pembroke's
men made resistance on the Marches, Kingston would cut them off, and would be in London in
twenty days at furthest. And "when this is done," Ashton continued, "your father shall be made
a duke; for I tell you true, that the Lady Elizabeth is a jolly liberal dame, and nothing so
unthankful as her sister is; and she taketh this liberality of her mother, who was one of the
bountifullest women in all her time or since; and then shall men of good service and gentlemen
be esteemed."

Peckham, who had not anticipated so dangerous a confidence, looked grave and uneasy; Ashton
said he hoped he would not betray him. "No," Peckham answered, and gave him his hand with his
promise.

"I will tell you more, then," his friend went on; "we shall have that will take our part, the
Earl of Westmoreland, who will not come alone, and we shall have my Lord Williams."[554]

                   [Footnote 554: Lord Williams of Thame, who
                   superintended the executions of Ridley, Latimer,
                   and Cranmer.]

{p.262} "That cannot be," Peckham said; "he hath served the queen right well, and by her highness
was made lord."

"I can better tell than you," Ashton answered; "the Lord Williams is a good fellow, and is
as unthankfully dealt with as you, Sir Henry. I tell you that he is sure on our side; and Sir
Henry Dudley hath spoken with all the gentlemen that be soldiers, that be about the town, and
they be all sure ours, so that we have left the queen never a man of war that is worth a button."[555]

                   [Footnote 555: Confession of Sir Henry Peckham:
                   Mary, Domestic, MS. vol. viii.]

The scene changes. Readers of the earlier volumes of this history will remember Arundel's,
in Lawrence Poultney Lane, where Lord Surrey and his friends held their nightly festivities.
Times had changed, and so had Arundel's. It was now the resort of the young liberal members
of parliament, where the opposition tactics in the House of Commons were discussed and settled
upon. Here during the late session had met the men whose names have been mentioned in the preceding
conversation, and who had crossed the queen's purposes; Kingston, Peckham, Ashton, Dudley,
and with them Sir John Perrot, Sir William Courtenay, Sir Hugh Pollard, Sir John Chichester,
and two young Tremaynes of Colacombe in Devonshire, one of whom had been concerned with Wyatt
and Carew. Here also came John Daniel, in the service at one time of Lord Northampton, who,
not being in parliament, was excluded from the more private consultations, but heard much of
the general talk; "how they, with great wilfulness, as might be perceived by their behaviour,
did sore mislike such Catholic proceedings as they saw the queen went about, and did intend
to resist such matters as should be spoken of in the Parliament House other than liked them."[556]

                   [Footnote 556: Confession of John Daniel: MS.
                   Mary, Domestic, vol. viii.]

The party broke up with the dissolution. Some of them, however, came back to London, and Daniel,
one afternoon in March, was waiting for his dinner in the public room, when a ruffling cavalier
named Ned Horsey came in, humming a catch of "Good man priest, now beware your pallet," "and
bringing out a rhyme thereto of 'Fire and faggot,' and 'helm and sallet.'"

"I desire to live no longer than Whitsuntide next," Horsey said to Daniel; "for if I live so
long, I mistrust not but my deeds shall be chronicled."

"Tush, my boy," he went on, "be of good cheer; for when thou shalt hear what the matter is,
thou wilt take up thy hand {p.263} and bless thee, and marvel that such young heads could ever
bring such a matter as this to pass. I tell thee, the matter hath been a-brewing this quarter
of a year at least, when thou wast in the country like a lout. Well, well, man, we shall either
be men shortly, or no men; yea, and that very shortly, too."

"Tell me what you mean," said Daniel.

"Alas! good lout," quoth Horsey, "and do you not know, I pray you? hath not Harry Dudley told
you of it?"

"No, by the faith of a Christian man," said Daniel, "Harry Dudley told me nothing except that
he was going into France. But I pray thee, good Ned Horsey, tell me."

"By God's blood!" said Horsey, "then I will not tell you; for we have all taken an oath on
the Testament, that no man should break it to any man, except as told first by Harry Dudley."

Horsey went on to talk of preparations, in which Daniel had been concerned, for an expedition
to Southampton. Daniel, being a man of property, had undertaken to provide the horses, and
had deposited a sum of money for the purpose; but, from Horsey's words, he perceived that schemes
were on foot, which, having something to lose, he had better keep clear of. "His heart," he
said, "rys in his body as big as a loaf;" he left the table, went down into the garden, and
walked up and down an alley to collect himself; at last he ran into an arbour, where he knelt
and said his prayers.

"What, man!" said Sir John Harrington, looking in, "you are well occupied on your knees so
soon after dinner."

Daniel made up his mind that his friends were bringing him into a fool's paradise; "as they
did brew, so they should bake for him," he thought, "and those heads that had studied it before
he came to town should work the end of it." He stole away, therefore, and crossed the river
to Southwark, where he took into his confidence a surgeon named Blacklock. Daniel pretended
a broken leg, which Blacklock pretended to set: and thus the expedition to Southampton went
off without him; the object of it being the despatch of one of the party into France, and the
arrangement of the details of the conspiracy with the Captain of the Isle of Wight.

The characters of the persons who were concerned in this new plot against Mary's throne will
not require much further elucidation. Sir Henry Dudley was Northumberland's cousin--the same
who had been employed by the duke as an agent with the French court; the rest were eager, headstrong,
not very {p.264} wise young men, who, in the general indignation of the country at the barbarity
of the government, saw an opportunity of pushing themselves into distinction. Lord Willoughby,
Lord Westmoreland, and Lord Oxford were suspected by the queen of being unsound in religion;
they had been reprimanded, and Oxford was thought likely to lose his lands.[557] If the first
move could be made successfully, the conspirators counted on general support from these noblemen,
and indeed from the whole body of the lay peers.

                   [Footnote 557: Noailles to the King of France,
                   March 12: Ambassades, vol. v.]

The plan was identical with that of Wyatt and Suffolk and Carew. Kingston was to march on London
from Wales, and the force of the western counties was to join him on the Severn. One of the
Throgmortons, called "Long John," had been at the French court, and made arrangements with
Henry. Throgmorton returned to England, and Henry Dudley crossed the Channel in his place.
The French promised to supply ships and money, while Dudley undertook to furnish them with
crews from among the refugees or the western privateers, as Carew had done two years before.
The Captain of the Isle of Wight, Uvedale, undertook to betray the island and Hurst Castle
to the French. Dudley was to attack Portsmouth, where he would find the cannon "pegged;"[558]
and when Portsmouth was taken, Hampshire, Sussex, and Kent were expected to rise.

                   [Footnote 558: Uvedale's Confession: Mary,
                   Domestic, MS., vol. vii.; Peckham's Confession,
                   vol. viii.]

Although known to so many persons, the secret was well kept. On Dudley's disappearance, inquiries
were made about him. It was pretended that he was in debt, and had gone abroad to escape from
his creditors. Some suspicion attached to the Tremaynes, who had long been connected with the
privateers at Scilly. Strangways, the pirate, happened to be taken prisoner, and told something
to the council about them which led to their arrest; but though the matter was "true enough,"
they bore down their accuser by mere courageous audacity of denial; and their resolution and
fidelity were held up as an example in the secret meetings of the conspirators.[559]

                   [Footnote 559: John Throgmorton said to Bedyll,
                   Derick, and me, on this wise: "Whatsoever becomes
                   of any of us in this dangerous enterprise, we will
                   here promise, that albeit, I, you, and your nannye,
                   every of us, by name, should accuse any of us of
                   this, or any part touching this enterprise, bye and
                   bye to revile him with most taunting and naughty
                   rebukes that may be devised. And thereby setting a
                   stern countenance, and for our couraging and better
                   comfort herein, he shewed us of a matter that was
                   most true, and accused by Strangways against two
                   brethren, meaning [the] Tremaynes, who being but
                   little men in personage, so reviled Strangways,
                   accusing them before your honours, that because
                   Strangways had no further proof but his only
                   saying, and they so stoutly denying it, even to the
                   threatening of the rack (or whether they were
                   anything thereto constrained or no, as he said, I
                   do not perfectly remember); but at length
                   Strangways was in effect ready to weep, and think
                   he had accused them wrongfully, and so they
                   dismissed, and Strangways much of your honours
                   rebuked."--Thomas White to the Council: MS. Mary,
                   Domestic, vol. vii.]

{p.265} The active co-operation of France was an essential element in the chances of success.
From France, however, it became suddenly uncertain whether assistance was to be looked for.
The English mediation in the European war had failed, because, after Mary's disappointment,
France refused to part with Savoy; and the emperor could not bring himself to make a peace
where the sacrifices would be wholly on his own side. But the negotiations between the principals
were never wholly let fall; the emperor had now resigned. Philip, with an embarrassed treasury,
with his eye on the English crown, and with trouble threatening him from the Turks, was anxious
to escape from the exhausting conflict; and at the beginning of February a truce for five years
was concluded at Vaucelles, by which Henry was left in undisturbed possession of all his conquests.

Terms so advantageous to the court of France could not be rejected; but past experience forbade,
nevertheless, any very sanguine hope that the truce would last out its term. Unquestionably,
in the opinion of the French king, it would be broken without scruple could Philip obtain the
active help of England; and Henry would not, therefore, relinquish his correspondence with
the conspirators. He instructed Noailles only to keep them quiet for the present till Philip's
intentions should be revealed more clearly.[560]

                   [Footnote 560: The Constable to Noailles, Feb. 7:
                   Ambassades, vol. v.]

The "young heads," of whom Horsey had spoken to Daniel, were not, however, men whom it was
easy to keep quiet. Noailles replied, that they were so anxious to make an effort for liberty,
and felt so certain of success, that he found great difficulty in restraining them; if the
King of France would give them some slight assistance at the outset,[561] they undertook to
do the rest themselves.

                   [Footnote 561: De leur prêtur un peu d'espaule.]

Dudley, therefore, remained in France, whither he was followed by Ashton and Horsey, and Henry
admitted them to a midnight audience. He said that, for the moment, he could not act with them
openly; but he would throw no difficulty in their way; if they were as strong as they professed
to be (and they said that members of the privy council were {p.266} in the confederacy), he
would have them go forward with their project; and if he found Philip occupied, as he expected
that he would be with the Turks in Hungary, he would assist them with men, money, and other
things. Meanwhile, he gave Dudley 1500 crowns, distributed considerable sums among his companions,
and advised them to go, as Carew had done before, to the coast of Normandy, and keep up their
communications with their friends.

The interview and the promises of Henry were betrayed to Wotton, and by him reported in cypher
to Mary;[562] but the fear or treachery of one of the party had already placed the government
in possession of information, as the first step was about to be taken. Fifty thousand pounds
were in the treasury: to embarrass the court, and to provide the insurrection with funds, a
party of four or five--Rosey, keeper of the Star Chamber, Heneage, an officer of the Chapel
Royal, a man named Derick, and one or two others--were chosen to carry off the money. Before
the enterprise could be undertaken, Thomas White--perhaps one of the five, in alarm at the
danger--communicated with the council; and on the 18th of March, Throgmorton, Peckham, Daniel,
Rosey, and twelve or fourteen others, were seized suddenly, and sent to the Tower. Dudley was
traced to Southampton; he was himself beyond pursuit, but Uvedale was discovered, and brought
to London; Kingston was sent for, but died on his way up from Wales, probably by his own hand,
in despair.

                   [Footnote 562: Wotton to the Queen: French MSS.,
                   bundle 13.]

Information was, of course, the great object of the court; and they would shrink from nothing
which would enable them to extort confessions. The prisoners knew what was before them, and
prepared themselves according to their courage.

Throgmorton, when locked into the room which was allotted to him in the Tower, found that Derick
was in the chamber underneath. He loosened a board in the floor, and "required him that, in
any case, he should not be the destruction of others besides himself;" "for look," Throgmorton
said, "how many thou dost accuse, so many thou dost wilfully murder."

Derick, it seems, was already thinking whether he could not, perhaps, save his own life. None
of the party as yet knew how much of their secret had been discovered, or the value, therefore,
which the government would place upon a full confession.

"He would do nothing," Derick answered, "but that which {p.267} God had appointed; and if God
would that he should do it, there was no remedy."

When a man has made up his mind that it is God's will that he should be a rogue, he has small
chance of recovering himself. Throgmorton tried to reason him into manliness, and thought he
had succeeded. Derick even promised to "abide the torture," "whereupon Master Throgmorton did
sup his porridge to him, in token of his truth." The investigation was committed exclusively
to the queen's clique, Rochester, Englefield, Waldegrave, Jerningham, and Hastings. The rest
of the council refused to meddle,[564] for reasons which, perhaps, the queen hoped to learn
from one or other of the prisoners. Throgmorton, however, who could tell the most, would tell
nothing, though the rack was used freely to open his lips. How much he suffered may be gathered
from a few words which he used to a Mr. Walpole, who was one of his examiners.

                   [Footnote 564: Robert Swift to Lord Shrewsbury:
                   Lodge's Illustrations, vol. i.]

"Tell me, I pray you, Mr. Walpole," he said, "if the council may rack me, or put me to torment,
after the time I am condemned, or no?"

"They may," Walpole answered, "if it shall please them."

"Then," said Throgmorton, "I fear I shall be put to it again; and, I will assure you, it is
terrible pain."[565]

                   [Footnote 565: Walpole's Deposition: MS. Lodge's
                   Illustrations, vol. viii.]

When torture would not answer, promises were tried, and promises apparently of an emphatic kind.

"I pray you, pray for me," Throgmorton said to his brother prisoners; "for I shall not be long
with you. I cannot live without I should be the death of a number of gentlemen; and therewithal
the said Throgmorton recited a story of the Romans, commending much an old man that was taken
prisoner by the enemy, whom the Romans would have redeemed with a great number of young men,
which would have been much more worth to the Romans; but this old man would in no case agree
{p.268} thereto, but received his death at the enemies' hand very patiently, considering his
old years, and also what profit these young men should be to the Romans."[566]

                   [Footnote 566: Peckham's Confession: MS. Lodge's
                   Illustrations, vol. viii.]

The inquiry lasted till June, and much was learnt from those who had not Throgmorton's courage.
Matters came out implicating Lord Bray and Lord Delaware. Lord Bray was arrested and examined;
Lord Delaware was tried and found guilty. But they were powerful, and had powerful friends.[567]
The court were forced to content themselves with smaller game. Successive batches of the conspirators
were despatched, as their confessions were exhausted or despaired of. Throgmorton, silent to
the last, was sentenced on the 21st of April, and suffered on the 28th. On the 19th of May,
Captain Stanton was hanged; on the 2nd of June, Derick followed--his cowardice had not saved
him--with Rosey and Bedyll. On the 7th of July, Sir Henry Peckham was disposed of, and with
him John Daniel, who was guilty, if not of worse, yet of having concealed machinations dangerous
to the state.[568]

                   [Footnote 567: Swift to Lord Shrewsbury: Ibid.,
                   vol. i.; Machyn's Diary.]

                   [Footnote 568: Daniel was supposed, like
                   Throgmorton, to know more than he had told; and to
                   quicken his confession he was confined in a
                   dungeon, of which he has left his own description
                   in an appeal to the mercy of the commissioners. "I
                   beseech your honours be good to me," he wrote, "for
                   I am a sick man, laid here in a dungeon where I am
                   fain to do ---- and ---- in the place that I do lie
                   in, and if I do lie here all this night, I think I
                   shall not be alive to-morrow. Mr. Binifield
                   [perhaps an examiner] as he cometh to me is ready
                   to cast his gorge, so he saith; and I have no light
                   all day so much as to see my hands perfectly. Pity
                   me, for God's sake--Your honours' footstool, John
                   Daniel. Good Master of the House, good Mr.
                   Controller, good Mr. Vice-Chamberlain, good Mr.
                   Englefield, good Mr. Waldegrave!"

                   Again in another letter, he writes:--

                   "For God's sake, be my honourable masters, and rid
                   me out of this dungeon, for I do lie here a man
                   sore pained with the stone, and among the newts and
                   spiders. For the love of God, I ask it; for I do
                   all things in the place that I do lie in. My good
                   and honourable masters, for God's sake, be good to
                   me, and consider that I did never give my consent
                   to do no evil. Good Mr. Englefield, consider my
                   meaning, and be good master to me, and consider the
                   place I lie in, and the pain of the
                   stone."--Daniel's Confessions: MS. Mary,
                   Domestic, vol. viii.

                   The effect, however, apparently was what the
                   examiners desired. A note of the council remains to
                   the effect that--

                   "Daniel being yesterday removed, to a worse
                   lodging, beginneth this day to be more open and
                   plain than he hath been, whereby we perceive he
                   knoweth all, and we trust and think verily he will
                   utter the same."--Privy Council Minutes, Ibid.]

But the danger did not pass off with the execution of a few youths. An inveterate conviction
had taken hold of men of all ranks, that Philip was coming over with an army to destroy {p.269}
English liberty. Paget went to Flanders to entreat him to come back unattended, to dispel the
alarm by his presence, and to comfort the queen; but Paget returned with a letter instead of
Philip, and the poor queen looked ten years older on the receipt of it. She durst not stir
abroad to face the execration with which the people now received her. She passed her time in
frenzied extremities of passion, "because she could neither enjoy the presence of her husband,
nor the affection of her subjects; and dreading every moment that her life might be attempted
by her own attendants."[569] A fleet was fitted out in the Channel. A bishop in the queen's
confidence was asked the reason by another bishop. "To overawe rebels," was the answer, "and
to carry off Elizabeth into Flanders or Spain."[570] The government was conducted entirely
by the legate and the small knot of Catholic fanatics who had adhered to the queen's fortunes
in the late reign. Lord William Howard told Noailles that he and the other lords lived in perpetual
dread and suspicion; if his honour would allow him, he would throw up his office, and retire,
with those who had gone before him, as a poor gentleman, to France.

                   [Footnote 569: Estant en continuel fureur de ne
                   pouvoir jouir de la présence de son mary ny de
                   l'amour de son peuple, et dans une fort grande peur
                   d'estre offensée de sa propre vie par aulcungs des
                   siens.--Noailles to the King of France, May 7:
                   Ambassades, vol. v.]

                   [Footnote 570: Same to Montmorency, April 21:
                   Ibid.]

The general suffering was aggravated by a likelihood of famine. The harvest of 1555 had failed,
and bread, with all other articles of food, was daily rising. The conspiracy exasperated the
persecution, which was degenerating into wholesale atrocity. On the 23rd of April, six men
were burnt at Smithfield; on the 28th, six more were burnt at Colchester; on the 15th of May,
an old lame man and a blind man were burnt at Stratford-le-Bow. In the same month three women
suffered at Smithfield, and a blind boy was burnt at Gloucester. In Guernsey, a mother and
her two daughters were brought to the stake. One of the latter, a married woman with child,
was delivered in the midst of her torments, and the infant just rescued was tossed back into
the flames.[571] Reason, humanity, even common prudence, were cast to the winds. On the 27th
of June, thirteen unfortunates, eleven men and two women, were destroyed together at Stratford-le-Bow,
in the presence {p.270} of twenty thousand people.[572] A schoolmaster, in Norfolk, in July
read an inflammatory proclamation in a church. He and three others were instantly hanged. Ferocity
in the government and lawlessness in the people went hand in hand. Along the river bank stood
rows of gibbets, with bodies of pirates swinging from them in the wind. In the autumn, sixty
men were sentenced to be hanged together, for what crime is unknown, at Oxford;[573] and as
a symbol at head-quarters of the system of the administration, four corpses of thieves hung
as a spectacle of terror before the very gates of St. James's Palace.[574]

                   [Footnote 571: Foxe. This hideous story was
                   challenged by Harding, the controversialist, in the
                   next reign. He was unfortunate in calling attention
                   to it, for the case was inquired into, and the
                   account was found too certainly true.]

                   [Footnote 572: Machyn's Diary.]

                   [Footnote 573: Machyn.]

                   [Footnote 574: Ibid.]

On the 20th of August, twenty-three men and women were brought to London from Colchester, tied
in a string with ropes to furnish another holocaust. A thousand people cheered them through
the streets as they entered the city; and the symptoms of disorder were so significant and
threatening, that Bonner wrote to Pole for instructions how he should proceed. The government
was alarmed; "the council, not without good consideration," decided that it would be dangerous
to go on with the executions; and Pole, checking Bonner's zeal, allowed the prisoners to escape
for the time, under an easy form of submission which they could conscientiously make. They
were dismissed to their homes, only, however, for several of them to be slaughtered afterwards,
under fresh pretexts, in detail;[575] and Pole took an occasion, as will be presently seen,
of reprimanding the citizens of London for their unnatural sympathy with God's enemies. That
he had no objection to these large massacres, when they could be ventured safely, he showed
himself in the following year, when fourteen heretics, of both sexes, were burnt in two days
at Canterbury and Maidstone.[576]

                   [Footnote 575: See their stories: Foxe, vol. viii.]

                   [Footnote 576: Foxe, vol. viii.]

Why, it may well be asked, did not the lords and gentlemen of England rise and trample down
the perpetrators of these devilish enormities? It is a grave question, to which, nevertheless,
some tolerable answer is possible.

On the 21st of January, 1557, the English ambassador in Paris wrote in cypher to Sir William
Petre, of "a matter" which he desired should not be communicated to the queen, "lest it should
disquiet her." A refugee had informed him, "that there was a great conspiracy in hand against
the queen, which without doubt would deprive her of her estate." He had asked for names, but
these his informant would not give, saying merely, "the best of England were in it," and "such
a {p.271} number agreed thereupon, that it was impossible but that it would take effect." There
was no chance of discovery; "the matter had been in hand for a year or thereabouts," yet no
one "had uttered a word of it;" should it become known, the conspirators were so strong that
the catastrophe would only be precipitated. They would have moved already, "but for one man
who had stayed them for a while."

Entreaties for more explicitness were fruitless. "By no means," wrote Wotton, "would he name
any man unto me; but only said that the chiefest of them were such as had never offended the
queen's highness before; that the matter should begin in the evening, and the next day by eight
in the morning it should be done."

The queen was not to be killed; at least, not immediately. "They will not kill her," the man
said, "but deprive her of her estate, and then might she chance to be used as she used Queen
Jane;" and he added, "that they who went about the matter would not agree that any foreign
prince should have any meddling in it; neither Dudley nor any of the English gentlemen in France
were privy to the matter."[577]

                   [Footnote 577: Wotton to Petre, cypher: French
                   MSS., Mary, bundle 13. State Paper Office.]

That any such combination as this letter described ever really menaced Mary's throne cannot
be affirmed with certainty. The last two sentences, however, point to the difficulty which
had embarrassed all attempts which had been hitherto ventured. The vice of the previous conspiracies
had been the intrigues with France. The better order of English statesmen refused to connect
themselves with movements which would give the court of Paris a dangerous influence in England,
and would entitle the French king to press the claims of the Queen of Scots upon the English
crown. If there was truth in the refugee's story, if there really was a conspiracy of "the
best of England," clear of all such mischievous elements, it must have consisted of the body
of the nobility, whom Lord William Howard described to Noailles as equally dissatisfied with
himself. The heresy acts had been restored by the help of the bishops against the sustained
opposition of the majority of the lay peers. For the hundred and fifty years during which those
acts had been upon the Statute Book, they had expressed the general feeling of the country,
yet during all that time, fewer persons had suffered under them than had been sacrificed during
the last twelve months. Having failed to destroy her sister, having been unable to alter {p.272}
the succession, the queen was desperate; the Spaniards were watching their opportunity to interfere
by force, and would want no encouragement which she could give them; and every honest English
statesman must have watched her with the most jealous distrust. Yet, on the other hand, she
was childless; her life must necessarily soon close by the course of nature, and with her life
the tyranny would end. If force was attempted, she would not fall without a struggle; the clergy
would stand by her, and all whom the clergy could influence. Philip would have the pretext,
for which he was longing, for sending Spanish troops; and though liberty might and would prevail
in the end, thousands of lives might be sacrificed, and Elizabeth's succession would be stained.
The appeal to strength was, and is, the last to which good men will allow themselves to be
driven. The lords understood one another: they would not be the first to commence; but if an
attempt were made to carry off Elizabeth, or to throw on land a single Spanish battalion, they
would know how to act.

Meantime, Dudley, Ashton, Horsey, the brothers Tremayne, and "divers others," were safe in
France, and were hospitably entertained there. In England they were proclaimed traitors. At
Paris they were received openly at court. The queen wrote to Wotton with her own hand, commanding
him to demand their surrender.[578] She sent for Noailles, and required that "those wretches,
those heretics, those traitorous execrable villains," who had conspired against her throne
should be placed in her hands.[579] Henry, with unembarrassed coolness, promised Wotton that
they should be apprehended, while he furnished them with ships, which they openly fitted for
sea at the mouth of the Seine; and one of their number, Henry Killegrew, went to Italy to look
for Courtenay, who was in honourable exile there, to entreat him to put himself at their head.
Courtenay promised to come, so Killegrew reported on his return;[580] his name would have given
them strength, his presence weakness; but if he really thought again of mixing himself in conspiracies
his intentions were frustrated. The last direct heir of the noblest family in England died
at the end of the summer, of an ague caught among the lagoons at Venice.[581]

                   [Footnote 578: The Queen to Wotton: MS. France,
                   bundle 13.]

                   [Footnote 579: Gens abominables, hérétiques et
                   traistres villains et exécrables.--Noailles to the
                   King, May 7: Ambassades, vol. v.]

                   [Footnote 580: Wotton to Petre, cypher: French
                   MSS. State Paper Office, bundle 13.]

                   [Footnote 581: His death was of course attributed
                   by the world to poison. Courtenay's birth, and the
                   fortune which was so nearly thrust upon him, give
                   his fate a kind of interest, and an authentic
                   account of it may not be unwelcome.

                   On the 18th of September, Peter Vannes, the English
                   resident at Venice, wrote to the queen from
                   Padua:--

                   "It hath pleased Almighty God, as the Author of all
                   goodness, and as One that doth nothing in vain, to
                   call the Earl of Devonshire to his mercy, even
                   about the hour, or little more or less, that I am
                   writing of this present; and being very sorry to
                   trouble your Highness with this kind of news, yet
                   forasmuch as the providence of God must be
                   fulfilled in all things, I shall somewhat touch his
                   sickness till the hour of death. True it is that
                   he, as I have perceived, for the avoiding all
                   suspicion from himself, hath chosen a life more
                   solitary than needed, saving the company of certain
                   gentlemen, Venetians, among whom he was much made
                   of. It chanced him upon three weeks agone, for his
                   honest recreation, to go to a place called Lio, a
                   piece of an island five miles from Venice, for to
                   see his hawks fly upon a wasted ground, without any
                   houses; and there he was suddenly taken with a
                   great tempest of wind and rain, insomuch that his
                   boat, called [a] gondola, could not well return to
                   Venice: and he was fain, for his succour, to take a
                   certain searcher's boat that by chance there
                   arrived, and so to Venice he came, being body and
                   legs very thinly clothed, refusing to change them
                   with any warmer garment. And upon that time, or
                   within few days after, as he told me, had a fall
                   upon the stairs of his house, and after seeming to
                   himself to be well, and finding no pain, took his
                   journey hither unto Padua; and for the avoiding of
                   the weariness of the water, and the labouring of
                   horses, chose the worse way coming; and so by
                   certain waggons called coaches, very shaking and
                   uneasy to my judgment, came to Padua upon Saturday
                   at night. Of whose coming being advertised, I went
                   to visit him on the morrow after, and found him
                   very weak; and since that time he began to appear
                   every day worse and worse, avoiding friends'
                   visitations; and drew himself to the counsel of two
                   of the best physicians of this town, and entered
                   into a continued hot ague, sometimes more vehement
                   than at another; and as I have seen and heard, he
                   hath been always diligently attended. I have
                   charged his servants in your name, and as they will
                   avoid your displeasure, that a true inventory shall
                   be made of such small movables as he had here, and
                   that especially all kind of writings and letters
                   that he had either here or at Venice, shall be put
                   in assurance, abiding for your commandment. I am
                   now about to see the order of his burial, with as
                   much sparing and as much honour as can be done; for
                   the merchantmen on whom, by your Grace's
                   commandment, he had a credit of 3 or 4 thousand
                   crowns, are not as yet willing to disburse any
                   money without a sufficient discharge of my Lord of
                   Devonshire's hand, the doing whereof is past. I
                   shall shift to see him buried as well as I can;
                   notwithstanding, I beseech your Grace not to be
                   discontented with me that I am at the next door to
                   go a begging.

                   "My said Lord of Devonshire is dead, in mine
                   opinion a very good Christian man; for after that I
                   had much exhorted him to take his communion and
                   rites of the Church as a thing most necessary, and
                   by whose means God giveth unto His chosen people
                   health, both bodily and ghostly, he answered me, by
                   broken words, that he was well content so to do:
                   and in token thereof, and in repentance for his
                   sins, he lift up his eyes and knocked himself upon
                   the heart; and after I had suffered him to pause a
                   good while, I caused the Sacrament to be brought,
                   and after the priest's godly exhortation, he forced
                   himself to receive the blessed Communion; but his
                   tongue had so stopped his mouth, and his teeth so
                   clove together, that in no wise he could receive
                   that same; and after this sort this gentleman is
                   gone, as I do not doubt, to God his mercy.

                   "I shall not let to say to your Grace, that since
                   his coming to Padua, by way of communication, he
                   showed unto me, that it had been reported unto him
                   that some one had said that he was better French
                   than English, and if God did recover him and send
                   him his health so that he might come to the
                   knowledge of his misreporter, he was minded to try
                   that quarrel by the sword."

                   In a letter written a few days later, Vannes said
                   that, in consequence of rumours having gone abroad
                   that the earl had been poisoned, the Podesta, at
                   his request, had ordered the body to be opened, and
                   examined by physicians, which was accordingly
                   done.--Peter Vannes to the Queen: Venetian MSS.
                   State Paper Office.]

{p.273} The refugees, however, could do their work without Courtenay. The Killegrews, the Tremaynes,
young Stafford, and many more, put to sea with three or four vessels, and treated all Spaniards
with whom they could fall in as their natural enemies. Before the summer was out, they had
"taken divers good prizes," and "did trust they should take more." "In case the worst fell,
the gain thereof would find them all;" and on the 4th of August it was reported that they had
taken a fort "on one of her majesty's islands," probably in Scilly, where the dangerous and
intricate navigation placed them beyond risk of capture. Making war on their own account, half
as pirates, half as crusaders, these youthful adventurers seized the Spanish caracks on their
way to Flanders, sailed openly with their prizes into Rochelle or La Hogue, sold them, and
bought arms {p.274} and ammunition. Their finances were soon prosperous. Wild spirits of all
nations--Scots, English, French, whoever chose to offer--found service under their flag. They
were the first specimens of the buccaneering chivalry of the next generation--the germ out
of which rose the Drakes, the Raleighs, the Hawkinses, who harried the conquerors of the New World.

In vain Wotton protested. The French king affected to be sorry. The Constable said that France
was large; things happened which ought not to happen, yet could not be helped; the adventurers
should be put down, if possible.

"These men brought nothing with them out of England," Wotton doggedly replied, "and were in
such good credit with the people in France that nobody would lend them a shilling, and yet
had they found ships which they had armed, and manned with good numbers of soldiers. What would
the queen's highness think?"

The French court, in affected deference to such complaints, armed vessels, which they pretended
were to pursue the privateers to their nest; but, as Wotton ascertained, they were intended
really to act as their consorts.[582]

                   [Footnote 582: Letters of Wotton to the Queen:
                   French MSS., bundle 13, State Paper Office.]

It was plain that the French king did not anticipate any long {p.275} continuance to the truce
of Vaucelles. In fact, Paul IV., whose schemes in Italy that truce had arrested, had succeeded
in inducing him to break it. Lest his oath should make a difficulty, the pope had an ever-ready
dispensation; and Paul's nephew, Cardinal Caraffa, came to Paris in July to make arrangements
for the expulsion of the Spaniards from Naples.[583]

                   [Footnote 583: Wotton to Petre: MS. Ibid. Compare
                   Sir James Melville's Memoirs, p. 38.]

To insure Henry the continued support of the papacy, Paul undertook to create French cardinals
on so large a scale as would give him the command of the next election. Henry, in spite of
the entreaties of Montmorency, promised, on his side, to send an army to Paul's support; and
the pope, without waiting for the arrival of the French troops, seized the Duchy of Paleano,
and excommunicated the Colonnas, as the friends of the enemies of the Holy See. Scarcely caring
to look for a pretext, he declared the Spanish prince deprived of the kingdom of Naples; and
himself attempted to put in force his sentence against the Duke of Alva, who was acting there
as Philip's viceroy.

The event had thus actually arrived, of which the expectation the year before had appeared
so alarming. The most orthodox sovereign in Europe found himself forced into war with his spiritual
father. The parent was become insane; the faithful child was obliged, in consequence, to place
him under restraint, with as much tenderness and respect as the circumstances permitted. To
the English council Philip explained the hard necessity under which he was placed.[584]

                   [Footnote 584: "Pontifex, tantum abest ut
                   mollissimis obsequiis atque officiis acquieverit,
                   non potuit tandem sibi obtemperare quin pleno
                   Cardinalium Senatu Regni Neapolitani privationem
                   per suum fiscalem proposuerit, cum nullius nos in
                   ipsum Pontificem, aut sedem apostolicam contumaciæ,
                   summæ quin potius uti fas est observantiæ nobis
                   simus conscii, ac ne in præfractâ quidem ejus
                   obstinatione a solitis officiis destitum est, donec
                   cum nullâ molliore ope malum posset mitigari;
                   magisque indies ac magis propagaretur videretque
                   Albæ Dux copias eum undique contrahere, apparatum
                   facere, tempus ducere, quoscumque principes
                   quibuscumque conditionibus sollicitare, ut
                   ingruenti rerum omnium ruinæ occurreret, ad hoc
                   extremum remedium invitus coactusque descendit. Quæ
                   omnia quanquam vobis comperta quando in eorum
                   mentionem per vestras litteras incidistis, per nos
                   etiam vobis significanda duximus; atque id præterea
                   eâ temperantiâ ac modestiâ hoc bellum a duce geri
                   atque administrari, ut nihil nisi orbis Christiani
                   tranquillitas, sedis apostolicæ dignitas, et
                   nostrorum regnorum securitas procuretur, neque
                   ullum nos ex hoc bello gloriæ aucupemur, summum
                   potius dolorem animique ægritudinem
                   percipiamus."--Philip to the English Council: MS.
                   Mary, Domestic, vol. ix. State Paper Office.]

The Duke of Alva crossed the Neapolitan frontier into the States of the Church with twelve
thousand men, taking the towns {p.276} that lay in his way; and protesting while he did it
that he was the most faithful servant of the Holy See. Individually a pious Catholic, officially
a military machine, Alva obeyed orders with mechanical inflexibility, and, irresistible as
destiny, advanced towards Rome. The college of cardinals, who remembered the occupation of
the city by Bourbon's army, implored the pope to have pity on them. The pope had been too precipitate
in commencing operations without waiting for the French. He was forced to submit his pride,
and sue for an armistice, to which Alva, in the moderation of conscious strength, consented.

The French, on the other hand, were preparing to strike a blow in a quarter where as yet they
were unlooked for.

The pastoral anxieties of the English legate had extended to Calais, where the Protestants
were in considerable numbers. A commission was sent thither which proceeded with the usual
severities,[585] and the sufferers, or those among the garrisons in Calais and Guisnes whose
sympathy with the Reformation was stronger than their patriotism, placed themselves in correspondence
with Sir Henry Dudley, at Paris. The pay of the troops was long in arrear, and they were all
mutinous and discontented. Neither Guisnes, Hammes, nor Calais itself were provisioned for
more than three or four weeks; and the refugees, caring only to revenge themselves on Mary,
were laying a train in connection with several of the "chiefest officers" in the three fortresses,
to betray them into the hands of France. The existence of a conspiracy became known by accident
to some one, who placed Wotton on his guard; and Wotton, by vigilance and by the help of spies,
ascertained gradually the nature of the scheme. In the beginning of October he discovered that
Senarpont, the governor of Boulogne, was silently increasing the garrison of the Boullonnois.
Then he heard of troops collecting at Rouen, of large preparations of military stores, of sappers'
and miners' tools, and "great files, which would cut in two without noise the largest [harbour]
chains."[586] Next, it seemed that the leader of the adventurous party, which fourteen years
before "took the town of Marano by practise and subtlety," was in Calais in disguise. Finally,
he learnt that Henry himself was going to Rouen, to conduct the enterprise in person. The Catholic
clique had, in fact, not a soldier among them, and possibly knew not in which direction to
turn. The honour of his country at last recalled Lord Pembroke to the public service in time
to save Calais for a few more months.

By the middle of November eighteen ensigns of French infantry and a thousand horse were at
Abbeville. Dudley, with the refugee fleet, was in readiness to blockade the harbour, while
Henry was to march upon the town. If possible, he would find the gates open: at all events
he would meet with no protracted resistance. But the move had been anticipated. Reinforcements
and supplies were sent from England, money was despatched to pay up the arrears of the troops,
and Pembroke himself went over in command.[587] No open inquiry was ventured, but the suspected
persons were quietly removed. The French withdrew, and the queen's government, through the
bad patriotism of the refugees, recovered a momentary strength.

                   [Footnote 587: The Council to Philip, November
                   22nd: MS. Domestic, Mary, vol. ix.]

The faint good fortune came opportunely; for in England the harvest had again failed, and the
threat of famine had become the reality. On the 23rd of December malt was sold in London for
forty shillings a quarter, and white flour at six shillings a bushel. The helpless remedy was
attempted of crying up the base money, but the markets answered only by a further rise.[588]
In the utter misery of the people, some were feeding upon acorns; some, in London, more piteously,
left their infant children at the doors of their wealthy neighbours, to save them from starvation.

                   [Footnote 588: Machyn.]

A famine was considered to be the immediate work of Heaven, and to be sent for an immediate
moral cause. And yet the monasteries were rising from their ruins. Westminster was again an
abbey. Feckenham was installed abbot on the 29th of November, with the ancient ceremonies,
and walked in sad procession round the cloisters at the head of his friars.[589] The remnant
of the monks of Glastonbury had crawled back into the ruins of their home. The queen had spared
no effort and no {p.278} sacrifice where her own power extended; and she had exhorted and advised
where she was unable to act. Yet enough had not been done. In Ireland, indeed, the Catholic
spirit had life in it. The Earl of Desmond had allowed no stone to be thrown down from the
religious houses which had fallen to his share in the distribution. He had sheltered and supported
the monks in the bad times, he now replaced them at his private cost;[590] and the example
was telling among the chiefs. But in England, unfortunately, the lay owners of the church lands,
orthodox and unorthodox alike, were hopelessly impenitent.

                   [Footnote 589: The new monks did not do credit to
                   their restoration. Anne of Cleves died the next
                   year, and lay in state in the abbey.

                   "The 22nd of August," says Machyn, "was the herse
                   of my Lady Anne Cleves taken down at Westminster,
                   the which the monks by night had spoiled of all
                   velvet cloth, arms, banners, penselles, of all the
                   majesty and valence, the which was never seen afore
                   so done."--Diary, p. 148.]

                   [Footnote 590: Desmond to the Queen: Irish MSS.
                   State Paper Office.]

This, perhaps, was one cause of God's displeasure--the heretics were another; the heretics,
and the sympathy with heresy displayed by the inhabitants of London, which had compelled the
temporary release of the prisoners sent up from Essex.

It has been mentioned that the legate took occasion to admonish the citizens for their behaviour.
In the present or the following year[591] he issued a pastoral letter, laying before them,
and before the educated inhabitants of England generally, their duty at the present crisis;
with an explanation, not entirely accurate, of the spirit in which the church had hitherto
dealt with them. "That by license and dispensation," he said, "you do enjoy, and keep, and
possess such goods and lands of the church as were found in your hands, this was done of the
church your mother's tenderness unto you, considering your imbecility and weakness after so
sore a sickness that you had in the schism, at the which time your appetite served you to no
meat, but to that fruit that came from the lands of the church; and by that you lived, which
she was content you should keep still, and made promise it should not be taken from you. And
so it was left in your hand, as it were an apple in a child's hand given by the mother, which
she, perceiving him to feed too much of, and knowing it should do him hurt if he himself should
eat the whole, would have him give her a little piece thereof, which the boy refusing, and
whereas he would cry out if she would take it from him, letteth him alone therewith. But the
father, her husband, coming in, if he shall see how the boy will not let go one morsel to the
mother that hath given him the whole, she asking it with so fair means, he may peradventure
take the apple out of the {p.279} boy's hand, and if he cry, beat him also, and cast the apple
out of the window."

                   [Footnote 591: "Three years and more after the
                   restoration of the people to the church," the
                   legate says in the body of the letter. The date of
                   it will be December, 1556, or December, 1557, as
                   the three years are calculated from the restoration
                   of Orthodoxy, or from the reunion with Rome.]

The maternal tenderness, under this aspect of the secularisation, had been more weak than wise.

"As the English laity had dishonoured the ministers of the church above all people," continued
the legate, "so must they now honour them above all people, remembering Christ's words--'He
that despiseth you despiseth Me.' They must obey the priests, therefore, implicitly; they must
be careful to pay their tithes honestly; what they denied their priests they denied their God;
and they must show their repentance especially where they had especially offended, touching
the injuries they had done to the ministers of God, whom God had set over them, to be honoured
as they would their natural father."

"And this," he said, coming to the heart of the matter, "this you cannot do if you favour heretics,
who being the very enemies of God and man, yet specially their enmity extendeth against priests.
Here is another point that you must show worthy of a repentant mind: that whereas you have
sore offended God by giving favour to heretics, now temper your favour under such manner that
if you can convert them by any ways unto the unity of the church, then do it, for it is a great
work of mercy. But if ye cannot, and ye suffer or favour them, there cannot be a work of greater
cruelty against the commonwealth than to nourish or favour any such. For be you assured, there
is no kind of men so pernicious to the commonwealth as they be; there are no thieves, no murderers,
no adulterers, nor no kind of treason, to be compared to theirs, who, as it were, undermining
the chief foundation of all commonwealths, which is religion, maketh an entry to all kinds
of vices in the most heinous manner." ... "You specially of the City of London, you being the
first that received the fruit of grace in the new plantation, the seed of benediction being
first cast upon you, to make you a ground to bring forth all fruit of sanctity and justice;
... shall I say, that after all this done, more briars and thorns hath grown here among you
than in all the realm besides? I cannot say so, nor I will not; albeit it might so seem, for
a greater multitude of these brambles and briars were cast in the fire here among you than
in any place besides; but many of them being grown in other places, and brought in and burned
among you, may give occasion that you have a worse name without your desert. The thing standeth
not in the name--bethink you yourselves how it standeth.... Wherefore cometh this, that when
any heretic {p.280} shall go to execution, he shall lack no comforting of you, and encouraging
to die in his perverse opinion? that when he shall be put in prison he shall have more cherishing?...
As it is now, this may not be suffered.... For their boldness in their death, it is small argument
of grace to be in them; Christ himself showing more heaviness and dolour at his dying hour
than did the thieves that hung beside him, which did blaspheme Christ, setting nought by him,
specially one of them, showing no further fear. So do the heretics at their deaths like the
blasphemer."[592]

                   [Footnote 592: Address of Cardinal Pole to the
                   citizens of London: Strype's Memorials, vol. vi.]

Cruel and savage as the persecution had become, it was still inadequate. The famine lasted,
and therefore God was angry.

The new year opened with the appointment of a commission, consisting of Bonner, Thirlby, and
twenty other peers, gentlemen, and canon lawyers, on whom the court could rely. "Wicked persons"
had invented slanders against the queen's person, and had sown "pestilent heresies" in the
realm. The queen, therefore, "minding to punish such enormities," and having especial trust
in the wisdom of these persons, gave them power to institute inquiries at their pleasure into
the conduct and opinions of every man and woman in all parts of the kingdom. The protection
of the law was suspended. The commissioners might arrest any person at any place. Three of
them were enough to form a court; and mayors, sheriffs, and magistrates were commanded to assist
at their peril.

The object of the commission was "to search and find out" the sellers of heretical books, or
those who in any way professed heresy or taught it; to ascertain who refused to attend mass,
to walk in procession, to use holy water, or in any way betrayed disrespect for the established
religion. Those who "persisted in their bad opinions" were to be given up to their ordinary,
to be punished according to law. The commissioners were themselves empowered to punish with
fine or imprisonment those who yielded, or those whose offences were in the second degree,
taking care to collect the fines which they inflicted, and to certify the exchequer of their
receipts. They were not embarrassed by a necessity of impanelling juries; they might call juries
if they pleased; they might use "all other means and politic ways that they could devise."
No Spanish inquisition possessed larger or less tolerable powers; no English sovereign {p.281}
ever more entirely set aside the restrictions of the law.[593] The appointment of the commission
was followed up by Pole in a visitation of the diocese of Canterbury. Persons were nominated
to examine into the doctrines of the clergy; to learn whether those who had been married held
communication with their wives; whether the names of those who had not been reconciled had
been registered as he had ordered; and from every clergyman to ascertain the habits, beliefs,
and opinions of every resident, male or female, in his parish.[594]

                   [Footnote 593: Royal Commission printed in Foxe,
                   vol. viii. p. 301, and by Burnet in his
                   Collectanea.]

                   [Footnote 594: Articles of the visitation of
                   Cardinal Pole: Foxe, vol. iii.]

Other commissioners again were sent to the universities, with powers extending, not over the
living only, but the dead.

Scot, Bishop of Chester, Watson, Bishop of Lincoln, and Christopherson, Master of Trinity and
Bishop of Chichester, went in January to Cambridge, accompanied by Ormaneto, the Venetian,
a confidential friend of the legate. Bucer and Fagius slept in St. Mary's and St. Michael's.
The 10th of January, the day after the bishops' arrival, the two churches were laid under an
interdict, as defiled with the presence of unhallowed bodies. On the 15th a summons was fixed
to St. Mary's door, citing Martin Bucer and Paul Fagius, or any other who would plead on their
behalf, to make answer three days after, before the commission, on a charge of heresy. The
court sate, and no one appeared. The session was adjourned for a week, while the colleges were
searched, and Primers, Prayer-books, Bibles, or other interdicted volumes, were hunted out
and brought together. On the 26th the bishops met again; the accused remained undefended, and
the heresy was taken to be proved; sentence was passed therefore, that the bodies should be
disinterred and burnt. On the 6th of February the coffins were taken out of the graves, and
chained to a stake in the market-place; the Bibles and prayer-books were heaped round them
with a pile of faggots, and books and bodies were reduced to ashes.

Having purged Cambridge, Ormaneto proceeded to Oxford, on business of the same description.

Peter Martyr, when he came into residence as divinity professor at Christ Church, had outraged
the orthodox party in the university by bringing a wife within the college walls; and Catherine
Cathie, so the wife was named, had, like the wife of Luther, been a professed nun. She had
died before Mary's accession, and had been buried in the cathedral. A process has now instituted
against her similar to that at Cambridge.

{p.282} An unforeseen difficulty occurred in the conduct of the prosecution. Catherine Cathie
had lived quietly and unobtrusively; she had taught nothing and had written no books; and no
evidence could be found to justify her conviction on a charge of heresy.

Ormaneto wrote to the legate for instructions; and as burning was not permissible, the legate
replied that, "forasmuch as Catherine Cathie, of detestable memory, had called herself the
wife of Peter Martyr, a heretic, although both he and she had before taken vows of religion;
forasmuch as she had lived with him in Oxford in fornication, and after her death was buried
near the sepulchre of the Holy Virgin St. Frideswide, Ormaneto should invite the dean of the
cathedral to cast out the carcase from holy ground, and deal with it according to his discretion."

Catherine Cathie, therefore, was dug up, taken out of her coffin, and flung into a cesspool
at the back of the dean's house, and it was hoped that by this means the blessed St. Frideswide
would be able to rest again in peace. Human foresight is imperfect; years passed and times
changed; and Elizabeth, when she had the power to command, directed that the body should be
restored to decent burial. The fragments were recovered with difficulty, and were about to
be replaced in the earth under the floor of the cathedral, when some one produced the sacred
box which contained the remains of St. Frideswide. Made accessible to the veneration of the
faithful by Cardinal Pole, the relics had been concealed on the return of heresy by some pious
worshipper. They were brought out at the critical moment, and an instant sense of the fitness
of things consigned to the same resting-place the bones of the wife of Peter Martyr. The married
nun and the virgin saint were buried together, and the dust of the two still remains under
the pavement inextricably blended.[595]

                   [Footnote 595: Wood's Annals of the University of
                   Oxford.--The story is authentic. The following is
                   the Roman Catholic version of it:--"Oxonii sepulta
                   fuerat digna Petro Martyre concubina, parthenonis
                   et ipsa desertrix sacrilega ut ille coenobii. Ejus
                   ossa refodi jusserat Maria et sterquilinio ut par
                   erat condi. Nunc æmulo plane sanctitatis et
                   virginitatis in Elizabâthe ingenio requisita sunt
                   inter sordes sterquilinii publici quarum foedissima
                   pars erant, et incredibili studio inventa purgata
                   lota in thecam eandem reponuntur in quâ S.
                   Frideswidæ reliquiæ colebantur, et cum his adeo
                   confusa ut nullâ unquam possunt diligentiâ secerni.
                   Clauditur loculus et cubitalibus litteris hoc
                   epitaphio decoratur, 'Hic jacet religio cum
                   superstitione,' meliore titulo meretrici hæretici
                   pessimi concubinæ; proh nefas! deteriore ancillæ
                   Christi sanctissimæ virgini attributo."--Foxe, vol.
                   viii. Editor's note.]

{p.283} But Pole did not live to see the retribution. Convinced, if ever there was a sincere
conviction in any man, that the course which he was pursuing was precisely that which God required
of him, he laboured on in his dark vocation. Through the spring and summer the persecution,
under the new commission, raged with redoubled fury.

The subject is one to which it will not be necessary to return, except with some brief details.
In this place, therefore, shall be given an extract from a tract in circulation among the Protestants
who were expecting death; and it may be judged, from the sentiments with which these noble-natured
men faced the prospect of their terrible trial, with what justice Pole called them brambles
and briars only fit to be burnt--criminals worse than thieves, or murderers, or adulterers.[596]

                   [Footnote 596: An excellent epistle, translated
                   from French into English by Thomas Pownell, with a
                   preface, A.D. 1556. The copy from which I make my
                   extract is in the Bodleian Library at Oxford; it is
                   marked in the margin in various places with a
                   finger [Symbol: Hand] apparently almost as old as
                   the printing; and this finger was perhaps drawn by
                   some one whom the words were consoling or
                   inspiriting in the hour of his own trial.]

"The cross of persecution, if we will put childishness apart, and visibly weigh the worthiness
thereof, is that sovereign, tried medicine that quencheth the daily digested poison of self-love,
worldly pleasure, fleshly felicity. It is the only worthy poison of ambition, covetousness,
extortion, uncleanness, licentiousness, wrath, strife, sedition, sects, malice, and such other
wayward worms: it is the hard hammer that breaketh off the rust from the anchor of a Christian
faith. O profitable instrument! O excellent exercise, that cannot be spared in a Christian
life! with what alacrity of mind, with what desirous affection, with what earnest zeal, ought
we to embrace this incomparable jewel, this sovereign medicine, this comfortable cup of tribulation.

"When a piece of ground is limited and bounded, it doth not only signify that it goeth no further,
but also it tendeth and stretcheth to the bound. It is not enough to consider that we shall
not pass the time that God hath limited and determined us to live, but we must assuredly persuade
ourselves that we shall live as long as He hath ordained us to live; and so shall we do, in
despite of all our enemies.

"And tell me, have men given us our life? No, forsooth. No more can they take it away from
us. God hath given it, and God only doth take it away, for He is the Lord of death as well
as of life; wherefore when the appointed time of our death is come, let us assure ourselves,
that it is God only and none {p.284} other that doth kill us, for He saith, It is I that kill
and make alive again.

"Let us follow the example of Christ, our Master, who seeing His death approaching, said to
God, My Father, not as I will, but as thou wilt; thy will be done, and not mine.--Let us offer
then, unto God our Father, ourselves for a sacrifice, whose savour, although it be evil in
the nose of the world, yet it is good and agreeable unto God, by Jesus Christ his Son, in the
faith of whom we do dedicate and offer ourselves, when we perceive our hour to approach.

"And, whatsoever betide, let us not fear men; let us not fear them. God doth inhibit and forbid
us in the same, saying, by his prophet, Fear them not, for I am with you; and seeing God doth
forbid us to fear men, can we fear them without sin? No truly. To what purpose do we fear them?
Men of themselves can do nothing, and if at any time they have any power, the same only cometh
unto them from God, and is given unto them only to accomplish the will of God. But peradventure
ye will say to me that Jesus Christ himself, in the time of his cross, did fear death, and
therefore it is no marvel though we do fear it, in whom is no such perfection and constancy.
Truly the flesh doth always abuse herself with the example of Jesus Christ; she doth abuse
it, for she cannot rightfully use it, inasmuch as the flesh is in all ways repugnant unto the
spirit and the good will of God. Forasmuch as ye will herein follow Christ--well, I am contented--fear
death, but fear it as he did fear it. If you will say that Christ had fear of death, consider
the same also to be on such sort as the fear did not keep him back from the voluntary obedience
of his Father, and from saying, with unfeigned lips, Thy will be done.

"Ye will say, We fear not death for any fear we have to be damned, neither for any diffidence
that we have of eternal life; but we fear death for the human understanding that we have of
the great pain that some do suffer in dying, and especially in dying by fire; for we suppose
that pain to surmount all patience. O fond flesh, thy voice is always full of love of thyself,
and of a secret diffidence and mistrust of the Almighty power, wisdom, and goodness of God."

While the true heroes of the age were fighting for freedom with the weapons of noble suffering,
the world was about to recommence its own battles, with which it is less easy to sympathise.
The attempt on Calais having failed, it became a question at the French court, whether, after
having given so {p.285} just cause of quarrel to England, wisdom would not suggest an abandonment
of the intention of recommencing the war with Philip. Noailles crossed to Paris in December,
where the king questioned him whether Mary would be able to declare war. Noailles assured him,
"that out of doubt she would not; for if she should send those whom she trusted out of the
realm, then would they whom she trusted not, not fail to be busy within the realm."[597] Reassured
by the ambassador's opinion, Henry resumed his intentions. In March, the Duke of Guise led
an army into Italy. The pope recovered courage, defied Alva, and again laid claim to Naples;
and it was to be seen now whether Noailles was right--whether the English people would unite
with the court to resent the French king's conduct sufficiently to permit Mary at last to join
in the quarrel.

                   [Footnote 597: Wotton to Petre: French MSS.,
                   bundle 13, State Paper Office.]

Philip, anxious and hopeful, paid England the respect of returning for a few weeks, and in
the same month of March came over to sue the council in person. The affair at Calais was a
substantial ground for a rupture, but the attack, though intended, had not been actually made.
The story might seem, to the suspicions of the country, to have been invented by the court;
and, in other respects, Mary's injuries were not the injuries of the nation. The currency was
still prostrate; the people in unexampled distress. The Flanders debts were as heavy as ever,
and the queen had insisted on abandoning a fifth of her revenues. A war would inevitably be
most unpopular. The attempt nevertheless was made. The queen produced the treaty of 1546, between
England and the empire; and, in compliance with its provisions, laid before the privy council
a proposal, if not to declare war with France, yet to threaten a declaration, in the event
of an invasion of the Netherlands.

The privy council considered the queen's request; their conclusion was not what she desired.

The treaty of 1546, the council replied, had been abrogated by the treaty of marriage, so far
as it might involve England in a war with France. "Her majesty would be unable to maintain
a war, and, therefore, to say to the French king that she would aid her husband, according
to the treaty, and not being able to perform it, indeed would be dishonourable, and many ways
dangerous." "It was to be considered further, that, if by these means the realm should be drawn
into war, the fault would be imputed to the king's majesty." "The common {p.286} people of
the realm were at present many ways grieved--some pinched with famine, some for want of payment
of money due to them, some discontented for matters of religion; and, generally, all yet tasting
the smart of the late wars. It would be hard to have any aid of money of them. And in times
past," the council added, significantly, "although the prince found himself able to make and
maintain wars, yet the causes of those wars were opened for the most part in parliament."[598]

                   [Footnote 598: Answer of the Privy Council to the
                   queen's question whether England shall enter the
                   wars with France.--Sloane MSS. 1786, British
                   Museum.]

Objections so decided and so just would have hardly been overcome, but for an injudicious enterprise
of the refugees, under French auspices. The French court believed that, by keeping Mary in
alarm at home, they would make it the less easy for her to join in the war. They mistook the
disposition of the people, who resented and detested the interference of France in their concerns.

Among the exiles at the court of Paris, the most distinguished by birth, if not by ability,
was Sir Thomas Stafford, Lord Stafford's second son, and grandson of the Duke of Buckingham,
who was put to death under Henry VIII. On the 27th of April, Wotton sent notice to the queen
that Stafford had sailed from the mouth of the Seine with two vessels well manned and appointed.
His destination was unknown; but it was understood that he intended to take some fortress on
the English coast, and that the refugees, in a body, intended to follow him. Before Wotton's
letter arrived, the scheme, such as it was, had been already executed. Stafford, with thirty
Englishmen and one Frenchman, had surprised Scarborough Castle, and sent his proclamations
through Yorkshire. He was come, he said, to deliver his country from foreign tyranny. He had
sure evidence that an army of Spaniards was about to land, and that Philip intended to seize
the crown by force. The queen, by her marriage with a stranger, had forfeited her own rights;
and he himself, as the protector of English liberty, intended to bestow the crown on the next
rightful heir, and to restore all such acts, laws, liberties, and customs as were established
in the time of that most prudent prince, King Henry VIII. "He did not mind," he thought it
necessary to add, "to work his own advancement touching possession of the crown, but to restore
the blood and house of the Staffords to its pristine estate, which had been wrongfully suppressed
by Cardinal Wolsey."[599]

                   [Footnote 599: Proclamation of Thomas Stafford, son
                   to the Lord Henry, rightful Duke of
                   Buckingham.--Strype's Memorials, vol. vi. p.
                   515.]

{p.287} The landing of Edward IV., at Ravenspurg, had made any wild enterprise seem feasible,
and Stafford had counted on the notorious hatred of the people for the queen.

But if the Spaniards meditated a descent upon England, it was not by adventurers like the refugees
that their coming would be either prevented or avenged; and the good sense of the country had
determined once for all to give no countenance to revolution supported by France. The occupation
of Scarborough lasted two days, at the end of which Stafford and his whole party were taken
by the Earl of Westmoreland. Thirty-two prisoners were sent to London; thirty-one were put
to death; and the council reluctantly withdrew their opposition to the war. A hundred and forty
thousand pounds were in the exchequer, being part of the subsidy granted by parliament to pay
the crown debts.[600] With this the court prepared to commence, trusting to fortune for the
future. War was to be declared on the 7th of June, and, while seven thousand men were to cross
the Channel and join Pembroke in the Low Countries,[601] Howard was to cruise with the fleet
in the Channel to use his discretion in annoying the enemy, and, if possible, to destroy the
French ships at Dieppe.[602]

                   [Footnote 600: Exchequer Accounts: MS. Mary,
                   Domestic, vol. xii. State Paper Office.]

                   [Footnote 601: Bitterly hating their work that they
                   were sent upon, "the people went to the musters,
                   said Sir Thomas Smith, with kerchiefs on their
                   heads--they went to the wars hanging down their
                   looks; they came from them as men dismayed and
                   forlorn."--Strype's Life of Sir Thomas Smith,
                   Appendix, p. 249.]

                   [Footnote 602: Instructions to the Lord Admiral:
                   MS. Mary, Domestic, vol. xi.]

Happy, however, in having succeeded in gratifying her husband, the queen brought at once upon
herself a blow which she had little foreseen, and from a quarter from which an injury was most
painful. In her desire to punish France for assisting her rebellious heretical subjects, she
seemed to have forgotten that France had an ally beyond the Alps. No sooner did Paul IV. learn
that England was about to declare on the side of Philip, than, under the plausible pretence
that he could have no ambassador residing in a country with which he was at war, he resolved
to gratify his old animosity against Cardinal Pole, and cancel his legation.

Sir Edward Karne, the English resident at Rome, waited on the pope to remonstrate. He urged
Paul to recollect how much the Holy See owed to the queen, and how dangerous it might be to
re-open a wound imperfectly healed. The pope at first was obstinate. At length he seemed so
far inclined to yield as to {p.288} say that, if the queen would herself expressly desire it,
he would distinguish between her and her husband.[603] But the suspension of the legation,
though not at first published, was carried through the Consistory; and so ingeniously was it
worded, that not only the formal and especial commission was declared at an end, but the legatine
privileges, attached by immemorial custom to the archbishopric of Canterbury, were cancelled
with it. The pope chose to leave himself without representative, ordinary or extraordinary,
at the English court.

                   [Footnote 603: Sir Edward Karne to the Queen:
                   Burnet's Collectanea.]

The queen was in despair. Before Karne's letter reached her, she had heard what was impending,
and she wrote a letter of passionate expostulation, in which she expatiated on her services
to religion, and on the assistance which Pole had rendered her. She said that, in the unsettled
condition of England, the presence of a legate with supreme authority was absolutely necessary;
and she implored Paul to reconsider a decision so rash and so unkind.

The council added their separate protest.[604] "They had heard with infinite grief that the
legate was to be taken from them. There was no precedent for the recall of a legate who had
been once commissioned, unless from fault of his own; and for themselves, they were unconscious
of having misconducted themselves in any way since the reconciliation. Cardinal Pole had been
the saviour of religion. Before his coming to England, the queen, with the best intentions
to do good, had failed to arrest the growth of heresy, and the name of the Holy See was held
in detestation. Pole, the noblest and most distinguished of the cardinals, had made what was
crooked straight; he had introduced reforms everywhere; in a few years the wound would heal,
and all would be well. If, however, he were now removed, the convalescent, deserted too soon
by his physician, would relapse, and be worse than before. They entreated his holiness, therefore,
to listen to them, and allow him to remain. When they were reconciled, the pope then reigning
had promised that the customary privileges and immunities of the English nation should be maintained.
It was the special prerogative {p.289} of English sovereigns to have a legate perpetually resident
in the person of the Archbishop of Canterbury; and from immemorial time there was no record
of any archbishop to whom the legatine character had not attached as of right. The queen, who
had risked her life for the faith of the church, did not deserve that the first exception should
be made in her disfavour. The bishops did not deserve it. The few who, in the late times of
trial, had remained faithful, did not deserve it. Even if the queen would consent and give
way, they would themselves be obliged to remonstrate."[605]

                   [Footnote 604: Printed by Strype, Memorials of the
                   Reformation, vol. vi. p. 476, and described by him
                   as a letter of the parliament. But at this time
                   there was no parliament in existence; the last had
                   been dissolved eighteen months before, the next did
                   not meet till the ensuing January. The queen's
                   letter is dated the 21st May, and the letter which
                   I suppose to have been from the council, and
                   another, said also to have been from "the
                   nobility," were evidently written under the same
                   impression, and at the same time, when the idea of
                   the recall was new.]

                   [Footnote 605: Letters to the Pope: Strype, vol.
                   vi. pp. 476-482. The drafts of the letters are not
                   signed, nor does it appear what names were attached
                   to them. It is not even certain that they were
                   sent.]

Karne's letter produced a brief hope that the pope would relent. But the partial promise of
reconsidering his resolution had been extorted from Paul, while it was uncertain whether England
would actually join in the conflict; the intended declaration of war had in the interval become
a reality, and the pope, more indignant than ever, chose to consider Pole personally responsible
for the queen's conduct. Since a point was made of the presence of a papal legate in England,
he was so far ready to give way; but so far only. The king left England the first week in July.
Mary accompanied him to Dover, and there a papal nuncio met her, bringing a commission by which
Pole was reduced into the ordinary rank of archbishop; and the office of papal representative
was conferred on Peto, the Greenwich friar. For his objections to the present legate, the pope
gave the strange but wounding reason, that his orthodoxy was not above suspicion.

The queen, with something of her father's temper in her, ordered the nuncio to return to Calais
till she could again communicate with Rome. She interdicted Peto from accepting the commission,
and desired Pole to continue to exercise his functions till the pope had pronounced again a
final resolution. Pole, however, was too faithful a child of the church to disobey a papal
injunction; he relinquished his office, but he sent Ormaneto to Rome with his own entreaties
and protests.

Never had a legate of the Holy See been treated as he was treated, he said; there was no precedent,
therefore, to teach him how to act, nor was ever charge of heresy urged with less occasion
than against one whose whole employment had been to recover souls to Christ and his church,
and to cut off those that were obstinate as rotten members. His services to the {p.290} church,
he passionately exclaimed, transcended far the services of any legate who had been employed
for centuries, and, nevertheless, he found himself accused of heresy by the Vicar of Christ
upon earth. Such an insult was unjust and unprovoked; and his holiness should consider also
what he was doing in bringing the queen, the mother of obedience, into heaviness and sorrow.
Mother of obedience the Queen of England might well be called, whom God had made a mother of
sons who were the joy of the whole church. How was the pope rewarding this sainted woman, when
with the thunder of his voice he accused the king, her husband, of schism, and himself, the
legate, of heresy?[606]

                   [Footnote 606: Pole to the Pope: Strype's
                   Memorials, vol. vi. p. 34, etc.]

Scarcely in his whole troubled life had a calamity more agitating overtaken Reginald Pole.
To maintain the supremacy of the successor of St. Peter, he had spent twenty years in treason
to his native country. He had held up his sovereign to the execration of mankind for rejecting
an authority which had rewarded him with an act of enormous injustice; and to plead his consciousness
of innocence before the world against his spiritual sovereign, would be to commit the same
crime of disobedience for which he had put to death Cranmer, and laboured to set Europe on
fire. Most fatal, most subtle retribution--for he knew that he was accused without cause; he
knew that the pope after all was but a peevish, violent, and spiteful old man; he knew it--yet
even to himself he could not admit his own conviction.

Fortune, however, seemed inclined for a time to make some amends to Mary in the results of the war.

The French usually opened their summer campaigns by an advance into Lorraine or the Netherlands.
This year their aggressive resources had been directed wholly into Italy, and at home they
remained on the defensive. Philip, with creditable exertion, collected an army of 50,000 men,
to take advantage of the opportunity. Fixing his own residence at Cambray, he gave the command
in the field to the Duke of Savoy; and Philibert, after having succeeded in distracting the
attention of the enemy, and leading them to expect him in Champagne, turned suddenly into Picardy,
and invested the town of St. Quentin. The garrison must soon have yielded, had not Coligny,
the Admiral of France, broken through the siege lines and carried in reinforcements. Time was
thus gained, and the constable, eager to save a strong place, the possession of which would
open to the Spaniards the road to Paris, advanced with all the force {p.291} which he could
collect, not meaning to risk a battle, but to throw provisions and further supplies of men
into St. Quentin. Montmorency had but 20,000 men with him. His levies consisted of the reserved
force of the kingdom--princes, peers, knights, gentlemen, with their personal retinues, the
best blood in France. It was such an army as that which lost Agincourt, and a fate not very
different was prepared for it.

On the 10th of August, the constable was forced by accident into an engagement, in which he
had the disadvantage of position as well as of numbers. Mistaken movements caused a panic in
the opening of the battle, and the almost instant result was a confused and hopeless rout.
The Duke d'Enghien fell on the field with four thousand men; the constable himself, the Duke
de Montpensier, the Duke de Longueville, the Marshal St. André, three hundred gentlemen, and
several thousand common soldiers, were taken; the defeat was irretrievably complete, and to
the victors almost bloodless. The English did not share in the glory of the battle, for they
were not present; but they arrived two days after to take part in the storming of St. Quentin,
and to share, to their shame, in the sack and spoiling of the town. They gained no honour;
but they were on the winning side. The victory was credited to the queen as a success, and
was celebrated in London with processions, bonfires, and Te Deums.

Nor was the defeat at St. Quentin the only disaster which the French arms experienced. Henry
sent in haste to Italy for the Duke of Guise to defend Paris, where Philibert was daily expected.
Guise was already returning after a failure less conspicuous, but not less complete, than that
of the constable. The pope had received him on his arrival with enthusiasm, but the promised
papal contingent for the campaign had not been provided; the pope was contented to be the soul
of the enterprise of which France was to furnish the body. Guise advanced alone for the conquest
of Naples, and he found himself, like De Lautrec in 1528, baffled by an enemy who would not
meet him in the field, and obliged to waste his time and the health of his army in a series
of unsuccessful sieges, till in a few months the climate had done Alva's work. The French troops
perished in thousands, and Guise at last drew off his thinned ranks and fell back on Rome.
Here the news of St. Quentin reached him, and the duke, leaving Paul to his fate, amid a storm
of mutual reproaches, hurried back to his own country.

The pontiff had now no resource but to yield; and the piety of the Spaniards, whom he had compelled
against their will to {p.292} be his enemies, softened the ignominy of his compelled submission.
Cardinal Caraffa and the Duke of Alva met at Cava, where, in a few words, it was agreed that
his holiness should relinquish his alliance with France, and cease to trouble the Colonnas.
Alva, on his side, restored the papal towns which he had taken; he went to Rome to ask pardon
on his knees, in Philip's name, for the violence which he had used to his spiritual father;
and the pope gave him gracious absolution.

This bad business, which had tried Mary so severely, was thus well finished, and on the 6th
of October London was again illuminated for the peace between the king and the papacy. But
the shadow which had been thrown on Pole was maliciously permitted to remain unremoved; on
him, perhaps from personal ill-feeling, Paul visited his own disappointment. With the return
of peace there was no longer any plausible reason for the recall of the legation; Peto was
dead, having survived his unpropitious honours but a few months: yet, unmoved by Pole's entreaties,
the pope refused to permit him to resume his legatine functions, except so far as they were
inherent in the archbishopric. The odious accusation of heresy was not withdrawn; and the torturing
charge was left to embitter the peace of mind, and poison the last days of the most faithful
servant of the church who was then living.[607]

                   [Footnote 607: Pole's sufferings in consequence
                   were really piteous. "Your holiness," he wrote on
                   the 30th of March, 1558, "is taking my life from me
                   when you take from me the reputation of orthodoxy.
                   You told the English ambassador it was God's doing;
                   God has told you, like Abraham, to kill your son;
                   and that your holiness intends that kind of death
                   for me, I know far more certainly than Isaac seemed
                   to know his father's purpose. When I see the fire
                   and the knife in the hands of your holiness, and
                   the wood laid upon my shoulders, there is no need
                   for me to ask where is the victim.

                   "When I was yet a lamb, I gave myself as a
                   sacrifice to the pontiff, who chose me for a
                   cardinal. Thus I thought of myself; thus I spoke
                   when I lay prostrate before the altar. Little did I
                   then think the time would come, when I should be
                   offered up by my father's hands a second time,
                   especially when the Bishop of Rochester was here
                   hanging as a ram among the briars ready to be
                   immolated," etc.--Pole to the Pope: Epistolæ,
                   vol. v. p. 31.]

And again, though there was peace with the pope, there was still war with France; there was
still war with Scotland. The events which had taken place in Scotland will be related hereafter.
It is enough for the present to say that the Scots had been true as usual to their old allies;
no sooner was an English army landed in France, than a Scotch army was wasting and burning
on the Border. A second force had to be raised and kept in the field to meet them, and the
scantily supplied treasury was soon empty.

{p.293} Money had to be found somewhere. The harvest, happily, had been at last abundant, and
wheat had fallen from fifty shillings a quarter to four or five. The country was in a condition
to lend, and a commission was sent out for a forced loan, calculated on the assessment of the
last subsidy. Lists of the owners of property in each county were drawn out, with sums of money
opposite to their names, and the collectors were directed "to travail by all the best ways
they might for obtaining the sums noted." Persons found conformable were to receive acknowledgments.
Should "any be froward" they were to find securities to appear when called on before the privy
council, or to be arrested on the spot and sent to London.[608] A hundred and ten thousand
pounds were collected under the commission, in spite of outcry and resistance;[609] but it
was not enough for the hungry consumption of the war, and the court was driven to call a parliament.

                   [Footnote 608: Commission for the Loan: MS. Mary,
                   Domestic, vol. xi.]

                   [Footnote 609: Ibid. vol. xii.]

The writs went out at the beginning of December, accompanied with the usual circulars; to which
the queen added a promise, that if the mayors and sheriffs[610] would consult her wishes she
would remember their services. In a second address she said her pleasure was that when the
privy council, or any of them within their jurisdiction, should recommend "men of learning
and wisdom," their directions should "be regarded and followed."[611] Yet there was not perhaps
any wish to have the House of Commons unfairly packed. Mary desired, probably {p.294} with
sincerity, "to have the assembly of the most chiefest men in the realm for advice and counsel."

                   [Footnote 610: The queen to all sheriffs, mayors,
                   etc.--For the well choosing of the knights of the
                   shire and burgesses:

                   "Trusty and well-beloved, we greet you well: and
                   whereas for certain great and weighty causes
                   touching both the honour of Almighty God, and the
                   wealth and good government of this our realm, we
                   have summoned our High Court of Parliament, to be
                   holden at Westminster, the 20th of January next:
                   and forasmuch as we consider that a great part of
                   the furthering of such things, as shall be treated
                   in our said parliament, and bringing them to good
                   effect, shall consist in the well appointing and
                   choosing of such as shall be knights of shires,
                   citizens of any city, or burgesses of other towns
                   corporate, we have thought good to require you to
                   have good regard, and so far forth as in you may
                   lie, to provide that such as shall be appointed may
                   be men given to good order, Catholic, and discreet,
                   and so qualified, as the antient law of this realm
                   requireth; giving the freeholders, citizens,
                   burgesses within our said county to understand,
                   what our will and pleasure is in that behalf.
                   Hereby as you shall do good service unto God and
                   this your country, so shall you also do us right
                   acceptable pleasure, which we shall consider
                   towards you as any occasion may shew. Given under
                   our signet, December 10, 1557."--MS. Mary,
                   Domestic, vol. xii.]

                   [Footnote 611: MS. Ibid.]

How the parliament would have acted in the circumstances under which the meeting was anticipated,
is very uncertain. The intense unpopularity of the war had been little relieved by the victory
at St. Quentin, and the general state of suffering made a fresh demand for money infinitely
grievous. But between the issue of the writs and the 20th of January a blow had fallen on England
which left room for no other thought.

For the last ten years the French had kept their eyes on Calais. The recovery of Boulogne was
an insufficient retaliation for the disgrace which they had suffered in the loss of it, while
the ill success with which the English maintained themselves in their new conquest, suggested
the hope, and proved the possibility, of expelling them from the old. The occupation of a French
fortress by a foreign power was a perpetual insult to the national pride; it was a memorial
of evil times; while it gave England inconvenient authority in the "narrow seas." Scarcely
a month had passed since Mary had been on the throne, without a hint from some quarter or other
to the English government to look well to Calais; and the recent plot for its surprise was
but one of a series of schemes which had been successively formed and abandoned.

In 1541 the defences of Guisnes, Hammes, and Calais, had been repaired by Henry VIII. The dykes
had been cleared and enlarged, the embankments strengthened, and the sluices put in order.[612]
But in the wasteful times of Edward, the works had fallen again into ruin; and Mary, straitened
by debt, by a diminished revenue, and a supposed obligation to make good the losses of the
clergy, had found neither means nor leisure to attend to them.

                   [Footnote 612: A complete account of the repairs at
                   Calais, with the cost of work, and the wages of the
                   workmen, is printed in an appendix to the
                   Chronicle of Calais, published by the Camden
                   Society.]

In the year 1500, the cost of maintaining the three fortresses was something less than £10,000
a-year;[613] and the expense had been almost or entirely supported by the revenue of the Pale.
The more extended fortifications had necessitated an increase in the garrison; two hundred
men were now scarcely sufficient to man the works;[614] while, owing to bad government, and
the growing anomaly of the English position, the wealthier inhabitants {p.295} had migrated
over the frontiers, and left the Pale to a scanty, wretched, starving population, who could
scarcely extract from the soil sufficient for their own subsistence.[615] While the cost of
the occupation was becoming greater, the means of meeting it became less. The country could
no longer thrive in English hands, and it was time for the invaders to begone.

                   [Footnote 613: Chronicle of Calais.]

                   [Footnote 614: Lord Grey to the Queen, June 13,
                   1557: Calais MSS. bundle 10, State Paper Office.]

                   [Footnote 615: In 1550, Sir John Mason wrote to the
                   council, "I have heard say that, not long sythen
                   the Low Countries were able to set to the field 300
                   able men on horseback; I think there lacketh of
                   that number at this present a great many, the
                   occasion whereof, by the report of the king's
                   ministers on this side, is for that the king's
                   lands are so raised as no man is able to live
                   thereupon unless it is a sort of poor dryvells,
                   that must dig their living with their nails out of
                   the ground, and be not able scarce to maintain a
                   jade to carry their corn to market." French MSS.
                   Edward VI. bundle 9.]

The government in London, however, seemed, notwithstanding warnings, to be unable to conceive
the loss of so old a possession to be a possibility; and Calais shared the persevering neglect
to which the temporal interests of the realm were subjected. The near escape from the Dudley
treason created a momentary improvement. The arrears of wages were paid up, and the garrison
was increased. Yet a few months after, when war was on the point of being declared, there were
but two hundred men in Guisnes, a number inadequate to defend even the castle; and although
the French fleet at that time commanded the Channel, Calais contained provisions to last but
for a few weeks.[616] Lord Grey, the governor of Guisnes, reported in June, after the declaration,
that the French were collecting in strength in the neighbourhood, and that unless he was reinforced,
he was at their mercy. A small detachment was sent over in consequence of Grey's letter; but
on the 2nd of July Sir Thomas Cornwallis informed the queen that the numbers were still inadequate.
"The enemy," Cornwallis said, "perceiving our weakness, maketh daily attempts upon your subjects,
who are much abashed to see the courage of your enemies, whom they are not able to hurt nor
yet defend themselves." He entreated that a larger force should be sent immediately, and maintained
in the Pale during the war. The charge would be great, but the peril would be greater if the
men were not provided; and as her majesty had been pleased to enter into the war, her honour
must be more considered than her treasure.[617]

                   [Footnote 616: Calais MSS. bundle 10.]

                   [Footnote 617: Cornwallis to the Queen: Calais
                   MSS. bundle 10.]

The arrival of the army under Pembroke removed the immediate ground for alarm; and after the
defeat of the French, the {p.296} danger was supposed to be over altogether. The queen was
frightened at the expenses which she was incurring, and again allowed the establishment to
sink below the legitimate level. Lord Wentworth was left at Calais with not more than five
hundred men. Grey had something more than a thousand at Guisnes, but a part only were English;
the rest were Burgundians and Spaniards. More unfortunately also, a proclamation had forbidden
the export of corn in England, from which Calais had not been excepted. Guisnes and Hammes
depended for their supplies on Calais, and by the middle of the winter there was an actual
scarcity of food.[618]

                   [Footnote 618: When all your majesty's pieces on
                   this side make account to be furnished of victuals
                   and other necessaries from hence, it is so that of
                   victuals your highness hath presently none here,
                   and the town hath none; by reason that the
                   restraint in the realm hath been so strait, and the
                   victuallers as were wont to bring daily hither good
                   quantities of butter, cheese, bacon, wheat, and
                   other things, might not of late be suffered to have
                   any recourse hither, whereby is grown a very great
                   scarcity.--Wentworth to the Queen: Calais MSS.
                   bundle 10.]

Up to the beginning of December, notwithstanding, there were no external symptoms to create
uneasiness; military movements lay under the usual stagnation of winter, and except a few detachments
on the frontiers of the Pale, who gave trouble by marauding excursions, the French appeared
to be resting in profound repose. On the 1st of December, the governor of Guisnes reported
an expedition for the destruction of one of their outlying parties, which had been accomplished
with ominous cruelty.

"I advertised your grace," Lord Grey wrote to the queen, "how I purposed to make a journey
to a church called Bushing, strongly fortified by the enemy, much annoying this your majesty's
frontier. It may please your majesty, upon Monday last, at nine of the clock at night, having
with me Mr. Aucher marshal of Calais, Mr. Alexander captain of Newnham Bridge, Sir Henry Palmer,
my son,[619] and my cousin Louis Dives, with such horsemen and footmen as could be conveniently
spared abroad in service, leaving your majesty's pieces in surety, I took my journey towards
the said Bushing, and carried with me two cannon and a sacre, for that both the weather and
the ways served well to the purpose, and next morning came hither before day. And having before
our coming enclosed the said Bushing with two hundred footmen harquebuziers, I sent an officer
to summon the same in the king's highness' and your majesty's name; whereunto the captain there,
a man of good {p.297} estimation, who the day before was sent there with twelve men by M. Senarpont,
captain of Boulogne, answered that he was not minded to render, but would keep it with such
men as he had, which were forty in number or thereabouts, even to the death; and further said,
if their fortune was so to lose their lives, he knew that the king his master had more men
alive to serve, with many other words of French bravery. Upon this answer, I caused the gunners
to bring up their artillery to plank, and then shot off immediately ten or twelve times. But
yet for all this they would not yield. At length, when the cannon had made an indifferent breach,
the Frenchmen made signs to parley, and would gladly have rendered; but I again, weighing it
not meet to abuse your majesty's service therein, and having Sir H. Palmer there hurt, and
some others of my men, refused to receive them, and, according to the law of arms, put as many
of them to the sword as could be gotten at the entry of the breach, and all the rest were blown
up with the steeple at the rasing thereof, and so all slain."[620]

                   [Footnote 619: Sir Arthur Grey.]

                   [Footnote 620: Grey to the Queen: Calais MSS.
                   bundle 10.]

The law of arms forbade the defence of a fort not rationally defensible; but it was over hardly
construed against a gallant gentleman. Grey was a fierce, stern man. It was Grey who hung the
priests in Oxfordshire from their church towers. It was Grey who led the fiery charge upon
the Scots at Musselburgh, and with a pike wound, which laid open cheek, tongue, and palate,
he "pursued out the chase," till, choked by heat, dust, and his own blood, he was near falling
under his horse's feet.[621]

                   [Footnote 621: He was held up by the Earl of
                   Warwick, who sprang from his own horse, and "did
                   lift a firkin of ale" to Grey's mouth. Life of
                   Lord Grey of Wilton, by his son.]

Three weeks passed, and still the French had made no sign. On the 22nd an indistinct rumour
came to Guisnes that danger was near. The frost had set in; the low damp ground was hard, the
dykes were frozen; and in sending notice of the report to England, Grey said that Calais was
unprovided with food; Guisnes contained a few droves of cattle brought in by forays over the
frontier,[622] but no corn. On the 27th, the intelligence became more distinct and more alarming.
The Duke of Guise was at Compiegne. A force of uncertain magnitude, but known to be large,
had suddenly appeared at Abbeville. Something evidently was intended, and something on a scale
which the English commanders felt ill prepared to encounter. In a hurried council of war held
at Calais, it was resolved to make no attempt {p.298} to meet the enemy in the field until
the arrival of reinforcements, which were written for in pressing haste.[623]

                   [Footnote 622: Grey to the Queen: Calais MSS.
                   bundle 10.]

                   [Footnote 623: Wentworth and Grey to the Queen:
                   Calais MSS. bundle 10.]

But the foes with whom they had to deal knew their condition, and were as well aware as themselves
that success depended on rapidity. Had the queen paid attention to Grey's despatch of the 22nd
there was time to have trebled the garrison and thrown in supplies; but it was vague, and no
notice was taken of it. The joint letter of Grey and Wentworth written on the 27th, was in
London in two days, and there were ships at Portsmouth and in the Thames, which ought to have
been ready for sea at a moment's warning. Orders were sent to prepare; the Earl of Rutland
was commissioned to raise troops; and the queen, though without sending men, sent a courier
with encouragements and promises. But when every moment was precious, a fatal slowness, and
more fatal irresolution hung about the movements of the government. On the 29th Wentworth wrote
again, that the French were certainly arming and might be looked for immediately. On the 31st,
the queen, deceived probably by some emissary of Guise, replied, that "she had intelligence
that no enterprise was intended against Calais or the Pale," and that she had therefore countermanded
the reinforcements.[624]

                   [Footnote 624: The Queen to Wentworth: Ibid.]

The letter containing the death sentence, for it was nothing less, of English rule in Calais
was crossed on the way by another from Grey, in which he informed the queen that there were
thirty or forty vessels in the harbour at Hambletue, two fitted as floating batteries, the
rest loaded with hurdles, ladders, and other materials for a siege. Four-and-twenty thousand
men were in the camp above Boulogne; and their mark he knew to be Calais. For himself, he would
defend his charge to the death; but help must be sent instantly, or it would be too late to
be of use.

The afternoon of the same day, December 31, he added, in a postscript, that flying companies
of the French were at that moment before Guisnes; part of the garrison had been out to skirmish,
but had been driven in by numbers; the whole country was alive with troops.

The next morning (January 1, 1558) Wentworth reported to the same purpose, that, on the land
side, Calais was then invested. The sea was still open, and the forts at the mouth of the harbour
on the Rysbank were yet in his hands. Heavy siege cannon, however, were said to be on their
way from Boulogne, and it was uncertain how long he could hold them.

{p.299} The defences of Calais towards the land, though in bad repair, had been laid out with
the best engineering skill of the time. The country was intersected with deep muddy ditches;
the roads were causeways, and at the bridges were bulwarks and cannon. Guisnes, which was three
miles from Calais, was connected with it by a line of small forts and "turnpikes." Hammes lay
between the two, equidistant from both. Towards the sea the long line of low sandhills, rising
in front of the harbour to the Rysbank, formed a natural pier; and on the Rysbank was the castle,
which commanded the entrance and the town. The possession of the Rysbank was the possession
of Calais.

The approaches to the sandhills were commanded by a bulwark towards the south-west called the
Sandgate, and further inland by a large work called Newnham Bridge. At this last place were
sluices, through which, at high water, the sea could be let in over the marshes. If done effectually,
the town could by this means be effectually protected; but unfortunately, owing to the bad
condition of the banks, the sea water leaked in from the high levels to the wells and reservoirs
in Calais.

The night of the 1st of January the French remained quiet; with the morning they advanced in
force upon Newnham Bridge. An advanced party of English archers and musketeers who were outside
the gate were driven in, and the enemy pushed in pursuit so close under the walls that the
heavy guns could not be depressed to touch them. The English, however, bored holes through
the gates with augers, fired their muskets through them, and so forced their assailants back.
Towards Hammes and Guisnes the sea was let in, and the French, finding themselves up to their
waists in water, and the tide still rising, retreated on that side also. Wentworth wrote in
the afternoon in high spirits at the result of the first attack. The brewers were set to work
to fill their vats with fresh water, that full advantage might be taken of the next tide. Working
parties were sent to cut the sluices, and the English commander felt confident that if help
was on the way, or could now be looked for, he could keep his charge secure. But the enemy,
he said, were now thirty thousand strong; Guise had taken the Sandgate, and upwards of a hundred
boats were passing backwards and forwards to Boulogne and Hambletue, bringing stores and ammunition.[625]
{p.300} If the queen had a body of men in readiness, they would come without delay. If she
was unprepared, "the passages should be thrown open," and "liberty be proclaimed for all men
to come that would bring sufficient victuals for themselves;" thus, he "was of opinion that
there would be enough with more speed than would be made by order."

                   [Footnote 625: "Surely," Wentworth wrote to the
                   queen, "if your majesty's ships had been on the
                   shore, they might either have letted this voyage,
                   or, at the least, very much hindered it, and not
                   unlike to have distressed them, being only small
                   boats. Their ordnance that comes shall be conveyed
                   in the same sort. It may therefore please your
                   majesty to consider it. I am, as a man may be, most
                   sure that they will first attempt upon Rysbank, and
                   that way chiefly assail the town. Marry, I think
                   that they lie hovering in the country for the
                   coming of their great artillery and also to be
                   masters of the sea, and therefore I trust your
                   highness will haste over all things necessary with
                   all expedition."--Wentworth to the Queen: Calais
                   MSS. bundle 10.]

So far Wentworth had written. While the pen was in his hand, a message reached him, that the
French, without waiting for their guns, were streaming up over the Rysbank, and laying ladders
against the walls of the fort. He had but time to close his letter, and send his swiftest boat
out of the harbour with it, when the castle was won, and ingress and egress at an end. The
same evening, the heavy guns came from Boulogne, and for two days and nights the town was fired
upon incessantly from the sandbank, and from "St. Peter's Heath."

The fate of Calais was now a question of hours; Wentworth had but 500 men to repel an army,
and he was without provisions. Calais was probably gone, but Guisnes might be saved; Guisnes
could be relieved with a great effort out of the Netherlands. On the night of the 4th, Grey
found means to send a letter through the French lines to England. "The enemy," he said, "were
now in possession of Calais harbour, and all the country between Calais and Guisnes." He was
now "clean cut off from all relief and aid which he looked to have;" and there "was no other
way for the succour of Calais" and the other fortresses, but "a power of men out of England
or from the king's majesty, or from both," either to force the French into a battle or to raise
the siege. Come what would, he would himself do the duty of a faithful subject, and keep the
castle while men could hold it.[626]

                   [Footnote 626: Grey to the Queen: Calais MSS. The
                   letter was dated January 4, seven o'clock at night.
                   The messenger was to carry it to Gravelines under
                   cover of darkness. It is endorsed, "Haste, haste,
                   haste! post haste for thy life, for thy life."]

The court, which had been incredulous of danger till it had appeared, was now paralysed by
the greatness of it. Definite orders to collect troops were not issued till the 2nd of January.
The Earl of Rutland galloped the same day to Dover, where the musters were to meet, flung himself
into the first boat that he {p.301} found, without waiting for them, and was half-way across
the Channel when he was met by the news of the loss of the Rysbank.[627] Rutland therefore
returned to Dover, happy so far to have escaped sharing the fate of Wentworth, which his single
presence could not have averted. The next day, the 3rd, parties of men came in slowly from
Kent and Sussex; but so vague had been the language of the proclamation, that they came without
arms; and although the country was at war with France, there were no arms with which to provide
them, either in Deal, Dover, or Sandwich. Again, so indistinct had been Rutland's orders, that
although a few hundred men did come in at last tolerably well equipped, and the Prince of Savoy
had collected some companies of Spaniards at Gravelines, and had sent word to Dover for the
English to join him, Rutland was now obliged to refer to London for permission to go over.
On the 7th, permission came; it was found by that time, or supposed to be found, that the queen's
ships were none of them seaworthy, and an order of the council came out to press all competent
merchant ships and all able seamen everywhere, for the queen's service.[628] Rutland contrived
at last, by vigorous efforts, to collect a few hoys and boats, but the French had by this time
ships of war in co-operation with them, and he could but approach the French coast near enough
to see that he could venture no nearer, and again return.[629]

                   [Footnote 627: Rutland to the Queen: Calais MSS.]

                   [Footnote 628: MS. Council Records.]

                   [Footnote 629: MS. Mary, Domestic, vol. xi.]

He would have been too late to save Calais at that time, however, even if he had succeeded
in crossing.

The day preceding, the 6th of January, after a furious cannonade, Guise had stormed the castle.
The English had attempted to blow it up when they could not save it, but their powder train
was wetted, and they failed. The Spaniards, for once honourably careful of English interests,
came along the shore from Gravelines alone, since no one joined them from England, and attempted
in the face of overwhelming odds to force their way into the town; but they were driven back,
and Wentworth, feeling that further resistance would lead to useless slaughter, demanded a
parley, and after a short discussion accepted the terms of surrender offered by Guise. The
garrison and the inhabitants of Calais, amounting in all, men, women, and children, to 5000
souls, were permitted to retire to England with their lives, and nothing more. Wentworth and
fifty others {p.302} were to remain prisoners; the town, with all that it contained, was to
be given up to the conquerors.

On these conditions the English laid down their arms and the French troops entered. The spoil
was enormous, and the plunder of St. Quentin was not unjustly revenged; jewels, plate, and
money were deposited on the altars of the churches, and the inhabitants, carrying with them
the clothes which they wore, were sent as homeless beggars in the ensuing week across the Channel.

Then only, when it was too late, the queen roused herself. As soon as Calais had definitely
fallen, all the English counties were called on by proclamation to contribute their musters.
Then all was haste, eagerness, impetuosity; those who had money were to provide for those who
had none, till "order could be taken."

On the 7th of January, the vice-admiral, Sir William Woodhouse, was directed to go instantly
to sea, pressing everything that would float, and promising indemnity to the owners in the
queen's name. Thirty thousand men were rapidly on their way to the coast; the weather had all
along been clear and frosty, with calms and light east winds, and the sea off Dover was swiftly
covered with a miscellaneous crowd of vessels. On the 10th came the queen's command for the
army to cross to Dunkirk, join the Duke of Savoy, and save Guisnes.

But the opportunity which had been long offered, and long neglected, was now altogether gone;
the ships were ready, troops came, and arms came, but a change of weather came also, and westerly
gales and storms. On the night of the 10th a gale blew up from the south-west which raged for
four days: such vessels as could face the sea, slipped their moorings, and made their way into
the Thames with loss of spars and rigging; the hulls of the rest strewed Dover beach with wrecks,
or were swallowed in the quicksands of the Goodwin.

The effect of this last misfortune on the queen was to produce utter prostration. Storms may
rise, vessels may be wrecked, and excellent enterprises may suffer hindrance, by the common
laws or common chances of things; but the queen in every large occurrence imagined a miracle;
Heaven she believed was against her. Though Guisnes was yet standing, she ordered Woodhouse
to collect the ships again in the Thames, "forasmuch as the principal cause of their sending
forth had ceased;"[630] and on {p.303} the 13th she counter-ordered the musters, and sent home
all the troops which had arrived at Dover.[631]

                   [Footnote 630: The Queen to Sir William Woodhouse,
                   January 12: MS. Mary, Domestic, vol. xii.]

                   [Footnote 631: Circular for Staying of the Musters:
                   MS. Mary, Domestic, vol. xii.]

Having given way to despondency, the court should have communicated with Grey, and directed
him to make terms for himself and the garrisons of Guisnes and Hammes. In the latter place
there was but a small detachment; but at Guisnes were eleven hundred men, who might lose their
lives in a desperate and now useless defence. The disaster, however, had taken away the power
of thinking or resolving upon anything.

It must be said for Philip that he recognised more clearly and discharged more faithfully the
duty of an English sovereign than the queen or the queen's advisers. Spanish and Burgundian
troops were called under arms as fast as possible; and when he heard of the gale he sent ships
from Antwerp and Dunkirk to bring across the English army. But when his transports arrived
at Dover they found the men all gone. Proclamations went out on the 17th to call them back;[632]
but two days after there was a counter-panic and a dread of invasion, and the perplexed levies
were again told that they must remain at home. So it went on to the end of the month; the resolution
of one day alternated with the hesitation of the next, and nothing was done.

The queen's government had lost their heads. Philip having done his own part, did not feel
it incumbent on him to risk a battle with inferior numbers, when those who were more nearly
concerned were contented to be supine. Guisnes, therefore, and its defenders, were left to
their fate.

                   [Footnote 632: MS. Mary, Domestic, vol. xii.,
                   January 17.]

On Thursday, the 13th, the Duke of Guise appeared before the gates. The garrison could have
been starved out in a month, but Guise gave England credit for energy, and would not run the
risk of a blockade. To reduce the extent of his lines, Grey abandoned the town, burnt the houses,
and withdrew into the castle. The French made their approaches in form. On the morning of Monday
the 17th they opened fire from two heavily armed batteries, and by the middle of the day they
had silenced the English guns, and made a breach which they thought practicable. A storming
party ventured an attempt: after sharp fighting the advanced columns had to retreat; but as
they drew back the batteries re-opened, and so effectively, that the coming on of night alone
saved the English from being driven at once, and on the spot, from their defences. The walls
were of the old {p.304} sort, constructed when the art of gunnery was in its infancy, and brick
and stone crumbled to ruins before the heavy cannon which had come lately into use.

Under shelter of the darkness earthworks were thrown up, which proved a better protection;
but the French on their side planted other batteries, and all Tuesday and Wednesday the terrible
bombardment was continued. The old walls were swept away; the ditch was choked with the rubbish,
and was but a foot in depth; the French trenches had been advanced close to its edge, and on
Wednesday afternoon (January 19), twelve companies of Gascons and Swiss again dashed at the
breaches. The Gascons were the first; the Swiss followed "with a stately leisure;" and a hand-to-hand
fight began all along the English works. The guns from a single tower which had been left standing
causing loss to the assailants, it was destroyed by the batteries. The fight continued till
night, when darkness as before put an end to it.

The earthworks could be again repaired, but the powder began to fail, and this loss was irreparable.
Lord Grey, going his rounds in the dark, trod upon a sword point, and was wounded in the foot.
The daylight brought the enemy again, who now succeeded in making themselves masters of the
outer line of defence. Grey, crippled as he was, when he saw his men give way, sprung to the
top of the rampart, "wishing God that some shot would take him." A soldier caught him by the
scarf and pulled him down, and all that was left of the garrison fell back, carrying their
commander with them into the keep. The gate was rammed close, but Guise could now finish his
work at his leisure, and had the English at his mercy. He sent a trumpeter in the evening to
propose a parley, and the soldiers insisted that if reasonable terms could be had, they should
be accepted. The extremity of the position was obvious, and Grey, as we have seen, was no stranger
to the law of arms in such cases. Hostages were exchanged, and the next morning the two commanders
met in the French camp.

Better terms were offered by Guise than had been granted to Calais--Grey, Sir Henry Palmer,
and a few officers should consider themselves prisoners; the rest of the garrison might depart
with their arms, and "every man a crown in his purse." Grey, however, demanded that they should
march out with their colours flying; Guise refused, and after an hour's discussion they separated
without a conclusion.

But the soldiers were insensible to nice distinctions; if they {p.305} had the reality, they
were not particular about the form. Grey lectured them on the duties of honour; for his part,
he said, he would rather die under the red cross than lose it. The soldiers replied that their
case was desperate; they would not be thrust into butchery or sell their lives for vain glory.
The dispute was at its height when the Swiss troops began to lay ladders to the walls; the
English refused to strike another blow; and Grey, on his own rule, would have deserved to be
executed had he persisted longer.

Guise's terms were accepted. He had lived to repay England for his spear wound at Boulogne,
and the last remnant of the conquests of the Plantagenets was gone.

Measured by substantial value, the loss of Calais was a gain. English princes were never again
to lay claim to the crown of France, and the possession of a fortress on French soil was a
perpetual irritation. But Calais was called the "brightest jewel in the English crown." A jewel
it was, useless, costly, but dearly prized. Over the gate of Calais had once stood the insolent
inscription:--

               "Then shall the Frenchmen Calais win,
                When iron and lead like cork shall swim:"

and the Frenchmen had won it, won it in fair and gallant fight.

CHAPTER VI.

DEATH OF MARY.

The queen would probably have found the parliament which met on the 20th of January little
better disposed towards her than its predecessor. The subsidy which should have paid the crown
debts had gone as the opposition had foretold, and the country had been dragged after all into
the war so long dreaded and so much deprecated. The forced loan of £100,000 had followed, and
money was again wanted.

But ordinary occasions of discontent disappeared in the enormous misfortune of the loss of
Calais; or rather, the loss of Calais had so humbled the nation in its own eyes, that it expected
{p.306} to be overrun with French armies in the approaching summer. The church had thriven
under Mary's munificence, but every other interest had been recklessly sacrificed. The fortresses
were without arms, the ships were unfit for service, the coast was defenceless. The parliament
postponed their complaints till the national safety had been provided for.

On the 26th, a committee, composed of thirty members of both houses, met to consider the crisis.[633]
"That no way or policy should be undevised or not thought upon," they divided themselves into
three sub-committees; and after three days' separate consultation the thirty met again, and
agreed to recommend the heaviest subsidy which had been ever granted to an English sovereign,
equivalent in modern computation to an income-tax of 20 per cent, for two years. If levied
fairly such a tax would have yielded a large return. Michele, the Venetian, says that many
London merchants were worth as much as £60,000 in money; the graziers and the merchants had
made fortunes while the people had starved. But either from hatred of the government, or else
from meanness of disposition, the money-making classes generally could not be expected to communicate
the extent of their possessions. The landowners, truly or falsely, declared that, "for the
most part, they received no more rent than they were wont to receive," "yet, paying for everything,
they provided thrice as much by reason of the baseness of the money."[634] It was calculated
that the annual proceeds of the subsidy would be no more than £140,000;[635] and even this
the House of Commons declared that the country would not bear for more than one year. They
did not choose perhaps to leave the queen at liberty to abuse their confidence by giving her
the full grant to squander on the clergy. They were unanimous that the country must and should
be defended. They admitted that the sum which they were ready to vote would fall short of the
indispensable outlay; nevertheless, when the report of the committee was laid before them they
cut it down to half. They agreed to give four shillings in the pound for one year, and to pay
it all at Midsummer. "They entreated her majesty to stay the demanding of more" until another
session of parliament. Should circumstances then require it, they promised that they {p.307}
would add whatever might be necessary; but, for the present, "if any invasion should be in
the realm, or if the enemy should seek to annoy them at home, they would have to employ themselves
with all their powers, which would not be without their great charges."[636]

                   [Footnote 633: Commons Journals.]

                   [Footnote 634: Ibid. The famous graziers and other
                   people, how well willing soever they be taken to
                   be, will not be known of their wealth, and by
                   miscontentment of their loss, be grown stubborn and
                   liberal of talk. The Council to Philip: Cotton.
                   MS. Titus, B. 2.]

                   [Footnote 635: Estimate of the money to be provided
                   for the furniture and charges of the war: MS.
                   Mary, Domestic, vol. xii.]

                   [Footnote 636: Discourse on the order that was used
                   in granting of the Subsidy: MS. Mary, Domestic,
                   vol. xii.]

The resolution of parliament decided the council in the course which they must pursue with
respect to Calais. Philip, unable to prevent the catastrophe alone, proposed to take the field
at once with a united army of English and Spaniards, to avenge it, and effect a recapture.
He laid his plans before the council. The council, in reply, thanked his majesty for his good
affection towards the realm; they would have accepted his offer on their knees had it been
possible, but the state of England obliged them to decline. The enemy, after the time which
had been allowed them, "would be in such strength that it was doubtful if by force alone they
could be expelled." If England sent out an army, it could not send less than twenty thousand
men; and the troops would go unwillingly upon a service for which they had no heart, at a time
of year when they were unused to exposure. Before the year was out £150,000 at the lowest would
have to be spent in keeping the musters of the country under arms. The navy and the defences
of the coast and of the isles, would cost £200,000, without including the losses of cannon
and military stores at Guisnes and Calais, which would have to be made good. The campaign which
Philip proposed could not cost less than a further £170,000; and so much money could not be
had "without the people should have strange impositions set upon them, which they could not
bear." There was but "a wan hope of recovering Calais," and "inconveniences might follow" if
the attempt was made and failed.[637]

                   [Footnote 637: The Council to Philip: Cotton. MSS.
                   Titus, B. 2.]

"The people have only in their heads," the council added, "the defence of the realm by land
and sea." The hated connection with Spain had produced all the evils which the opponents of
the marriage had foretold, and no good was expected from any enterprise pursued in common with
Philip. Prone as the English were to explain events by supernatural causes, they saw, like
the queen, in the misfortunes which had haunted her, an evidence that Heaven was not on her
side, and they despaired of success in anything until it could be undertaken under better auspices.
They would take care of themselves at home, and they would do no more. In reducing the subsidy,
the Commons {p.308} promised to defend the country "with the residue of their goods and life,"
to "provide every man armour and weapons according to his ability," and to insist by a special
law that it should be done.[638]

                   [Footnote 638: MS. Mary, Domestic, vol. xii.]

Every peer, knight, or gentleman, with an income above £1000 a-year, was called on to furnish
sixteen horses, with steel harness, forty corslets, coats of mail, and morions, thirty longbows,
with sheaves of arrows, and as many steelcaps, halberds, blackbills, and haquebuts. All English
subjects, in a descending scale, were required to arm others or arm themselves according to
their property.[639]

                   [Footnote 639: 4 and 5 Philip and Mary, statute 2.]

In the levies of the past summer, men had shrunk from service, and muster-masters, after the
fashion of Falstaff, had taken bribes to excuse them. On the present occasion no excuse was
to be taken, and every able-bodied man, of any rank, from sixteen to sixty, was to be ready
to take arms when called upon, and join his officers, under pain of death.[640] With these
essential orders, the business of the legislature ended, and parliament was prorogued on the
7th of March till the following November.

                   [Footnote 640: Ibid. statute 3.]

The chief immediate difficulty was to find money for present necessities. The loan was gone.
The subsidy would not come in for six months. Englefield, Waldegrave, Petre, Baker, and Sir
Walter Mildmay, were formed into a permanent committee of ways and means, with instructions
to sit daily "till some device had been arrived at."[641] Sir Thomas Gresham was sent again
to Antwerp to borrow £200,000, if possible, at fourteen per cent.[642] The queen applied in
person for a loan to the citizens of London. For security, she offered to bind the crown lands,
"so assuredly as they themselves could cause to be devised;"[643] and she promised, further,
that, if she could legally do it, she would dispense in their favour with the statute for the
limitation of usury.

                   [Footnote 641: MS. Mary, Domestic, vol. xii.]

                   [Footnote 642: Flanders MSS. Mary. The aggregate
                   of the debts to the Flanders Jews, which Elizabeth
                   inherited, cannot be prudently guessed at; and I
                   have not yet found any complete account on which I
                   can rely. It cost her, however, fifteen years of
                   economy to pay them off.]

                   [Footnote 643: Queen Mary to the Aldermen of the
                   City of London: MS. Ibid.]

To this last appeal the corporation responded with a loan of £20,000, at twelve per cent.;
the Merchant Adventurers contributed £18,000 more; and Gresham sent from Flanders from time
to time whatever he could obtain. In this way dockyards and armouries were set in activity,
and the castles on the coast were repaired.

{p.309} Yet with the masses the work of arming went forward languidly. The nation was heavy
at heart, and it was in vain that the noblemen and gentlemen endeavoured to raise men's spirits;
the black incubus of the priesthood sat upon them like a nightmare. The burnings had been suspended
while parliament was in session. On the 28th of March the work began again, and Cuthbert Simson,
the minister of a protestant congregation, was put to death in Smithfield, having been first
racked to extort from him the names of his supporters;[644] on the same day Reginald Pole,
to clear himself of the charge of heresy, sent a fresh commission to Harpsfeld, to purge the
diocese of Canterbury;[645] and the people, sick to their very souls at the abominable spectacles
which were thrust before them, sank into a sullen despondency.

                   [Footnote 644: Foxe: Burnet.]

                   [Footnote 645: Strype's Memorials, vol. vi. p.
                   120.]

The musters for Derbyshire were set down at fifteen hundred. Lord Shrewsbury raised four hundred
from among his own dependents on his estates. The magistrates declared that, owing to dearth,
want, and waste of means in the war of the last year, the "poor little county" could provide
but one hundred more.

The musters in Devonshire broke up and went to their homes. The musters in Lincolnshire mutinied.
The ringleaders in both counties were immediately hanged;[646] yet the loyalty was none the
greater. The exiled divines in Germany, believing that the people were at last ripe for insurrection,
called on them to rise and put down the tyranny which was crushing them. Goodman published
a tract on the obedience of subjects, and John Knox blew his "First Blast against the Monstrous
Regimen of Women." The queen, as if the ordinary laws of the country had no existence, sent
out a proclamation that any one who was found to have these books in his or her possession,
or who, finding such books, did not instantly burn them, should be executed as a rebel by martial
law.[647] "Affectionate as I be to my country and countrymen," said Sir Thomas Smith, "I was
ashamed of both; they went about their matters as men amazed, that wist not where to begin
or end. And what marvel was it? Here was nothing but firing, heading, hanging, quartering and
burning, taxing and levying. A few priests in white rochets ruled all, who with setting up
of six-foot roods and rebuilding of roodlofts, thought to make all sure."

                   [Footnote 646: Privy Council Register, MS. Mary.]

                   [Footnote 647: Royal Proclamation, June 6, 1558:
                   Strype's Memorials, vol. vi.; Foxe, vol. xiii.]

With the summer, fever and ague set in like a pestilence, {p.310} "God did so punish the realm,"
said Sir Thomas Smith again, "with quartan agues, and with such other long and new sicknesses,
that in the last two years of the reign of Queen Mary, so many of her subjects was made away,
what with the execution of sword and fire, what by sicknesses, that the third part of the men
of England were consumed."[648] In the spring, the queen, misled by the same symptoms which
had deceived her before, had again fancied herself enceinte. She made her will in the avowed
expectation that she was about to undergo the perils of childbearing. She wrote for her husband
to come to her. She sent the fleet into the Channel, and laid relays of horses along the roads
to London from Dover and from Harwich, that he might choose at which port to land.

                   [Footnote 648: Oration on the Queen's Marriage:
                   Strype's Life of Sir Thomas Smith.]

Philip so far humoured the fancy, which he must have known to be delusive, that he sent the
Count de Feria to congratulate her. Her letter, he said, contained the best news which he had
heard since the loss of Calais. But the bubble broke soon. Mary had parted from her husband
on the 5th of the preceding July, and her suspense, therefore, was not long protracted. It
is scarcely necessary to say in what direction her second disappointment vented itself.

Cranmer alone hitherto had suffered after recantation; to others, pardon had continued to be
offered to the last moment. But this poor mercy was now extinguished. A man in Hampshire, named
Bembridge, exclaimed at the point of execution that he would submit; a form was produced on
the spot, which Bembridge signed, and the sheriff, Sir Richard Pexall, reprieved him by his
own authority. But a letter of council came instantly to Pexall, that "the queen's majesty
could not but find it very strange" that he had saved from punishment a man condemned for heresy:
the execution was to proceed out of hand; and "if the prisoner continued in the Catholic faith,
as he pretended," "some discreet and learned man might be present with him in his death, for
the aiding of him to die God's servant."[649] Bembridge was accordingly burnt, and the sheriff,
for the lenity which he had dare to show, was committed to the Fleet. Whole detachments of
men and women were again slaughtered in London; and the queen, exasperated at the determination
with which the populace cheered the sufferers with their sympathy, sent out a proclamation
forbidding her subjects to approach, touch, speak to, or comfort heretics on {p.311} their
way to execution, under pain of death. Shortly after, a congregation of Protestants were detected
at a prayer-meeting in a field near the city; thirteen were taken as prisoners before Bonner,
and seven were burnt at Smithfield together on the 28th of June. The people replied to the
queen's menaces by crowding about the stake with passionate demonstrations of affection, and
Thomas Bentham, a friend of Lever the preacher, when the faggots were lighted, stood out in
the presence of the throng, and cried:

                   [Footnote 649: Privy Council Register, MS.]

"We know that they are the people of God, and therefore we cannot choose but wish well to them
and say, God strengthen them. God almighty, for Christ's sake, strengthen them."

The multitude shouted, in reply, "Amen, Amen."[650]

                   [Footnote 650: Bentham to Lever: Strype's
                   Memorials, vol. vi.]

Alarmed himself, this time, at the display of emotion, Bonner dared not outrage the metropolis
with the deaths of the remaining six. Yet, not to let them escape him, he tried them privately
in his own house at Fulham, and burnt them at Brentford at night in the darkness.[651]

                   [Footnote 651: "This fact," says Foxe, "purchased
                   him more hatred than any that he had done of the
                   common people."]

So fared the Protestants, murdered to propitiate Providence, and, if possible, extort for the
queen a return of the Divine favour. The alarm of invasion diminished as summer advanced. England
had again a fleet upon the seas which feared no enemy, and could even act on the offensive.
In May, two hundred and forty ships, large and small, were collected at Portsmouth;[652] and
on the day of the burning at Brentford, accident gave a small squadron among them a share in
a considerable victory.

                   [Footnote 652: Swift to the Earl of Shrewsbury:
                   Lodge's Illustrations.]

Lord Clinton, who was now admiral in the place of Howard, after an ineffectual cruise in the
south of the Channel, returned to Portsmouth on the 8th of July. A few vessels remained in
the neighbourhood of Calais, when M. de Thermes, whom the Duke of Guise left in command there,
with the garrison of Boulogne, some levies collected in Picardy, and his own troops, in all
about 9000 men, ventured an inroad into the Low Countries, took Dunkirk, and plundered it.
Not caring to penetrate further, he was retreating with his booty, when Count Egmont, with
a few thousand Burgundians and Flemings, cut in at Gravelines between the French and their
own frontiers. They had no means of passing, except at low water, between the town of Gravelines
and the sea, and the English ships, which were in {p.312} communication with Egmont, stood
in as near as they could venture, so as to command the sands.

De Thermes, obliged to advance when the tide would permit him, dashed at the dangerous passage;
the guns of Gravelines on one side, the guns of the English vessels on the other, tore his
ranks to pieces, and Egmont charging when their confusion was at its worst, the French were
almost annihilated. Five thousand were killed, De Thermes himself, Senarpont of Boulogne, the
Governor of Picardy, and many other men of note, were taken. If Clinton had been at hand with
the strength of the fleet, and a dash had been made at Calais by land and sea, it would have
been recovered more easily than it had been lost. But fortune had no such favour to bestow
on Queen Mary. Clinton was still loitering at Spithead, and when news of the action came it
was too late.

The plan of the naval campaign for the season was to attack Brest with the united strength
of England and Flanders, and hold it as a security for the restoration of Calais at the peace.
It was for the arrival of his allies that Clinton had been waiting, and it was only at the
end of the month that the combined fleet, a hundred and forty sail, left Portsmouth for the
coast of Brittany. They appeared duly off Brest; yet, when their object was before them, they
changed their minds on the feasibility of their enterprise; and leaving their original design
they landed a force at Conquêt, which they plundered and burnt, and afterwards destroyed some
other villages in the neighbourhood. The achievement was not a very splendid one. Four or five
hundred Flemings who ventured too far from the fleet were cut off; and as the Duke d'Estampes
was said to be coming up with 20,000 men, Clinton re-embarked his men in haste, returned to
Portsmouth, after an ineffectual and merely mischievous demonstration, and then reported the
sickness in the fleet so considerable, that the operations for the season must be considered
at an end.[653]

                   [Footnote 653: MS. Mary, Domestic, vol. xiii.]

In the meantime, the contending princes in their own persons, Philip with the powers of the
Low Countries and Spain, Henry with the whole available strength of France, sate watching each
other in entrenched camps upon the Somme. The French king, with the recollection of St. Quentin
fresh upon him, would not risk a second such defeat. Philip would not hazard his late advantage
by forcing an action which might lose for him all that he had gained. In the pause, the conviction
came slowly over both, that there was no need for further bloodshed, and that the {p.313} long,
weary, profitless war might at last have an end. A mighty revolution had passed over Europe
since Francis first led an army over the Alps. The world had passed into a new era; and the
question of strength had to be tried, not any more between Spaniard and Frenchman, but between
Protestant and Catholic. Already the disciples of Calvin threatened the Church of France; Holland
was vexing the superstition of Philip, and the Protestants in Scotland were breaking from the
hand of Mary of Guise: more and more the Catholic princes felt the want of a general council,
that the questions of the day might be taken hold of firmly, and the Inquisition be set to
work on some resolute principle of concert.

On September 21, the emperor passed away in his retirement at St. Just. With him perished the
traditions and passions of which he was the last representative, and a new page was turning
in the history of mankind. Essential ground of quarrel between Henry and Philip there was none;
the outward accidental ground--the claims on Milan and Naples, Savoy and Navarre--had been
rendered easy of settlement by the conquest of Calais, and by the marriage which was consummated
a few weeks after Guise's victory, between the Dauphin and the Queen of Scots.

Satisfied with the triumph of a policy which had annexed the crown of Scotland to France, and
with having driven the English by main strength from their last foothold on French soil, Henry
could now be content to evacuate Savoy and Piedmont, if Philip, on his side, would repeat the
desertion of Crêpy, and having brought England into the war, would leave her to endure her
own losses, or avenge them by her single strength. With this secret meaning on the part of
France, an overture for a peace was commenced in the autumn of 1558, through the mediation
of the Duchess of Lorraine. An armistice was agreed upon, and the first conference was held
at the abbey of Cercamp, where Arundel, Wotton, and Thirlby attended as the representatives
of England.

How far Philip would consent to an arrangement so perfidious towards the country of which he
was the nominal sovereign, depended, first, on the life of the queen. The titular King of England
could by no fiction or pretext relieve himself of the duties which the designation imposed
upon him; and if the English were deserted their resentment would explode in a revolution of
which Mary would be the instant victim.[654]

                   [Footnote 654: Renard found it necessary to warn
                   Philip of this, in a despatch written in October:
                   Granvelle Papers, vol. v. p. 225.]

{p.314} Mary, indeed, would soon cease to be a difficulty. She was attacked in September by
the fever which was carrying off so many of her subjects. The fresh disease aggravated her
constitutional disorder, and her days were drawing fast to their end. But Philip's hold on
England need not perish with the death of his wife, if he could persuade her sister to take
her place. His policy, therefore, was for the present to linger out the negotiations; to identify
in appearance his own and the English interests, and to wait the events of the winter.

At the opening of the conference it was immediately evident that France would not part with
Calais. The English commissioners had been ordered to take no part in the discussion, unless
the restitution was agreed on as a preliminary; and when they made their demand, Henry replied
that "he would hazard his crown rather than forego his conquest."[655] The resolution was expressed
decisively; and they saw, or thought they saw, so much indifference in the Spanish representatives,
that they at first intended to return to England on the spot.

                   [Footnote 655: Arundel, Thirlby, and Wotton to the
                   Council: French MSS., bundle 13.]

"To our minds," they wrote, "Calais is so necessary to be had again for the quieting of the
world's mind in England, and it should so much offend and exasperate England, if any peace
was made without restitution of it, that, for our part, no earthly private commodity nor profit
could induce us thereto, nor nothing could be more grievous to us than to be ministers therein."[656]

                   [Footnote 656: Ibid.]

They were on the point of departure, when a letter from Philip required them to remain at their
posts. Contrary to their expectation, the king promised to support England in insisting on
the restoration, and his own commissioners were instructed equally to agree to nothing unless
it was conceded.[657] Thus for a time the negotiation remained suspended till events should
clear up the course which the different parties would follow.

                   [Footnote 657: Philip to the English Ambassador,
                   October 30: Ibid.]

And these events, or the one great event, was now close, and the shadows were drawing down
over the life of the unfortunate Mary. Amidst discontent and misery at home, disgrace and failure
abroad, the fantastic comparisons, the delirious analogies, the child which was to be born
of the Virgin Mary for the salvation of mankind--where were now these visionary and humiliating
dreams?

{p.315} On the 6th of October, the privy council were summoned to London "for great and urgent
affairs." At the beginning of November three men and two women suffered at Canterbury. They
were the last who were put to death, and had been presented by Pole in person to be visited
"with condign punishment."[658] On the 5th, parliament met, and the promised second subsidy
was demanded, but the session was too brief for a resolution. The queen's life, at the time
of the opening, was a question perhaps of hours, at most of days; and aware of what was impending,
Philip despatched the Count de Feria to her with a desire that she should offer no objections
to the succession of Elizabeth.

                   [Footnote 658: "Condigna animadversione
                   plectendos."--Wilkins's Concilia, vol. iv.]

The count reached London on the 9th of November. He was admitted to an interview, and the queen,
too brave to repine at what was now inevitable, and anxious to the last to please her husband,
declared herself "well content" that it should be as he wished; she entreated only that her
debts might be paid, and that "religion" should not be changed.

Leaving Mary's deathbed, De Feria informed the council of the king's request, and from the
council hastened to the house of Lord Clinton, a few miles from London, where Elizabeth was
staying. In Philip's name, he informed her that her succession was assured; his master had
used his influence in her favour, and no opposition need be anticipated.

Elizabeth listened graciously. That Philip's services to her, however, had been so considerable
as De Feria told her, she was unable to allow. She admitted, and admitted thankfully, the good
offices which he had shown to her when she was at Woodstock. She was perhaps ignorant that
it was for the safety of Philip's life that her own had been so nearly sacrificed; that Philip's
interest in her succession had commenced only when his own appeared impossible. But she knew
how narrow had been her escape; she had neither forgotten her danger, nor ceased to resent
her treatment. It was to the people of England, she told the count, that she owed her real
gratitude. The people had saved her from destruction; the people had prevented her sister from
changing the settlement of the crown. She would be the people's queen, and she would reign
in the people's interest.

De Feria feared, from what she said, that "in religion she would not go right." The ladies
by whom she was surrounded were suspected; Sir William Cecil, whose conformity was as transparent
then as it is now, would be her principal secretary; {p.316} and the count observed, with a
foreboding of evil, that "she had an admiration for the king her father's mode of ruling;"
and that of the legate she spoke with cold severity.[659]

                   [Footnote 659: Report of the Count de Feria:
                   Tytler, vol. ii. p. 494. Memorial of the Duchess
                   of Feria, MS., quoted by Lingard.]

It is possible that Pole was made acquainted with Elizabeth's feelings towards him. To himself
personally, those feelings were of little moment, for he, too, like the queen, was dying--dying
to be spared a second exile, and the wretchedness of seeing with his eyes the dissolution of
the phantom fabric which he had given the labours of his life to build.

Yet what he did not live to behold he could not have failed to anticipate. The spirit of Henry
VIII. was rising from the grave to scatter his work to all the winds; while he, the champion
of Heaven, the destroyer of heresy, was lying himself under a charge of the same crime, with
the pope for his accuser. Without straining too far the licence of imagination, we may believe
that the disease which was destroying him was chiefly a broken heart. But it was painful to
him to lie under the ill opinion of the person who was so soon to be on the throne of England;
and possibly he wished to leave her, as a legacy, the warning entreaties of a dying man.

Three days after De Feria's visit, therefore, Pole sent the Dean of Worcester to Elizabeth
with a message, the import of which is unknown; and a short letter, as the dean's credentials,
saying only that the legate desired, before he should depart, to leave all persons satisfied
of him, and especially her grace.[660]

                   [Footnote 660: Cotton. MS. Vespasian. F. 3. The
                   letter is written in a shaking hand. The address is
                   lost, and being dated the 14th of November, while
                   Mary was still alive, it has been described as to
                   her and not to her sister. But an endorsement "From
                   the queen's majesty at Hatfield," leaves no doubt
                   to whom it was written.]

This was the 14th of November. The same day, or the day after, a
lady-in-waiting carried the queen's last wishes to her successor. They
were the same which she had already mentioned to De Feria--that her
debts should be paid, and that the Catholic religion might be
maintained, with an additional request that her servants should be
properly cared for.[661] Then, taking leave of a world in which she
had played so ill a part, she prepared, with quiet piety, for the end.
On the 16th, at midnight, she received the last rites of the church.
Towards {p.317} morning, as she was sinking, mass was said at her
bedside. At the elevation of the Host, unable to speak or move, she
fixed her eyes upon the body of her Lord; and as the last words of the
benediction were uttered, her head sunk, and she was gone. The
                   story is not particularly characteristic, but
                   having come somehow into existence, there is no
                   reason why it should not continue to be believed.]

A few hours later (November 17), at Lambeth, Pole followed her, and the reign of the pope of
England, and the reign of terror, closed together.

No English sovereign ever ascended the throne with larger popularity than Mary Tudor. The country
was eager to atone to her for her mother's injuries; and the instinctive loyalty of the English
towards their natural sovereign was enhanced by the abortive efforts of Northumberland to rob
her of her inheritance. In that brief time she had swathed her name in the horrid epithet which
will cling to it for ever; and yet from the passions which in general tempt sovereigns into
crime, she was entirely free: to the time of her accession she had lived a blameless, and,
in many respects, a noble life; and few men or women have lived less capable of doing knowingly
a wrong thing.

Philip's conduct, which could not extinguish her passion for him, and the collapse of the inflated
imaginations which had surrounded her supposed pregnancy, it can hardly be doubted, affected
her sanity. Those forlorn hours when she would sit on the ground with her knees drawn to her
face; those restless days and nights when, like a ghost, she would wander about the palace
galleries, rousing herself only to write tear-blotted letters to her husband; those bursts
of fury over the libels dropped in her way; or the marchings in procession behind the host
in the London streets--these are all symptoms of hysterical derangement, and leave little room,
as we think of her, for other feelings than pity. But if Mary was insane, the madness was of
a kind which placed her absolutely under her spiritual directors; and the responsibility for
her cruelties, if responsibility be anything but a name, rests first with Gardiner, who commenced
them, and, secondly, and in a higher degree, with Reginald Pole. Because Pole, with the council,
once interfered to prevent an imprudent massacre in Smithfield; because, being legate, he left
the common duties of his diocese to subordinates, he is not to be held innocent of atrocities
which could neither have been commenced nor continued without his sanction; and he was notoriously
the one person in the council whom the queen {p.318} absolutely trusted. The revenge of the
clergy for their past humiliations, and the too natural tendency of an oppressed party to abuse
suddenly recovered power, combined to originate the Marian persecution. The rebellions and
massacres, the political scandals, the universal suffering throughout the country during Edward's
minority, had created a general bitterness in all classes against the Reformers; the Catholics
could appeal with justice to the apparent consequences of heretical opinions; and when the
reforming preachers themselves denounced so loudly the irreligion which had attended their
success, there was little wonder that the world took them at their word, and was ready to permit
the use of strong suppressive measures to keep down the unruly tendencies of uncontrolled fanatics.

But neither these nor any other feelings of English growth could have produced the scenes which
have stamped this unhappy reign with a character so frightful. The parliament which re-enacted
the Lollard statutes, had refused to restore the Six Articles as being too severe; yet under
the Six Articles twenty-one persons only suffered in six years; while, perhaps, not twice as
many more had been executed under the earlier acts in the century and a half in which they
had stood on the Statute roll. The harshness of the law confined the action of it to men who
were definitely dangerous; and when the bishops' powers were given back to them, there was
little anticipation of the manner in which those powers would be misused.

And that except from some special influences they would not have been thus misused, the local
character of the persecution may be taken to prove. The storm was violent only in London, in
Essex, which was in the diocese of London, and in Canterbury. It raged long after the death
of Gardiner; and Gardiner, though he made the beginning, ceased after the first few months
to take further part in it. The Bishop of Winchester would have had a persecution, and a keen
one; but the fervour of others left his lagging zeal far behind.

The language of the legate to the city of London shows the devout sincerity with which he held
that opinion himself. Through him, and sustained by his authority, the queen held it; and by
these two the ecclesiastical government of England was conducted.

{p.319} Archbishop Parker, who succeeded Pole at Canterbury, and had therefore the best opportunity
of knowing what his conduct had really been, called him Carnifex et flagellum Ecclesæ Anglicanæ,
the hangman and the scourge of the Church of England. His character was irreproachable; in
all the virtues of the Catholic Church he walked without spot or stain; and the system to which
he had surrendered himself had left to him of the common selfishnesses of mankind his enormous
vanity alone. But that system had extinguished also in him the human instincts, the genial
emotions by which theological theories stand especially in need to be corrected. He belonged
to a class of persons at all times numerous, in whom enthusiasm takes the place of understanding;
who are men of an "idea;" and unable to accept human things as they are, are passionate loyalists,
passionate churchmen, passionate revolutionists, as the accidents of their age may determine.
Happily for the welfare of mankind, persons so constituted rarely arrive at power: should power
come to them, they use it, as Pole used it, to defeat the ends which are nearest to their hearts.

The teachers who finally converted the English nation to Protestantism were not the declaimers
from the pulpit, nor the voluminous controversialists with the pen. These, indeed, could produce
arguments which, to those who were already convinced, seemed as if they ought to produce conviction;
but conviction did not follow till the fruits of the doctrine bore witness to the spirit from
which it came. The evangelical teachers, caring only to be allowed to develop their own opinions,
and persecute their opponents, had walked hand in hand with men who had spared neither tomb
nor altar, who had stripped the lead from the church roofs, and stolen the bells from the church
towers; and between them they had so outraged such plain honest minds as remained in England,
that had Mary been content with mild repression, had she left the pope to those who loved him,
and married, instead of Philip, some English lord, the mass would have retained its place,
the clergy in moderate form would have resumed their old authority, and the Reformation would
have waited for a century. In an evil hour, the queen listened to the unwise advisers, who
told her that moderation in religion was the sin of the Laodicæans; and while the fanatics
who had brought scandal on the Reforming cause, either truckled, like Shaxton, or stole abroad
to wrangle over surplices and forms of prayer, the true and the good atoned with their lives
for the crimes of others, and vindicated a noble cause by nobly dying for it.

{p.320} And while among the Reformers that which was most bright and excellent shone out with
preternatural lustre, so were the Catholics permitted to exhibit also the preternatural features
of the creed which was expiring.

Although Pole and Mary could have laid their hands on earl and baron, knight and gentleman,
whose heresy was notorious, although in the queen's own guard there were many who never listened
to a mass,[662] they dared not strike where there was danger that they would be struck in return.
They went out into the highways and hedges; they gathered up the lame, the halt, and the blind;
they took the weaver from his loom, the carpenter from his workshop, the husbandman from his
plough; they laid hands on maidens and boys "who had never heard of any other religion than
that which they were called on to abjure;"[663] old men tottering into the grave, and children
whose lips could but just lisp the articles of their creed; and of these they made their burnt-offerings;
with these they crowded their prisons, and when filth and famine killed them, they flung them
out to rot. How long England would have endured the repetition of the horrid spectacles is
hard to say. The persecution lasted three years, and in that time something less than 300 persons
were burnt at the stake.[664] "By imprisonment," said Lord Burghley, "by torment, by famine,
by fire, almost the number of 400 were," in their various ways, "lamentably destroyed."

                   [Footnote 662: Underhill's Narrative.]

                   [Footnote 663: Burghley's Execution of Justice.]

                   [Footnote 664: The number is variously computed at
                   270, 280, and 290.]

Yet, as has been already said, interference was impossible except by armed force. The country
knew from the first that by the course of nature the period of cruelty must be a brief one;
it knew that a successful rebellion is at best a calamity; and the bravest and wisest men would
not injure an illustrious cause by conduct less than worthy of it, so long as endurance was
possible. They had saved Elizabeth's life and Elizabeth's rights, and Elizabeth, when her time
came, would deliver her subjects. The Catholics, therefore, were permitted to continue their
cruelties till the cup of iniquity was full; till they had taught the educated laity of England
to regard them with horror; and till the Romanist superstition had died, amidst the execrations
of the people, of its own excess.

{p.321} INDEX

    Abergavenny, Lord, 90, 92-6, 177.
    d'Aguilar, 139.
    Alexander, Mr., 296.
    Alva, Duke of, 139-43, 165, 171, 210, 275, 276, 285, 292.
    Annates, payment of, 239, 240.
    Arnold, Sir Nicholas, 114, 260.
    Arras, Bishop of, 38, 60, 61, 85, 119, 150, 155, 208.
    Arundel, Lord, 13, 18, 21, 22, 28, 42, 43, 116, 171, 313, 314.
    "Arundel's," 262.
    Ashley, Mrs., 217.
    Ashridge, Elizabeth at, 217.
    Ashton, Christopher, 260-2.
    Askew, Anne, 201, 202.
    Astley Park, 101.
    Aucher, Mr., 296.
    Augsburg, Cardinal of, 190.
    Aylmer, 70.

    Bagenall, Sir Ralph, 170.
    Baker, 308.
    Baoardo's History, 1, 10, 20, 28, 35, 40, 92, 100, 102,
      111, 112, 141-3.
    Barlow, Bishop, 47.
    Bath, Earl of, 11, 71.
    Baynard's Castle, 18.
    Bedford, Lord, 34, 83, 129, 136.
    Bedingfield, Sir Henry, 11, 215.
    Bedyll, 267, 268.
    Bembridge, 310.
    Bentham, Thos., 311.
    Berkeley, Sir Maurice, 109.
    Binifield, 268.
    Bird, Bishop, 47.
    Bishops Authority Bill, 133;
      creation of new, 119;
      requests to the, 176, 177;
      Mary's letter to the, 212.
    Blacklock, 263.
    Bocher, Joan, 135.
    Bonner, Edmond, 32, 47, 83, 155, 190, 197, 201, 202, 212, 223,
      232, 235, 245, 246, 257, 278, 280, 311.
    Bourne, Dr., 34, 37, 68, 116, 180.
    Bradford, Bishop, 37, 191, 196.
    Bradford, John, 220-2.
    Bray, Sir Ed., 95, 268.
    Brett, Captain, 95, 107-9, 114.
    Bromley, Sir Thos., 46, 132.
    Brookes, Bishop of Gloucester, 224.
    Brown, Sir Anthony, 141.
    Brydges, Sir John, 104, 112, 119, 126, 135, 178, 194, 252.
    Bucer, Martin, 281.
    Burghley, Lord, 320.
    Burnet, referred to, 67, 118, 149, 150, 157, 189, 193, 211,
      212, 281, 288, 309.
    Bush, Paul, 47.
    Bushing, 296.

    Calais, 294-305, 314.
    Caraffa, Cardinal, see Paul IV.
    Cardmaker, 191, 213.
    Carew, Sir Gawen, 110.
    Carew, Sir Peter, 11, 87-90, 120-2, 140, 157.
    Castaldo, John Baptiste, 145.
    Castro, Alphonse, 197.
    Cathie, Catherine, 281.
    Causton, Thos., 201.
    Cava, meeting at, 292.
    Cecil, Sir Wm., 15, 23, 161, 315.
    Celi, Medina, 139.
    Celibacy of clergy, 47, 70.
    Cercamp, conference at, 313.
    Cervino, Marcellus, 206, 210.
    Champernowne, Sir Arthur, 88, 89.
    Chandos, Lord, see Brydges.
    Chappelle, Admiral, 136.
    Charles V., 24, 25, 29, 30, 51, 55-7, 67, 83, 84, 94, 110,
      114-19, 144, 151, 159, 161, 218, 223.
    Cheke, Sir John, 6, 15, 20.
    Cheny, 70.
    Cheyne, Sir Thos., 15, 16, 91, 92, 95, 96, 104, 116.
    Chichester, Bishop of, see Scory.
    Chichester, Sir John, 88, 89, 262.
    Cholmley, Judge, 28.
    Christopherson, Bishop, 281.
    Church property secularised, 176, 178, 179.
    Clarence, Lady, 72, 216.
    Clarke, George, 93.
    Clinton, Lord, 23, 106, 311, 312, 315.
    Cobham, Lord, 13, 90, 91, 94-6, 109, 114, 127, 164.
    Cole, 253, 254.
    Colebrook, meeting at, 215.
    Coligny, Admiral, 290.
    Commendone, Cardinal, 53, 54, 67.
    Commons Journals, quoted, 133, 232, 239, 240.
    Conquêt, plundering of, 312.
    Convocation, demands of the Lower House, 176, 177.
    Cornwallis, Sir Thos., 97, 107, 114, 116, 123, 295.
    Coronation Oath, 60.
    Corry, Thos., 120.
    de Courières, 2, 83, 85.
    Cotton MSS., 81, 225, 243, 306, 307.
    Courtenay, Lord, 6, 24, 30, 37-9, 59, 69-71, 76, 87-91, 103, 107,
      110, 113-16, 130, 131, 162, 198, 262, 272.
    Coventry, 100.
    Coverdale, Miles, 47, 134, 206.
    Cowling Castle, 96, 164.
    Cranmer, Thos., 15, 20, 48, 74, 110, 118, 134, 165, 212, 224-34,
      245-59.
    Crofts, Sir James, 23, 87, 102, 110, 114, 157.

    Dalaber, Anthony, 203.
    Daniel, John, 262, 263, 266, 268.
    Darcy, 116.
    Day, Bishop, 32, 47.
    Debts of the Crown, 33.
    Delaware, Lord, 268.
    Dennys, Sir Thos., 90.
    Derby, Earl of, 11, 36, 37, 71, 83, 116, 136.
    Derick, 267, 268.
    Desmond, Earl of, 278.
    Devonshire, Earl of, 273, 274.
    Dives, Louis, 296.
    Doria, Andrea, 145.
    Drury, Sir Wm., 11.
    Dudley, Lord Ambrose, 23, 28, 74.
    Dudley, Sir Andrew, 17, 40-2.
    Dudley, Lord Guilford, 4, 5, 10, 74.
    Dudley, Lord Henry, 12, 74.
    Dudley, Sir Henry, 260, 263-7.
    Dudley, Lord Robert, 23, 28.
    Dunkirk, plundering of, 311.
    Durham, Bishop of, 164.
    Dymocke, Sir Ed., 61.

    Edgecumbe, Sir Richard, 90.
    Edward VI., 1-3, 35, 36.
    Egmont, Count, 83, 85, 98, 115, 139, 311.
    Elder, John, 141.
    Elizabeth Tudor, 30-2, 57, 76-8, 93, 94, 103, 110, 114, 115,
      122-31, 136, 155, 162, 199, 200, 213-19, 236, 315-320.
    d'Enghien, Duc, 291.
    Englefield, Sir Francis, 71, 267, 268, 308.
    d'Estampes, Duke, 312.
    Exeter, Marchioness of, 69.

    Fagius, Paul, 281.
    Famine in England, 277.
    Feckenham, Abbot, 68, 111, 277.
    Feria, Count de, 139, 310, 315.
    Ferrars, Robert, 47, 134, 203-6.
    Fitzgerald, 23.
    Fitzwalter, Lord, 129.
    Fitzwarren, 23.
    Flanders MSS., 85.
    Flower, Wm., 206.
    Foxe, quoted, 16, 17, 22, 23, 48, 68, 70, 130, 173, 191, 196,
      197, 200, 202, 213, 214, 216, 224, 225, 232-5, 245, 246, 253,
      269, 270, 281, 282, 309.
    Framlingham, 21.

    Gage, Sir John, 107, 108, 116, 126, 130.
    Gardiner, Stephen, 28, 30, 33, 36, 41, 47, 56-63, 72-6, 83, 89,
      91-7, 103, 106, 109, 114-23, 132-5, 162, 171, 172, 175, 177,
      190, 196-7, 208, 223, 237, 238.
    Gates, Sir Henry, 40-2.
    Gates, Sir John, 14, 40-5.
    Goldwell, Thos., 81.
    Gomez, Ruy, 171, 185, 186.
    Gonzaga, Hernando de, 139, 145.
    Goodman, 309.
    Granvelle Papers, 3, 8, 13, 18, 19, 25, 27, 32, 37-9, 47, 55,
      56, 61, 64, 85, 92, 97, 105, 115, 116, 119, 137, 139, 147,
      150, 151, 155-7, 162, 176, 178, 179, 185, 186, 197-9, 200,
      214, 216, 313.
    Gravelines, Cardinal Pole at, 162.
    Great Bill, the, 180-2.
    Greenwich, disturbance at, 60.
    Gresham, Sir Thos., 84, 139, 208, 209, 308.
    Grey, Lady Jane, 4-20, 31, 39, 44, 74, 100, 110, 111.
    Grey, Lord John, 87, 92, 102, 110, 178.
    Grey, Lord Leonard, 87.
    Grey, Lord Thomas, 87, 90, 92, 101, 102, 106, 110, 116, 135.
    Grey, de Wilton, Lord, 12, 23, 28, 295-304.
    Grey, Sir Arthur, 296.
    Grey Friars Chronicle, see Machyn.
    Griffin, Maurice, 212.
    Guise, Duke of, 285, 291, 297-305.
    Guisnes, 294-9, 302, 303.
    Gybbes, Mr., 88, 89.

    Hambletue, 298.
    Hammes, 294, 296, 299, 303.
    Hampton Court, Mary at, 208;
      Elizabeth at, 215.
    Harding, 269.
    Harleian MSS., 20, 24, 35, 42, 45, 61, 112, 127, 130, 153, 166,
      170, 244, 252-4, 257, 258.
    Harley, Bishop of Hereford, 67.
    Harper, Sir George, 93, 95, 105, 107.
    Harpsfeld, 69, 163, 212, 234, 309.
    Harrington, Sir John, 263.
    Hastings, Sir Ed., 11, 34, 83, 97, 114, 116, 123, 160, 162, 267.
    Hastings, Lord, 163.
    Hawkes, 201.
    Heath, Bishop, 32, 43, 47.
    Heneage, 266.
    Henry of France, 24, 25, 86, 121, 138, 144, 275-7, 312, 313.
    Heresy Bill, 134.
    Heresy, Commission on, 280, 281.
    Higbed, Thos., 201.
    Hoby, Sir Philip, 24, 83.
    Holgate, Archbishop, 47.
    Holinshed quoted, 8, 9, 22, 98, 108, 124, 128-31, 216, 242.
    Holyman, Bishop of Bristol, 224.
    Hooper, Bishop, 47, 134, 190-6.
    Hormolden, Edgar, 120.
    Horn, Count, 115, 139.
    Horsey, Ned, 262, 263.
    Hot Gospeller, see Underhill.
    Howard, Lord Wm., 25, 85, 95, 99, 104, 108, 114, 116, 129, 136,
      140, 155, 178, 198, 199, 215, 269, 271, 287.
    Hunter, 201-3.
    Huntingdon, Earl of, 100-2, 110, 136, 163.

    Inglefield, 116.
    Irish, Mr., 231.
    Isly, Sir Henry, 92, 110.
    Italy, Philip's invasion of, 290.

    Jenkins quoted, 224, 250, 252, 253.
    Jerningham, Sir Henry, 15, 93, 116, 267.
    Joanna of Castile, 215.
    Julius III., Pope, 53-5, 81, 148, 175, 206.

    Karne, Sir Ed., 287, 288.
    Keninghal, 3.
    Killegrew, Henry, 272, 273.
    Kingston, Sir Anthony, 193, 194, 260-2, 266.
    Kingston, Wyatt at, 105.
    Knight, 201.
    Knox, John, 16.
    Knyvet, Anthony, 93, 105-9.

    Lalaing, Count de, 83, 85.
    Lansdowne MSS., 21.
    Latimer, Bishop, 48, 110, 118, 134, 161, 224-34.
    Lawrence, 201.
    Lee, Sir Henry, 233.
    Leicester, rising at, 100.
    Lennox, Lady, 76, 77.
    Lingard, Dr., 223.
    Loans, raising of, 308.
    Lodge quoted, 239, 267.
    Lollard statutes, 178.
    London Bridge, closing of, 99, 104.
    Longueville, Duke de, 291.
    Lords Journals quoted, 132, 135, 240.
    Lorraine, Cardinal of, 208, 236.
    Low Countries, campaign in, 144, 207.

    Machyn, 1, 12, 28, 30, 32, 33, 85, 137, 208, 209, 219, 270, 277.
    Markham, Wm., 107.
    Marsh, George, 206.
    Martin, Dr., 224.
    Martyn, Peter, 46, 47, 231, 281.
    Mary, Chronicles of Queen, 100, 109, 111-13, 127, 130, 153.
    Mary, Queen of Scots, 79, 122.
    Mason, Sir John, 13, 19, 35, 145, 161, 176, 295.
    Mendoza, Diego de, 65, 139.
    Merchant adventurers, loan of the, 308.
    Mewtas, Sir Peter, 260.
    Michele, Giovanni, 98, 241, 306.
    Mildmay, Sir Walter, 308.
    Mohun's Ottery, 88-90.
    Money, shortage of, 239.
    Mordaunt, Lord, 11.
    Moreman, Dr., 70.
    Montague, Judge, 28, 46.
    Montague, Lord, 163, 165, 178, 236.
    Montmorency, 86, 208, 210, 269, 291.
    Montpensier, Duke de, 291.
    Morgan, Bishop, 206.
    Morone, Cardinal, 148, 149, 151.
    Mortmain, Statute of, 176;
      suspended, 184.
    Mountain, Thos., 62.

    Namur attacked, 144, 145.
    Navas, Marquis delas, 138.
    Newhall, 27.
    Newnham Bridge, 299.
    Nichols, John Gough, 6.
    de Nigry, 83, 85.
    Noailles referred to, 7, 12, 19, 25, 30, 36, 46, 57-9, 60-2, 67,
      74, 77-80, 86, 87, 90, 92, 98, 99, 103, 114, 121, 122, 125, 129,
      130, 135, 137, 138, 140, 141, 153, 154, 166, 180, 187, 192, 206,
      209, 210, 214, 218, 219, 220, 222, 236, 237, 239, 241, 242, 244,
      264, 265, 269, 271, 272, 285.
    Norfolk, Duke of, 28, 30, 39, 93.
    North, Lord, 178, 214.
    Northampton, Marquis of, 23, 28, 31-42, 87, 127.
    Northumberland, Duke of, 3, 11-22, 28, 31, 39-42, 43, 44.
    Norton, Anthony, 90, 91.
    Nowel, Alexander, 67.

    Oatlands, Mary at, 219.
    Oldcastle, Sir John, 96.
    Oliver, Dr., 228.
    Ormaneto, 150, 281, 289.
    Ormond, Lord, 23, 93.
    Oxford, Earl of, 18, 177, 264.
    Oxford, Annals of University of, 282.
    d'Oysel, 86, 87.

    Paget, Lord, 15, 21, 28, 68, 71, 73, 76, 79, 80, 93, 103, 116,
      118, 123-7, 132-5, 139, 160, 162, 197, 208, 269.
    Paleano, seizure of, 275.
    Pallavicino, quoted, 53, 175.
    Palmer, Sir Henry, 13, 296, 297, 304.
    Palmer, Sir Thomas, 13, 40-2, 45, 46.
    Parker, Archbishop, 319.
    Parsons, 41.
    Paul IV., 210, 236, 239, 275, 287-9, 292.
    Peckham, Sir Edmund, 11.
    Peckham, Sir Henry, 260-4, 266-8.
    Pelham, 105.
    Pembroke, Earl of, 14, 16, 18-20, 36, 37, 98, 106-8, 116, 135,
      154, 208, 277, 287.
    Perrot, Sir John, 262.
    Peto, Wm., 80, 289, 292.
    Petre, Sir Wm., 6, 33, 92, 94, 114, 116, 270, 308.
    Pexall, Sir Richard, 310.
    Philibert of Savoy, 144, 145, 155, 162, 213, 290.
    Philip of Spain, 38, 71-4, 137-42, 153, 165, 171, 185, 197, 198,
      217-24, 268, 269, 303, 312-14.
    Phillips, Dean of Rochester, 70.
    Phillips, 223.
    Philpot, Bishop, 70, 134, 234.
    Pigot, 201.
    Plots against Mary, 263-8.
    Pole, Reginald, 51-4, 65-8, 80, 81, 147-52, 158, 159, 162-70, 178,
      188-90, 206-8, 210, 212, 219-22, 231, 234, 278-80, 284, 287-90,
      292, 309, 316.
    Pollard, Sir Hugh, 262.
    Pomfret, 136.
    Ponet, Bishop, 32, 47, 105, 107, 118, 134, 165, 215.
    Potter, Gilbert, 7, 10, 24.
    Premunire, Act of, 184, 187.
    Prideaux, John, 90.
    Property of Church, 176, 178, 179.
    Protestants, set-back to, 69, 70;
      hanging of, 84.

    Radcliff, Sir Humfrey, 105.
    Rampton, Thos., 100.
    Regency Bill, 185, 186.
    Register introduced, 189.
    Religious houses rebuilt, 243.
    Religious Persecution Bills, 132.
    Renard quoted, 2, 7, 8, 10, 12, 17-21, 24-6, 28-32, 36-40, 46, 47,
      49, 51, 55, 57-64, 68-84, 91, 93-7, 102, 103, 106, 108-19,
      122-37, 139, 147, 153-9, 162, 176, 178, 185, 186, 197-200, 214,
      223.
    Renty, attack on, 145.
    Repeal, Act of, 179.
    Rich, Lord, 18, 177.
    Richmond, Mary at, 137.
    Ridley, Bishop, 16, 23, 28, 32, 46, 47, 68, 110, 118, 134, 190,
      191, 224-34.
    Rochester, Sir Robert, 71, 116, 135, 192, 267.
    Rochester, rising at, 93.
    Rogers, Canon, 190-2.
    Rolls House MSS., 6, 10-12, 15, 17, 20, 21, 26, 28, 30, 37, 39,
      40, 46, 47, 49, 51, 57-61, 64, 67-9, 70-4, 78-80, 83-4, 86, 91, 93,
      94, 97, 102, 103, 106, 108, 110, 114-19, 123, 127, 128, 133, 135.
    Rome, supplication to, 172.
    Rosey, 266-8.
    Russell, Lord, 37, 122, 178.
    Rutland, Earl of, 300, 301.
    Rymer quoted, 82.
    Rysbank, 298-300.

    St. André, Marshal, 291.
    St. Leger, Sir Anthony, 63.
    St. Lowe, Sir Wm., 114.
    St. Mary Overy, Church of, 190.
    St. Quentin, battle of, 290, 291.
    Salkyns quoted, 165.
    Sandars, Laurence, 134, 191, 195.
    Sanders, Ninian, 7.
    Sandgate, 299.
    Sandys, Edwin, 16, 21, 22, 28.
    Scarborough, occupation of, 286, 287.
    Scheyfne, 2, 6, 15.
    Schoolboys, fight between, 122.
    Scory, Bishop, 32, 47.
    Scot, Bishop, 281.
    Senarpont, 276, 297, 312.
    Shrewsbury, Earl of, 19, 71, 116, 136, 140, 141, 154, 164, 239, 309.
    Sidney, Sir Henry, 23.
    Simson, Cuthbert, 309.
    Six Articles, the, 318.
    Skelton, Sir John, 11.
    Sloane MSS., 286.
    Smith, Benet, 242.
    Smith, Sir Thos., 287, 309, 310.
    Somerset, Duchess of, 30.
    Soto, P., 231, 232.
    Southwell, Sir R., 90-6, 104, 116.
    Stafford, Sir Thos., 286, 287.
    Stanley, Sir George, 62.
    Stanton, Captain, 268.
    Story, Dr., 224.
    Stourton, Lord, 178.
    Stow quoted, 130.
    Strangways, 264, 265.
    Strozzi, Pietro, 144.
    Strype quoted, 36, 48, 49, 63, 94, 137, 208, 221, 222, 243, 280,
      286-90, 309-11.
    Subsidy Bill, 239, 240.
    Succession, question of the, 68, 132, 182, 185, 186, 199, 200,
      214, 218.
    Suffolk, Duchess of, 76, 77, 102.
    Suffolk, Duke of, 19, 20, 31, 87, 92-100, 110, 114, 157.
    Sussex, Earl of, 11, 71, 116, 123-7, 136.
    Swift, Robert, 267, 268.

    Talbot, Lord, 239.
    Tanner MSS., 21, 62, 107, 238, 241.
    Tate, Richard, 164.
    Taylor, Bishop, 67, 134.
    Taylor, Rowland, 191, 195.
    de Thermes, 311, 312.
    Thirlby, Bishop, 69, 245, 246, 280, 313, 314.
    Thomas, Wm., 105, 114.
    Thornton, Bishop, 212.
    Throgmorton, Sir Nicholas, 87, 88, 114, 131, 132, 266.
    Throgmortons, the, 264.
    Toledo, Antonio de, 139.
    Tomkins, 197, 201.
    Treason, Act of, 69.
    Tregonwell, Dr., 67.
    Tremayne, Edmund, 129.
    Tremaynes of Colacombe, the, 262, 264.
    Tucker, Lazarus, 84.
    Tunstal, Cuthbert, 32, 47, 92, 190.
    Tytler quoted, 80, 116, 131, 136, 160, 162, 316.

    Underhill, Ed., 33, 61, 105, 320.
    Uvedale, 264-7.

    Valles, Marquis de los, 139.
    Vannes, Peter, 273, 274.
    Vaughan, Cuthbert, 131.
    Villegaignon, Admiral, 87.

    Waldegrave, Sir Ed., 71, 83, 116, 267, 268, 308.
    Walpole, 267.
    Warne, 213.
    Warner, Sir Edmund, 87, 90.
    Warwick, Earl of, 39-43.
    Watson, Bishop, 281.
    Watson, Dr., 41, 46, 70.
    Wentworth, Lord, 116, 162, 178, 296-300.
    Westmoreland, Lord, 154, 177, 264, 287.
    Weston, Dr., 36, 70, 103, 130, 134, 176.
    Wharton, Lord, 11.
    White, Bishop, 224.
    White, Rawlins, 206.
    White, Thomas, 266, 267.
    Wight, Isle of, 122, 264.
    Wilkins quoted, 177, 315.
    Wilkinson, Mrs., 229.
    Williams, Lord, of Thame, 15, 119, 178, 232, 233, 252, 258, 259, 261.
    Willoughby, Lord, 264.
    Winchester, Bishop of, see Ponet.
    Winchester, Marquis of, 9, 16, 116, 124, 136, 178.
    Windsor, Lord, 83.
    Woodhouse, Sir Wm., 302, 303.
    Woodstock, Elizabeth at, 136, 137, 155, 215.
    Worcester, Dean of, 316.
    Worcester, Lord, 107, 178.
    "Worthies, the nine," 153.
    Wotton, Dr., 80, 86, 121, 140, 144, 147, 260, 267, 271-6, 285,
      286, 313, 314.
    Wyatt, Sir Thos., 23, 87-114, 122, 123, 130, 131, 189.

    Young, 70.

