Charles Sumner often differed from the President, and on the floor of the Senate Chamber frequently
gave utterance to statements which carried grief into the White House. But Mr. Lincoln knew
and understood Charles Sumner. An incident may here be recalled. The President was solicitous
that his views, as embodied in an act then claiming the attention of Congress, should become
law prior to the adjournment of that body on the 4th of March. Mr. Sumner opposed the bill,
because he thought it did not sufficiently guard the interests of the freedmen of that State.
Owing to the opposition of the Senator and a few of his friends the bill was defeated. Mr.
Lincoln felt displeased, and the newspapers throughout the country published that the friendship
which had so long existed between the two men was at an end.

But Mr. Lincoln was not a man who would withdraw friendship on account of an honest difference
of opinion. It was not he who made the mistake of urging the dismissal of Mr. Sumner from the
chairmanship of the Senate Committee on Foreign Relations. On the 4th of March Mr. Lincoln
was reinaugurated; on the evening of the 6th occurred the Inauguration Ball. Mr. Sumner had
never attended one of these state occasions, and he did not purpose doing so at this time until
he received, in the course of the afternoon, the following letter:--

  DEAR MR. SUMNER,--Unless you send me word to the contrary, I shall
  this evening call with my carriage at your house, to take you with
  me to the Inauguration Ball.

  Sincerely yours,

  ABRAHAM LINCOLN.

The great Senator entered the ball-room, with Mrs. Lincoln leaning on his arm, and took his
seat by the side of the President. The evening was pleasantly spent, and the newspapers at
once discovered how great a blunder they had made.

At length the curtain fell upon the bloody scenes of the war. Under the mighty blows of Grant
and his lieutenants the Rebellion was crushed. On a bright day the President, accompanied by
Mr. Sumner, entered the streets of Richmond, and witnessed the grateful tears of thousands
of the race he had redeemed from bondage and disgrace. Having returned to Washington, he convened
a cabinet council on the 14th of April. During the session his heart overflowed with kind and
charitable thoughts towards the South, and towards those officers who had deserted the flag
of their country in her trying hour he poured out a forgiving spirit.

After that cabinet meeting he went to drive with Mrs. Lincoln,--they two were alone. The whole
world knows the remainder of the story,--of that terrible night at the theatre; of that passing
away in the early dawn of the morning; of that sad and mournful passage from the Capitol to
the grave at Oak Ridge Cemetery. It is painful to dwell upon it; it makes the heart faint even
to recall it.

ABRAHAM LINCOLN needs no eulogy. There is but one other name in American history which can
be mentioned with his as that of a peer,--the name of Washington. He was as pure, and just,
and as patriotic as the Father of his Country. He was born of his time, a creature of the age
of giants, a genius from the people, all the greater for his struggles, for he really did more
than any man of his day to destroy caste and give courage to the lowly; and therein he wrote
the brightest pages of progress. The shaft that marks his silent resting-place, the books he
read, the office he used, the strong body that covered his warm heart and wise purposes, were
only the outer symbols to the higher gifts of his Creator. All gifts and graces are not found
in one person. He is great in whom the good predominates. All persons are not born equal. Gifts
are diversified; but if ever a man had the "genius of greatness," it was Abraham Lincoln. As
all are eloquent in that which they know, he was eloquent in what he both knew and did.

A few words more. The President left a heart-broken widow, a woman whose intellect was shattered
by one of the most awful shocks in human history. No mind can picture the agonies which she
suffered, even till the day of her death, on July 16, 1882. I make mention of her now, because,
during her eventful life in Washington and afterwards, she was most cruelly treated by a portion
of the press and people. I can conceive of nothing so unmanly, so devoid of every chivalric
impulse, as the abuse of this poor, wounded, and bereft woman.

  "Lincoln was incontestably the greatest man I ever knew. What marked
  him was his sincerity, his kindness, his clear insight into affairs,
  his firm will and clear policy. I always found him preëminently a
  clear-minded man. The saddest day of my life was that of Lincoln's
  assassination."--U.S. GRANT.

[The death of GENERAL GRANT has occurred since this article was put into type.--Ed.]

       *       *       *       *       *

NANTASKET BEACH.

By Edward P. Guild.

The outline of Boston harbor somewhat resembles a very irregular letter C, with its open side
facing to the north-east. The upper horn terminates with Point Shirley, in the town of Winthrop.
The lower horn is a narrow ridge of land of varying width, extending four miles from the mainland,
then abruptly turning to the westward for three miles. This peninsula is the town of Hull;
the sharp elbow is Point Allerton.

The stretch of four miles from the point to the mainland is of greatly varying width, the harbor
side being of most irregular and fantastic outline; but the side toward the sea is smooth and
even, and forms Nantasket Beach,--one of the most popular watering-places on the Atlantic coast.

The development of Nantasket as a summer resort began a long time ago, although the era of
large hotels and popular excursions began in the last few years. Forty or fifty vears ago people
from Boston, Dorchester, Hingham, and other towns, when hungering for a sniff of unalloyed
sea-breeze, or a repast of the genuine clam-chowder, were in the habit of resorting to this
beach, where they could pitch their tents, or find accommodations in the rather humble cottages
which were already beginning to dot the shore. That the delights of the beach were appreciated
then is evinced by the habitual visits of many noted men of the time, among them Daniel Webster,
who often came here for recreation, usually bringing his gun with him that he might indulge
his sporting proclivities; and, according to his biographer, "he was a keen sportsman. Until
past the age of sixty-five he was a capital shot; and the feathered game in his neighborhood
was, of course, purely wild. He used to say, after he had been in England, that shooting in
'preserves' seemed to him very much like going out and murdering the barn-door fowl. His shooting
was of the woodcock, the wild-duck, and the various marsh-birds that frequent the coast of
New England.... Nor would he unmoor his dory with his 'bob and line and sinker,' for a haul
of cod or hake or haddock, without having Ovid, or Agricola, or Pharsalia, in the pocket of
his old gray overcoat, for the 'still and silent hour' upon the deep."

Another frequent visitor--Peter Peregrine--wrote: "The Nantasket Beach is the most beautiful
I ever saw. It sweeps around in a majestic curve, which, if it were continued so as to complete
the circle, would of itself embrace a small sea. There was a gentle breeze upon the water,
and the sluggish waves rolled inward with a languid movement, and broke with a low murmur of
music in long lines of foam against the opposite sands. The surface of the sea was, in every
direction, thickly dotted with sails; the air was of a delicious temperature, and altogether
it was a scene to detain one for hours."

Evidently, Peter was a lover of nature at the sea-side; but to show that those who sojourned
here forty years ago were not unexposed to ridicule, the following extract is given from a
letter written from Hull in 1846: "The public and private houses at Nantasket are overrun with
company, chiefly from Boston. Some of our fashionable people, as the rich are vulgarly called,
will leave their airy, cool, well-appointed establishments in Boston, with every luxury the
market affords, in the vain hope of finding comfort in such houses. They will leave their city
palaces, the large and convenient rooms, comfortable bedsteads and mattresses, and all the
delicacies of the season, and submit to being stowed away on straw-beds or cots, even upon
the floor, half-a-dozen in a small chamber, or four deep in an entry, to be half-starved into
the bargain upon badly cooked fish and other equally cheap commodities, for the mere sake of
being able to think that they are enjoying the sea-breeze." Had the writer of this satire lived
to lodge for a night in one of the palace hotels which now adorn Nantasket Beach he would have
sung another song.

The peninsula of Hull is graced by three gentle elevations,--Atlantic Hill, a rocky eminence
marking the southern limit of the beach; Sagamore Hill, a little farther to the north; and
Strawberry Hill, about midway to Point Allerton. The last of these elevations is the most noted
of the three. On its summit is an old barn, which is not only a well-known landmark for sea-voyagers,
but a point of the triangulations of the official harbor surveys. In 1775 a large barn, containing
eighty tons of hay, was burned on this spot by the Americans, that it might not be secured
by the British. The splendid scene which this fire must have produced was doubtless applauded
with even more enthusiasm than the great illuminations which are now a part of each season's
events at the beach.

It is said that fierce conflicts among the savages used to often occur on the plains extending
toward Point Allerton, before these parts were invaded by the white man. The theory has arisen
from the finding of large numbers of skulls, bones, arrows, tomahawks, and other relics in
this locality.

The trip to Nantasket from Boston by boat on a summer day is most delightful, affording a sail
of an hour among the most interesting objects of Boston harbor. The point of departure is at
Rowe's wharf, near the foot of Broad street, where the passenger steps on board one of the
well-equipped steamers of the Boston and Hingham Steamboat Company. The course down to Nix's
Mate, and thence to Pemberton, is quite straight, but the route the remainder of the way, especially
after entering Weir river, is so tortuous as to cause the passenger to constantly believe that
the boat is just going to drive against the shore. Upon the arrival at Nantasket pier the passenger
is aware that he is at a popular resort. Barges and coaches line the long pier; ambitious porters
give all possible strength of inflection to the names of their respective hotels; while innumerable
menu cards are thrust into the visitors' hands, each calling particular attention to the chowders
of the ------ House as being the best to be had on the New England coast.

Two minutes' walk is sufficient to cross from the steamboat-pier over the narrow ridge of land
to the beach. The difference between one side and the other is very striking. On the one is
the still, dark water of Weir river; on the other, the open sea and the rolling surf. The beach
at once impresses the visitor as being remarkably fine, and, indeed, it is equalled by none
on the coast, unless, possibly, by Old Orchard. The sands are hard and firm, and at low tide
form a spacious boulevard for driving or walking. Before the eye is the open sea, dotted here
and there with glistening sails. The long, dark vessel which appears in the distance, about
four o'clock on Saturday afternoon, is a Cunard steamer, which has just left East Boston for
its voyage to Liverpool. For two or three hours it is in sight, slowly and majestically moving
toward the horizon.

The scene on the beach is in marked contrast to what might have been witnessed a generation
ago. Then one would have found here and there a family group just driven down in the old-fashioned
carryall, and enjoying a feast of clam-chowder cooked over a fire of drift-wood. Now the beach
is thronged by crowds of many thousands; immense hotels vie with those of the metropolis in
grandeur; there are avenues and parks, flying horses, tennis-grounds, shops for the sale of
everything that the city affords, and some that it does not, dog-carts and goat-wagons, fruit
and peanut-stands, bowling-alleys, shooting-targets, and, in fact, as many devices to empty
the pocket-book as are usually found at a cattle-show and a church-fair together. An excursion
party has just arrived, but this occurs, sometimes, several times in a day,--for Nantasket
is a Mecca to the excursionist. Societies and lodges come here; clubs resort hither for a social
dinner; mercantile firms send their employés on an annual sail to this place, and philanthropists
provide for hundreds of poor children a day's outing on this beach.

Thus, there is no exclusiveness about Nantasket; but, at the same time, the tone of the place
is excellent, and there seems to be no tendency toward its falling into disrepute, as has been
the case with other very popular watering-places. It is, in fact, admitted by a New York newspaper
that "Bostonians are justly proud of Nantasket Beach, where one can get cultured clams, intellectual
chowder, refined lager, and very scientific pork and beans. It is far superior to our monotonous
sand-beach in its picturesqueness of natural beauty, in the American character of the visitors,
and in the reasonableness of hotel charges, as well as the excellence of the service."

The oldest of the large hotels now in existence at the beach is the Rockland House, which was
opened in 1854 by Colonel Nehemiah Ripley, who was proprietor for many years. At first, it
had forty rooms; it now has about two hundred, and is beautifully furnished. It stands at the
head of a broad, rising lawn, and from its balconies and windows the view of the sea is magnificent.
It is now in the hands of Russell & Sturgis, who are also proprietors of the Hotel Nantasket,--the
most effective in its architecture of any of the great houses here. Its towers and pinnacles
are numbered by the score, and it has the broadest of piazzas. In front of the hotel, toward
the water, is the band-stand from which Reeve's celebrated band gives two concerts daily during
the season, their entrancing music mingling with the monotone of the surf, to the delight of
large audiences which assemble on the piazzas.

The Rockland Café, also under the same management, is joined to the hotel by a long arcade,
and enjoys an excellent reputation for its chowders and fish dinners.

The Atlantic House, which crowns the hill of the same name, is a spacious and elegant hotel,
always filled during the season with guests, including many of the representatives of wealth
and culture in the metropolis. The view from here is very grand, commanding the entire beach
and a vast expanse of the sea. The proprietors are L. Damon & Sons.

Bathing is, naturally enough, a prominent feature of Nantasket's attractions. Bath-houses are
scattered all along the beach, where one may, for a small sum,--fifty to two-hundred per cent.
of its value,--obtain the use of a suit for as long a time as he or she may choose to buffet
the waves of the briny Atlantic. The most appreciative patrons of the surf seem to be the children,
who are always ready to pull off shoes and stockings, and, armed with a wooden pail and shovel,
amuse themselves with digging sand, and letting the surf break over their feet. It is very
evident that not a few older people envy the children in this innocent amusement.

It is said that the life of the hotels and the drift of excursionists, great as they appear,
are falling into the background, while the popularity of cottage life is rapidly on the increase.
This plan is much more economical than boarding at the highest-price hotels, although those
who have ample means find a summer spent at either the houses of Russell & Sturgis, or at the
hostelry of Damon & Sons, most eminently satisfactory in every respect. New cottages spring
up like mushrooms every year from one end of the beach to the other, and they represent every
style of architecture, although Queen Anne is held responsible for the most frequent style
as yet. But in size, coloring, and expense the cottages vary as widely as the tastes and wealth
of their several owners. "There are big houses and little; houses like the Chinese pagodas
in old Canton blue-ware; houses like castles, with towers and battlements; houses like nests,
and houses like barracks; houses with seven gables, and houses with none at all."

During the heavy easterly gales of winter seaweed and kelp are washed ashore in great quantities.
This is carted off by the farmers, who find it valuable as a fertilizer, and they are indebted
to the sea for thousands of dollars' worth of this product every year. Nantasket in winter
presents a gloomy contrast to its life and gayety in the summer. The winds are cold and fierce.
The pretty cottages are deserted, and the sea moans with a sound betokening peril to the craft
that ventures to tempt the waves. The nearly buried timbers of old vessels that are seen in
the sands are relics of disaster in years gone by.

But in the summer months, Nantasket must ever remain a sea-side paradise to those who know
its attractions.

       *       *       *       *       *

IDLENESS.

By Sidney Harrison.

  A flutter 'mid the branches, and my heart
    Leaps with the life in that full chirp that breathes;
  The brown, full-breasted sparrow with a dart
    Is at my feet amid the swaying wreaths
  Of grass and clover; trooping blackbirds come
    With haughty step; the oriole, wren and jay
    Revel amid the cool, green moss in play,
  Then off in clouds of music; while the drum
  Of scarlet-crested woodpecker from yon
  Old Druid-haunting oak sends toppling down
  A ruined memory of ages past;
  O life and death--how blended to the last!

       *       *       *       *       *

THE GRIMKÉ SISTERS.

THE FIRST AMERICAN WOMEN ADVOCATES OF ABOLITION AND WOMAN'S RIGHTS.

By George Lowell Austin.

This is an era of recollections. The events of twenty and twenty-five years ago are being read
and reconsidered anew with as much interest as though they were the fresh and important events
of the present. It was long claimed by those who believed that they thought and wrote with
authority that not only was slavery the main cause of the civil war in America, but that the
abolition of slavery was its chiefest object. A more sober criticism of the motives and deeds
of those who were the prime actors in that inglorious struggle has tended somewhat to alter
this opinion. It will, however, be again called to mind by a forthcoming biography,--that of
Sarah and Angelina Grimké, better known as "the Grimké Sisters." The task of preparing this
biography was intrusted to Mrs. Catherine H. Birney, of Washington, who knew the sisters well,
and who lived for several years under the same roof with them.

There need be no hesitation in saying this book is one of the most interesting and valuable
contributions to the history of abolitionism ever published. From first to last, during that
momentous struggle, the phrase "the Grimké Sisters" was familiar to everybody, and the part
which they enacted in the struggle was no less familiar. Mr. Phillips often spoke of them in
his public addresses; they were prominent members of the anti-slavery societies; they themselves
frequently appeared before large audiences on public platforms. Indeed, no history of the great
moral cause would be complete that was not, in large part, made up of their noble deeds; and
no less valiantly did they contend for Woman's Rights. To Sarah he paid particular attention,
and was often heard to declare that if she had been of the other sex she would have made the
greatest jurist in the land. So that there is nothing singular in the fact that Sarah Grimké
early felt such an abhorrence of the whole institution of slavery that she was sure it was
born in her. Sarah almost became a mother to this little one; whither she led, Angelina followed
closely.

In 1818 Judge Grimké's health began to decline.

Her father died; and in the vessel which carried his remains from Philadelphia Sarah met a
party of Friends. She talked with them on religious matters, and after a few months acknowledged
to one of them, in the course of a correspondence, her entire conversion to Quakerism. Ere
long circumstances and the inharmonious life in her family urged her again to seek Philadelphia,
where she arrived in May, 1821. Angelina remained at Charleston, where she grew up a gay, fashionable
girl.

We pass over the interesting correspondence which, from this time onward, was carried on between
the sisters.

Already the sisters had begun to reflect upon the evils of slavery. Evidences of the tenor
of their reflection are furnished in their letter, and also in Sarah's diary, which she commenced
in 1828. Angelina was the first to express her abhorrence of the whole system; while Sarah's
mind, for a while at least, was too much absorbed by her disappointed hopes and her trials
in the ministry to allow her to do much more than express sympathy with Angelina's anti-slavery
sentiments.

In the autumn of 1829 Angelina left Charleston never to return, and made her home with Sarah
in the home of Catherine Morris. She soon became interested in Quakerism, and eventually joined
the Society.

Meanwhile, events were making; the anti-slavery question was being agitated and discussed.
The eloquence of that debate swept over the country; it flooded many hearts, and set souls
aflame. Sarah Grimké also thought a little.

When, after the Garrison riot, Mr. Garrison issued his appeal to the citizens of Boston, Angelina's
anti-slavery enthusiasm was fully aroused. On the 30th of March of that year (1835) she wrote
a letter to Mr. Garrison,--as brave a letter as was ever penned by the hand of woman. But Angelina
was not dismayed. In 1836 she wrote her "Appeal to Southern Women," and sent it to New York,
where it was published as a pamphlet of thirty-six pages.

Soon after its publication the sisters went to New York and there openly identified themselves
with the members of the American Anti-Slavery Society; and also of the Female Anti-Slavery Society.

After closing their meetings in New York the sisters held similar ones in New Jersey, all of
which were attended only by women. They wrote and spoke often on the theme. Public feeling
grew strong against them, and at last the Congregational ministers of Massachusetts saw proper
to pass a resolution of censure against the sisters!

One is compelled, in this brief résumé, to hurry over much that is interesting and important.
While the good work goes on we see the sisters everywhere faithful to their sense of duty,
unflinching to all assailants.

In February, 1838, Sarah Grimké spoke for the last time in public, and in the month of May
following, Angelina was united in marriage to Theodore D. Weld.

The happy couple settled down for their first house-keeping at Fort Lee, on the Hudson.

Then came the war. We have not the space to follow the course of the sisters' lives farther;
and, were it otherwise, the events narrated would be all too familiar. Sarah, after a somewhat
prolonged illness, died on the 23d of December, 1873, at Hyde Park, Mass. The funeral services
were conducted by the Rev. Francis Williams, and eloquent remarks were made also by Wm. Lloyd
Garrison. On the 26th of October, 1879, Angelina passed quietly away, and the last services
were in keeping with the record of the life then commemorated. We close this writing with a
passage from the remarks which Wendell Phillips made on that occasion.

       *       *       *       *       *

TEN DAYS IN NANTUCKET.

By Elizabeth Porter Gould.[2]

One night in the early part of July, 1883, as the successful real-estate broker, Mr. Gordon,
returned to his home from his city office, his attention was arrested by a lively conversation
between the members of his family on the wonders of Nantucket. The sound of this old name brought
so vividly back to him his own boyish interest in the place, that almost before he was aware
of it he announced his return home to his family by saying: "Well, supposing we go to Nantucket
this summer? It is thirty-four miles from mainland, and so free from malaria there is no better
place for fishing and sailing, and there would be a mental interest in looking around the island
which would be instructive and delightful, and, perhaps, profitable; for me from a business
point of view."

Mrs. Gordon, who had of late years developed a keen interest for the historic and antique,
immediately seconded her husband in his suggestion; and before the evening closed a letter
was sent to Nantucket asking for necessary information as to a boarding-place there, for at
least ten days, for a party of five,--Mr. and Mrs. Gordon, their daughter Bessie, twenty years
of age, their son Tom, fifteen years, and a favorite cousin of theirs, Miss Ray, who was then
visiting them, and whose purse, as Mr. Gordon had so often practically remembered, was not
equal to her desire to see and to know.

In a few days satisfactory arrangements were made, which ended in their all leaving the Old
Colony depot, Boston, in the half-past twelve train, for Wood's Holl, where they arrived in
two hours and a half. From that place they took the steamer for a nearly three hours' sail
to Nantucket, only to stop for a few moments at Martha's Vineyard.

While they were thus ploughing their way on the mighty deep, Nantucket's famous crier, "Billy"
Clark, had climbed to his position in the tower of the Unitarian church of the town,--as had
been his daily custom for years,--spy-glass in hand, to see the steamer when she should come
in sight. Between five and six o'clock, the repeated blowing of the horn from the tower announced
to the people his success, and became the signal for them to make ready to receive those who
should come to their shores. Just before seven o'clock the steamer arrived. While she was being
fastened to the wharf, Tom was attracted by this same "Billy," who, having received the daily
papers, was running up the wharf toward the town ringing his bell and crying out the number
of passengers on board, and other important news, which Tom failed to hear in the noise of
the crowd. A few minutes' walk brought the party to their boarding-place. When Mrs. Gordon
spied the soft, crayon likeness of Benjamin Franklin on the wall, as she stepped into the house,
her historical pulse quickened to such an extent that she then and there determined to hunt
up more about the Folgers; for was not Benjamin Franklin's mother a Folger and born on this
island? Then, as she saw about her some old portraits and copies of the masters, and, above
all, a copy of Murillo's Immaculate Conception in the dining-room, she was sure that the atmosphere
of her new quarters would be conducive to her happiness and growth. The others saw the pictures,
but they appreciated more fully, just then, the delicious blue-fish which was on hand to appease
their hunger.

After a night of restful sleep, such as Nantucket is noted for giving, they all arose early
to greet a beautiful morning, which they used, partly, for a stroll around the town. Of course,
they all registered at the Registry Agency on Orange street, where Mr. Godfrey, who had entertained
them by his interesting guide-book on Nantucket, gave them a kind welcome. Then they walked
along the Main street, noticing the bank, built in 1818, and passed some quaint old houses
with their gables, roofs, and sides, all finished alike, which Burdette has described as "being
shingled, shangled, shongled, and shungled." Tom was struck with the little railings which
crowned so many of the houses; and which, since the old fishing days' prosperity did not call
the people on the house-tops to watch anxiously for the expected ships, were now more ornamental
than useful. They passed, at the corner of Ray's Court, a sycamore tree, the largest and oldest
on the island, and soon halted at the neat Soldiers' Monument, so suggestive of the patriotic
valor of the island people. Later they found on Winter street the Coffin School-house,--a brick
building with two white pillars in front and a white cupola,--which was back from the street,
behind some shade trees, and surrounded by an iron fence. As they looked at it Miss Ray read
aloud the words inscribed on the front:--

  Founded 1827 by
  Admiral Sir Isaac Coffin, Bart.
  Erected
  1852.

They were also interested to see, near by, a large white building, known as the High School-house.
As they neared home Tom's eves noticed the sign of a Nantucket birds' exhibition, and a visit
to that place was made.

During the walk Mrs. Gordon had been particularly interested in the large cobble-stones which
the uneven streets supported in addition to the green grass, and also the peculiar Nantucket
cart, with its step behind.

On their return to their boarding-place, they joined a party that had been formed to go to
the Cliff, a sandy bluff about a mile north from the town, where they were told was to be found
the best still-water bathing on the island. Soon they were all on the yacht "Dauntless," which
hourly plied between the two places; in twenty minutes they were landed at the Cliff; and fifteen
minutes later they were all revelling in the warm, refreshing water. Bessie declared that in
all her large bathing experience on the north shore she had never enjoyed anything like this.
Miss Ray felt that here in this warm, still water was her opportunity to learn to swim; so
she accepted the kind teaching of a friend; but, alas, her efforts savored more of hard work
to plough up the Atlantic ocean than of an easy, delightful pleasure bottling up knowledge
for some possible future use. While Miss Ray was thus straggling with the ocean, and Bessie
and Tom were sporting like two fish,--for both were at home in the water,--Mr. Gordon was looking
around the Cliff with his business eye wide open. As he walked along the road back from the
shore, and saw the fine views which it afforded him, he admired the judgment of Eastman Johnson,
the artist, in building his summer-house and studio there. A little farther on, upon the Bluffs,
the highest point on the island, he noted the house of Charles O'Conor with the little brick
building close by for his library; he then decided that an island which could give such physical
benefit as this was said to have given to Mr. O'Conor, would not be a bad one in which to invest.
So the value of the Cliff or Bluffs he placed in his note-book for future use.

At the same time that Mr. Gordon was exploring the land Mrs. Gordon was in the office of two
gallant young civil engineers, exploring the harbor! In fact she was studying a map of the
surroundings of the harbor, which these young men had made to aid them in their work of building
a jetty from Brant Point to the bell-buoy. As she examined it she found it hard to believe
that Nantucket had ever stood next to Boston and Salem, as the third commercial town in the
Commonwealth. She sympathized deeply with the people of the years gone by who had been obliged
to struggle with such a looking harbor as the map revealed, and said that she should go home
to learn more of the "Camels," which she honored more than ever. When they told her that probably
three years more than the two that had been given to the work were needed to finish the jetty,
and that there was a slight possibility that another one would be needed for the best improvement
of the harbor, she thought her interest in the matter could be better kept alive If she should
hunt up her old trigonometry and learn that all over again! With this idea she left the young
men, whose kindness to her she fully appreciated, and went to find her party. She soon found,
on the yacht ready to go back to town, all but Miss Ray; she had chosen to take one of the
many carriages which she had noticed were constantly taking passengers back and forth from
the town to the Cliff, at the rate of ten cents apiece.

Later in the afternoon their attention was arrested by another one of the town-criers,--Tom
had learned that there were three in the town,--who was crying out that a meat-auction would
be held that night at half-past six o'clock. When they were told that these meat-auctions had
been the custom of the town for years, they were anxious to attend one; but another engagement
at that hour prevented their so doing, much to Tom's regret.

The next day was Sunday. As Bessie and Tom were anxious to see all of the nine churches of
which they had read, they were, at first, in doubt where to go; whereas their mother had no
questions whatever, since she had settled in her own mind, after having reduced all sects to
the Episcopal and the Roman Catholic, that the Episcopal Church was the true historic one,
and, therefore, the only one for her personal interest, that she should go to the St. Paul's
on Fair street. Mr. Gordon usually went to church with his wife, although he often felt that
the simplicity of the early apostolic days was found more in the Congregational form of worship.
This day he yielded to Tom's desire to go to the square-steepled Congregational Church on Centre
street, to hear Miss Baker, who had been preaching to the congregation for three years. He
entered the church with some prejudice; but soon he became so much interested in the good sermon
that he really forgot that the preacher was a woman! Miss Ray and Bessie went to the Unitarian
Church on Orange street, to which the beautiful-toned Spanish bell invited them. After an interesting
service, on their way out they met Tom, who wished to look into the pillared church of the
Methodists, near the bank, and also into the "Ave Maria" on Federal street, where the Roman
Catholics worshipped. Miss Ray, being anxious to attend a Friends' meeting in their little
meeting-house on Fair street, decided to do so the following Sunday, if she were in town; while
Bessie said that she should hunt up then the two Baptist churches, the one on Summer street,
and the other, particularly for the colored people, on Pleasant street. Their surprise that
a town of a little less than four thousand inhabitants should contain so many churches was
modified somewhat when they remembered that once, in 1840, the number of inhabitants was nearly
ten thousand.

In the afternoon the party visited some of the burying-grounds of the town, six of which were
now in use. The sight of so many unnamed graves in the Friends' cemetery, at the head of Main
street, saddened Miss Ray; and she was glad to see the neat little slabs which of late years
had marked the graves of their departed ones. They strolled around the Prospect Hill, or Unitarian
Cemetery, near by, and wished to go into the Catholic one on the same street; but, as Mrs.
Gordon was anxious to see some of the old headstones and epitaphs in the North burying-ground
on North Liberty street, and their time was limited, they went there instead. When Tom saw
her delight as she read on the old stones the date of 1770, 1772, and some even earlier, he
said that she must go out to the ancient burial-ground on the hill near the water-works and
see the grave of John Gardner, Esq., who was buried there in 1706. As he said this one of the
public carriages happened to be within sight, and she proposed that they take it and go immediately
to that sacred spot. When they arrived there her historic imagination knew no bounds; her soliloquy
partook of the sentiment--in kind only, not in degree--which inspired Mark Twain when he wept
over the grave of Adam. In the mean while, Mr. Gordon had gone to the Wannacomet Waterworks,
which supplied the town with pure water from the old Washing-pond. He there noted in his note-book
that this important movement in the town's welfare was another reason why investment in the
island would be desirable.

As they started to go back to town from the burial-ground Tom wished that they could drive
to the south-west suburbs, to see the South and also the colored burying-grounds, for he should
feel better satisfied if he could sec everything of a kind that there was! But Mrs. Gordon
had seen enough for one day, and so they drove to their boarding-house instead.

